1 2007-10-01 The long-awaited African Burial Ground Memorial will open in Friday in Lower Manhattan, the end of a process that began in 1991 with the discovery of the remains of colonial-era slaves....
2 2007-10-01 A look from the Christian Dior show in Paris. (Benoit Tessier/Reuters) The principal discovery during the fashion break was the new bicycle system in Paris, whereby you can rent a bike for one euro (or an astonishing five euros for a week) and rid...
3 2007-10-01 A complaint is filed with elections officials....
4 2007-10-01 A bill of particulars on Blackwater's adventures in Iraq, from the staff of a House panel....
5 2007-10-01 The Democratic candidate is the first to release estimates of the third-quarter fund-raising....
6 2007-10-01 A rock band's gambit: Will a sacred pact with fans pay off?...
7 2007-10-01 Aired Friday night on NBC: Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has just invited President Bush to visit Iran and speak at an Iranian university. After receiving the invitation, President Bush said, "Maybe I'll come when you guys play Notre Dame....
8 2007-10-01 Media buyers pay an average of $419,000 to place an ad on "Grey's Anatomy," making it the most expensive fall show on network television, according to Advertising Age's annual survey. "Grey's" is followed by "Sunday Night Football" ($358,000), "Th...
9 2007-10-01 The $1.7 trillion hedge fund industry has been a hotbed of merger activity in recent years, as Wall Street firms have pushed into the booming business. Now the tumult in the financial markets, while scaring away some investors, may spur opportunis...
10 2007-10-01 Sony raised 320 billion yen ($2.8 billion) in its insurance unit's initial public offering, Japan's biggest this year. A total of 800,000 Sony Financial Holdings shares were sold at 400,000 yen each, Tokyo-based Sony said Monday. Sony sold the sha...
11 2007-10-01 China formally opened its state investment company, which is intended to manage about $200 billion of its massive foreign exchange reserves, on Saturday, Chinese state media reported. Lou Jiwei, deputy secretary-general with the State Council, wil...
12 2007-10-01 Deutsche Telekom said Friday it had completed its 1.3 billion euro ($1.8 billion) deal to buy the Dutch mobile phone and broadband Internet operator Orange Netherlands from France Telecom. Deutsche Telekom first announced the deal in June, but it ...
13 2007-10-01 “To get caught between all this ‘free’ or ‘paid’ is too simplistic,” Mr. Cheng said. “We see this as a third way.”

The Financial Times, which started selling subscriptions to its Web site in 2002 and also publishes a Chinese version that is called FTChinese.com, was already working on the revamp when News Corporation made its $5 billion bid for Dow Jones, Ridding said. Mr. Murdoch has said he would invest in The Wall Street Journal’s Web site and international editions, potentially heating up the battle for business readers.

The Wall Street Journal has nearly 1 million paying customers of its Web site, far more than any other newspaper Web site. The New York Times had 227,000 paid viewers of TimesSelect, its subscription program, which it recently discontinued. The Financial Times, which is owned by the London-based media company Pearson, has 101,000 Web subscribers.

By restricting Web users, sites that charge for access may be undermining their ability to sell advertising, analysts have said. Online advertising, virtually nonexistent when The Wall Street Journal’s subscription model was set up in 1996, has soared in recent years.

Douglas Anmuth, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, has estimated that wsj.comwill draw $75 million in ad revenue this year, along with $65 million from subscriptions. But with a larger Web audience, nytimes.comwill bring in more in ad revenue alone, an estimated $175 million, he forecast in a recent note to investors.

Mr. Murdoch has indicated that dropping the wsj.com subscription fee, in an effort to attract more advertising, might be one of the first things News Corporation executives do upon completion of the Dow Jones acquisition, which is expected this year.

The revamped subscription model for FT.com is part of a broader overhaul of the Web site that will include a visual makeover next year, Mr. Ridding and Mr. Cheng said. In the meantime, there will be other enhancements, including additional blogs and more video interviews with corporate chief executives, they said.

Mr. Cheng said ad revenue at FT.com was up about 40 percent in recent months, compared with a year earlier. Unique visitors, a standard measure of Web traffic, are up about 70 percent year on year, to about 6.5 million unique users a month, he said. The site gets about 30 percent of its audience from Britain, 40 percent from the United States and 30 percent from Europe and Asia.

The Financial Times charges $110 in the United States and 120 euros in much of Europe for a one-year Web-only subscription. Ridding said prices would remain the same, even as the subscription model shifts. An online-only Wall Street Journal subscription is $79.

Mr. Ridding said the higher price is consistent with The Financial Times’s strategy of trying to appeal to high-end readers rather than a mass-market consumer audience. The Financial Times recently raised the price of its print edition, but still managed to post an increase in circulation, to about 427,000 copies worldwide, in August.

Most of its copies are sold in continental Europe, with some in Asia and the United States. Before revamping the subscription policy for the Web site, Mr. Cheng said, FT.com studied readers’ usage patterns. Many users came to the site only infrequently, while others returned many times a day.

Under the new system, once users click on five stories in a 30-day period, they will be asked to register with the site. Then, when they hit 30 articles, the site will ask them to subscribe. If they decline, their access will be restricted to the FT.com home pages, until the 30-day period ends.
14 2007-10-01 Detectives have sifted through garbage cans, scrutinized surveillance video, searched under sewer grates and scoured hardware stores in and around a Brooklyn neighborhood defaced by anti-Jewish slurs and graffiti last week, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday.

Swastikas were spray-painted or scratched on sidewalks, cars and buildings on at least four streets in Brooklyn Heights, and hateful fliers were tucked under car windshield wipers.

“So far, all of our leads are negative,” Mr. Kelly said as he joined Israel’s foreign affairs minister, Tzipi Livni, on a visit to two synagogues affected by the attack.

Still, some clues have emerged: The acts of vandalism were done between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Sept. 24, and all seem to have been the work of one person, Mr. Kelly said, though he would not explain what led detectives to this conclusion.

“New York City is the most diverse and the most tolerant city in the world, but one thing we won’t tolerate is this type of vengeful behavior,” the commissioner said. “We are going to continue to devote appropriate resources to make certain that we bring this investigation to a successful conclusion.”

As many as 20 detectives have been assigned to the case, he said. Though there were private security cameras in the neighborhood, but none seemed to have captured helpful images, Mr. Kelly said.
15 2007-10-01 Microsoft has long had online services for consumers, including its Web-based e-mail, Hotmail, and instant messaging service known as Windows Live Messenger. Last year, the company introduced an online service for small businesses, providing them with their own Web sites and e-mail accounts. It also has a customer relationship management service, Microsoft Dynamics CRM, which competes with Salesforce.com, another leader in the software-as-services trend.

The moves by Microsoft, analysts say, represent an effort to quicken the company’s pace in Internet services. “Microsoft is recognizing that it needs to be seen as a fast follower in this space, and now it is seen as a slow follower,” said David M. Smith, an analyst at Gartner, a market research firm.

Microsoft describes its strategy as “software plus services.” Increasingly, industry analysts say, software will be a blend of online and offline abilities. Google, for example, introduced programming tools called Google Gears in May to help people use its Web-based applications like e-mail and word processing when a user is, say, on an airplane.

Yet Microsoft champions a vision of Web-based services that is firmly moored in the company’s mainstay products. Office Live Workspace, for example, can be used by anyone with a browser for tasks, ranging from a business team jointly drafting a sales proposal to a family sharing and updating a household calendar. (Individuals can sign up for a workspace at www.officelive.com, though the service will not begin until later this year.)

Microsoft has so far resisted the advice of some industry analysts and company insiders who say Microsoft should offer simple, online versions of its most popular desktop applications like Word and Excel. It would be better for Microsoft, they say, to offer those alternatives itself than to allow rivals to seize this emerging market.

Indeed, Google began offering its Google Apps to business customers this year. Today, hundreds of thousands of small businesses use the Google bundle of online applications that include a word processor, spreadsheet, e-mail, calendar and instant messaging, and dozens of large global corporations are evaluating Google Apps, said Dave Girouard, general manager of its corporate business.

“The world is changing to this new paradigm of Internet services, and it’s going faster than people expected,” he said.

Google won an endorsement last month when Capgemini, a large technology services company, began a service to help large companies use Google Apps. The corporate demand is fueled in part by the desire of companies to add Web-based collaboration tools quickly and without the expense and headaches of having to buy more server computers. The Google Apps run on Google’s computers in its data centers.
16 2007-10-01 OTTAWA, Sept. 30 — Before they bid, many eBay users check out sellers by reviewing the ratings given by previous shoppers. A Canadian court, however, has ruled that Canada’s tax collectors can look at a more significant piece of information: how much money individual, high-volume sellers make through eBay.

The partial decision by the Federal Court has concerned some privacy advocates in Canada.

It also provides a twist on a longstanding privacy concern in Canada. Many Canadians worry that when their personal data is stored on computers in the United States, government officials in that country might examine it. The eBay ruling, however, found that Canada’s government has the right, at least concerning tax issues, to gain access to computer files stored on servers in other countries.

“Such information cannot truly be said to ‘reside’ in one place or to be ‘owned’ by one person,” Justice Roger T. Hughes, a former intellectual property lawyer, wrote in his decision. “It is both here and there.”

The issue landed in court after eBay Canada, which is wholly owned by eBay through a holding company, rebuffed a request by the Canada Revenue Agency to turn over contact information and gross sales data for high-volume sellers based in Canada.

Canada’s laws, the judge wrote, give Canadian tax officials “the power to engage in what amounts to some sort of fishing expedition.” Effectively, the tax agency can demand that anyone give it any information it needs to enforce tax collection.
17 2007-10-01 There are many accusations of people misusing Flickr photographs, including the case of an Icelandic woman who says an online gallery based in Britain sold her work without her approval, and a German photographer who says a right-wing Norwegian political party used a photo of her sister in its materials also without permission.

A most recent example concerns Lindsay Beyerstein, a Flickr member, who says she sent a cease-and-desist letter to Fox News last week over the use by “The O’Reilly Factor” of her photograph of a blogger; the photo can be viewed at Flickr where Ms. Beyerstein has reserved all her rights. Fox News said it had not received the complaint yet.

In another Flickr twist to the Virgin Mobile case, it was a Flickr member from Adelaide, Brenton Cleeland, who first noticed the ad on Churchill Road and, naturally, photographed it to share on Flickr. In the spirit of a site populated with amateur photographers in search of an audience, Mr. Cleeland wanted to spread the news of Mr. Wong’s success. “I wonder if he knows that his photo is being used here,” he wrote in a posting, adding, “Anyway, congratulations!”

Alison, however, was the first to chime in online, and was hardly as pleased: “Hey that’s me! no joke. i think i’m being insulted.”

Chang v. Virgin Mobile USA is not the typical intellectual property rights case. A prolific member of Flickr, Mr. Wong has more than 11,000 photographs there that anyone with the time or inclination could page through. And, until recently, those photographs carried a license from Creative Commons, a nonprofit group seeking alternatives to copyright and license laws. The license he selected allowed them to be used by anyone in any way, including for commercial purposes, as long as Mr. Wong was credited.

Instead, the case hinges on privacy, the right of people not to have their likeness used in an ad without permission. So, while Mr. Wong may have given away his rights as a photographer, he did not, and could not, give away Alison’s rights. In the lawsuit, which Mr. Wong is also a party to, there is an argument that Virgin did not honor all the terms of the nonrestrictive license.

Damon Chang, Alison’s brother, wrote in an e-mail message from Taiwan that he “personally sent Virgin Mobile a complaint letter” asking for an explanation. “They responded by saying they are ‘promoting creative freedom,’ that they didn’t do anything wrong,” Mr. Chang wrote. “I take that as, ‘We didn’t do anything wrong, hence we could do it again.”

The lawsuit, filed by the Changs’ lawyer, Ryan Zehl, from the Houston law firm Fitts Zehl, also names Creative Commons. Mr. Zehl said, “as the creator of this new license, they have an obligation to define it succinctly.”

He said that the term “commercial use” was too vague to inform users of the license and that it was incumbent on Creative Commons to raise the issue of the rights of the people who appear in the picture.

Lawrence Lessig, the Stanford law professor who was served the papers on behalf of Creative Commons, said he was sympathetic to the Changs’ plight.

But, added that, “the part about us is puzzling. It says we failed to instruct the photographer adequately, but the first question is, ‘do you want to allow commercial uses?’”

As for giving more advice about the rights of the subjects who appear in photographs, Mr. Lessig said that Creative Commons has to be careful not to provide “what looks like legal advice.” But, he added, “this photographer did nothing wrong when he took this photo of this girl, and posted it on his Flickr page. What he did wasn’t commercial use, which triggers the legal issues. If there was a problem here, it was by Virgin.”

In the world of creative works, photography has always been in a category alone. The camera was seen as a “soul stealer” in its infancy, and the fact that a photograph was a copy of reality intrigued theorists like Susan Sontag, who wrote presciently in “On Photography” (1977) about the attraction to photographs felt by ad directors.

“Photography does not simply reproduce the real, it recycles it — a key procedure of modern society,” she wrote. “In the form of photographic images, things and events are put to new uses, assigned new meanings which go beyond the distinctions between the beautiful and the ugly, the true and false, the useful and the useless, good taste and bad.”

She concluded, “In the form of a photograph the explosion of an A-bomb can be used to advertise a safe.”
18 2007-10-01 On the campus of Colorado State University, opinion is divided over whether a terse editorial that ran in the student newspaper on Sept. 21 was an exercise of free speech or immature judgment.

The four-word message began with “Taser this” and added a four-letter expletive directed at President Bush, in a type size larger than most newspaper headlines. The message was “the view of The Collegian editorial board," the daily newspaper stated.

Editors at The Rocky Mountain Collegian were reacting to a Sept. 18 incident at the University of Florida, where a student had been hauled off by the police and shocked with a Taser gun after repeatedly asking questions at a forum featuring Senator John Kerry. The campus paper ran a news article on its front page that discussed free speech regulations on college campuses, as well as the disputed attack.

This week, a school supervisory board will decide whether to fire the editor in chief, J. David McSwane, over the decision to publish the four-word message.

The question of free speech quickly became political, with a campus group, the College Republicans, circulating a petition calling for Mr. McSwane’s resignation. Three days after the message ran, Mr. McSwane vowed that he would not resign. “We feel this statement, albeit unpopular, was necessary in communicating our opinion that it’s time college students challenge the current political climate and speak out,” he wrote in a letter to the public.
19 2007-10-01 SMOKING ON SCREEN The biggest film studios, usually like-minded when it comes to what is fit to portray on screen, have split lately on one of the entertainment industry's touchiest issues: smoking in movies that reach the young.      BEAUTY BUSIN...
20 2007-10-02 A roundup of the morning news....
21 2007-10-02 Could N.F.L. history be repeating itself in New England? In 1998, the Vikings drafted Randy Moss with a late first-round pick when other teams passed on him because of character-related concerns. Minnesota went 15-1 and scored an N.F.L.-record 556...
22 2007-10-02 Martial arts grappling matches by the Xerox machine. People who say what they mean. An ex-Marine recalls what he liked about Marine Corps culture....
23 2007-10-02 Can the auditors be saved?...
24 2007-10-02 "The Republican Party, known since the late 19th century as the party of business, is losing its lock on that title," reports The Wall Street Journal's Jackie Calmes. "New evidence suggests a potentially historic shift in the Republican Party's id...
25 2007-10-02 Was the Titanic Really a CDO?...
26 2007-10-02 Aired Monday night on NBC: The airport bathroom where Senator Larry Craig was arrested is now being renovated and the new bathroom will have stall dividers that go all the way down to the floor. When he heard about the new stall dividers, Senator ...
27 2007-10-02 A federal appeals court in Boston on Monday overturned a sentence given to a hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading, agreeing with prosecutors that 36 months of probation was "unreasonably lenient." The executive, Michael Tom, 38, of Walt...
28 2007-10-02 Above, Matt Lauer, the co-anchor of "Today." NBC hopes new online brand extension reach a younger audience. (Lisa Berg/NBC) Would you download a "Today" cell phone ring tone? Buy a "Today" coffee mug? Join a "Today" Facebook group? Receive message...
29 2007-10-02 The Royal Bank of Canada said on Tuesday it would buy the RBTT Financial Group, a banking and financial services group based in the Caribbean, for about $2.2 billion....
30 2007-10-02 Perella Weinberg Partners, the boutique investment bank, announced Monday that it had acquired Xerion Capital Partners, a hedge fund focusing on investments in distressed credit and other special situations, for an undisclosed amount. The deal, wh...
31 2007-10-02 Microsoft is lending a helping hand to British companies with "high potential" with a new program to support start-ups. Microsoft's chief executive, Steven Ballmer, said Monday that the aim of the so-called Startup Accelerator Program is to help t...
32 2007-10-02 A federal appeals court in New York today reopened a long-running dispute over unpaid life insurance claims by victims of the Holocaust and their families.

The legal case seemed closed in February after a federal judge in Manhattan approved the settlement of a class-action lawsuit against one of the largest insurers, Assicurazioni Generali of Italy. The settlement provided less money than Holocaust survivors had hoped for and seemed to end any hope of the survivors ever gaining access to the insurer’s Holocaust-era records.

In approving the agreement, Judge George B. Daniels noted that “the settlement is not perfect” but added that he thought it might be “the only real opportunity for any monetary recovery” by the Holocaust victims and their families.

But in a terse summary order issued today, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York said that Generali had failed to adequately notify its policyholders of the settlement and thus denied them an opportunity to object to the terms.

The court ordered Generali to individually mail notices of the settlement to “all class members whose names are known” by the insurers within 60 days and scheduled a new hearing on the fairness of the settlement before Judge Daniels on Jan. 7.

Separately, the issue of compensation, involving hundreds of thousands of policyholders and, by some estimates, billions of dollars in coverage, is being further revived on Wednesday in a Congressional hearing by lawmakers who say that victims of the Holocaust have been treated unfairly by insurance companies and social agencies.
33 2007-10-02 The Houston Rockets signed Dikembe Mutombo to a one-year contract, extending his N.B.A. career into a 16th season. The 7-foot-2, 260-pound Mutombo, 41, ended up playing a pivotal role for Houston last season, when Yao Ming broke a bone in his right leg and missed 33 games. Mutombo started in his place and averaged 5 points, 10 rebounds and 1.45 blocks.
34 2007-10-02 Sony raised 320 billion yen ($2.8 billion) in its insurance unit’s initial public stock offering, Japan’s biggest this year. A total of 800,000 shares of Sony Financial Holdings were sold at 400,000 yen each, Sony said. Sony, based in Tokyo, sold the shares at the top end of its range, spurring demand by reducing the price from an original reference level of 415,000 yen, after losses in the United States subprime-mortgage market caused a global rout in stocks. Sony Financial includes the Sony Life Insurance Company; an automobile insurer, Sony Assurance; and the online bank, Sony Bank.
35 2007-10-02 Nortel Networks, the telecommunications equipment maker, named Pavi Binning, left, chief financial officer and executive vice president. Mr. Binning, 47, was chief financial officer at Hanson and at Marconi. He will join Nortel, based in Toronto, on Nov. 12, the company said, succeeding Peter Currie, who stepped down in April. “Their whole finance department has just been ravaged because of all the scandals they’ve been through,” said Paul Sagawa, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. “It’d be good to get them back to focusing on capital structure and performance metrics and things you normally expect the C.F.O. to do.”
36 2007-10-02 There is plenty of blame to go around, much of it aimed at Turner and the coaching staff rebuilt by General Manager A.J. Smith after Schottenheimer’s dismissal.

“You don’t quite know what the problem is, but whatever it is you want to get it fixed,” defensive end Shawne Merriman said Sunday night.

The defense, under the new coordinator Ted Cottrell, has given up 30 points in three straight games. The Chiefs had not scored 30 points total in their first three games. Last season, the Chargers gave up 30 points twice, but they are struggling to tackle and to create a pass rush, which makes covering receivers downfield nearly impossible.

Damon Huard had two touchdown passes and 284 passing yards, most in the second half when the Chiefs scored 24 consecutive points. The rookie Dwayne Bowe had eight receptions for 164 yards, including a 51-yard touchdown reception on a slant pattern on third down. It was an identical play to one the Packers had success with against the Chargers the previous week.

Last year, the Chargers had 61 sacks, best in the N.F.L.; they have nine so far this season. Cottrell was hired to replace Wade Phillips, who left to become head coach of the Dallas Cowboys. Cottrell had worked with Phillips in Buffalo, so the defensive transition, the thinking went, would be seamless.

It has not worked out. Phillips’s Cowboys are 4-0, and the Chargers are making vague references to not being on the same page.

It does not look much smoother on offense. On Sunday, Turner appeared to relive the sin of Schottenheimer by not giving LaDainian Tomlinson the ball steadily in the second half.

Tomlinson was the league’s most valuable player last season, but he is just the 17th-ranked running back in the league, with 262 yards, 116 of them coming in the first half Sunday when he got the ball 14 times. In the second half, Tomlinson rushed six times for 16 yards, deepening the mystery of the Chargers’ plan for using the N.F.L.’s best player.

Last season, he had 348 carries, the Chargers essentially riding him to the best record in the league. Through four games, Tomlinson has rushed 77 times, which puts him on pace for 40 fewer carries this season.

Turner was asked if he was still struggling to figure out how to use Tomlinson.

“I don’t think so,” Turner said. “The biggest thing is matching up what we do best with the other team, with what the other team does worse or our matchups with them. We got great matchups in the first quarter.

“One of the things we did in the second half was try to get him some balls quick on the swings, some pass stuff where we get him in space,” Turner added. “We got limited production out of it. Then when we ran the ball in the second half, we did not run the ball as well as we did in the first half. All of that ties together to a guy not getting as many carries.”

That puts pressure on quarterback Philip Rivers, who went to the Pro Bowl last season but seems as confused as everyone else. Last season, Rivers threw 22 touchdown passes and 9 interceptions. This year, he has five touchdowns and six interceptions. Last season, the Chargers turned the ball over 15 times, fewest in the N.F.L. This year, they already have 10 turnovers.

The Chargers have two more American Football Conference West games — at Denver and against Oakland — before their bye week. But with players so frustrated that cameras have spotted them shouting at each other and at coaches on the sideline, the bye week may come too late for the team’s psyche if the struggles continue.

“Each week we’ve had an adverse situation I think they’ve come back and practiced better and we’ve gotten better,” Turner said. “There’s no question after a long period of time that’s something that you have to be concerned about. This group is awfully close, they’re awfully competitive. They’re very young, and I think they believe this thing will get turned around the way they expect it to.”
37 2007-10-02 A former agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation waived his right to a jury trial on murder charges yesterday, instead putting his case in the hands of a judge whom the F.B.I. once investigated when he was a student. The former agent, Roy Lindley DeVecchio, above, has been charged with helping a prized informer from an organized crime family commit four murders in the late 1980s and early 1990s. As jury selection was set to begin yesterday, lawyers for Mr. DeVecchio asked for a bench trial before the judge overseeing the case, Justice Gustin L. Reichbach of State Supreme Court. Justice Reichbach warned the lawyers that he had been investigated by the F.B.I. while a student at Columbia University, where he organized student protests in the 1960s. Mr. DeVecchio was undeterred. The trial was set to begin on Oct. 15.
38 2007-10-02 The advances came as two banks, Citigroup and UBS, predicted declines in third-quarter earnings or losses related to problems with mortgage-backed securities and loans.

“When I got in this morning I would have bet quite a bit of money that we would be going the other way today,” said Joseph Brusuelas, the chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal.

But the profit warnings eased anxiety about the long-term effects of problems that began in mortgage lending, analysts said, leaving Wall Street with a sense that the worst of the fallout from this summer’s credit crisis had passed.

“The market believes that the crisis is over,” said William Rhodes, the chief investment strategist of Rhodes Analytics, a market research firm. “Whatever problems emerged last quarter are last quarter’s problems. They’re over; that’s it; they’re done. So let’s move onto the next thing.”

Investment banks and home builders, among the sectors hardest hit by the lending crisis, benefited from the day’s optimism.

Shares of Citigroup rose $1.05, to $47.72 yesterday, after the company released a statement that forecast a 60 percent decline in its third-quarter earnings.

UBS, which announced 1,500 job cuts yesterday after it was forced to write down $3.42 billion in value from subprime-backed securities, gained $1.69, to $54.94.

Shares of Bear Stearns, which had two hedge funds collapse in July, climbed $2.69, to $125.50.

Lennar, the nation’s largest home builder, rose 62 cents, to $23.27 despite suffering its largest quarterly loss ever. Shares of another builder, KB Home, increased 91 cents, to $25.97, after a $35.6 million third-quarter loss.

The markets were also buoyed by news that the manufacturing sector continued to grow in September, with the Institute for Supply Management’s index slipping to 52.0 from 52.9 in August, according to a report released this morning. Figures above 50 indicate expansion.

The figures eased worries about inflation and employment, analysts said. Prices paid by manufacturing companies for goods fell 4 percent from August, reaching their lowest level since February, a sign that inflation could be easing.

Employment figures in the manufacturing sector ticked up last month to their highest level since May, offering some comfort to analysts anticipating Friday’s unemployment report for September.

Still, some analysts warned that yesterday’s rally could mask the fickleness of the market.

“How sustainable it is, it’s not really clear,” said Beth Dater, chief investment officer at AG Asset Management. “I think there’s still a lot of nervousness out there.”

For some market watchers, that anxiety is focused on September’s unemployment figures, which could serve as a weathervane of sorts for the buffeted economy. Wall Street is hoping for a reversal from August, when the economy lost 4,000 jobs.

Inflation appears to be holding steady and consumer spending is up, according to reports issued last week, and some analysts are predicting that the August decline will be revised upward.

A strong jobs report would add to the sense that the economy has stabilized after the summer’s volatility. A weak report could offer incentive for the Federal Reserve to make additional interest rate cuts, but also prompt increased concern about a possible fourth-quarter slowdown.

But while tensions remain, yesterday, at least, the market breathed a little easier.

“I would say it is almost a bit of a relief rally here,” Ms. Dater said.

Following are the results of yesterday’s auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
39 2007-10-02 Two brokerage firms — Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property — said in their reports that prices had risen for nearly every type of apartment in almost every neighborhood of Manhattan, from bare-bones studios in the borough’s northernmost reaches to luxurious four-bedroom apartments on the Upper East Side. Prices in Brooklyn, which had dipped in the second quarter, rose by 11 percent last quarter for apartments and town houses.

“This is one of the best quarters that we’ve ever had,” said Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, which also released a report yesterday.

But brokers and the economists who prepared the reports stressed that the numbers mainly reflected buyers who went to contract for apartments weeks before the national credit crisis hit and before many people grew more cautious about buying. For instance, many of the co-ops that closed in the last quarter actually went into contract during the spring, and many buyers of newly built condos put down payments on their apartments months, even years, before their units were finished this summer.

Jonathan Miller, executive vice president and director of research for Radar Logic Inc., which tracked the numbers for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that any qualms buyers might have had because of the credit crisis this summer would not have shown up in the third-quarter data.

“Housing is a trailing indicator of economic conditions,” Mr. Miller said. “We most likely won’t see a reaction until after the new year to the credit crunch.”

But buyers in neighborhoods in some parts of Brooklyn and Queens have already been hit. The number of foreclosure auctions jumped by 64 percent last quarter, to 698, compared with the same period last year, out of some three million households in New York City, according to PropertyShark.com.

These foreclosures are concentrated in a few neighborhoods, notably Jamaica and Howard Beach in Queens and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn.

Still, brokers said that prices in Manhattan have held up far better than in the rest of the country because co-ops, which make up roughly 70 percent of the city’s “for sale” market, have rules that can prevent buyers from using the riskier mortgages that were prevalent elsewhere in the country.

“More than any other market in the country, there is tremendous equity in our homes,” said Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens. “It’s a strong, solid market with a lot of equity, not a lot of inventory and strong demand.”

While sales prices for Manhattan co-ops lagged far behind condos in the second quarter, as is typical, they rose in the third quarter because there were far fewer co-ops to choose from as inventory declined, said Dottie Herman, president of Prudential Douglas Elliman.

“They’re not building co-ops anymore,” she said. “So there’s a finite number.”

The biggest gains in prices in Manhattan were for three- and four-bedroom apartments and the most expensive apartments on the market.

On the Upper East Side, apartments with four bedrooms or more cost an average of $6.6 million — 17 percent more than a year ago, according to data released by Brown Harris Stevens. On the Upper West Side, apartments with three or more bedrooms cost an average of $4.5 million, a 46 percent jump from last year.

Prices for the most expensive Manhattan apartments — the top 10 percent of sales — were the second highest on record. The average sale price for a luxury apartment was $5 million, behind only the second quarter of 2005, when it was $5.2 million.

In Brooklyn, the number of sales rose. Buyers in Brooklyn closed on 311 condos and 173 co-ops last quarter, compared with 210 condos and 167 co-ops a year earlier, according to data tracked by the Corcoran Group.

“Brooklyn is finally starting to reap the rewards of all the new construction,” said Ms. Liebman, the Corcoran Group president.

The number of sales of single-family houses and town houses in Brooklyn rose by 63 percent from the previous year. That might have been partly because prices in the borough are much more attractive than in Manhattan: The average single-family home in Brooklyn sold for $1.6 million, compared with $5.8 million in downtown Manhattan.

Gregory J. Heym, an economist who prepared the market studies for Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property, said that New Yorkers will not know where the market is headed until the effects of the credit crisis are clear: Jobs may be lost on Wall Street and bonuses may shrink.

“In the rest of the country, housing markets are doing poorly because there’s too much inventory, people are having a hard time getting mortgages and local economies are beginning to slow — none of which has happened here yet,” Mr. Heym said.

For New York to see a downturn, he added, “something more dramatic is going to have to happen.”
40 2007-10-02 WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 — The Bush administration announced Monday that the standard Medicare premium would rise to $96.40 a month next year, an increase of $2.90 a month. The 3.1 percent increase is the smallest since 1999-2000, when the premium was at the same level, $45.50, for two years in a row.

Most of the 43 million beneficiaries pay the standard premium for Medicare Part B, which covers doctors’ services, outpatient hospital care, X-rays, laboratory services and other diagnostic tests.

About 5 percent of beneficiaries, with annual incomes exceeding $82,000 for individuals and $164,000 for couples filing joint tax returns, will pay higher premiums on a sliding scale.

The maximum will be $238.40 a month for the most affluent, individuals with annual incomes exceeding $205,000 and each member of a couple reporting combined income of more than $410,000. For an individual with annual income from $102,000 to $153,000, the premium will be $160.90 a month.

Most beneficiaries pay separate premiums for Medicare coverage of prescription drugs on top of the standard premium. The drug premiums typically range from $25 to $40 a month.

The increase in the standard Part B premium was less than many experts had expected, in part because officials decided to correct an accounting error. As a result of the error, money for certain hospice benefits was inadvertently drawn from the Part B trust fund rather than a separate trust fund that pays hospital costs. The money will be paid back in the coming year.
41 2007-10-02 Perella Weinberg Partners, the boutique investment bank, announced yesterday that it had acquired Xerion Capital Partners, a hedge fund focusing on investments in distressed credit and other special situations, for an undisclosed amount.

The move comes as Wall Street banks prepare for the aftermath of the credit market turmoil, one that is expected to bring a rise in defaults and bankruptcies.

Daniel J. Arbess, Xerion’s founder and managing principal, has joined the boutique investment bank as a partner.

Perella Weinberg also announced that it would put $100 million into investments made by the Xerion team, which will be done through the Perella Weinberg Partners Xerion Fund. The deal closed yesterday.

The investment bank, founded last year by the longtime deal makers Joseph R. Perella, Peter A. Weinberg and Tarek F. Abdel-Meguid, began building its asset-management business this year with a string of hires.
42 2007-10-02 DALLAS, Oct. 1 (AP) — The Belo Corporation said Monday that it planned to spin off its newspapers, which have been struggling to keep readers and advertising dollars, into a new company that will operate separately from its 20 television stations.

Investors had pressed Belo to consider splitting the TV and newspaper businesses, but its chairman and chief executive, Robert W. Decherd, resisted. In February, he said the newspaper side of the company was too small to stand on its own.

On Monday, Mr. Decherd said the split recognized the “profound” changes in both businesses, and was good for shareholders.

Mr. Decherd will run the newspaper business, which will be called the A. H. Belo Corporation. It will own the company’s flagship paper, The Dallas Morning News; The Providence Journal; and The Press-Enterprise of Riverside, Calif.

In the second quarter of this year, revenue at Belo’s TV stations rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier, but revenue at the newspapers fell 8.5 percent on weak advertising conditions. The housing slump in Southern California has hurt The Press-Enterprise, and the Dallas paper is still digging out from overstating circulation figures several years ago.

Mr. Decherd said the spinoff should improve investors’ outlook on the financial health of Belo because, “We’re taking the assets that are perceived as being most challenged, and moving them out.”

Both A. H. Belo and the Belo Corporation will remain based in Dallas and have two voting classes of common stock after the spinoff — Series A shares that carry one vote per share, and Series B stock with 10 votes per share. That structure, currently used by Belo and many other media companies, forms a high barrier to hostile takeovers.
43 2007-10-02 A HAND-PAINTED sign on the entrance to the larger of the two dog runs in Washington Square Park leaves little wiggle room: “No people without dogs. No dogs without people.”

And yet, they come — the people, that is — drawn by a mix of curiosity, longing and joy at watching the simple pleasures of a dog at play. On a recent Saturday, dozens of people without dogs lined the fences enclosing the two dog runs in the park in Greenwich Village and just watched. Without actually going into the dog runs, which offer an enclosed area for owners to let their dogs off their leashes, these watchers ranged from college students to retirees to those half a world away from their dogs at home.

“I miss my dog so much when I travel that I find myself looking at other dogs to see if they have similar personalities,” said Saori Tate, who was in New York for a few days on business from Tokyo, where she lives with a 2-year-old boxer named Hanna. Ms. Tate, who knew about the dog run in the park from business associates, walked to Washington Square for the first time hoping to see another boxer.

Jessica Phillips, who lives in the East Village and is in her first year of graduate school at New York University, was like many other college students hovering near the dog runs. “I want a dog, but I don’t have the time to take care of one,” she said, while standing next to the run that is restricted to dogs smaller than 25 pounds. “I like to come here and see what’s the latest crazy small-dog hybrid.”

Other students, like Erin Sheldon, a postdoctoral student in astrophysics at N.Y.U., said that they had come to the park because they missed their dogs at home.

For others in New York, watching dogs play, bark and sniff is a form of therapy. “They’re so innocent, and they just love unconditionally,” said Debbie Gruberg, who lives in the West Village and often dog-sits for friends.

For Fred Whittenberg, who lives in Point Pleasant, N.J., watching dogs play takes him back to the farm where he grew up in the central part of the state. On the farm, he said, his family had 12 Labrador retrievers who would accompany him during his afternoon chores.
44 2007-10-02 LOS ANGELES, Oct. 1 — Unions representing 12,000 screenwriters asked members on Monday to authorize a strike at any time after their contract expires at the end of this month.

If granted, authorization would set the stage for Hollywood’s first industrywide walkout since writers struck in 1988.

In an e-mail message to members, leaders of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East said the unions would immediately mail ballots, along with a request for authority to strike at “the most advantageous moment” after the current contract ends Oct. 31.

Negotiations between the guilds and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents the makers of films and television programs, have been stalled over issues including the payment of residuals for the use of movies and shows after their initial screening.

Writers want such payments increased, and have proposed a structure for compensation when movies and shows are distributed on the Internet or through other forms of new media.
45 2007-10-02 When a major study reported that the hormone replacement therapy routinely given to postmenopausal women for years appeared to do more harm than good, a few effects were immediate. Prescriptions and public discussions dropped sharply.

Two years later, a survey finds 3 in 10 women recalled anything about the study, and fewer than half were familiar with the pros and cons of the therapy.

Writing in the journal Menopause, researchers said the findings suggested that more education was needed so that menopausal women could make informed decisions. The lead author of the study was Alison J. Rigby of Stanford.

Researchers surveyed almost 800 women, ages 40 to 60, about a 2002 study from the Women’s Health Initiative. The hormones appeared to increase the risk of breast cancer, heart attack, stroke and other illnesses. Now the hormones are mainly recommended during menopause to reduce symptoms.

While doctors are presumably much more likely to be aware of the risks of the therapy, the senior author of the study, Dr. Randall S. Stafford of Stanford, said that was not enough. It was unclear how much some doctors knew about hormone replacement, Dr. Stafford said, and, just as important, how well they educated their patients.

“By and large,” he said, “patients are very frustrated and disappointed by the sort of communication that they have with their physicians.”
46 2007-10-02 The salesman at the Mets Clubhouse shop on 42nd Street walked up to the only customer in the shop, Rudy Singh, and as every salesman is trained to do, asked if he could help. Singh, a computer programmer from Queens, said he was just browsing — though he deliberately neglected the Tom Glavine jerseys.

“Go ahead,” the salesman said, “all we have now is time. Thanks for showing up.”

Less than 24 hours after the Mets completed their historic collapse with a loss to the Florida Marlins, the only smiles in the club’s fan shops were on tourists and bobblehead dolls.

The delivery of National League East Division Champions gear, originally scheduled for the small hours of yesterday morning, was canceled. People walking by the store yelled, “Close it down!” or “Let’s go, Yankees!” And at 2:30 p.m. yesterday, the cash register at the branch at Broadway and 33rd Street contained exactly $318. If the Mets had won, an employee said, receipts would have been in excess of $7,000.

“We usually do well with playoff merchandise,” said John Camilleri, the director of operations for the Mets Clubhouse stores. “I guess we won’t see that this year. But you’re still going to get your die-hard fans and tourists today.”

Tourists like Julie Brown and her mother, Dolores Bolen, from Portland, Ore., seemed blissfully unaware of the Mets’ crisis as they flipped through blue and orange hats in the store at 42nd Street. They just wanted New York souvenirs for their husbands. Regis and Kelly might have mentioned something about baseball on television that morning, they remembered, but they had not paid much attention.
47 2007-10-02 A QUARTER FOR CLEANUP Wall Street is also paying the piper this quarter for the subprime loan crisis. Citigroup, for example, has issued a profit warning, like similar actions taken by Merrill Lynch and Bank of America, while big investment banks ...
48 2007-10-03 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
49 2007-10-03 It’s hard to imagine anyone reading about the latest Zune models from Microsoft and putting them at the top of their Christmas wish list....
50 2007-10-03 (Paul Drinkwater/NBC Universal Cable) Jeff Zucker, the president and chief executive of NBC Universal, said in a speech today that the United States was losing the battle against intellectual property piracy, and called for technological solutions...
51 2007-10-03 The Republican candidate defends his positions against the possibility that the evangelical wing of the G.O.P. will bolt if he's the nominee....
52 2007-10-03 Did the microscope of so much Web scrutiny change anything?...
53 2007-10-03 Credit Suisse Group said Wednesday it would lay off 170 more employees, almost all in New York, as a result of market turmoil caused by the subprime mortgage crisis. The reductions in the investment banking unit will be on top of the 150 layoffs a...
54 2007-10-03 Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, played down reports that the software maker might buy a stake in the social-networking site Facebook. "We are so delighted to be the advertising sales partner for Facebook," Mr. Ballmer told Bloomberg Ne...
55 2007-10-03 Lawmakers on the House Financial Services Committee took a cautious approach on Tuesday on whether regulators should create a quasi-government controlled backstop that would provide liquidity to troubled financial institutions to prevent a crisis ...
56 2007-10-03 Procter & Gamble has hired the Blackstone Group to explore a sale of its Duracell batteries, Pringles chips and Folgers and Millstone coffee businesses, The Financial Times reported. Analysts have estimated that selling the brands could fetch as m...
57 2007-10-03 Microsoft, still bulking up to pry more of the online advertising market from Google, has acquired a Web site called Jellyfish.com that has struck unconventional ad deals with big retailers such as Target and Best Buy. Using Jellyfish, consumers c...
58 2007-10-03 The Nasdaq Stock Market said Tuesday that it had agreed to buy the Boston Stock Exchange for about $61 million to expand its domestic trading and enter the clearing business. Nasdaq said it would acquire select assets of the Boston Stock Exchange,...
59 2007-10-03 By JENNY ANDERSON MINNEAPOLIS SOMETIME in the next 12 to 18 months, there is going to be a panic in credit markets," Andy Redleaf, a 50-year-old hedge fund manager, wrote to investors in December. "The driver in the credit market panic of 2007 or ...
60 2007-10-03 The Portuguese detective overseeing the investigation into the disappearance of Madeleine McCann was removed from the case after chiding the British police, saying they were being misled by the girl’s parents, who are suspects. The Portuguese police gave no reason for the dismissal of Chief Inspector Gonçalo Amaral, but his removal came shortly after he was quoted in a Portuguese newspaper as saying the British police have been pursuing leads “created and cultivated” by the parents, Kate and Gerry McCann, to shift suspicion from themselves. Madeleine disappeared May 3, a few days before her fourth birthday, during a family vacation. Her parents have insisted that they had nothing to do with the disappearance and that they believe that someone took her.
61 2007-10-03 The inquest into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, formally began, 10 years after she was killed in a car crash in Paris. The inquest, which will also examine the death of her companion, Emad Mohamed al-Fayed, known as Dodi, had been delayed by legal wrangling and because other investigations had to be completed first. As is standard practice in inquests into the deaths of British citizens abroad, the jury sitting in a courtroom at the High Court in London will examine all the available evidence to determine four things: who the victims were, and why, where and how they died. Last year, an exhaustive official investigation in Britain concluded that Diana’s death was an accident.
62 2007-10-03 A United Nations Development Program report sharply criticized Cambodia for what it said was widespread malpractice in hiring local staff members for the United Nations-backed tribunal that is to try Khmer Rouge figures, saying that lucrative salaries had been handed out to unqualified people. In their report, the auditors also suggested that the agency, which administers donors’ funds for the Cambodian side of the tribunal, seriously consider withdrawing from participation if the Cambodian administrators fail to make needed changes.
63 2007-10-03 GEORGETOWN, Colo., Oct. 2 (AP) — A chemical fire at a hydroelectric plant outside this mountain town killed five workers who were trapped in an empty water tunnel there, the authorities said Tuesday.

Crews went in from the bottom of the tunnel to put out the fire and found the workers’ bodies, said Undersheriff Stu Nay of Clear Creek County said.

“We have found the parties,” Mr. Nay said. “We have five fatalities.”

Ethnie Groves, a spokesman for Xcel Energy, the plant’s owner, had said the workers initially reported that they had not been injured after the fire broke out. The water tunnel had been shut down for routine maintenance, and nine workers were in the tunnel when a machine used to coat the inside of the four-foot-wide pipe with epoxy caught fire, Mr. Groves said.

Four workers were able to scramble out of the bottom of the tunnel, which goes through a mountain to a small reservoir.

Two of the four workers who escaped were treated for chemical inhalation.

The underground channel delivers water from a reservoir to turbines that generate electricity. The maintenance was being done by a contractor, but Xcel did not release the contractor’s name.

The hydroelectric plant generates electricity during peak times of demand by releasing water from one reservoir into a lower reservoir, then pumping the water back to the upper reservoir.
64 2007-10-03 But one of those consultants, Rodney Stapp, a podiatrist and a member of the Comanche Nation of Oklahoma, begs to differ.

“There are always going to be negative comments,” said Mr. Stapp, who is director of the Dallas Urban Indian Health Center, “but most of them are saying that because they are not really familiar with the whole process that Nike went through.”

Mr. Stapp first contacted Nike several years ago, he recalled, after he discovered that a Nike crosstraining shoe, the Air Monarch, was well suited for his diabetic patients, who had turned up their noses at “those big ugly black shoes” made specifically for diabetics. (American Indians are more than twice as likely to be diabetic as non-Hispanic whites, according to the Centers for Disease Control.)

Mr. Stapp contacted the company, which agreed to provide the shoes to him at their wholesale price of $27.50 rather than the retail price of $60. The clinic, which was financed by the federal government, in turn agreed to provide the sneakers to patients free.

Three years ago, Nike approached Mr. Stapp about being part of a team of consultants to design a shoe from scratch.

“Indians tend to have a wider forefoot,” he said, “but their heels are about average,” which means that when shoes fit in the front, there can be “heel slippage” in the back.

Of course, the shoes will fit many who are not Indians perfectly well, but it is unlikely that they will be able to get their hands (or feet) on them.

According to a Nike spokesman, the shoes, which will be shipped starting Nov. 1, will not be available at conventional retail outlets but only through Nike’s Native American business program, which distributes through Indian clinics and businesses, many on reservations.

Doctors who serve American Indians may have even more cause to nag their patients to exercise than doctors elsewhere. Along with a higher incidence of diabetes, deaths from heart disease are 20 percent higher than in the American population over all, while deaths from strokes are 14 percent higher, according to the Centers for Disease Control.

The shoes have an $80 suggested retail price and will be sold to the Native American groups for $42.80. The company says its first run of the shoes, which come in men’s and women’s models, will be about 10,000 pairs, and that all profits from those sales — estimated at $200,000 at first — will be put into American Indian communities through a Nike athletic program called Let Me Play.

While some have taken umbrage at the idea of designing shoes for a specific ethnic group, others take this all less seriously.

“When I heard it, the first thing I did is I laughed until I cried, because I just though it was hilarious,” said Sherman Alexie, a Spokane/Coeur d’Alene Indian and a novelist, who is on a book tour for “The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian,” a young adult novel.

“The day it was announced, I thought: ‘Are they going to have dream catchers on them? Are they going to be beaded? Will they have native bumper stickers on them that say, ‘Custer had it coming’?”
65 2007-10-03 We have long been concerned about the potential threat to free speech and a free press as communications migrate from old-fashioned telephone lines, TV broadcasts and printing presses to digital networks controlled by unregulated private companies. The threat stopped being theoretical recently when Verizon Wireless censored political speech on one of its mobile services.

Verizon did the right thing after the problem was disclosed: it promptly dropped a misbegotten policy and said its new policy is to open its network to any legal communication. But alarm bells should be ringing on Capitol Hill, where industry lobbying, legislative goldbricking and Republican aversion to regulations have bottled up much-needed laws on digital communications.

Late last month, Verizon Wireless denied an application from Naral Pro-Choice America, a reproductive rights group, for a “short code,” a few numbers that a mobile phone user can use to subscribe to a particular source of text messages. Verizon said its policy was to refuse “issue oriented” text-messaging programs from any group that “seeks to promote an agenda or distribute content that, in its discretion, may be seen as controversial or unsavory to any of our users.” The policy also said political candidates may be granted short codes if the content is, “in VZW’s sole discretion, not issue-oriented or controversial in nature.”

Leave aside for the moment the sorry spectacle of a major American company aiming to make campaigns even more substance-free than they already are. The Verizon policy was textbook censorship. Any government that tried it would be rightly labeled authoritarian. The First Amendment prohibits the United States government from anything approaching that sort of restriction.

If Verizon had attempted it on normal phone lines, it would have been violating common carrier laws that bar interference with voice transmissions. Unfortunately, those laws do not apply to text messaging.

Given this chilling experience, the Federal Communications Commission should quickly issue regulations that also bar interference with text messaging. Unfortunately, the F.C.C. is in the thrall of the carriers, and the Bush administration has an unblemished record of siding with corporations over the rights and safety of American citizens. That means Congress will have to take the lead, as it must on other issues affecting the mushrooming world of digital communications.
66 2007-10-03 TRENTON, Oct. 2 — Repairing aging and structurally weakened bridges across New Jersey will cost $13.58 billion over the next 10 years, a sum that the State Department of Transportation has concluded could be financed partly by significantly increasing road tolls.

A report issued by the department on Tuesday said that the state needs $800 million a year — or $291 million more than it currently receives — for bridge upgrades and maintenance.

At a news conference beneath an 80-year old viaduct in Jersey City that funnels traffic into and out of the Holland Tunnel, Gov. Jon S. Corzine gave no firm answers about how the upkeep would be financed. But he suggested that higher taxes and tolls were a possibility.

“I don’t like paying taxes,” Mr. Corzine said. “I don’t like paying tolls. No one does. I also don’t like bridges collapsing.” The report found that 2,197 bridges, more than a third of all bridges in the state, are deficient in some way under federal guidelines, meaning that they are compromised structurally or have obsolete features like narrow lanes.

But being deficient does not mean unsafe, Mr. Corzine and Kris Kolluri, the Department of Transportation commissioner, emphasized.
67 2007-10-03 The price of cocaine has risen sharply in 37 cities across the United States since March, suggesting the United States and Mexico have made major strides in crimping the flow of drugs over the southern border, the top White House official in charge of antidrug efforts said yesterday.

The official, John P. Walters, said Mexico’s crackdown on drug cartels since December and the extradition of several high-level cartel leaders to the United States were the biggest factors in what he described as an unprecedented drop in the supply of cocaine and methamphetamine on American streets.

“After 25 years of cocaine coming into the United States, there has never been the kind of disruption of this magnitude for this long,” Mr. Walters said after a news conference in San Diego. “The real challenge, and I think the real opportunity now, is to continue it.”

Cocaine prices have nearly doubled in some cities in recent months because of tight supplies. Among the 37 cities studied in a White House report released yesterday, the average price for a gram of cocaine on the street rose 24 percent from January to June, to $118.70, the highest level in five years. The figures came from undercover purchases by Drug Enforcement Administration agents.

The purity of cocaine dropped 11 percent over the same period, the study showed. The cities with steep drops in supply include Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles and New York.
68 2007-10-03 The Nasdaq Stock Market said yesterday that it had agreed to buy the Boston Stock Exchange for about $61 million to expand its domestic trading and enter the clearing business.

Nasdaq said it would acquire select assets of the Boston Stock Exchange, including the Boston Equities Exchange. Nasdaq will have second licenses to trade equities and options as part of the deal. The deal does not include the Boston Options Exchange. Instead, the Montreal Exchange said it was looking to increase its ownership in the options exchange.
69 2007-10-03 MIAMI, Oct. 2 (AP) — Investigators found cartridge casings on a chartered fishing boat whose four crew members have been missing since the vessel was found last month adrift near Cuba, federal prosecutors said Tuesday.

New details came to light in the case as a judge ordered the two men who had chartered the boat held without bail. An arraignment is scheduled for Oct. 11, and the men were to remain at a federal detention center in Miami.

One of the men, Kirby L. Archer, 35, has been charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution in connection with the robbery of a Wal-Mart store in Arkansas where he was a manager. The other man, Guillermo Zarabozo, 19, has been charged with lying to federal agents.

The men boarded the fishing boat, the Joe Cool, on Sept. 22, and the crew was last heard from a day later. On Sept. 24, the Coast Guard found Mr. Archer and Mr. Zarabozo in the boat’s life raft a few miles from the abandoned vessel and about 35 miles from Cuba. Mr. Zarabozo had knives and darts from a blow gun when they were found.

Still missing are the boat’s captain, Jake Branam, 27; his wife, Kelley Branam, 30; Mr. Branam’s half-brother, Scott Gamble, 30; and Samuel Kairy, 27, all of Miami Beach. The Coast Guard suspended its search last week.

Mr. Zarabozo was born in Cuba, and Mr. Archer, who speaks Spanish, served there as a military police investigator at the United States Naval base at Guantánamo Bay. Cuba has no extradition agreement with the United States.

“Your honor, this is a one-way trip out of the country,” an assistant United States attorney, Jeffrey Tsai, told Magistrate Judge William Turnoff.
70 2007-10-03 WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 — After a successful test last week, the tracking radars and interceptor rockets of a new American missile defense system can be turned on at any time to respond to an emerging crisis in Asia, senior military officers said Tuesday.

Gen. Victor E. Renuart Jr., the senior commander for defense of United States territory, said that the antimissile system could guard against the risk of ballistic missile attack from North Korea even while development continues on a series of radars in California and the Pacific Ocean and on interceptor missiles in Alaska and California.

While the new system is limited, it is the most extensive anti-ballistic missile system the Pentagon has fielded since the Safeguard ABM system near Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota was briefly operated, starting in 1975. Congress immediately voted to shut it down, and it operated for only a few months.

“We can bring missiles up or take them down as need be so that they can continue doing the testing,” said General Renuart, commander of the military’s Northern Command, based in Colorado Springs. But, he added, “I’m fully confident that we have all of the pieces in place that, if the nation needed to, we could respond.”

He said the system showed an initial capability in July 2006, when American missile defense went on alert as North Korea staged missile tests. Because the array of interceptors and radars remains under development, it has never received the military’s official status of being an operational weapons system.
71 2007-10-03 All but one of 49 pit bulls taken from the Virginia property of Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick should be allowed to live, federal prosecutors said in a court motion.

The prosecutors filed the motion before United States District Judge Henry Hudson in Richmond, Va., yesterday with the recommendation, about a month after animal-behavior specialists led by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals examined the dogs.

Only one of the dogs was deemed unfit for rehabilitation and recommended for euthanasia, which was ordered by Hudson.

That dog had a history of biting people and “exhibited intense aggression to humans to the point where the evaluation could not safely be completed,” according to the motion filed by Chuck Rosenberg, the United States attorney.

Vick, 27, pleaded guilty in August to a federal charge that he plotted to run an interstate dogfighting ring. He faces up to five years in prison.
72 2007-10-03 Little more than three years after fire gutted the Duchess Anna Amalia Library, above, in Weimar, Germany, thousands of restored books were returned Monday to the renovated 16th-century Rococo palace, The Associated Press reported. The library, in the city where Goethe spent much of his life, is to reopen on Oct. 24. Michael Knoche, the library’s director, said the institution, now with a hidden sprinkler system, had been restored to the condition it was at Goethe’s death in 1832. Of roughly 50,000 books destroyed by the fire, about 16,000 have been restored, Mr. Knoche said, and replacements have been found for 12,500 more at a cost of $95.4 million.
73 2007-10-03 After meeting with Mr. Brown, Iraq’s prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, said Iraqi forces were ready, even eager, to take over security operations around Basra.

Iraqi health officials, meanwhile, said they had begun distributing chlorine pills to residents in Baghdad and Anbar Province in an effort to avoid outbreaks of cholera like those that occurred recently in northern Iraq. The oil-rich city of Kirkuk has been the hardest hit, with more than 2,200 cholera cases reported since mid-August, said Dr. Adil Muhsin Abdullah, an official with the Iraqi Health Ministry.

Sulaimaniya has confirmed about 800 cases of cholera. Only one person has contracted cholera in Baghdad, according to a report on Monday by the World Health Organization. Cholera has killed 14 people in the past six weeks, the organization said.

Dr. Naeema al-Gasseer, the W.H.O. representative for Iraq, said determining the number of people who had contracted cholera was not as critical to public health as monitoring the pattern and number of new cases.

“At this stage the numbers don’t mean much,” Dr. Gasseer said in a telephone interview from Jordan. “We need to look at the trend, if they are increasing or decreasing.”

The only urban area where cholera seems to be rapidly rising is Kirkuk, she said.

Cholera is a gastrointestinal disease typically contracted by drinking contaminated water; it often causes severe diarrhea, and in extreme cases, particularly in young children, can lead to fatal dehydration and kidney failure.

Also on Tuesday, a car bomb detonated near a police checkpoint outside the town of Khalis, killing six Iraqis, including two policemen, and wounding 10, a police official said.

In Baghdad, Iraqis who moved into apartment buildings that were occupied by Baath Party officials before the American invasion protested an order of eviction by the Interior Ministry. The order, dated Sept. 12, stated that residents of the buildings, in the neighborhood of Salhiya in central Baghdad and on Abu Nawas Street, had to move out immediately or face eviction by a force of 250 police officers. Between 1,000 and 500 Iraqis beat drums and waved flags, demanding that they be allowed to stay.

One American soldier was killed and 10 wounded in combat in central Baghdad on Sunday, the military said in a statement on Tuesday.
74 2007-10-03 Lis does deserve a book, although a much smaller one would do. His peripatetic career opens a window onto multiple worlds: the New York of “The Alienist,” the London of the Sherlock Holmes stories and South Africa in the heady days just before the Boer War. It was a time when the technology of travel outpaced the technology of criminal detection, giving shadowy characters like Lis remarkable freedom to roam and set up illegal enterprises, aided in many cases by underpaid policemen more than happy to work hand in glove with the people they were supposed to be arresting. This was, in many ways, the golden age of crime.

Lis was born in the Pale of Settlement, in what is now Poland. His last name, in Polish, means fox, although he quickly abandoned it for dozens of aliases. Mr. van Onselen makes much of his close relationship with his mother, and of her extramarital affair, which resulted in Lis’s illegitimate half-brother.

Young Joseph, he suggests, developed a hatred of female immorality and female sexual organs, reinforced by the harsh teachings of the Old Testament. Wild psychologizing grafted onto exacting historical research — at one point the author engages a “forensic graphologist accredited by the American Association of Handwriting Analysts and World Association of Document Examiners” to establish that Lis was right-handed — gives “The Fox and the Flies” its peculiar tone.

The little town of Kielce was too small for Lis. He made his way to London, where, Mr. van Onselen speculates, he contracted syphilis and quite likely murdered prostitutes in Whitechapel. The Ripper theory, argued in the book’s last chapter, rests on a heap of circumstantial evidence, some intriguing, some overly ingenious. To find it convincing, readers must believe that Lis was deeply influenced by the Book of Ezekiel, Chapter 23, and its warning to the whores of Egypt that their noses and ears would be cut off.

In New York Lis found his métier. He set up as a pimp, dabbled in burglary and theft and sold information to the police. He apparently took some pride in representing himself as an “agent,” which is how he is listed in the New York City directory in the early 1890s.

When not cooling his heels in prison, Lis did show a remarkable talent for landing on his feet and setting up a brothel in no time. In Johannesburg, a wide-open city that attracted prostitutes and wheeler-dealers from all over the globe, he hit the ground running, creating a major white slavery ring soon after his arrival in 1898.

“His success in capturing control of the city’s law enforcement machinery as well as its most powerful underworld structures within six months spoke of an evil genius at the height of his powers,” Mr. van Onselen writes.

Lis, whose grandiosity Mr. van Onselen attributes to advancing syphilis, tended to operate flamboyantly, attracting the wrong sort of attention and invariably winding up in jail or with a one-way ticket out of the country. It was a life of boom and bust.

The lows were very low — by 1901 he was contemplating selling cigarettes on commission — but the highs could be giddy. Not long after serving time in a Johannesburg prison, he was offered a princely salary to help detectives in Kimberley set up illicit diamond-buying sting operations.

And so it went, with barely a pause for breath, from South Africa to South America and back to Europe, until the dogged Mr. van Onselen finally loses the trail. Perhaps it’s just as well. By this time, you suspect that the would-be master criminal is, in fact, just as Mr. van Onselen describes him in an unguarded moment, a “deeply disturbed, poverty stricken, woman-hating nothing from Kielce.”
75 2007-10-03 In August, when many fund managers watched the bottom fall out of their portfolios, Mr. Redleaf urged traders to think aggressively (buy the stocks of buyout targets that others were selling) and think creatively (who could be forced into a fire sale and what opportunities would that create?). It was a strategy that many funds would have taken, had they not been busy reducing leverage by as much as 30 to 50 percent. Whitebox, a $3.1 billion family of funds, increased its leverage.

Early in his career, Mr. Redleaf sat next to Steven A. Cohen, who went on to start SAC Capital and become the archetypal hedge fund boss, secretive and rich, with an art collection that includes a tiger shark in formaldehyde and a 30-room mansion in Greenwich, Conn., with a skating rink in the backyard.

But Mr. Redleaf is not the Ferrari-driving, khaki-wearing hedge fund wunderkind from central casting. He is short, with a belly big enough to balance a pen, which he does sometimes. He has a long salt-and-pepper beard, which he tugs, and extremely poor eyesight, which requires him to use a magnifying glass to read the numbers on a cellphone. He speaks slowly, with a slight stutter that does not mask either his self-deprecating humor or his disarming memory. (He’s happy to talk about the structure of a two-tier convertible bond that caused him grief in 1984.)

Whitebox is not standard issue either. It is based in Minneapolis, where Mr. Redleaf grew up — not exactly a hotbed of hedge funds. Its funds tend to avoid the standard categories and risk metrics, which can be both an advantage and a challenge in seeking investors.

“We reject the notion that increasing risk is the way to raise returns,” say confidential marketing materials provided by an investor. “Every economic innovation known to man from the discovery of fire to better clean rooms for higher density microchips enriched man by the very act of reducing risk.”

Whitebox emerged from August’s maelstrom well, according to investors who provided the firm’s letters and returns. The firm’s combined fund, which includes four funds, was up about 15.4 percent for the year through August, compared with 6.55 percent for the Credit Suisse/Tremont multistrategy index and 5.20 percent for the S.&P. 500 index.

But being original can sometimes be fatal in the world of finance. Julian H. Robertson Jr., a hot fund manager in a previous boom, believed that the market lost its senses in 1999 with its meteoric valuations for technology stocks, and his firm, Tiger Management, bet against them. He was right, but his funds went out of business first.

The holy grail, of course, is running against the grain while making money.

Whitebox’s offices feel like a high-tech dorm room, albeit one with notably more sophisticated conversations. A portfolio manager wears shorts, while a few junior traders plod around barefoot. Conversations weave from oxtail jerky — better than beef jerky? — to dissections of portfolio positions.

After the market closes and with a flash flood paralyzing the city, Mr. Redleaf and a small group of employees contemplate everything from airlines (they own half of one) to the dollar (it is doomed) and the credit crunch (it’s mostly over). There are millionaires in the room, but one would be hard pressed to identify them. “Andy sets the tone, and Andy’s pretty mellow,” a credit analyst, Pete Wiley II, said.

In 2005, when convertible arbitrage was losing money, Robert Vogel, who manages the group’s concentrated convertible fund, was depressed about the market. Mr. Redleaf was not.

“Andy was cheering me up and telling me to be aggressive and buy things that were cheap,” Mr. Vogel said.

That contrarian approach also manifests itself in efforts to let employees have a life outside the office. Mr. Redleaf is determined to create a nice place to work.

“People are better at doing things they like,” he says matter-of-factly. “Don’t give them stuff they don’t want to do. I learned that from years of personal negative experience.”

Wall Street itself was never particularly welcoming to Mr. Redleaf. In 1978, he graduated from Yale with two degrees in mathematics (it took him three years) and a share of the university’s highest math award.

The summer before, he sent applications to 100 investment firms and had gotten nowhere. Though he had been accepted into the Ph.D. math programs at Harvard, Berkeley and Stanford, his father gave him the name of the chief of proprietary options trading at Drexel and, in his words, “browbeat” him into calling for an interview.

While Drexel didn’t work out, the connection led him to Gruntal & Company, a brokerage firm, where he was given a quiz on the market capitalization and float (shares outstanding to the public) of companies as a test. (He remembers not only the companies but the market caps and the floats.)

In 1982, Mr. Redleaf moved to Chicago and traded options, losing his money twice and quitting the industry once.

“I have a healthy respect for the fates,” he said. In 1994, he co-founded Deephaven, which he left in 1999 after a disagreement with his partners about his performance. He opened Whitebox in 2000 with $10 million in capital.

UNDERSTANDING Whitebox from a PowerPoint presentation would be like marrying, sight unseen, a person chosen on eHarmony. An unusual amount of work is required.

Gauging risk, for example, is crucial to investors handing over $100 million to manage. “Value-at-risk,” for example, is a widely used, and often criticized, way to measure the amount of money a portfolio could lose. Whitebox finds the measure offensive — not a unique view among hedge funds. What is unusual is that the firm refuses to use it.

“Universal, top-down risk management models, based on historic probabilities from a large and well-known universe, work quite well on large randomized portfolios that fully represent that universe,” Mr. Redleaf wrote in a letter. “But who wants to pay 1.5 and 20,” percentage fees charged on assets and profits, “for a randomly selected portfolio representing a well-known asset class? I have a dart board that will do that for you for free.”

When a former marketing manager suggested that Whitebox at least calculate value-at-risk for investors who wanted it, Mr. Redleaf rejected the idea as intellectually dishonest and potentially harmful to the firm.

The group tries to arbitrage the inefficiencies created by artificial categories (“small cap value”) and organizing principles (stock trader or bond trader?) that dictate how markets tend to operate. Its strategies are rooted in quantitative models.

“The model is a tool to help us think, not a substitute for thought,” Mr. Redleaf once wrote. Whitebox is best understood by Mr. Redleaf’s letters to investors, which quote everyone from Claude Shannon, the father of information theory, to Don Corleone of “The Godfather” and try to explain everything from a particularly complex trade to the role of committees (generally useless, with the committees that produced the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution being notable exceptions).

A common theme, and one of Mr. Redleaf’s pet peeves, is the idea that fiduciaries, those entrusted with acting in the best interests of their clients, have abdicated their obligations. It is a sentiment that segues well into hedge fund investing. “Good hedge fund managers expose and defy convention, taking all personal and business risks entailed in such defiance to build truly conservative portfolios,” he wrote in a letter. “In large part this consists in arbitraging the laziness, ignorance, careerism, conformism, cowardice and dissimulation of supposed fiduciaries.”

Another pet peeve is the media’s use of “lightly regulated” and “highly leveraged” to describe hedge funds, which Mr. Redleaf says are “differently” regulated. For example, hedge funds cannot advertise like mutual funds. “If we could, the advertisement would not be grandpa fishing with his grandson,” he says dismissively. It would probably be whale harpooning or bear tackling.

The academic arrogance does not go too far. Ask Mr. Redleaf about his worst trade, and he sighs and says, “There are so many.” In fact, he started one letter with: “I have been thinking about the business of making predictions, since my own so rarely come true.”

Finding the market inefficiencies Whitebox seeks will be harder as the fund gets bigger. And the laissez-faire environment will be harder to maintain. For now, everyone is focused on the next trade.

“We are certainly not having a credit crisis,” Mr. Redleaf wrote in his latest letter, which investors received last week. “But we could be looking at a currency crisis, defined as a collapse in the value of the dollar sufficiently sudden and severe to disrupt international transactions on a grand scale.”

He’s got a weird trade for it, but that’s for next month’s letter.
76 2007-10-03 The Mets, who collectively staged one of the great collapses in baseball history in recent weeks, crudely kept Manager Willie Randolph dangling after the final out on Sunday — perhaps the Queens version of the old Steinbrenner trick of making general managers stay in their hotel room for the crime of losing a World Series game.

The Mets did issue an inane statement Monday that made Randolph a nonperson. Somebody with sense in the high end of ownership finally realized this was bad form, and got General Manager Omar Minaya and Randolph on the same rostrum and the same page yesterday. Willie will be back, as well he should be.

Maybe next year Randolph will extract more stability from the young shortstop, José Reyes, and the older players around him. Also, next year maybe the front office will not publicly humiliate Randolph the way it did this year by firing his batting coach, Rick Down. A man of strong character, Randolph never backed down, referring to Down as “my man” and “my brother,” while saddled with the mysterious Rickey Henderson as a coach. In the meantime, the Mets face a terrible winter and uncertain spring.

The Knicks were also on humiliating public display yesterday, when a jury decided in favor of a former executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, who had charged she was harassed by Isiah Thomas. Significantly, the jury awarded her $11.6 million in punitive damages to be paid by Madison Square Garden rather than Thomas, which indicates the jury reacted to the core of the Garden’s management.

This becomes even more important in that the Dolans, the owners of Cablevision, are lusting to build a new Garden on the west end of the handsome old Farley Post Office, complicating plans for a landmark railroad station to replace the old Penn Station. Before the various agencies make any decisions, they ought to ask, Do we really want to work with these folks?

With all this going on, the Yankees showed up at the Stadium. “Just like old times,” said the prodigal son Andy Pettitte, the humble left-hander who took his three-year sabbatical with his home-team Astros, and then returned to Torre and the Bronx. Pettitte, who will pitch the second game in Cleveland, stepped into the familiar crush of news media types and clubhouse attendants and players yesterday as if he had never been away, which, in a sense, he hadn’t.

Pettitte remembered being young in 1996 and watching Torre develop a relief tandem of Mariano Rivera often for two innings and then John Wetteland to close it down. Pettitte admitted he used to feel aggravated when Torre took him out, but Torre remembers it differently. The manager never becomes more sentimental than when he discusses the shy kid from Houston winning big games. Eleven years later, the Yankees have reloaded with Joba Chamberlain and his soon-to-be-expanded protective rules, followed by the master, Rivera.

The Yankees are going over the familiar ritual since Torre arrived in 1996. While I generally do not like to lump postseason statistics with World Series statistics, it is worth noting that the Yankees have won 75 postseason games and lost 44 under Torre. They are 37-22 at home and 38-22 on the road, a sign they have this drill down pat.

Torre shudders when he talks about how quickly a team can vanish in the best-of-five first round. It has happened to him four times, including the past two Octobers, when the postseason never even got to the cold weather and the bunting.

Yankee fans may soon be yowling for scalps, like the mob in Flushing was Sunday, and still is. But yesterday was merely WORKOUT DAY for the methodical, tranquil and perpetual Yanks.
77 2007-10-03 Microsoft became a player in the ad business with its August purchase of aQuantive, which provides a technology that places ever-changing Web site ads in front of Internet viewers, based on specific conditions.

Now, Mr. Ballmer is trying to convince media specialists that Microsoft is serious about catching up with Google as the digital brand of choice for advertisers, who spend about $550 billion a year worlwide.

Mr. Ballmer declined to comment on recent media speculation that Microsoft was interested in buying a stake in Facebook, the social networking Web site, saying only that he was “very excited” to be Facebook’s digital advertising supplier.

But he did say that Microsoft was not in danger of losing its focus and turning into an entertainment company. “ ‘Brand Microsoft’ should be seen as a software competence company,” he said, adding that the company had other brands with other roles, like the Xbox game console.

Microsoft has more to overcome in Europe than just being No. 2 in advertising, after having lost its appeal of the European Commission antitrust judgment against it last month.

This week Forrester Research released a study of online consumers and technology brands in Europe showing that Microsoft scored low in trust among regular users.

“I think a lot of the brand issues have something to do with some of the other matters that we have been confronting,” Mr. Ballmer said. “As we move down that path very constructively, that will have positive brand impact as well.”

Although the commercial side of the Internet has experimented with a wide variety of business models over the last decade, Mr. Ballmer said advertising was the clear choice for digital media. In recent days, two prominent news Web sites — The New York Times and The Financial Times — said they were scaling back attempts to charge subscription fees for some of their content.

“As much as people sometimes like to pick bones with advertising, people much prefer an ad-funded experience to one that they pay for,” he said.

“Even the basic software that we’ve delivered for so many years — if it can be ad-funded in the way it gets delivered to consumers, it probably will be ad-funded.”

One advantage of digital media, and advertising on it, is that its use can be examined in minute ways and the information employed by marketers to increase sales.

Google is buying its own digital advertising technology, DoubleClick, which leads the market in Europe as well as the United States, although Microsoft is challenging that purchase as anticompetitive.

Brian McAndrews, the founder of aQuantive and now Microsoft’s senior vice president for advertiser and publisher services, said his company would be rolling out its digital marketing services network in France, Spain, Germany and Italy over the next couple of months to take on Google and DoubleClick.

“There are only so many companies that can really afford to do that, and clearly one of them is Microsoft,” Mr. McAndrews said.
78 2007-10-03 But one of the most striking changes had to do with Microsoft’s effort to enhance what had been perhaps the most talked-about feature on the original device: the ability to share music files and other media wirelessly with other Zune owners. Far too few people, however, purchased the player for such sharing to become commonplace, and the function held little appeal because it was crippled by usage rules negotiated with the music industry. Shared songs expired within a few days, even if the recipient did not play them. And a file acquired from one Zune user could not be shared with a third user.

Under the new rules, Microsoft said, shared songs would have no expiration date and it would be possible repeatedly to pass along songs sent from one device to another. But a shared file can be played only three times on each Zune.

Partly to warm up the initially tepid response, the company is creating a social-networking site, Zune Social, to encourage the sharing of samples of songs online, even for fans who do not own a Zune player. Members of the network will also be able to use a small application on their computers to display which songs they have been listening to, and that information can be posted on certain Web sites outside the network or sent by e-mail to friends.

Various social networking sites, like Facebook, already offer sharing of samples of songs.

“The whole idea behind Zune is much broader than the devices themselves,” said J Allard, the Microsoft vice president who oversees design and development for consumer products like the Zune and the Xbox 360 game consoles. “The conditioned thought is around a portable device being the center point of the experience, when in fact it’s not. It really is about how do we start taking Zune beyond that device.” He said the social networking would appeal to Zune owners and people who had not bought the device.

A version with 80 gigabytes of storage, available only in black, will sell for $250. A version using flash memory with 8 gigabytes of storage will sell for $200, and the 4-gigabyte flash player will cost $150, the company said.

Van Baker, an analyst at the research firm Gartner, said the Zune revisions amounted to “a much-needed line extension” for the brand. “Is it enough to get somebody to move away from Apple to Microsoft? I don’t think so,” he said, “but it should help Microsoft against some of the other alternatives.”

Microsoft also said the library of songs available on its digital music service would soon include more than one million tracks without copy-protection software, known in the music industry as digital rights management or D.R.M. But the company noted that even songs without copy protection would still be playable only three times when they have been passed from another Zune user.
79 2007-10-03 TOBACCO'S FUTURE, VIA SWEDEN  It's a kind of smokeless tobacco that requires no spitting. It has helped Sweden to the lowest smoking rate in Europe. And now it is coming to the United States, promoted by the tobacco industry as a less dangerous al...
80 2007-10-03 Imagine a crisp, tangy apple robed in sumptuous caramel, a candy apple unlike any other you've had. Impossible, you say?     This month and next, Baked, a pastry shop in Brooklyn, is making exemplary examples of the genre, using Macoun and Cortlan...
81 2007-10-03 MCCABE--Edward J. Jr., of Del Ray Beach, FL, and Worcester, NY, on September 30, 2007, at the age of 94. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Dear father of Kathleen Anne (Peter) Bisconti and Edward O. McCabe (Julianne). Also surviving are eight gra...
82 2007-10-04 Of 32 American cities studied in a new research paper, New York was cited as having the most risk of rodent infestation, now and in the future....
83 2007-10-04 A roundup of the morning news....
84 2007-10-04 Senator John McCain of Arizona raised $6 million over the summer and ended September with $3.6 million in the bank....
85 2007-10-04 Citigroup is in talks with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity shop, to provide financing for its purchase of some of the leveraged loans on the bank's balance sheet, The Financial Times reported. Citigroup has apparently also talked to ot...
86 2007-10-04 Visa, which plans to go public by early next year, said on Wednesday it completed a restructuring ahead of its initial public offering. The world's largest credit card network said it received broad member approval for transactions in which Visa C...
87 2007-10-04 It’s easy to see how that might happen. There’s no CD/DVD drive at all, no hard drive and only a 7.5-inch screen. The Linux operating system doesn’t run Microsoft Office, Photoshop or any other standard Mac or Windows programs. The membrane-sealed, spillproof keyboard is too small for touch-typing by an adult.

And then there’s the look of this thing. It’s made of shiny green and white plastic, like a Fisher-Price toy, complete with a handle. With its two earlike antennas raised, it could be Shrek’s little robot friend.

And sure enough, the bloggers and the ignorant have already begun to spit on the XO laptop. “Dude, for $400, I can buy a real Windows laptop,” they say.

Clearly, the XO’s mission has sailed over these people’s heads like a 747.

The truth is, the XO laptop, now in final testing, is absolutely amazing, and in my limited tests, a total kid magnet. Both the hardware and the software exhibit breakthrough after breakthrough — some of them not available on any other laptop, for $400 or $4,000.

In the places where the XO will be used, power is often scarce. So the laptop uses a new battery chemistry, called lithium ferro-phosphate. It runs at one-tenth the temperature of a standard laptop battery, costs $10 to replace, and is good for 2,000 charges — versus 500 on a regular laptop battery.

The laptop consumes an average of 2 watts, compared with 60 or more on a typical business laptop. That’s one reason it gets such great battery life. A small yo-yo-like pull-cord charger is available (one minute of pulling provides 10 minutes of power); so is a $12 solar panel that, although only one foot square, provides enough power to recharge or power the machine.

Speaking of bright sunshine: the XO’s color screen is bright and, at 200 dots an inch, razor sharp (1,200 by 900 pixels). But it has a secret identity: in bright sun, you can turn off the backlight altogether. The resulting display, black on light gray, is so clear and readable, it’s almost like paper. Then, of course, the battery lasts even longer.

The XO offers both regular wireless Internet connections and something called mesh networking, which means that all the laptops see each other, instantly, without any setup — even when there’s no Internet connection.

With one press of a button, you see a map. Individual XO logos — color-coded to differentiate them — represent other laptops in the area; you connect with one click. (You never double-click in the XO’s visual, super-simple operating system. You either point with the mouse or click once.)

This feature has some astonishing utility. If only one laptop has an Internet connection, for example, the others can get online, too, thanks to the mesh network. And when O.L.P.C. releases software upgrades, one laptop can broadcast them to other nearby laptops.

Power users will snort at the specs of this machine. It has only one gigabyte of storage — all flash memory — with 20 percent of that occupied by the XO’s system software. And the processor is feeble by conventional standards. Starting up takes two minutes, and switching between programs is poky.

Once in a program, though, the speed is fine; it turns out that a light processor is plenty if the software is written compactly and smartly. (O.L.P.C. points out that despite gigantic leaps in processing power, today’s business laptops don’t feel any faster than they did a few years ago. The operating systems and programs have added so much bloat that they absorb the speed gains.)

The built-in programs are equally clever. There’s a word processor, Web browser, calculator, PDF textbook reader, some games (clones of Tetris and Connect 4), three music programs, a painting application, a chat program and so on. The camera module permits teachers, for the first time, to send messages home to illiterate parents.

There are also three programming environments of different degrees of sophistication. Incredibly, one keystroke reveals the underlying code of almost any XO program or any Web page. Students can not only study how their favorite programs have been written, but even experiment by making changes. (If they make a mess of things, they can restore the original.)

There’s real brilliance in this emphasis on understanding the computer itself. Many nations in XO’s market have few natural resources, and the global need for information workers grows with every passing day.

Most of the XO’s programs are shareable on the mesh network, which is another ingenious twist. Any time you’re word processing, making music, taking pictures, playing games or reading an e-book, you can click a Share button. Your document shows up next to your icon on the mesh-network map, so that other people can see what you’re doing, or work with you. Teachers can supervise your writing, buddies can collaborate on a document, friends can play you in Connect 4, or someone across the room can add a melody to your drum beat in the music program. You’ve never seen anything like it.

The pair of laptops I reviewed had incomplete power-management software, beta-stage software and occasional cosmetic glitches. But O.L.P.C. and its worldwide army of open-source (volunteer) programmers expect to polish things by the time the assembly line starts to roll in November.

No, the biggest obstacle to the XO’s success is not technology — it’s already a wonder — but fear. Overseas ministers of education fear that changing the status quo might risk their jobs. Big-name computer makers fear that the XO will steal away an overlooked two-billion-person market. Critics fear that the poorest countries need food, malaria protection and clean water far more than computers.

But the XO deserves to overcome those fears. Despite all the obstacles and doubters, O.L.P.C. has come up with a laptop that’s tough and simple enough for hot, humid, dusty locales; cool enough to keep young minds engaged, both at school and at home; and open, flexible and collaborative enough to support a million different teaching and learning styles.

It’s a technological breakthrough, for sure. Now let’s just hope it breaks through the human barriers.
88 2007-10-04 Q. Every time I download and open a JPEG photo from an e-mail message, the picture automatically opens in Photoshop. How can I make Picasa my default program instead?

A. You can change the program that’s been designated to open JPEG photo files from Photoshop to Picasa. One way to do this is to right-click on any JPEG image file and choose the “Open With” option from the drop-down menu.

Windows will give you a list of recommended programs that can open JPEG images. Select Picasa from the list and check the box next to “Always use the selected program to open this kind of file,” then click on the O.K. button. If you don’t see Picasa in the list, click the Browse button and go to the Programs folder on your hard drive. In the Picasa2 folder, choose Picasa2.exe.

When you open that JPEG photo, Picasa should open and show you the picture, along with its buttons that let you make minor corrections to the image, post it on your blog, print it or even e-mail it to someone else.
89 2007-10-04 There is a cruel but compelling efficiency to college football that other sports cannot match.

In college basketball and all of the major professional sports, a single loss in the regular season won’t prove fatal to a team’s chances of winning a championship. Two seasons ago, the Steelers, with five losses, became the lowest-seeded team ever to win a Super Bowl; last fall, the Cardinals stumbled into the baseball playoffs playing just over .500, then proceeded to win the World Series.

As fans witnessed last Saturday, college football offers no such luxury. Four bonafide national-title contenders -- Oklahoma, Florida, West Virginia and Texas -- all lost in varying degrees of upset. But the larger impact is that five weeks into the season, those four teams are all but eliminated from national championship contention.

When critics of college football complain about the lack of a playoff system, they discount that the 12-game regular season is its own de facto playoff. A single week’s stumble almost always costs a contender a chance to play in the Bowl Championship Series title game.

So just five weeks into the season, we are now down to a mere 13 unbeaten major college teams, and that list almost assuredly will shrivel by the end of the month, if not as early as Saturday. College football doesn’t need a playoff system; when every week has the potential, and even the inevitability, of whittling the field, the regular season assumes its rightful place as the best way to find the two teams most worthy of playing for a national title.

Sure, that doesn’t always yield clean-cut results, but there is a brutal authenticity to that messiness -- week after week, a potential championship at stake -- that gives college football the most meaningful regular season in sports.
90 2007-10-04 The personal information, Microsoft said, will be stored in a secure, encrypted database. Its privacy controls, the company said, are set entirely by the individual, including what information goes in and who gets to see it. The HealthVault searches are conducted anonymously, Microsoft said, and will not be linked to any personal information in a HealthVault personal health record.

Microsoft does not expect most individuals to type in much of their own health information into the Web-based record. Instead, the company hopes that individuals will give doctors, clinics and hospitals permission to directly send into their HealthVault record information like medicines prescribed or, say, test results showing blood pressure and cholesterol levels.

Such data transfers, Mr. Neupert said, would then be automatic, over the Internet, which is why the partnerships are so important. “The issues are: can we get the connections and demonstrate the value of this to people so they build up these records as they go along,” he said.

At NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital in New York, Aurelia Boyer, the chief information officer, explained that the hospital was committed to doing whatever it can to help patients manage their own health care. After an initial discussion with Microsoft, the hospital has pledged to start a pilot project to enable some kinds of patient data — EKGs, perhaps — to be automatically sent to a person’s HealthVault account.

If a patient chooses to have a Microsoft personal health record, Ms. Boyer said, “we want to support them.”

The data exchange, she added, will require some software tweaking by the hospital’s technical staff. "We’ll pilot a few things and see how it goes," Ms. Boyer said.

The Microsoft entry comes at a time when people are increasingly using online tools, especially Internet search, to find health information. An aging population with more health concerns, as well as tighter curbs on medical spending, are expected to prompt consumers to take a larger role in managing their own care, using online tools that include personal health records. But that trend has not gone very far yet.

Microsoft is also moving ahead at a time when other large technology companies have seen senior executives in their health units depart or hit bumps in their efforts to push health initiatives.

The leader of Google’s health group, Adam Bosworth, left last month, for example. The company has been developing offerings broadly similar to Microsoft’s — personal health records stored in Google data centers, and enhanced health search.

Google will not discuss the timing of its health plans. Marissa Mayer, the Google vice president now overseeing the health team, said, “We hope the products we’re working on will give people access to better information about health that is more relevant to them and help them manage and control their own information.”

At Cisco, the head of its health care practice, Dr. Jeffrey Rideout, recently left to join a private equity firm, Ziegler HealthVest Management. (Cisco called his departure a “leave of absence.”) And Dossia, a coalition led by Intel to provide employees at several large companies with personal health records, is going more slowly than planned.

But while some other technology companies are pulling back or slowing down in health, “Microsoft is stepping forward and finally declaring the hand it will play,” observed Dr. David J. Brailer, the former health information technology coordinator in the Bush administration, who now heads a firm that invests in medical ventures, Health Evolution Partners.

At the American Heart Association, Dr. Daniel Jones, the president, said that working with Microsoft was a way to accelerate his group’s efforts to curb heart disease. The company is collaborating with the heart association on an online blood pressure management tool online. Heart patients will be able to go to the association’s Web site, open a HealthVault account and include their blood-pressure readings, weight and medications.

At first, Dr. Jones said, they would probably enter the data themselves, but later have it sent from a doctor’s office or laboratory. Ideally, he said, the person would share the information with their doctor or nurse, who could call or send an e-mail message to warn of any disturbing changes. “The potential here is very great,” Dr. Jones said. “And we all recognize the power of Microsoft to reach millions of households.”

Microsoft also has signed up health care companies. Johnson & Johnson LifeScan, the nation’s largest producer of glucose monitors for diabetes patients, plans to enable the monitors’ readouts to be placed into a Microsoft HealthVault account. “We see this as a potentially powerful tool in helping patients manage their diabetes,” said Tom West, president of Johnson & Johnson LifeScan.

Privacy is a huge issue and one likely to slow the spread of personal health records. But Microsoft’s privacy principles have impressed Dr. Deborah Peel, chairwoman of the Patient Privacy Rights Foundation, a nonprofit group. In terms of patient control, and agreeing to outside audits, “Microsoft is setting an industry standard for privacy,” said Dr. Peel.

Mr. Neupert of Microsoft said the key to allaying privacy worries would be a track record of trust and showing consumers the value and convenience of personal health records. Consumers, he noted, initially were reluctant to try online banking because of privacy worries. But today, online banking is mainstream.

“It’s going to be a long journey,” Mr. Neupert said. “To make a difference in health care, it is doing to take time and scale. And Microsoft has both.”
91 2007-10-04 “Well, let’s stick with the facts,” Thomas said with a laugh, echoing the words he used to defend himself against the harassment charges.

His expressions and words were more constrained when it came to specific questions about the trial, and its effects. Asked about potential distractions, he said: “We won’t be distracted. No.” Asked if he was worried about his job, he answered simply, “No.” Asked if the case had any effect on the team, Thomas said, “None at all.” He referred a question about the possibility of a backlash from fans to a Knicks public-relations person, standing to his right.

Thomas said there was no special significance to the presence of Steve Mills, the Madison Square Garden president, and Hank Ratner, the Garden’s vice chairman, who watched the morning session.

“They come down every training camp,” Thomas said.

Team officials gave no indication of whether the Garden chairman, James L. Dolan, would make his usual training camp visit or speak to reporters. Dolan is responsible for $3 million of the damages assessed in the lawsuit brought by Anucha Browne Sanders.

Thomas said he chose not to discuss his ordeal with the team, preferring to focus on the work at hand. That has been a difficult task because Thomas spent much of the summer preparing for the trial.

He huddled with lawyers during the day, but said he “worked a lot of nights” to prepare for the season and came to camp “extremely focused.”

“Honestly, my head never left basketball,” Thomas said. “This is what I’ve done and this is what I do. And this is what I think about the majority of the time.”

Thomas spoke earnestly of “trying to make some noise in the N.B.A.” and of putting the Knicks, who have not won a playoff game since 2001, in position to compete for a championship.

The click-click-click of a camera shutter served as an accompaniment to Thomas’s thoughts, and as a noisy reminder that this Knicks training camp is newsworthy for all the wrong reasons.

But Thomas, who only a day earlier was still in federal court, showed no sign of added stress or exhaustion, according to his players.

“He seems great, you couldn’t even tell,” center Eddy Curry said. “He came right in and picked up where we left off.”

The only reference Thomas made to the trial, Curry said, was “that he’s not going to let that kind of stuff dictate how he coaches. He’s going to give us his all. And that’s all we expect.”

Curry added, “We’re glad to have him back.”

The later parts of the morning practice looked like any other. David Lee hustled for offensive rebounds. Jared Jeffries missed some free throws. And James watched from the sideline, because of a cranky left knee that has forced him to cut short every session so far.

There are a number of issues to sort out before the Knicks open the season Nov. 2 in Cleveland. Thomas must incorporate a new power forward, Zach Randolph, a potent low-post scorer, into an offense crowded with scorers. Behind Randolph, he has to find playing time for Lee, the team’s best rebounder last season. He has to keep a watchful eye on Quentin Richardson, who is coming off back surgery; Jamal Crawford, recovering from ankle surgery; and Stephon Marbury, who has chronic knee troubles.

But what was Thomas’s main focus as he returned to the court?

Zach Randolph was back at practice Wednesday morning, after going home to Indiana to be with his gravely ill grandmother Tuesday afternoon. ... Allan Houston, who retired two years ago because of arthritic knees, has an open invitation to practice with the Knicks and compete for a roster spot, Isiah Thomas said. Houston, 36, is considering a comeback.
92 2007-10-04 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Oct. 3 (AP) — The militant Red Mosque here reopened Wednesday, nearly three months after an army raid left more than 100 people dead.

Commandos attacked in July after a violent anti-vice campaign led by the mosque’s administrators boiled over into gunfights with the police.

A first attempt to reopen the extensively repaired mosque in late July ended when students seized the building and a suicide bomber killed 13 people nearby. In comments broadcast Wednesday, General Musharraf said the authorities would clamp down if militants tried to regain control of the mosque.

“There should be good things done there, there should be prayers there,” he said. “No one will be allowed to take it over.”

After the police cut barbed wire and removed barriers around the mosque, 3,000 people answered the noon call to prayer.

In a taped address, the incarcerated cleric Maulana Abdul Aziz urged worshipers to continue campaigning for the imposition of Shariah, Islamic law.
93 2007-10-04 Orlando Magic forward Tony Battie will undergo rotator cuff surgery that is likely to end his season, the team said. He partly tore a ligament a few weeks ago in a pickup game. With Battie out, Adonal Foyle and the rookie Marcin Gortat could be called to fill the post beside Dwight Howard.
94 2007-10-04 The shriveled housing market was a drag on American business activity last month, with service industries slowing but still showing some growth.

The Institute for Supply Management, a business trade and research group, reported yesterday that its services index registered 54.8 in September. That was down from 55.8 in August and below the 12-month high of 60.7 reached in June, but above 50 — the threshold between expansion and contraction.

The service sector has not had a month of contraction in four and a half years, according to the institute’s monthly reports.

Mark Vitner, a Wachovia economist, commented: “I really think it throws some cold water on the notion that the economy is going to fall out of bed. None of the numbers we’ve seen on the economy point to recession. It points to moderate economic growth.”

The index, now at its lowest point since March, was in line with economists’ estimates.

The service sector makes up a majority of American economic activity, and on Monday the institute reported slower growth in manufacturing. With both sides of the economy thus losing some momentum, some contend, the Federal Reserve may be inclined to lower interest rates further.

On Sept. 18, the Fed reduced benchmark rates by half a percentage point. It meets again at the end of October to decide whether to make borrowing cheaper and, perhaps, stoke spending.
95 2007-10-04 SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 3 — The California attorney general and a coalition of environmental groups have called for federal regulation to curb heat-trapping emissions from the worldwide fleet of about 90,000 oceangoing ships, including container ships, tankers and cruise ships.

The regulations, sought in separate petitions to the Environmental Protection Agency, would apply to United States territorial waters.

Only six countries generate more emissions of greenhouse gases than the world’s oceangoing vessels, said Michael Hirshfield, a senior scientist with Oceana, an ocean-protection organization.

The group’s petition, whose participants included the Center for Biological Diversity and Friends of the Earth, argues that “the sheer number of these ships, coupled with operating practices that use fuel inefficiently and poor government oversight, results in carbon dioxide emissions” equal to the emissions of 130 million to 195 million cars.

While regulation of ship-generated air pollution and regulation of greenhouse gases have been on California’s agenda for years, this is among the first efforts to deal with the two simultaneously.
96 2007-10-04 Jackie Mason will not stay quiet long. His new show, “Jackie Mason — The Ultimate Jew,” will play a 10-week engagement at New World Stages beginning on March 18. ... Nooooorrrrm! Or Norma, perhaps. George Wendt, the renowned “Cheers” barfly, will go into “Hairspray,” in drag, as Edna Turnblad from Oct. 23 to Jan. 20. Mr. Wendt was last on Broadway in 1999 in Yasmina Reza’s play “Art.”
97 2007-10-04 “Hi, I’m Stephen Colbert, and I am no fan of books.” So opens the audiobook version of that late-night-cable comedian’s “I Am America (And So Can You!),” which Mr. Colbert and his publisher definitely want fans to buy — in several versions.

In an effort to build buzz over the weekend and capture consumers of all stripes, a digital download of the audiobook (which is abridged) will go on sale at midnight on Friday on Audible.com and iTunes, four days before the printed version hits bookstore shelves.

“Unlike a lot of books, this audio is almost a different animal,” said Jamie Raab, publisher of Grand Central Publishing, which is releasing the printed version on Tuesday. “It’s not a verbatim reading of the book. It’s really a creative adaptation. I would think that you would buy the book and the audio because they are really different.”

At Audible.com, the 3 ½-hour audio version of “I Am America” will sell for $17.49 a download; iTunes will also sell the download but declined to say at what price. The book is to sell for $26.99, though Amazon.com is taking preorders for $16.19.

When Grand Central (then Warner Books) published “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart Presents America (the Book)” in 2004, Audible.com also offered an audio version a few days early. Donald R. Katz, Audible’s chief executive, said that consumers who bought the audio also bought the book.

“There was a huge rub-off,” he said. Audible.com declined to say how many downloads of “America” it sold, only that it was “successful.”
98 2007-10-04 A report in the Personal Shopper column last Thursday about Mission-style furniture misstated the size and price of a table from Cold River Furniture in South Acworth, N.H. The table pictured is the Bodmer foyer table (18 inches wide; $2,950), not a serving table (20 inches wide, not 66 inches; $5,750).
99 2007-10-04 “Beckett was about as good as we’ve seen him,” Angels Manager Mike Scioscia said. “I don’t think you’re going to be able to pitch a much better game than that.”

The outing was reminiscent of Beckett’s last postseason start, for the Florida Marlins in Game 6 of the 2003 World Series. Beckett silenced the Yankees with a shutout and made sure the Marlins would be fitted for rings. When October arrives, Beckett responds.

“From Day 1 when he was a rookie with the Marlins, you could tell that he was guy who wanted to be great,” said Mike Lowell, the Red Sox third baseman, who was on the 2003 Marlins. “He didn’t want to be pretty good. He wants to be the kind of guy who is great.”

Beckett, who shuns the past, refused to compare his consecutive shutouts in the playoffs.

“They’re similar because of the results,” Beckett said. “I don’t think really anything else is similar.”

The Angels will try to regroup in Game 2 of the best-of-five series Friday. But, after being overwhelmed by Beckett, they must be leery of facing him again in a potential Game 4.

Lackey gave no explanation for why he has pitched so poorly against the Red Sox (1-6, 6.27 earned run average) and at Fenway (1-4, 7.46). Rather than dissect what went awry, Lackey praised Boston’s lineup. If he pitches the way he can, he said, he likes his “chances against pretty much anybody.”

As much as Lackey dismissed his poor statistics against Boston, he was probably thinking about them in the first inning. On Lackey’s sixth pitch, Youkilis clubbed an inside fastball into the Green Monster seats above left-center field for his first postseason hit.

Youkilis’s second hit was a one-out double in the third. Ortiz, who hit a game-winning homer to knock the Angels out of the 2004 division series, followed Youkilis by smashing a hanging curveball over the right-field fence. Lowell, who singled in the fourth run, suggested changing Ortiz’s nickname, Big Papi, to Huge Papi at this time of the year.

When Ortiz, the designated hitter, was not hitting, he was watching Beckett on television.

The Angels tame teams by harassing them. When the Angels get runners on, they try to steal, hit and run and take extra bases. That is how they win.

But with Beckett keeping the Angels off base, they were toothless. Chone Figgins singled to open the game and reached third on a hit-and-run groundout and a second groundout. But Beckett struck out Maicer Izturis to end the inning. The Angels did not have another base runner until the seventh.

Both Lackey and Beckett have won decisive games in the World Series, with Lackey doing it for the Angels in 2002 and Beckett matching him one year later. Both would love to get the chance to do it again. Beckett gave the Red Sox the head start in trying to make this October another memorable month.
100 2007-10-04 Bear Stearns said yesterday it was laying off 310 workers and fusing its two mortgage businesses, after turmoil in the home loan industry contributed to a drastic slide in the investment bank’s profit this summer.

The news came hours after Credit Suisse said problems in the mortgage market would linger as long as 18 months. It also announced 170 layoffs in its investment banking unit, on top of the 150 layoffs announced last week in New York and London, mainly from its mortgage-backed securities unit.

Bear Stearns said it was integrating its Bear Stearns Residential Mortgage and Encore Credit divisions into a single subsidiary. The new unit will soon offer loans eligible to be purchased by government-sponsored entities. Such loans are considered safer than most.

Stung by decaying credit quality, investors soured on many types of mortgage debt this summer. Selling home loans and other investments backed by mortgage debt became much harder this year, pinching a key source of profit on Wall Street. More than 50 lenders have gone out of business in 2007 because they were unable to sell their mortgage debt or borrow money.

Bear Stearns, the investment bank most heavily exposed to the home loan market, took a $200 million loss on two hedge funds established to bet on mortgage debt. Those funds are now bankrupt and the subject of litigation.
101 2007-10-04 BALTIMORE'S REVIVAL STALLS  Baltimore's rebuilt downtown neighborhoods, once vibrant signs of a revival that was echoed in other cities making the transition from manufacturing, are now feeling the effects of the turmoil in the national economy.  ...
102 2007-10-05 The fifth year of Open House New York offers access to hundreds of historic buildings, landmarks, private residences and other locales....
103 2007-10-05 Microsoft plans to spin off Bungie Studios, creator of the blockbuster "Halo" video game trilogy, but said Friday it would maintain close ties with the company and retain a minority stake in it. Privately held Bungie will develop games exclusively...
104 2007-10-05 Whether it is e.coli in a frozen hamburger or botulism in a soup can, one tainted-food recall can be all it takes to wipe out a manufacturer....
105 2007-10-05 Germs like to travel, too....
106 2007-10-05 Daniel Karslake’s documentary “For the Bible Tells Me So” won’t win any prizes for technique, but innovation surely ranks very low on this filmmaker’s to-do list. Mr. Karslake has said that the movie is mainly intended as a feature-length primer that can be deployed in arguments with homophobes.

Directorially, the movie is unremarkable, with one conspicuous and unfortunate exception: when Mr. Karslake apes the supercharged empathy of an episode of “Dateline” on NBC, right down to the verging-on-schmaltzy music. Otherwise, the interviews with scholars parsing the Old and New Testaments are paired with the expected archival photographs and illustrations of biblical scenes. “For the Bible Tells Me So” is, strictly speaking, an educational film, with the artlessness that that phrase implies.

The movie’s ensemble portrait of parents (many of them ministers) with adult gay or lesbian children strives to demonstrate that homosexuality is a genetic predisposition, not a lifestyle choice, and that those who quote Leviticus to justify their animosity are guilty not just of intolerance but also of selective piety, an inability to understand historical context and poor reading comprehension. (Abomination, for example, does not mean against God, but against a civilization’s cultural norms.)

“For the Bible Tells Me So” moves through its stories of coming out, detailing how individuals adjusted (or failed to adjust) to their new reality and how parents reacted (usually poorly).

Mary Lou Wallner, one of the staunchest advocates of gay rights in the movie, became a political activist after her daughter, Anna, committed suicide — the result, Ms. Wallner believes, of the letter she wrote to Anna rejecting her after she came out. Brenda and David Poteat, married ministers, struggle to accept their daughter Tonia’s lesbian identity, and judging from Mr. Poteat’s statements, he’s not there yet.

Chrissy Gephardt, a daughter of the former House minority leader Richard A. Gephardt and his wife, Jane, talks about enduring a sexless marriage to a man before falling in love with a lesbian friend, admitting the truth about herself, coming out and eventually joining her father on the campaign trail, with his support and encouragement. Another profile subject is Bishop V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire, the first openly gay bishop of the Episcopal Church, who also survived a disastrous marriage before coming out.
107 2007-10-05 A high-profile rape case turned into a civil rights case today as three former lacrosse players at Duke University filed a federal lawsuit against former District Attorney Michael B. Nifong, the city of Durham, N.C., and 12 other defendants.

In a 162-page complaint, Reade Seligmann, Collin Finnerty and David Evans sought redress for what they described as “one of the most chilling episodes of premeditated police, prosecutorial, and scientific misconduct in modern American history.”

The plaintiffs requested an unspecified amount of money to cover legal fees, as compensation and punitive damages, as well as “whatever additional relief the Court may deem proper.”

They reportedly had demanded $30 million during settlement talks with the city, but the two sides could not agree on terms. The proposal far exceeded the city’s insurance policy for “wrongful action,” leaving it in a financial bind, according to those reports.

The students are also demanding an overhaul of the city’s system of law enforcement, including measures to improve transparency, establishment of a citizen review board and the appointment of an independent monitor to oversee the Durham Police Department for 10 years. The monitor would have wide authority over policy, senior staffing and training.
108 2007-10-05 Topps Meat Company, one of the country’s largest manufacturers of frozen hamburgers, said today it was going out of business after it recalled more than 21.7 million pounds of ground beef products last month.

The company, based in Elizabeth, N.J., said a few of its 87 employees will remain at the plant to help the United States Department of Agriculture investigate how the E. coli bacteria tainted frozen hamburger patties made there.

Anthony D’Urso, the chief operating officer at Topps, said the company was unable to withstand the financial burden of the recall.

“This is tragic for all concerned,” Mr. D’Urso said in a statement. “In one week we have gone from the largest U.S. manufacturer of frozen hamburgers to a company that cannot overcome the economic reality of a recall this large.”

A handful of workers trickled out of the company’s plant after being told that its doors would close. Vivian Quinones, who worked in the customer service department for two years, said employees were told this morning that Topps was going out of business.
109 2007-10-05 The State Department announcement marks the first concrete response by the American government to the violent episode on Sept. 16 in central Baghdad involving several Blackwater teams that left as many as 17 Iraqis dead. Officials said the State Department will send dozens of its diplomatic security service agents to Baghdad so that there are enough people in place to accompany every Blackwater convoy.

Also today, the State Department was facing new questions about its handling of another case, involving a former Blackwater guard who is suspected of shooting a bodyguard to an Iraqi vice president while drunk last Christmas Eve.

The former guard, Andrew J. Moonen, is now living in Seattle after being dismissed from Blackwater and sent home from Iraq 36 hours after the shooting, with the approval and help of the State Department.

But within weeks of losing his job at Blackwater, Mr. Moonen was hired by a Defense Department contractor and sent to Kuwait to work on logistics related to the Iraq war, a spokesman for the company, Combat Support Associations, said today. Mr. Moonen worked for the company from February until August of this year, said the spokesman, Paul Gennaro.

The company apparently did not know that Mr. Moonen had lost his job because of the December episode in Baghdad. Mr. Moonen’s lawyer said that his dismissal was for handling a weapon while drunk, not for shooting the guard.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, the Democratic chairman of a House committee investigating Blackwater, raised the matter in a letter to Ms. Rice today. “I am writing to express concern that the State Department may have failed to report important facts about a private military contractor’s killing of a guard for the Iraqi vice president and thereby facilitated the hiring of that individual to work on another contract in support of the Iraq War only two months after the homicide.”

Mr. Waxman noted that Erik D. Prince, the founder of Blackwater, had told his committee on Tuesday that he would see to it that Mr. Moonen’s security clearance was revoked and that he would not be allowed to work in any further sensitive or war-related capacity. Mr. Waxman asked Secretary Rice to provide an explanation for Mr. Moonen’s quick re-employment by a Pentagon contractor in the Middle East.

Mr. Moonen’s identity was first disclosed by The Times on Thursday. CNN first reported today that a Pentagon contractor had hired him in February.

The State Department’s chief spokesman, Sean McCormack, said that the additional restrictions on Blackwater’s operations could come as Mr. Kennedy’s inquiry proceeds. But the department was not, for the moment, considering ending its contract with Blackwater, Mr. McCormack said, although he did not preclude it as the ultimate outcome of the investigation.

Representative Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat who has been critical of what she calls the administration’s inappropriate use of thousands of unaccountable private security contractors in Iraq, mocked the State Department’s decision to send monitors along with Blackwater teams.

“This just shows how much they want to keep Blackwater on the payroll,” she said. “They going to have to send dozens and dozens of agents to babysit these Blackwater units.”

She has introduced legislation to end the use of all security contractors in Iraq, replacing them with full-time government employees.

Accounts of the Sept. 16 confrontation in Baghdad differ widely, with Blackwater executives asserting that its guards came under attack and Iraqi government officials and civilian witnesses saying that the Blackwater gunmen opened fire without provocation. There are several investigations of the Sept. 16 shootings, including one by the F.B.I. that could result in criminal charges.

Mr. McCormack would not say how many of the State Department’s diplomatic security agents were already in Iraq, but the department’s security service employs a total of 1,450 officers worldwide. In Iraq alone, there are now nearly that number of private contractors protecting diplomats and other civilians, with roughly 1,000 employed by Blackwater and about 400 by the other two companies.

Mr. McCormack said the new actions apply only to Blackwater because it is the only company operating in and around Baghdad, where the pace of operations and the number of violent attacks is higher than elsewhere in the country.

He also said the decision to install monitors and cameras in Blackwater vehicles did not mean the department had lost faith in the company.

“Our diplomats trust these contractors, in the north, in the south, as well as in the Baghdad area, with their lives,” Mr. McCormack said. “So it is not a matter of trust. One might say this is a good way to be able to protect all involved, in the case that there is an incident, that you do have at the very least, some objective baseline account of what went on.”

The new State Department restrictions on Blackwater operations in Iraq came as Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said this week that he was inclined to increase oversight of the 7,300 security contractors that the Pentagon employs in Iraq. The Pentagon does not use Blackwater contractors for security in Iraq.

Mr. Gates told reporters traveling with him in South America on Wednesday that a team of officials he sent to Iraq to examine the use of security contractors had submitted several recommendations, including having field commanders exercise existing military law more aggressively to punish contractors who commit crimes.

“There was some concern on the part of our commanders,” Mr. Gates said, “that contractors who did things wrong were just sent home and further action wasn’t taken against them.”

The team also recommended improving coordination between security contractors and the American military headquarters. Mr. Gates said that 30 percent of the calls for help from security contractors came from convoys that the military did not know were on the road.
110 2007-10-05 The unemployment rate in September ticked up to 4.7 percent from 4.6 percent in August.

Markets rose modestly in early trading after the report’s release, then gained momentum in the course of the day before easing slightly in the final hour. The S.&P. 500 closed at 1,557.59, a gain of 1 percent, surpassing the heights established in July.

The Dow Jones industrial average ended slightly below its record close with a gain of 91.70 points, or 0.7 percent, to 14,066.01, while the Nasdaq composite was showing a 1.7 percent gain.

Wall Street investors could see the report as a sign that the Fed will be reluctant to make additional cuts to its benchmark short-term interest rates at its meeting at the end of the month.

“This labor market is not screaming at them to slash rates immediately — definitely not,” said Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics. “But I think the developing trend is unfavorable and eventually it may mean lower rates.”

But other economists were less optimistic about additional rate cuts, noting that the Fed may be more hesitant to act after the revision to August’s employment figures.

“It gives the Fed room to stand back and do nothing and just continue to assess” said Joshua C. Shapiro, chief United States economist for the research firm MFR.

President Bush, for one, hailed the report, referring to it in remarks this morning as a sign of a “vibrant and strong economy.”

He pointed out that with the revisions the economy has recorded 49 consecutive months of job growth and used the occasion to urge Congress to resist any tax increases.

The average hourly wage of rank-and-file workers — who make up about 80 percent of the work force — reached an all-time high of $17.57 last month, even after taking inflation into account. Two years ago, the hourly wage was $17.01, adjusted for inflation.

Still, wage growth has been unusually weak in the current economic expansion, and the softening of the job market this year has caused wage growth to slow. Unless hiring picks again in the coming months, the wage increases of the current expansion are likely to fall far short of those during the late 1990s.

Before today’s report, the rest of the economy still seemed to be expanding slowly. The Labor Department’s weekly report on new claims for unemployment benefits has been subdued for the last month. Though the number of new claims jumped 16,000 last week, that jump followed an unexpected drop the week before. The total number of new claims, at 317,000, is still at a relatively low level that generally corresponds to a net increase in jobs.

Notwithstanding the volatility in month-to-month numbers, economists say the pace of job creation has slowed noticeably over the last six months and unemployment is likely to climb in the months ahead.

For Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, the key issue is the risk of a recession. By many indicators the job market remains tight. Workers’ wages as measured by average weekly earnings, which languished for several years after the recession of 2001, have climbed about 4 percent over the last year. Unemployment has been hovering around 4.7 percent for months, though partly because many people have dropped out of the work force.

"That’s pretty consistent with a tight labor market,” said Edward Lazear, chairman of President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers, in an interview on Thursday before the jobs report was released.

That puts the Federal Reserve in a perilous spot — with grave implications for the White House as well. Fed officials are keenly aware that the risks of a recession are higher than a few months ago, but recessions are very difficult to identify in advance and lowering interest rates could rekindle inflationary pressures. Indeed, there were signs that the Fed’s rate cut on Sept. 18 stirred inflation expectations in financial markets: the dollar dropped sharply against the euro and other major currencies, and long-term interest rates actually crept higher.

President Bush and his senior economic advisers have argued that the “fundamentals” of the economy are sound. But administration officials would almost certainly prefer the Fed to reduce rates, given the uncertainties.
111 2007-10-05 Despite a goal on their first shift when a pass from Drury bounced off the skates of Florida center Olli Jokinen and right to defenseman Michal Rozsival, who scored 37 seconds into the game, the Rangers struggled through the first two periods.

By the time they skated off the ice after the second, the crowd was showering them with boos. They had managed nine shots to that point and played as if they had not had a preseason at all. Their offense was disorganized. They stumbled to a 2-1 deficit as centers Brett McLean and Nathan Horton scored for the Panthers.

“In the second period, to me anyway, there was only one team on the ice and it wasn’t the New York Rangers,” Renney said.

They returned for the third with new resolve. They earned a quick power play and began dominating possession. They tied the score when defenseman Marek Malik snared a puck at midice, skated into the offensive zone and found an unguarded Petr Prucha on the left wing. Prucha’s shot trickled between Vokoun’s pads with 13 minutes 53 seconds left, pumping even more life into the Rangers.

Drury’s goal came with 11:14 left, after shots by Malik and Jaromir Jagr left him a third rebound. The Garden announcer had not even announced Drury’s goal when forward Ryan Callahan snared a turnover in front of the Florida net and fired a wrist shot under the crossbar 12 seconds later to make the score 4-2.

When Drury’s goal was finally announced, the crowd stood and roared for their new star, who said he had dreamed as a kid growing up in Trumbull, Conn., of playing for the Rangers.

And also in signature fashion, Drury dished off much of the praise to his linemates, Jagr and Martin Straka.

“I was in the right place at the right time,” Drury said. “It was a good forecheck by Marty, Jags had a good turnaround quick shot and Vokoun has to sprawl to make a save. I’m out there with two of the best players in the league right now. It’s nice to be out there with them.”

Straka finished the scoring after a shot by Malik bounced off the backboards and right through the crease to him in front of the net with 6:58 left.

The turnaround was complete. The crowd was now chanting Malik’s name out of regard for his three assists, hailing the same player they always boo relentlessly.

For the past three seasons, Malik had become the fans’ designated scapegoat, no matter what he did. They even booed him during introductions before the opening game.

He said his teammates pointed out the chanting to him in the third period.

“That was nice for a change,” Malik said with a shrug.

But the comeback took a Rangers-wide effort to assimilate their new players. Not only was Drury playing his first game, but center Scott Gomez, the former Devil, was feeling his way with his linemates Brendan Shanahan and Sean Avery. The rookie Brandon Dubinsky was centering a third line, and the rookie defenseman Marc Staal was playing his first N.H.L. game.

“I’m happy that even if we didn’t play well, we win the hockey game,” Jagr said. “That’s a positive. I still think we’ve got a long way to go and every line can play a lot better than we did tonight. That’s a good sign.”

The first huge Madison Square Garden ovation came when the former defenseman Brian Leetch took the ice to drop the ceremonial first puck. Leetch’s No. 2 jersey will be retired Jan. 24.
112 2007-10-05 On Sept. 20, officers responding to a call went to a building in the 2400 block of 16th Street Northwest and found Mr. Johnson unconscious, the police said. He was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead.

Four days earlier, officers had gone to the same address and found another man, Jordan Cronkin, 26, and he, too, was later pronounced dead at a nearby hospital, said Inspector Rodney Parks of the Metropolitan Police Department.

Inspector Parks said that the police were waiting for toxicology reports and for Mr. Johnson’s cause of death to be determined. The delay was attributed to the fact that Mr. Johnson had remained unidentified for at least several days. He said that an investigation into both deaths was proceeding.

Mr. Corvino said he had become concerned near the end of September, when he had not heard from Mr. Johnson, and figured out the password to Mr. Johnson’s e-mail account. Among the messages, he said, he found one dated Sept. 16 from a man in Washington, saying that Mr. Cronkin had died in the sender’s apartment.

In an e-mail message sent to Mr. Johnson at 1:19 a.m. on Sept. 17, the man in Washington wrote that he was disturbed by memories of Mr. Cronkin calling out and crying.

“I see him on the couch, his body supple but me certain with the first touch he was dead and for some reason not being surprised and tonight I am afraid that he will be mad at me as a spirit.”

A message sent the next day told Mr. Johnson that the man had bought him a round-trip Amtrak ticket between New York and Washington. The return ticket was never used. A day after he arrived in Washington Mr. Johnson died.

In the 1980s and ’90s Mr. Johnson, a former film student, made himself a symbol of gay night life, from Chelsea to the East Village, fronting bands and organizing parties. He was featured in two films depicting those worlds, “Mondo New York” and “Freaks, Glam Gods and Rock Stars.” But his appeal transcended stereotypes, his friends said.

“I never felt as comfortable as a straight guy in a world where I wasn’t supposed to be than with Dean,” Jordy Trachtenberg, a music acquisitions executive, said at the memorial. “When I met Dean, I realized what being free is all about. He never judged anybody, and he never cared about being judged.”

“Jean Genie,” a song by David Bowie about a gender-bending figure searching for love, blared from speakers inside the cafe on Wednesday, and photographs of Mr. Johnson were tacked to a wall next to posters promoting parties that he had organized.

Mr. Johnson was known for performing with bands like the Velvet Mafia. He also organized long-running parties at CBGB and the World, another defunct club on the Lower East Side.

“It was one of the last hurrahs of reckless abandonment and fun before the scene turned into models and bottles,” said D.J. Tennessee, who played records at those parties. “It mixed the silly and the sublime.”

Mr. Johnson also had a serious side that was manifest in his poetry and his involvement in local politics, friends said. Some of his parties, which featured a blend of people including transsexuals and heterosexuals, were benefits for squatters who took over abandoned Lower East Side buildings and made them into homes.

And even as he took part in drag queen revues like Wigstock, friends said, he did so in his own way. Rather than adopting feminine mannerisms, Mr. Johnson simply stretched his broad shoulders into a tight black dress and donned sunglasses.

“He wasn’t copying others; he invented his own persona,” said Clayton Patterson, a photographer and filmmaker on the Lower East Side. “He was a prototype.”

On Wednesday night, Anthony Pallatta, 46, who said he had known Mr. Johnson since 1980, sat on a couch inside the cafe and said he felt haunted by Mr. Johnson’s mysterious journey.

“I want to find out how he died,” Mr. Pallatta said. “I can’t rest.”
113 2007-10-05 Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a corruption-fighting finance minister until she was stripped of much of her authority last year and resigned from the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo, will join the senior management team of the World Bank’s new president, Robert B. Zoellick, as a managing director. Ms. Okonjo-Iweala, an M.I.T.-trained economist and former World Bank vice president, will have responsibility for Africa, South Asia, Europe and Central Asia. She is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution.
114 2007-10-05 Michelle Bunker, a General Motors spokeswoman, said yesterday that “G.M.’s board did not have any influence over any of the decisions that our pharmacy benefits manager makes regarding offerings” in the class of drugs that includes Nexium. The company’s pharmacy benefits manager, which administers its drug insurance plan, is Medco Health Solutions.

The letter by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which includes the auto workers union among its member groups, is part of its campaign to question the objectivity of health industry executives who sit on the boards of some of the nation’s largest companies.

The letter cited G.M. and 20 other corporations as big companies not involved in health care that had significant employee health care costs and also had board members who were directors or executives of drug or health insurance companies.

The letter said such relationships were conflicts that might lead the big employers to make decisions favorable to the interests of pharmaceutical and health insurance companies.

Under United Automobile Workers contracts, members have typically paid $10 a prescription for medicines on the preferred-drug lists, but as little as $5 for generic prescriptions. Employers typically pay a much higher portion of the drug’s actual cost, whether branded or generic.

A 30-day prescription for brand-name Nexium, advertised as “the little purple pill,” typically sells for $49 or more, although independent analysts say there are clinically equivalent generic and over-the-counter products in its class selling for as little as $12 for a month’s supply.

Many large employers, on the advice of their consultants, have switched from name-brand drugs to lower-cost alternatives on their preferred-drug lists.

This year, Chrysler eliminated preferred coverage for Nexium in the commonly prescribed doses less than 20 milligrams. Chrysler workers can still buy Nexium but they have to pay a higher price, a company spokeswoman said.

Ford Motor makes Nexium available only after employees have tried lower-cost alternatives, a Ford spokeswoman said. Ford and Chrysler were not among the 21 employers cited in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. list.

Although pharmacy benefit managers like Medco typically draw up the preferred-drug lists for their clients, employers frequently order changes to those lists to cut costs, said Dr. A. Mark Fendrick, director of the Center for Value-Based Insurance at the University of Michigan.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has been discussing the conflict-of-interest issue with G.M. since at least June.

That month, John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., wrote to G.M.’s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, and called for the company to bar Mr. Barnevik and two other directors with drug company connections from “playing any leadership role in consideration of health care matters at G.M.”

One of the other two directors cited was George M.C. Fisher, chairman of the board’s corporate governance committee, who is also a director of the drug maker Eli Lilly.

The second was Karen Katten, a former vice chairwoman of the drug company Pfizer, who is a member of the corporate governance committee and the board’s executive compensation committee.

Another company cited among the 21 in the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s letter yesterday was Exxon Mobil.

Tony Cudmore, a spokesman for the company, which has four board members with drug industry connections, said Exxon had “a clear policy regarding the avoidance of actual or apparent conflict of interest on the part of directors, officers and employees.”
115 2007-10-05 In a sign of the tightening competition some 90 days before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Romney’s comments brought a quick response from Mr. Giuliani’s campaign.

Mr. Giuliani’s advisers quickly set up a conference call for reporters with Paul Celluci, a former Massachusetts governor and a surrogate for the campaign, who called the jabs from Mr. Romney a sign of “desperation.”

Mr. Celluci also attacked Mr. Romney’s fiscal record as governor of Massachusetts and praised tax cuts Mr. Giuliani made in New York City.

Mr. Romney’s latest infusion of cash into his campaign brought the total he has lent to his presidential bid to over $17 million. It underscores both the continuing impact that his vast personal fortune, estimated at up to $350 million, has made on the race and the hurdles he still must overcome.

Mr. Giuliani brought in $10.5 million in primary money for the third quarter, compared with Mr. Romney’s $10 million. Mr. Giuliani also raised $500,000 for the general election. More significantly, his campaign said that he finished the third quarter, which ended on Sept. 30, with $16 million in cash on hand, including more than $11 million for the primary, compared with $9 million for Mr. Romney.

Mr. Giuliani has been husbanding his resources, not yet broadcasting any television commercials, while Mr. Romney has plowed more than $8 million into advertisements, mostly in early voting states. He would not have been able to spend so much if he had not added his own money.

In contrast, Senator John McCain announced Thursday that he had raised $5.55 million for the primary and $450,000 for the general election, leaving him with $3.6 million in the bank. Mr. McCain had started the quarter with his organization close to broke and still has $1.5 million in debt to pay off.

Mr. Thompson, a late entrant in the race, said he had raised $9.3 million for the primary in the third quarter and had about $7 million in the bank.

Mr. Romney has been pouring resources into Iowa and New Hampshire, where he campaigned Thursday against a backdrop of recent polls that show support for him slipping in the state, with Mr. Giuliani closing the gap and Mr. McCain not far behind.

Mr. Romney’s criticism of Mr. Giuliani came when an audience member at a forum at St. Anselm College here asked him to explain the difference between him and Mr. Giuliani on fiscal issues. Having recently engaged Mr. Giuliani on illegal immigration, Mr. Romney bore in anew on Thursday, saying he believed strongly in the line item veto as a tool for fiscal restraint.

But, he said, when President Bill Clinton obtained the line item veto, Mr. Giuliani, as mayor of New York, filed a lawsuit that went all the way to the Supreme Court, where it was struck down.

“Because he won, he killed the line item veto,” Mr. Romney said. “That was a serious mistake.”

Mr. Giuliani had joined hospitals and health care workers in the late 1990s in challenging Mr. Clinton’s use of the line item veto to eliminate Medicaid benefits for New York.

Mr. Romney also criticized Mr. Giuliani for fighting to save a commuter tax that was repealed by the state Legislature, calling it an “outrage.” “And the Republican governor, George Pataki, said we’ve got to get rid of that commuter tax,” Mr. Romney said, “so he fought to get rid of it, and Mayor Giuliani sued the Republican governor to keep in place the commuter tax.”

The commuter tax had been a major source of income for New York City, so when it was eliminated in 1999, Mr. Giuliani unsuccessfully sued the state to reinstate it. During the conference call on Thursday, however, Mr. Celluci played down Mr. Giuliani’s support for the tax, saying he had different priorities.

“He had 23 tax cuts, broad-based tax cuts, that reduced the tax burden of New York City by 17 percent,” Mr. Celluci said. Mr. Celluci also said that Mr. Giuliani supports a presidential line item veto but believes that a constitutional amendment must be passed.

After the forum, Mr. Romney let fly again while speaking to reporters, zeroing in on Mr. Giuliani’s stances on social issues, saying that support from “defense conservatives, economic conservatives and social conservatives” — he called them “three legs of the stool” — were all needed for a Republican to win the presidency in 2008.

“The only way we’re going to win the White House is with a coalition of conservatives hanging together,” he said.
116 2007-10-05 The real estate company DLF, for example, which had a $2.3 billion initial public offering in July, now has market capital of more than $37 billion — making it roughly the size of Marriott International and Hilton Hotels combined. On Thursday, the company said it would consider overseas acquisitions and offshore fund-raising at its next board meeting.

Reliance Industries, the largest publicly traded company in India, reached a market cap of more than $85 billion this week, up from $6.5 billion in January 2003. Reliance, an oil, chemical and manufacturing company, is now about double the size of Dow Chemical. The market cap of Bharti Airtel, a telecommunications giant, nearly reached $46 billion this week, making it triple the size of Qwest and larger than Telecom Italia.

A strong rupee and weak dollar are also helping Indian companies look large compared with their overseas counterparts — but their bulk is still predominantly a result of investor faith in India’s long-term growth.

A large increase in market capitalization does not necessarily mean the companies will go shopping for deals. Many Indian companies trade only on local exchanges, which means that the stock is not a viable currency to buy a foreign company. Even if they do plan to raise money overseas, few have huge trophy deals on their mind, bankers say. (Marriott, for example, is probably safe from the clutches of DLF.)

Indian companies are investing at home first, then looking abroad, said Chanda Kochhar, deputy managing director at ICICI Bank. “The Indian corporate sector is talking of investing $500 billion in domestic projects in the country over the next three years,” he said.

Acquisitions are also being planned — but not necessarily to acquire customers or clients, as they would be in developed economies, Ms. Kochhar said. Instead, companies are looking at buying suppliers (for example, a power producer would acquire coal mines) or distribution networks. Dozens of such deals are in the works, Ms. Kochhar said.

A large public market capitalization also makes Indian companies even stronger global competitors for everything from raw materials and talent to partnerships and clients. It attracts coverage from research analysts at international banks and brokerage firms, which in turn attracts more foreign investors.

In fact, a growing market capitalization can sometimes make it easier for companies to get even bigger. Indian companies that tried to raise small amounts of capital, say $10 million, on the equity markets in the past were passed over by most big foreign institutional investors, said Shriram Iyer, head of research at Edelweiss Securities in Mumbai. Now that they have grown, and are looking to raise $50 million or $100 million, “it becomes a meaningful investment.”

So far this year, Indian companies have issued $42.6 billion in debt and equity worldwide, according to Thomson Financial, up from $32 billion in 2006. In 2003, the amount was $5.8 billion.

Chinese companies also jumped in market value as investors bought stock. But that growth has not translated into a boom in deals, in part, bankers say, because of foreign opposition to takeovers by state-run Chinese companies.

Indian companies can use a high share price in several ways, from making all-share acquisitions of cheaper value companies, to raising cash by stripping assets, to recruiting employees using shares as compensation, said Nilesh Jasani, an India strategist for Credit Suisse in Mumbai.

Indian companies may be smart to start translating their high public market values into other forms of collateral. There are constant concerns that Indian markets are overblown — even within the Indian government. The finance minister, P. Chidambaram, warned this week that retail investors should use caution if entering the market, and do their homework or buy mutual funds instead.

Raising funds in the current credit cycle is not a cakewalk, no matter how well the markets are performing.

“Indian companies and their global ambitions are not immune to what is going on in the credit markets globally,” Mr. Entwistle said. They often rely on overseas financing to do deals, he said, and that needs to be taken into account before predicting any big takeovers.

Still, the mood in India is bullish. “There aren’t too many large acquisitions you can make within India, because there are no willing sellers,” Mr. Iyer said. Instead, “everyone wants to grow.”
117 2007-10-05 “The jobs report can be a real distraction for the market, and with good reason,” said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at Trusco Capital Management. “The number of people working, where they work, how much they get paid, tells us a whole lot about the economy.”

While investors would like the Fed to lower rates again when it meets Oct. 30-31, hoping to encourage spending by making borrowing cheaper, they do not want the job market to weaken.

“Obviously Fed rate cuts are good, but more earnings is always the best,” Mr. Gayle said.

Yesterday, the Dow rose 6.26, or 0.04 percent, to 13,974.31, after shooting to a record high Monday and then giving back a large chunk of its gains Tuesday and Wednesday.

Broader stock indicators were also little changed on the day, which was notable for its low volume and muted volatility. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 3.25, or 0.21 percent, to 1,542.84, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 4.14, or 0.15 percent, to 2,733.57. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3 points, or 0.36 percent, to 829.15.

The Labor Department said jobless claims rose 16,000, to 317,000, in the week ended Sept. 29, a bigger jump than analysts anticipated.

The Commerce Department reported that orders to American factories fell in August by 3.3 percent, slightly worse than expected and the largest amount in seven months. Although the activity reflected in the report predates the Fed’s rate cut, it still shows the degree to which the economy has been struggling.

The dollar fell against most major world currencies, pushing gold higher.

Crude oil futures settled higher for the first time in four sessions as investors weighed whether supplies were adequate to meet demand. Light crude for November delivery rose $1.50, to settle at $81.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

In corporate news, Bear Stearns fell 67 cents, to $127.61, after the company said it was laying off 310 workers associated with its mortgage operations. Executives said, however, that the firm’s business was slowly rebounding after a turbulent summer. Bear Stearns, the investment bank most heavily exposed to the home loan market, booked big charges after two of its hedge funds that bet on mortgage debt imploded.

Merrill Lynch fell $1.22, to $74.78, after a CIBC World Markets analyst cut her third-quarter earnings estimate for the company, predicting the tumult that swept through the credit markets this summer would erase $3 billion from the investment bank’s revenue.

The 10-year Treasury note rose 11/32, to 101 27/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.51 percent from 4.56 percent.
118 2007-10-05 Dr. Mackay has effectively functioned as Pfizer’s research chief since May, when Dr. John L. LaMattina, the former research chief, announced he would retire several years ahead of schedule.

Along with Dr. Goodman, Dr. Mackay will report directly to Mr. Kindler, who also directly oversees Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer’s chief medical officer. Dr. Feczko has responsibility for regulatory affairs and so-called Phase IV research — studies on drugs that have already received approval and are being sold.

The fact that Mr. Kindler has chosen to have three scientists reporting directly to him, rather than a single head of research, is a sign of the urgency Pfizer faces to find new medicines after years of disappointments.

The problems culminated in December, when Pfizer ended development of torcetrapib, a drug to raise so-called good cholesterol. Despite a $7 billion annual research budget, the largest for any drug maker, Pfizer’s research laboratories have found only a handful of new drugs over the last decade.

In its announcement, Pfizer said it now has 47 drugs in Phase II testing, or midstage human development, and hopes to set a record next year for the number of drugs it will put into Phase III trials. Those trials are the final stage of drug development, covering hundreds or thousands of patients, and can lead to regulatory approval for new drugs if they have positive results.

Pfizer’s new executives are well known and respected within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, but they are not unblemished. At Merck, Dr. Morrison wrote a memo in 1997 suggesting that Vioxx might cause more blood clots and heart problems than other painkillers.

But Dr. Morrison and scientists at Merck continued to work on Vioxx. In 1999, the Food and Drug Administration approved Vioxx, and Merck sold the drug until 2004, when a clinical trial proved that Dr. Morrison’s initial fears had been correct and that Vioxx raised the risk of heart problems.

Dr. Goodman founded Renovis in 1999 and became the company’s chief executive in 2001. He is a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences and a professor of neurobiology and genetics at the University of California, Berkeley. But Renovis suffered a significant setback last year when its lead drug candidate, a stroke treatment, failed a Phase III trial.

Still, Dr. Richard Scheller, the executive vice president for research at Genentech and a longtime colleague of Dr. Goodman, said that Dr. Goodman “is an incredibly insightful, creative scientist.” Dr. Goodman is the kind of researcher who can break through the bureaucracies that have slowed drug development at Pfizer, Dr. Scheller said.

“Pfizer needs to change for people like Corey Goodman,” Dr. Scheller said. “I don’t think he would have taken the job unless Pfizer would have convinced him that they’re going to be the kind of company that he’s going to work with.”
119 2007-10-05 Back then, “there was an innocence, where science was the good,” Dr. Schwartz recalled. “Everyone was very patriotic. It was clear in almost a black-and-white way that we were the good guys.” The Vietnam War altered that mood. The question for scientists, he said, became one of “What are you going to do — work for the military? You’re going to build bombs?”

For many of us who entered Bronx Science soon after Sputnik, there was almost a sense of mission. Some teachers sought to imbue us with the notion that America’s future rested upon our often-scrawny shoulders. If that idea was ever valid, most of us let the country down. There was certainly nothing like physics and calculus to turn an aspiring scientist into a journalist.

The Sputnik anniversary yesterday seemed a good occasion to check in at Bronx Science. Students heard about Sputnik and its significance from Eugene M. Chudnovsky, a physicist at nearby Herbert H. Lehman College. In 1957, Dr. Chudnovsky was a boy in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg.

But the real motive for the visit was to see if a comparable sense of national purpose still existed, given how America now lags so far behind many other countries in basic math and science skills.

As in the past, a large percentage of Bronx Science students are immigrants or the children of immigrants. Ethnicities have changed. Call the school during off hours, and a recording says, “For English, press 1. For Mandarin, press 2.” Unchanged is the competitive spirit, though it may take different forms.

“There’s still competition, but it’s more on a personal level,” said Adam Silver, one of a dozen juniors and seniors who gathered yesterday in the office of the principal, Valerie J. Reidy. Others agreed. The pressure from parents to get into a prestigious college can be fierce, they said. “There’s a lot of stress,” said Holly Calhoun.

EVEN so, the students were hardly unmindful of gloomy national trends.

“I don’t think I’ve ever been told, ‘You have to study because we’re in a worldwide competition,’” Joshua Kravitz said. “But we are falling behind in math and science, and it’s a situation we have to take care of.” Others shared that view, though Benjamin Kussman, who spent part of his summer in China, had a somewhat different take. “It’s not really competition we should be worried about,” he said. “It should be more about diplomacy.”

To Mishal Rahman, born in Bangladesh, “competition is good.” But for him, the goal is not to lift one country above all others. “I want the entire human race to improve itself,” he said.

A nice thought, that. It was definitely not the prevailing mood back when Sputnik beep-beeped its way around the planet and left America trembling in its wake.
120 2007-10-05 Ms. Brevetti, a former federal prosecutor, said that her client’s activities were proper and that he had not been involved in any business with the state pension fund.

“Daniel Hevesi has never solicited, been involved directly or indirectly, in placing New York Common money, and he has never received any compensation from anyone to place New York Common’s money,” she said.

In addition to his position at Praetorian, Daniel Hevesi is now an employee of Third Point Capital, a hedge fund. A portion of the state pension fund was invested with Third Point through what is called a fund of funds in 2005. Third Point hired Daniel Hevesi several months after that investment. Praetorian, which is now owned solely by Daniel Hevesi, is run out of Third Point’s office, according to securities filings.

Ms. Brevetti said that Daniel Hevesi had no involvement in the decision by the comptroller’s office to invest pension money in Third Point and had received no compensation related to that investment.

“Dan Hevesi had absolutely nothing to do with the pension fund when Alan Hevesi was comptroller,” he said.

A spokesman for Third Point declined to comment.

One problem for investigators is that a list of placement agents, or intermediaries, who helped broker deals between investment firms and the state pension fund disappeared earlier this year. The office of the current state comptroller, Thomas DiNapoli, has refused to disclose information that it does have about placement agents to comply with a request by Mr. Cuomo’s office.

The office of the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., said Praetorian had acted as a placement agent for its pension funds serving city workers. The city provided no further details of the relationship.

City records indicate that a business called York Stockbrokers also acted as a placement agent for pension money; Daniel Hevesi briefly worked at York before joining Praetorian Securities and Third Point.

Ms. Brevetti said he had done no work related to the state pension fund for York, and an executive at the company confirmed that account.

Before becoming state comptroller, Alan Hevesi was the New York City comptroller. Daniel Hevesi was in the State Senate at that time and did not move to the securities industry until his father was in his state post.

Last December, Alan Hevesi resigned after pleading guilty to a felony related to his use of state workers to drive his ailing wife. Separate investigations by the state and Albany County were soon initiated into oversight and management practices during Mr. Hevesi’s four-year tenure.

This year, Mr. Cuomo said the case suggested “serious, systemic conflicts of interest,” but Alan Hevesi’s lawyer has adamantly denied any wrongdoing related to the fund’s oversight and cited its strong returns.

Among them, Hank Morris, Alan Hevesi’s top political adviser, has been linked to six different businesses that acted as placement agents, bringing in millions of dollars in fees. Earlier this month, Searle & Company, a Connecticut brokerage firm that employs Mr. Morris, said for the second time that it was restating an annual income report, to add placement fees that were previously undisclosed.

In July, Searle restated its income report for the 2006 fiscal year, disclosing that it had taken in about $7 million in placement fees and paid them back out again to the employee who had brought in the business.

On Monday, Searle filed a restated income report for the 2005 fiscal year, disclosing that placement fees of about $3 million had passed through the firm that year in the same way.
121 2007-10-05 The personal information, Microsoft said, will be stored in a secure, encrypted database. Its privacy controls, the company said, are set entirely by the individual, including what information goes in and who gets to see it. HealthVault searches are conducted anonymously, Microsoft said, and will not be linked to any personal information in a HealthVault personal health record.

The company hopes that individuals will give doctors, clinics and hospitals permission to submit information like medicines prescribed and data on blood pressure and cholesterol levels.

Mr. Neupert said such data transfers would then be automatic, over the Internet, which is why the partnerships are so important.

At NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital in New York, Aurelia G. Boyer, the chief information officer, explained that the hospital was committed to helping patients manage their own health care. After an initial discussion with Microsoft, the hospital has pledged to start a pilot project to enable some kinds of patient data — E.K.G.’s, perhaps — to be automatically sent to a person’s HealthVault account.

The Microsoft entry comes at a time when people are increasingly using online tools, especially searches, to find health information. Tighter curbs on medical spending and an aging population with more health concerns are expected to prompt consumers to take a larger role in managing their own care, including using online tools. But that trend has not gone very far yet.

Microsoft is also moving ahead at a time when other large technology companies have hit bumps in their health initiatives.

For example, the leader of Google’s health group, Adam Bosworth, left last month. The company has been developing offerings broadly similar to Microsoft’s, including personal health records stored in Google data centers and an enhanced search for health information.

The head of Cisco’s health care practice, Dr. Jeffrey Rideout, recently left to join a private equity firm, Ziegler HealthVest Management. And Dossia, a coalition led by Intel to provide employees at several large companies with personal health records, is going more slowly than planned.

But while some other technology companies are pulling back or slowing down in health, “Microsoft is stepping forward and finally declaring the hand it will play,” said Dr. David J. Brailer, who was the health information technology coordinator in the Bush administration. He now leads a firm that invests in medical ventures, Health Evolution Partners.

At the American Heart Association, Dr. Daniel Jones, the president, said working with Microsoft was a way to accelerate his group’s efforts to curb heart disease. Microsoft is collaborating with the association on an online tool for managing blood pressure. Heart patients will be able to go to the association’s Web site, open a HealthVault account and submit their blood-pressure readings, weight and medications.

At first, Dr. Jones said, consumers will probably enter the data themselves, but later they may have it sent from a doctor’s office or laboratory. Ideally, he said, patients would share the information with their doctor or nurse, who could call or send an e-mail message to warn of any disturbing changes. “The potential here is very great,” Dr. Jones said. “And we all recognize the power of Microsoft to reach millions of households.”

Microsoft has also signed up health care companies. Johnson & Johnson LifeScan, the nation’s largest producer of the glucose monitors used by many diabetes patients, plans to enable the monitors’ readouts to be uploaded to a Microsoft HealthVault account. “We see this as a potentially powerful tool in helping patients manage their diabetes,” said Tom West, president of Johnson & Johnson LifeScan.

Privacy is a serious consideration and one likely to slow the spread of personal health records. But Microsoft’s privacy principles have impressed Dr. Deborah Peel, chairwoman of the Patient Privacy Rights Foundation, a nonprofit group. In terms of patient control and openness to outside audits, “Microsoft is setting an industry standard for privacy,” Dr. Peel said.

Mr. Neupert of Microsoft said the key to building trust in the service would be a track record on privacy. Consumers, he noted, initially were reluctant to try online banking because of privacy worries. But today, online banking is mainstream.

“It’s going to be a long journey,” Mr. Neupert said. “To make a difference in health care, it is going to take time and scale. And Microsoft has both.”
122 2007-10-05 Then there was the traditional “car breaks down on the mountain road” scenario. As we returned to France after a five-day trip to Spain, our BMW wagon started spewing steam just short of the border. A group of merchants from the local Spanish market town gathered around, filled our radiator and urged us on to the first town in France, where we’d find a mechanic.

We, of course, conked out on a twisting cliffside road some 2,000 feet above the Mediterranean and had to be towed to a garage 30 or so miles back. But a trip to Europe without a nasty surprise isn’t really a trip.

The aforementioned pigeon “incident” happened in Alsace. Before our arrival, the family had farmed out the dog and the beehives to neighbors, but asked us to care for the cat and the pigeons — preferably keeping the two species apart. Each morning, Julia dutifully trooped out to the coop with buckets of fresh water and feed, greeting her favorite birds and checking their nests for eggs. Then, while poking around in the freezer one day, she discovered a dozen mounds of flesh, suspiciously similar in size to the birds she had been cooing over.

Scotland’s deluge wasn’t our only challenge that particular summer. The house we lived in was such a shambles — it seemed as if the dust bunnies were being chased by dust wolves — that it made me long for our not particularly neat house back in South Jersey. Our solution? We hit the road, something we do on each of our swaps, to explore the region and to splurge on a few nights of hotel rooms.

Not all of our memories, though, revolve around disasters. In Switzerland, we became close friends with the next-door neighbors after meeting them at a town festival. Over the next two weeks, the family invited us to dinner at their parents’ home and picnics in the park. Each morning my daughters would shout out their bedroom window to see if the neighbors’ girls were awake.

In Alsace, our house was just up the hill from town, which we walked or biked to each morning for chocolate- or almond-filled croissants and our daily baguette, as well as local tomatoes, zucchini and lettuce. Each afternoon we trekked to the municipal pool across town. We really felt we were living the lives of the locals, especially when the young men at the pool tried to follow my older daughter, Grace, home.

These trips have not only provided us with invaluable experiences, they have also shown me new sides of my daughters — and probably shown my daughters new sides of me. Grace, now 17, has surprised me in how flexible a traveler she has become. Like many teenagers, she is often cautious among her peers. On the road, she is loose and funny: at restaurants, eating everything from shark to cuttlefish ink; and at the beach, willing to join the other topless bathers (and me) in that Mediterranean tradition.

For Julia, her keen sense of direction and superior map-reading ability have made her an excellent co-pilot, able to navigate even the most remote rural roads. Her negotiating skills have also served her well: talking a Barcelona street vendor selling “Chanel” purses down from 30 euros to 15, or getting us the best table at a restaurant. Above all, she has become the driving force behind these exchanges, scrutinizing the ads and initiating contact with the families until a match is found.

For certain, my daughters saw another side of me when the car died and I had a near nervous breakdown. Likewise, when we’d get lost and a salty stream of, um, expletives would pour forth. On the flip side, I’d like to think my ability to speak in two other languages, and piece these often complicated vacations together, may have made some impression on them.

I have always preferred the less obvious, the less easy way to travel. Since I first hitchhiked around Europe at 15, I knew that unpredictable adventures — and occasional jams — were the most satisfying aspects of travel. These are the ones that remain in my memory after all these years.

Above all, I hope that these summer trips off the beaten path inspire my daughters to pursue such journeys on their own. That when they grow older, they choose the road less traveled — the small village where real life happens, and where dead pigeons lurk in the freezer.
123 2007-10-05 THE TOLL OF OIL PRICES      The economy has begun to sputter, raising concerns among some economists that record-high oil prices may finally begin to take a toll and accelerate the trend to a recession....
124 2007-10-06 The candidate describes an American struggle...
125 2007-10-06 In late September, on the same weekend that the International Herald Tribune ran a column headlined "It's cepe time in la belle France," we, too, had our taste of the first cepes of the season, in Hong Kong. Our apologies for leaving a global foot...
126 2007-10-06 A former pizzeria manager accused of kidnapping two Missouri boys will plead guilty next week to kidnapping, attempted murder and sexual assault, said John Rupp, the chief prosecutor in Washington County. Mr. Rupp said the man, Michael Devlin, would plead guilty to all charges there and would be sentenced Tuesday. Mr. Devlin was arrested in January after the police found Shawn Hornbeck and Ben Ownby at his apartment.
127 2007-10-06 President Bush hailed the report while speaking at the White House yesterday morning, referring to it as a sign of a “vibrant and strong economy.” He noted that the economy has added jobs in 49 consecutive months and used the occasion, as he has many times in the past, to urge Congress to resist any tax increases.

Many investors still expect the Fed to cut its benchmark short-term interest rate, now at 4.75 percent, by another quarter of a point before the end of the year. The housing market has continued to worsen, and forecasters said that the economy was still at risk of weakening in coming months. Any fresh signs of distress are likely to prompt the Fed to move quickly, economists said.

“I don’t think we’re totally out of the woods,” said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs. “There are some real problems at the foundations of the economy. If nothing really bad happens, we can muddle through and unwind some of these problems over a lengthy period of time. And if something bad happens, we go into a recession.”

The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.7 percent last month, from 4.6 percent in August, a reflection of the slowdown in hiring over the course of 2007.

In 2005 and 2006, the job market was in its strongest condition since the late 1990s, adding about 200,000 jobs a month and causing wages to outpace inflation. But as the housing market has weakened, oil prices have risen and consumer spending has slowed somewhat, job growth has faded, to just under 100,000 a month over the last three months.

Private-sector payrolls are growing at their slowest annual rate since April 2004.

“We’re likely to go through an extended period of slow economic growth in the United States,” said Ethan Harris, the chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. “We’re likely to see a further drop in the job market, a further rise in the unemployment rate, and ultimately the Fed will come back again and cut interest rates.”

The average hourly wage of rank-and-file workers — who make up about 80 percent of the work force — reached an all-time high of $17.57 last month, even after taking inflation into account. Two years ago, the hourly wage was $17.01, adjusted for inflation.

Pay continues to outpace inflation, but wage growth has been unusually weak over the course of the current economic expansion, and the softening of the job market this year has caused wage growth to slow. Unless hiring picks up again in the coming months, the wage increases of the current expansion are likely to fall far short of those during the late 1990s.

The vast majority of yesterday’s revision came in government jobs, with 71,000 jobs in local education being added to the preliminary estimate. It was the first time that nonfarm payrolls were revised from a loss to a gain in the following report since October 2002.

“I can’t explain why it happened; to some extent, it’s just chance,” said Thomas L. Nardone, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics who oversees the jobs report. Mr. Nardone said that early surveys of schools simply did not reflect the actual job growth.

Richard Moody, the chief economist at Mission Residential, a real estate investment company, noted that school districts in several large states had delayed the start of their school year. As a result, the usual August surge in education employment — which the Labor Department’s seasonal adjustments are intended to account for — did not happen until September this year.
128 2007-10-06 Agriculture Department officials have acknowledged that they knew that meat from Topps was contaminated on Sept. 7, when the first positive test results for E. coli came back, but that they waited for confirming tests before ordering a recall 18 days later. On Sept. 8, the department informed Topps that its hamburgers were suspected in a case of E. coli poisoning in Florida and requested samples from the plant for testing, officials at the agency said.

The Topps recall came less than a year after Taco Bell was hit by an E. coli scare after diners in several states fell ill, and it has renewed concerns about the safety of the nation’s food supply. Topps is not the first meat company to close after a recall. A Hudson Foods plant in Nebraska shut down in August 1997 after an even larger recall, of 25 million pounds of ground beef, and agreed to be bought by Tyson Foods within a month.

The initial recall of 331,582 pounds of Topps’ frozen hamburger patties was announced on Sept. 25, by which time nearly 30 people had fallen ill in eight states. On Sept. 29, the company issued a much broader recall. Health officials say the first reported case of sickness linked to the O157:H7 strain of E. coli found in the Topps meat occurred on July 5, when an 18-year-old girl in central Pennsylvania fell ill. Three days later, a case was reported in New Jersey. Other cases were reported in Connecticut, Maine, Florida, Indiana, Ohio and New York.

The company said a few of its 87 employees would remain at its plant in Elizabeth to help the Agriculture Department investigate how the bacteria might have tainted the frozen hamburger patties made there.

Yesterday, garage doors at the company’s plant were shut, and the window blinds were pulled down. Some workers inside peeked out. Officials held a barbecue where Topps hamburgers were cooked well done, according to Evelyn Hidalgo, a human resources manager. The hamburgers were “delicious,” she said, adding that workers toasted the company as they munched on them.

Workers, who were told of the closing in the company’s boardroom, then trickled out of the plant.

“It was very emotional,” said Vivian Quinones, a customer service worker for two years. Hugging her co-worker Maria Frometa in the parking lot before leaving, Ms. Quinones said the news came “out of the blue. Everyone was somber.”

Elmer Suero left not long after. A member of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 342-50, Mr. Suero had moved with the company when it shut its factory on 38th Street in Manhattan and reopened in Elizabeth.

“The problem is the beef, not the company,” said Mr. Suero, wearing a white hard hat. “Topps has been in business a long time.”

Topps now must contend with at least one lawsuit, filed on Oct. 1 by Robert and Catherine McDonald of Colonie, N.Y., whose 8-year-old daughter, Emily, got stomach cramps, a fever and diarrhea after eating a hamburger made with Topps ground beef on Aug. 17. Tests later determined that E. coli was to blame. Their daughter spent three days in the hospital. The family is trying to recoup its medical expenses.

The company and a number of retailers have also been hit with a class action suit.

Even without the legal challenges, Topps would have faced a tough road back. Many of its customers are likely to seek other sources of beef. Unlike at more diversified food companies, meat processing was Topps’s main business, which means it had little revenue from other sources.

“It’s one of the problems for a single plant, small or large,” said John Nalivka, the president of Sterling Marketing, a consultant to the meat and livestock industry. “If you have a recall and that plant is down, your whole financial well-being suffers.”

The speed of the events also gave Topps little room to maneuver, particularly if it had to pay to recover its tainted beef from its customers, an expense that could take years to recoup from an insurance company.

“Recalls used to be rolling waves hitting the beach, and now they are tsunamis that choke off the oxygen,” said Gene Grabowski, who runs the crisis and litigation practice at Levick Strategic Communications and has handled more than 120 recalls. “This is not a giant and not diversified, so when a tsunami hits, it doesn’t have much of a chance.”

Topps opened in 1940 in Manhattan. The founder, Benjamin Sachs, later sold the company to his son, Steven Sachs, according to Ann Sachs, the founder’s former daughter-in-law. A few years before the company moved to New Jersey, Joseph D’Urso became vice president.

After Mr. D’Urso died in 2003, the company was bought by Strategic Investment and Holdings, a large investment firm in Buffalo that has stakes in dozens of companies. The firm declined to answer any questions.

In 2005, an inspection report by the Agriculture Department found that the plant had received processed meat tainted with E. coli. Inspectors found that a supplier had sent 10 bins of the meat to Topps, which had started to process it before being notified about the contamination.

Also in 2005, Topps settled a $1.7 million case with a 59-year-old maintenance man whose arm was amputated in an industrial processor. The same year, a 9-year-old girl sued the company after she became ill from eating a Topps hamburger.

According to industry experts, the size of the Topps recall was probably related to the company’s practice of “carrying over” meat from one day’s production to the next, without giving the older meat a separate batch number. The practice is not in itself illegal or unsafe, the experts said, but in the event of a problem, like an identified case of E. coli, the mixing of several days’ production makes it harder for officials to know the extent of the contamination.

Michele Williams, a spokeswoman for Topps, declined to comment on whether Topps carries over meat without giving it a separate batch number. But Ms. Eamich, the Agriculture Department spokeswoman, said the company did carry over beef.
129 2007-10-06 Speculation and innuendo have been rampant over why the mayor simply dropped from sight. Mr. Levy’s lawyer, Edwin J. Jacobs, told the city last week that he had checked into a hospital, but he refused to say where or for how long.

Not surprisingly, the mayor’s absence has set off a scrum among elected officials here.

One councilman has filed suit in State Superior Court asking that the mayor’s seat be declared vacant, a move that would allow the Council to appoint a successor. “Other efforts under way to determine the legally sufficient transfer of authority have yet to resolve the ongoing dilemma,” Councilman G. Bruce Ward said on Friday.

As Mr. Ward put it, “The mysterious disappearance of Mayor Levy is now a national news story causing significant embarrassment and exposing the city to unwarranted risk.”

Later in the day, about two dozen demonstrators gathered at City Hall to protest Mr. Levy’s absence, saying it has paralyzed this city of 40,000.

To veteran observers of politics in this city where drug-infested neighborhoods are still waiting for the full benefits of the $16 million-a-day casino industry, the episode seems sadly familiar.

“This isn’t the way it’s supposed to be,” said Louvinia Nixon, a retired hostess at Caesars Casino who was casting a fishing line into the tea-colored surf off the Pacific Avenue jetty on Wednesday afternoon.

Mr. Levy, a longtime chief of the beach patrol here, is a Democrat and first-term mayor whose political problems apparently began last fall when several articles appeared in The Press of Atlantic City questioning his service record in Vietnam. Although he said for years that he had been a member of the Army Special Forces, the newspaper reported that he never had.

Last fall, the mayor acknowledged the misrepresentation and apologized. “I’m sorry for having this happen at all,” Mr. Levy told The Associated Press. “It’s something I should have corrected 40 years ago. It is what it is, and I apologize for the embarrassment I’ve created for myself and my family.”

In recent weeks, it was reported that the United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, was investigating whether Mr. Levy has improperly collected pension payments by claiming that he served in the Special Forces. According to the news accounts, the designation would entitle him to an additional $25,000 in military benefits.

A spokesman for Mr. Christie, Michael Drewniak, declined to comment on reports of the investigation.

Then, last week, Mr. Levy simply dropped from sight, and aides issued the 36-word statement saying that the mayor was taking an indefinite medical leave.

“His attorney shared with us that he’s in the hospital,” said Nicholas J. Morici, a spokesman for the mayor. “Which hospital? Where? We weren’t privy to that information.”

In Mr. Levy’s absence, the city’s business administrator, Dominic Cappella, has served as mayor. But Councilman Ward said he asked the court to rule the office vacant because the city’s order-of-succession rules are vague and Mr. Cappella has no authority to hold the office.

“There is a difference between an absence and a vacancy,” he said in a telephone interview on Friday. “There has been no formal designation by the mayor.”

Mr. Corzine seemed to agree. At a boardwalk news conference here on Friday, he said, “It’s seems to me the situation can’t go on,” and added, “You can’t just create a vacuum.”

For much of the past week, Assemblyman James Whelan, a former three-term mayor here and close friend of Mr. Levy, has called for him to speak out and put an end to the speculation over his whereabouts and even resign if he has committed a crime. “You can’t go months on end with a situation where you don’t know where the mayor is,” Mr. Whelan said at the news conference with the governor.

“He’s in the hospital?” said Ms. Nixon, the hostess. “For what? O.K., maybe some things are personal. But you owe it to the people who put you in office to say what’s going on.”

Ms. Nixon, 66, talked about the many politicians who have been brought low by scandal and how this city has fallen so far short of the prosperity promised by the opening of casinos three decades ago.

“I’m disgusted,” she said. “Like most of us, I’m disgusted. I can’t remember when Atlantic City was an easygoing town.”
130 2007-10-06 Others say it is, in a way, a parable for the educational experiments of the Bloomberg years, with yesterday’s enthusiasms making way for new imperatives. At several critical junctures the academy had to bow to the next programs in vogue.

“It was just another little gimmick,” said Sol Stern, a fellow at the Manhattan Institute and a frequent critic of the mayor. “There was no great need for this; it was one of those ideas that was another rollout and press release for them to prove that they are shaking things up.”

David Cantor, a spokesman for the Education Department, said in a statement, “City Hall Academy was a valuable demonstration site for best practices from around the city.” It also said that the department “has devolved resources to give every school the ability to access best practices in ways that principals decide best meet their students’ needs.”

When the academy was started, with a team of experienced full-time teachers and an annual operating budget of roughly $1.5 million, the mayor and Mr. Klein said it would be a kind of seed program for the rest of the city. Teachers who brought their classes for the two-week sessions, which included trips to local sights, would also be mentored by veteran instructors and get to see an interdisciplinary teaching method they could duplicate in their own classrooms.

Ms. Switzer, who was a popular principal at a top-performing school in TriBeCa before Mr. Klein picked her to open the academy, speaks of it wistfully. “It was an inspired idea, to have kids come to school at a place where everyone should know they were working for children,” she said. “All kids should be able to see what a good school looks like.”

But the program quickly collided with other new ideas. When the mayor instituted strict rules for promoting third graders, education officials said it no longer made sense to remove them from regular classes for residencies at City Hall Academy. Instead the youngest students sent to the academy became fourth graders who did not face the same new promotion standards.

At the same time, Deputy Chancellor Carmen Fariña replaced Ms. Switzer with Anna Commitante, who had worked with gifted students. Most of the original staff left out of loyalty to Ms. Switzer, and Ms. Commitante overhauled the curriculum, eliminating many of the city-focused lessons.

“We wanted to make sure that students weren’t coming here doing something that was totally off-track from what they were doing in their own school,” Ms. Commitante said in a recent interview.

The most radical change came last fall. The school system was looking for a home for the Ross Global Charter Academy, the special project of Courtney Sale Ross, the multimillionaire widow of a Time Warner executive, who had visions of recreating for city schoolchildren a version of the private learning laboratory she bankrolled 15 years ago in East Hampton.

City education officials initially wanted the Ross school to share a building on the Lower East Side with another school. But parents at that school protested and filed a lawsuit to block the Ross school. Their most prominent supporter was Sheldon Silver, the State Assembly speaker.

But this was an important battle for Mr. Klein, who has welcomed the publicly financed, but privately run, charter schools. So the city capitulated and placed Ms. Ross’s school prominently in Tweed, displacing City Hall Academy to Harlem.

Some principals from around the city said that made the logistics more difficult. Jackie Mamnolito, the principal of Public School 48 on Staten Island, said it did not make sense to have her students travel to Harlem, with few chances to see such sights as the Brooklyn Bridge or City Hall.

“A lot of this was really a hands-on kind of thing,” she said. “As much as you might want to replicate it elsewhere, it was something special and different, and that was what would make it thrive.”

The academy’s supporters say its teaching philosophy will endure. Ms. Commitante said its methods, like centering several subjects — writing, social studies and science, for example — on a common theme, had already spread elsewhere in the city.

“We definitely want this to live on,” said Adelina Tripoli, the principal there. “This is the kind of thing kids need more, not less, of.”
131 2007-10-06 “It’s about turf and protection, drugs, weapons and prostitution,” he continues. “It’s a rigid code of segregation along ethnic and racial lines. And most of all it’s about gangs.”

All told, a California prison system built to hold 100,000 inmates is bursting with 173,000, Mr. Koppel says. Each prisoner costs taxpayers $43,000 annually. Many are repeat offenders serving mandatory sentences of 25 years to life as part of the “three strikes and you’re out” law.

The impetus for that legislation was the 1993 kidnapping, rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl, Polly Klaas, by a man who had just been paroled from prison. Mr. Koppel interviews her father, Marc Klaas, identified as a “victims’ advocate,” who has an understandable enmity toward violent criminals.

“As far as I’m concerned, you can stack these guys like cordwood,” Mr. Klaas says. “And you can keep them locked away forever.”

Many of the long-term inmates were not convicted of violent crimes, however.

One is Joey Mason, who says he voted in favor of the three strikes law before being convicted of a nonviolent burglary. He has since been imprisoned two more times for the same offense and is not eligible for parole until 2019. Believe him or not, though, Mr. Mason tells Mr. Koppel he’s a changed man.

“I really believe I’d be a better taxpayer than a tax taker,” he says.

“Breaking Point” is divided into chapters, and one of the more striking is called “Powder Keg.”

“Race guides every aspect of prison life,” Mr. Koppel tells viewers before inmates and prison officials back him up. Cellmates are invariably of the same race by design. Prisoners eat and share food only with their own kind. Fights are almost always between inmates of different races. No one, inmates say, wants to be branded a “race traitor.”

“It is as rigid a form of segregation as ever existed in this country,” Mr. Koppel says.

A recent court order has mandated that California prisons be integrated. An inmate named Darren Doucette, among others, isn’t in favor of that.

There are some bright spots, too. The chapter “Graduation Day” is surprisingly moving, with a relative handful of inmates proudly wearing caps and gowns to receive their G.E.D. diplomas. Friends and relatives applaud after a prison official intones, “Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the spring 2007 graduating class.”

Mr. Koppel quickly adds, “Keep in mind that these inmates are the exception.”

“Breaking Point” is exceptional. Real-life looks at prison life generally aren’t crowd-pleasers, even if fictional depictions often are. But Mr. Koppel and his longtime executive producer, Tom Bettag, have fought another good fight on behalf of in-depth television journalism about a subject of true import.
132 2007-10-06 Microsoft said yesterday that it was giving up its controlling ownership of Bungie Software, the video game subsidiary that developed the hugely popular Halo franchise, including its latest iteration, Halo 3.

Bungie, based in Kirkland, Wash., said it planned to return to its roots as an independent game studio, a move that eventually will cost Microsoft exclusive ties to one of the most successful and sought-after teams of game developers.

Harold Ryan, president and studio head of Bungie, said that he had been working for months on a plan to separate the studio from Microsoft, based in nearby Redmond, Wash. Mr. Ryan said that the companies had a good working relationship, but that developers at Bungie yearned to work for themselves, not a corporate owner.

“It’s an emotionally creative point of view,” he said of the decision to take the studio independent. “That’s the state we wanted to be in.”

Neither Mr. Ryan, nor Shane Kim, the head of Microsoft’s game studios, would discuss the financial terms. Microsoft originally acquired Bungie in 2000 for an undisclosed amount.
133 2007-10-06 THERE are signs of life in credit markets that appeared to be dying only a few weeks ago. But those signs are limited. Few investors have returned, but in some cases banks have stepped in to replace them.

The most impressive rebound has come in the leveraged loan market — a market often used to finance leveraged buyouts. In August, that market issued just $8.4 billion of new loans, according to calculations by Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.

In September, that figure leaped to $41.9 billion, well below the monthly volumes of more than $70 billion this spring but high enough to allow deals to get done. Those loans were much more expensive than they had been, but the paper was sold, partly to banks and partly to institutional investors.

In the related high-yield bond market — known as junk bonds to some — the recovery was less impressive. There, Thomson Financial reports, volume came to $4.7 billion, more than in July and August put together but still less than a quarter of the monthly volumes in May and June before the credit squeeze hit.

Why the difference? Many junk bonds were financed through securitizations, in which some investors accepted lower interest rates in return for other investors being first to take any losses from defaults.
134 2007-10-06 The premise of the East Harlem school, and 11 others in the loose Cristo Rey network across the country, is that age 13 is the exact moment to fan kids’ expectations, not snuff them out. Their jobs do more than pay tuition.

“They meet people at work who make presumptions and ask, ‘Where are you going to college?’ ” said Bill Ford, the principal of Cristo Rey. “They have to ask themselves, ‘What are they seeing in me that I haven’t seen?’ When you see that happening, that really ends the hand-wringing or angsting about the work.”

The first Cristo Rey school opened in Chicago in 1996, backed by the foundation of a venture capitalist named B.J. Cassin, and later by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Each Cristo Rey school functions as a temporary employment agency that provides entry-level clerical help — their students — to law firms, cultural organizations, banks. The 12 schools in the network serve about 3,000 students, most of them poor. Another one is planned for Brooklyn next year.

In the class of 2006, 96 percent of the graduates enrolled in college, according to the Cristo Rey network.

That does not include the East Harlem school, which opened in 2004 and will hold its first graduation in June. Many students will be the first in their families to graduate from high school or to go to college, Mr. Ford said.

Four students share a job that pays $27,500, earning $6,875 each toward the $12,000 tuition, said the Rev. Joseph P. Parkes, a Jesuit priest and the school’s president. Families pay about $1,100. The rest of the tuition is scrounged by Father Parkes. Many students make money for themselves by working during holiday periods and vacations.

Arisleydi, who lives near Yankee Stadium, said her mother, a city employee, and her father, a barber, were paying tuition for her little brother to attend a Catholic elementary school.

“I wanted to go to Catholic school, too, so I thought it was fair for me to pay,” she said.

The first New York class of Cristo Rey students began as a group of 99. Just 50 remain. The retention rate in the subsequent classes has been 87 percent, Mr. Ford said. For those who left that first class, he said, Cristo Rey had come along too late. “That first year had a helluva lot of drama,” he said. “No one else had gone through the traces. The oldest kid in the building was 14.”

Now, students range in age from 13 to 17, and all of them look a visiting stranger in the eye and firmly shake hands. On the days that they go to work, they first attend an assembly — yesterday’s featured a pep talk on constructive conversations with bosses — and are escorted in groups of four to the subway.

On the No. 6 train, Arisleydi said she hoped to major in psychology at Iona College. Jhomel wants to study engineering, maybe at Manhattan College or Le Moyne, and to play baseball.

“In my neighborhood, kids see I’m all dressed, and they ask why, and I tell them I work one day a week,” Jhomel said. “They don’t believe it; I have to show them my ID.”

Arisleydi had heard that, too. “They say, ‘You go to work, all dressed, to clean a bathroom?’ I tell them, ‘I work in a bank.’”
135 2007-10-06 If Jones is truly concerned with redemption, she will give back her Olympic medals immediately. Return them without the International Olympic Committee or any other agency having to ask for them, without the matter becoming the subject of talk shows and online polls. Give them back before the wolves on the trail can snatch them away.

I am not suggesting that she return the medals for her fans, or out of a sense of shame, or for having cheated mom, the flag and apple pie. Jones should return the medals as a first step in shedding a part of her life that died yesterday. The medals once symbolized hard work, dedication and talent maximized. Today, those medals are symbols of vanity and misguided ambition that prompted Jones to take performance-enhancing drugs in 2000 as she was, as she often said, “going for the gold.”

The money was crazy, by track standards, with an outcome that seems inevitable: run now and pay later.

There are many questions on the periphery of Jones’s stunning admission of guilt. I wonder whether her family and so-called friends had a sense of what she was doing. Did anyone advise her to stop, or was everyone in the inner circle living so deliciously off her deeds that they dared not?

For now, Jones has to deal with the here and now, the prospects of prison and liability. But she also has to deal with posterity. What will she tell her children?

This is what I’d tell them: Yesterday’s moment does not make Marion Jones a bad person. It marks her as a tainted human being, one who made terrible judgments on and off the track. This makes her a person blinded by an ambition that was perhaps rooted in insecurity.

Critics and fans may argue in coming days that they feel cheated. I don’t feel cheated at all by what Jones accomplished in 2000. In some ways, I feel the way I do when I listen to the saxophonist Charlie Parker playing an incredible solo, knowing that he was probably high on heroin at the moment the recording was made. Drugs were not the source of his greatness. Similarly, Jones would have been great whether she used or whether she didn’t. We’ll never know how great, though, and, worse, she will never know.

“I recognize that by saying that I’m deeply sorry, it might not be enough and sufficient to address the pain and the hurt that I have caused you,” Jones said. “Therefore, I want to ask for forgiveness for my actions.”

Yesterday marked the death of Jones’s old life, the life of the ambitious track star, making more money than she ever imagined, able to afford a comfortable lifestyle for her family.

The difference between a funeral for a friend and the drama that unfolded here yesterday is the potential for resurrection. In this respect, Jones began the arduous process of reclaiming her honor.

This, she must know, will be the most difficult task of her life. She cheated the sport, betrayed the public trust and lied to federal agents. She did this with the help of a public-relations push that at one point heralded her as the queen of track and field. Now she is leaving the sport. “Because of my actions,” she said, “I’m retiring from the sport of track and field, a sport which I deeply love.”

If Jones is serious about redemption, her first order of business should be returning the pieces of gold without being asked. This is harsh, I know, but she should remember that the pursuit of gold tempted her to run a race that she couldn’t win.
136 2007-10-06 Still, three months before the Iowa caucuses open the nominating contests on both sides of the ticket, a fresh sense of urgency is at hand for Mr. Obama as he tries to change the dynamic of the race. Mrs. Clinton, who started the year perceived to be trailing Mr. Obama and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina in Iowa, has crept up in state polls and turned it into a three-way fight in the state, adding even more importance to the efforts by her opponents here.

On a four-day tour through Iowa this week, Mr. Obama continued to draw large crowds. He sharpened his message about his early opposition to the war, he devoted more time to voters’ questions, and he talked increasingly about the need for Democrats to choose a candidate who is honest and, ultimately, able to bring about change.

With a new sales pitch, he acknowledged that he was “behind in the national polls,” and asked Iowans for their support.

“If you’ve decided that you’re supporting me, don’t keep on waiting, because it’s going to get chilly soon,” Mr. Obama said. “The fact is, all of you are going to decide who the next president of the United States is.”

The Democratic presidential campaign, viewed at ground level in Iowa, is awash in uncertainties. Will Mr. Edwards, who started a 17-county bus tour on Friday, hold the supporters who propelled him to second place here in 2004? Will Mr. Obama turn his large crowds into real voters? Will Mrs. Clinton’s national advantages assuage concern among some voters who worry how Republicans will go after her in a general election?

Interviews with more than two dozen Democrats here this week suggest that the race remains remarkably unsettled, with voters voicing concern about Mr. Edwards’s viability, Mr. Obama’s experience and Mrs. Clinton’s electability. And several Democrats said they had yet to rule out other candidates, including Senators Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico.

“I think anybody who loses Iowa will have an uphill battle from that point forward,” Mr. Edwards said Friday in Cresco. “It applies to any of us.”

In hopes of stirring movement in the race, Mr. Obama delivered a series of speeches to mark the fifth anniversary of the Congressional vote authorizing the Iraq war. At each campaign stop, he reminded voters that he had opposed the war from the outset, unlike many of his rivals.

It remained unclear whether the message was having its intended effect.

Nell Boyd, of Belmont, said she was more interested in bringing the troops home than debating how America went to war. Still, Mrs. Boyd, 55, said she was intrigued by Mr. Obama and two weeks ago made the first political contribution of her life to his campaign.

“Hillary and Obama, it’s between the two of them. Neither one have completely convinced me,” she said, moments after chatting with Mr. Obama in Waterloo. “The part I like about him is honesty. We should stand for that again.”

Many party activists in Iowa are likely to base their decision less on a candidate’s performance at a debate, for example, than on whether they receive personal attention. And the political battalions are fully engaged, with operatives competing intensely to sign up supporters.

The trick is keeping those supporters on board.

Last month, Frank Best, 38, a councilman from Columbus City, was backing Mr. Edwards, as he did in 2004, when he was the campaign’s Louisa County chairman. But one afternoon this week, Mr. Best was formally inducted into the Obama campaign, complete with a short face-to-face meeting with Mr. Obama, who draped his arm around him as they stood with a few other V.I.P. voters moments before a rally began.

“I think he’s the one who can be elected next November,” Mr. Best said, explaining his shift. “That’s a big scare for me, that we could somehow blow this. It’s so important for Democrats to take the White House back again. After everything we’ve been through for the last eight years, we need to do it.”

The Obama campaign has studied the collapse of Howard Dean’s Iowa campaign in 2004, when he carried only two counties. At least once every three weeks, the Obama campaign calls supporters, making sure they are still committed.

On Thursday evening, as Mr. Obama headed to a rally in Decorah, his caravan detoured in Oelwein, home to one of his 31 state field offices.

“Frankly, you can be better messengers for us than a television ad from me or paid organizers,” Mr. Obama said in an impromptu pep talk to a team of volunteers making calls in a storefront office. “When people know that their neighbors and their friends are reaching out, that’s what will make a difference.”

Then, he reminded the dozen or so volunteers that he, too, had been a community organizer and that they were a central reason he remained optimistic in the face of the battle ahead.

“One by one,” Mr. Obama said, climbing into the backseat of his van. “This is old school.”
137 2007-10-06 When George M. Cohan wrote “Give My Regards to Broadway,” he promised to be there “e’er long.”

But for 17 months, Cohan’s jaunty bronze likeness, hat in hand, has been hidden behind a blue plywood fence in the heart of Times Square, accessible only to pigeons.

An ambitious renovation of the temporary TKTS discount theater tickets booth — a trailer camouflaged by pipes and canvas since 1973 — was envisioned nearly a decade ago. A design competition was announced in 1999. Almost 700 submissions were received. An Australian firm won. Construction was supposed to be completed by last December. But work goes on.

“When I started, I didn’t have children,” said Nicholas S. Leahy, a principal in the Perkins Eastman architectural firm, which designed the booth and the bleachers that will rise above it, based on the Australians’ winning concept. “Now, they’re going to school.”

The project is a combined effort of the Times Square Alliance, the Theater Development Fund and the Coalition for Father Duffy, the World War I chaplain and namesake of the square where the booth is being built.
138 2007-10-07 My daughter Rachel, who is developmentally disabled, lives in a “community-living arrangement” with two roommates and a 24-hour staff. It’s only half an hour from my house in Pittsburgh, so I stop by about once a week. Rachel, 24, calls me a dozen times a night, but she’s unenthusiastic about my visits. My feelings aren’t hurt. Even though two years have passed since her move, it’s still thrilling to see her happy and relaxed in her town-house apartment. And her roommate Lee Ann loves to see me.

One afternoon, I arrive just as “the ladies” are coming home from work. Lee Ann, who does housekeeping for one of the downtown hotels, wears a navy blue uniform with her name tag pinned perfectly straight. Even before I ask how many rooms she cleaned that day, she holds up seven fingers with pride. “Wow!” I say, and she wraps her arms around me and squeezes hard. I’m still in her embrace when Lisa walks past, swinging her Exceptional Adventures lunch box, and then Rachel, in a graying 2004 Mitzvah Day T-shirt and shorts. “Hi, Ma,” she says. It makes no difference if a day or month has passed. She always greets me in the same matter-of-fact way.

While Rachel gets settled, Lee Ann takes me into her bedroom to show me a card from her boyfriend. The room is crammed with pillows, shelves of CDs and videotapes, Pittsburgh Steelers memorabilia, dolls and teddy bears. Inside the greeting card, below the store-bought sentiments, her boyfriend has written in block print, “I care for you a lot.” Lee Ann says he’s nice. In the kitchen, Rachel is calling her sister or someone from work, the first of the scores of phone calls she’ll make that night.

When I ask Lee Ann how Rachel has been, she says, with a hint of delight, “She’s been torturing me.” It’s just what Rachel always says of Lee Ann. Sometimes one tortures the other by collecting too many cards in Uno. Sometimes torture occurs when the name-calling game has passed from “dork,” “turkey head” and “walrus nose” to “monkey butt.”

Alas, Rachel often wakes at dawn and barges into people’s rooms. Then she really does torture them. I think she tortures her boyfriend, Peter, too. Rachel and Peter do packaging and assembly work at the nearby vocational training center. They used to sit together at lunch, but they’re no longer allowed. Too much hugging and kissing, Rachel said. Peter buys Rachel gifts. Rachel never reciprocates unless a roommate or a staff member urges her to do so. She’s a torturer, my daughter, a heartbreaker too. I wish she were kind, but she has never seemed capable of empathy. Not that any of us have given up. Sometimes I think she has it in her. Since moving here, she has shown herself capable of many things that once seemed out of her grasp.

Often it’s hard to know what Rachel thinks or comprehends because woven through her abundant conversation are other people’s expressions, gripes and desires. But since adolescence she was very clear about wanting to move out of the house. When asked where she wanted to live, she’d point to me and say, “Far away from her.” In her 2002 yearbook, students were asked to name their fondest wish. One classmate wanted to walk unassisted; one wanted to be a rap artist; Rachel wished for “an apartment all my own.”
139 2007-10-07 “I love Henny Youngman,” Mr. McCain said en route to a Rotary Club. “Take my wife — please. I love that.” Mr. McCain said he saw him perform in Atlantic City once. Mr. Youngman told the joke about how he and his wife both wore braces, and would kiss in the dark and watch the sparks fly.

“Isn’t that great?” said Mr. McCain, a one-man Borscht Belt in South Carolina. And yes, Mr. McCain adds in response to a question, Mr. Youngman would perform at his inauguration, if he weren’t dead.

Mr. McCain’s campaign is still very much alive, if not quite alive and well. He is, at the very least, still here, which is more than what political wise-guys were predicting a few months ago. The fallen front-runner has endured well-documented staff turmoil, financial crises and large-scale ridicule from the political news media (“Let’s have a moment of silence,” Charlie Cook, editor of The Cook Political Report, told The Arizona Republic in July).

The McCain campaign had been swollen with overhead and consultants. It seemed stage-managed and even cautious, fundamentally ill-matched to Mr. McCain’s maverick sensibility. It also burned through most of the $24 million raised in the first half of 2007, not exactly buttressing Mr. McCain’s message of fiscal discipline.

Roughly half of Mr. McCain’s staff left or was let go. He split with his longtime political soulmate, John Weaver (whom Mr. McCain says he has not spoken to since). He was left alone to parry a blitz of “Is McCain getting out?” questions from once-swooning reporters he once jokingly referred to as “my base.”

And yet, here is Mr. McCain, the happy warrior on a last mission, an odd mix of liberated and subdued. Between jokes, he is steadfast in his support for the present course in Iraq, his voice hushing to a near-whisper during paeans to the United States military. He is also prone to solemn monologues against the evils of torturing prisoners and the atrocities committed by “those thugs in Burma” against pro-democracy demonstrators, neither of which are top-of-the-agenda issues for most Republican voters. But they are important to John McCain, never mind the polls and focus groups, which are too expensive anyway.

“It’s hard to catch lightning in a bottle twice,” Mr. McCain has said countless times in the last seven years when asked if he’d ever run for president again after 2000. “And that’s true,” he said aboard his bus on Thursday. But like Henny Youngman kissing his wife, Mr. McCain is seeing sparks. It has been a good few weeks, he said. There has been movement in the polls, a well-received debate performance, energy in his crowds, a spate of “Resurgent McCain” stories in the news.

“I’m enjoying it more these days,” he said, compared with his front-runner days. “For whatever reason, it took me a while to hit my stride.”

It also cost him a lot of money. “I just have to be who I am,” he said. “It seems to me, if you’re not going to enjoy it, it can be difficult. So I want to enjoy it.”

Obviously he has made mistakes, he said, and, sure enough, his bus is rolling through Georgetown County, site of the event in April where Mr. McCain caused a small uproar by singing “Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran” to the tune of the Beach Boys’ “Barbara Ann.”

“People got to lighten up, get a life,” Mr. McCain said of the “Bomb Iran” flap. “I’ve been saying the same thing for years: lighten up, get a life.”

Mr. McCain’s operation is scaled down, staffed heavily by 20-somethings, many of whom were in high school when their candidate stunned George W. Bush by 17 points in the 2000 New Hampshire primary. They giggle at his laugh lines, though they’ve heard them a few hundred times, as opposed to the thousands endured by longer-term McCainiacs. Like the one about how Congress’s approval rating is so low, “you’re getting down into paid staff and blood relatives.” And the one about how a man in California told him, “Hey, you look just like that guy John McCain. Don’t it make you mad?”

And the one about the O’Reilly twins. (Never mind.)

And that it’s wrong to compare the spending habits of Congress to drunken sailors “because it’s unfair to drunken sailors.” (When asked if he himself had ever fit the description of “drunken sailor,” Mr. McCain waxes long-windedly: “I must say that in my misspent youth, on occasion I might have enjoyed the company of my fellow pilots at happy hour, and the convivial atmosphere was conducive to a certain number of libations.”)

On Thursday, Mr. McCain was joined on the Straight Talk Express by three young staffers, all of whom, he says, were with the campaign “on work-release.” They roll their eyes, and Mr. McCain introduces Brooke Buchanan, his 26-year-old press secretary, as “Pat Buchanan’s illegitimate daughter.” And, for good measure, “a drunk.”

There is, at times, an amateurish feel to the operation, as evidenced Wednesday when Ms. Buchanan circulated a speech to reporters that Mr. McCain was preparing to deliver in which he called Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton “indecisive.” But Mr. McCain, who had not seen the speech beforehand, decided to give a different one, which made it seem as if he was backing off his critique of Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic front-runner. The apparent reversal led “The Drudge Report” for much of the afternoon.

“Frankly, life goes on,” Mr. McCain said. He was referring to the speech episode, but it could work as a campaign slogan.

Despite his travails, there remains a baseline of appreciation — even reverence — for Mr. McCain, even among those who don’t support him. “Hey, I just got called a smartass by John McCain,” bragged Jared Fernandez, high-fiving a friend. Indeed, Mr. Fernandez, a freshman at the College of Charleston, had just prefaced a question for Mr. McCain with a sarcastic aside that, sure enough, elicited that rejoinder. Mr. McCain meant it lovingly, and Mr. Fernandez, who was wearing a “Hillary” button, said he admired the candidate as “a man of great conviction.”

The episode was reminiscent of the time last month when Mr. McCain called another questioner a “little jerk,” and paid with another Drudge headline. Mr. McCain tends to use “little jerk” interchangeably with “pal” or “buddy.” And Mr. McCain pointed out that the kid had expressed concern that the candidate, given his age, could develop Alzheimer’s in the White House.

“I hope the American people can see that I am not drooling nor senile,” Mr. McCain said.

Between Charleston and Pawleys Island, Mr. McCain keeps checking a BlackBerry and reading polls, which show him in the thick of the Republican race. He dons dark sunglasses, squeezes a black Sharpie in his left hand and offers the following:

¶He’s due for a haircut, for which he’ll pay $18, with a $5 tip.

¶And speaking of haircuts, “That YouTube clip of John Edwards doing his hair is one of the damnedest things I’ve ever seen.”

¶He once spent three hours in Florida talking to one of his idols, Ted Williams. “Might have been the most fascinating three hours of my life,” he said.

Mr. McCain is reminded that Mr. Williams’s dead body now resides in a cryonics lab in Arizona, which could technically make the Splendid Splinter a constituent. “When it’s time to go, it’s time to go,” he said. “And I guarantee you Ted felt the same way.”

He seems to contradict himself at his next speech, to the Pawleys Island Rotary Club, when he suggests that Alan Greenspan lead a panel on simplifying the tax code.

“If he’s dead or alive, it doesn’t matter,” Mr. McCain said of the 81-year-old Mr. Greenspan, reprising one of the more memorable lines from his uninhibited 2000 campaign. “Prop him up and put some dark glasses on him, like ‘Weekend at Bernie’s.’”

It’s a tough balance in politics: turning back the clock while staying present. “I’m older than dirt and have more scars than Frankenstein,” Mr. McCain says (all the time), “but I’ve learned a few things.” He requires no propping up, even if his coffers might. He’s back on the bus a few minutes later, rambling on.
140 2007-10-07 In other cases, where auditors criticized a company’s “policies and procedures,” the effects on patients were not clear.

The audits show the growing pains that Medicare has experienced as it introduced the popular new drug benefit and shifted more responsibility to private health plans.

For years, Democrats have complained about efforts to “privatize Medicare,” and they are likely to cite the findings as evidence that private insurers cannot be trusted to care for the sickest, most vulnerable Medicare recipients.

But federal officials point with pride to their efforts to police the Medicare market, and they say that competition among private plans has been a boon to beneficiaries, offering more choices at lower cost than anyone expected.

“The Medicare drug benefit is saving seniors an average of $1,200 a year,” said Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services.

Medicare officials said the audits also showed that insurers would be held accountable.

“The start-up period is over,” said Kerry N. Weems, the new acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. “I am simply not going to tolerate marketing abuses.”

The same insurance companies that offer stand-alone drug plans also sell Medicare Advantage plans, which provide a full range of benefits including coverage of doctor’s visits and hospital care. Enrollment in Medicare Advantage plans has increased sharply, to more than 7.7 million, from 4.7 million in 2003. Federal auditors found the same types of violations in both parts of the program.

Of the audits conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services, 39 focused on drug benefits, 44 focused on managed care plans and 8 examined other types of private plans.

Medicare officials said that compliance problems occurred most often in two areas: marketing, and the handling of appeals and grievances related to the quality of care.

Many of the marketing abuses occurred in sales of the fastest-growing type of Medicare Advantage product, known as private fee-for-service plans. In June, the government announced that seven of the leading companies in this market, including UnitedHealth, Humana and Coventry, had agreed to suspend marketing of these plans. Medicare recently allowed them to resume marketing after they took steps to monitor their sales agents more closely.

Each Medicare plan has a list of preferred drugs, known as a formulary. Under federal law, patients can request coverage of other drugs that may be medically necessary. But many insurers do not have procedures to handle such requests, auditors said.

John H. Wells, the compliance officer at Bravo Health, defended the company’s record, but he said: “The appeals and grievance process is very complex. It is very difficult for any plan to be fully compliant. In many cases, the government’s guidance is unclear, so it’s impossible for a business to know what to do.”

These findings were typical of the deficiencies described in Medicare audit reports:

¶UnitedHealth, which serves more than six million Medicare beneficiaries, did not have an “effective program” to supervise its marketing representatives, agents and brokers. In some cases, United improperly denied claims without giving any explanation to beneficiaries. Peter L. Ashkenaz, a company spokesman, said, “We terminated a few agents and brokers for misrepresenting our products.”

¶WellPoint, one of the nation’s largest insurers, had “a backlog of approximately 354,000 claims” at certain Medicare plans offered through its UniCare subsidiary. The company’s call center took an average of 27 minutes to answer phone calls from its members and 16 minutes to answer calls from health care providers. More than half the callers hung up before speaking to a company representative. Karen Brown, a spokeswoman for WellPoint, had no immediate comment.

¶In March, Sierra Health Services ended drug coverage for more than 2,300 Medicare beneficiaries with H.I.V./AIDS, saying they had not paid their premiums. In many cases, the premiums had been paid, and beneficiaries had canceled checks to prove it. Sierra initially refused to reinstate them, but eventually agreed to do so after repeated requests from federal officials. Peter O’Neill, a vice president of Sierra, said this particular drug plan, which attracted people with very high drug costs, would not be offered in 2008.

¶Humana, which covers more than 4.5 million people on Medicare, promised to investigate every complaint about its marketing practices, but it received so many complaints that it could not keep up. Many beneficiaries said they had received incorrect information from Humana agents. Medicare officials said some agents had not been adequately trained or supervised. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said the company had taken “corrective action to improve the situation.”

¶Humana did not always tell beneficiaries about changes in its list of covered drugs. In some cases, Humana did not explain its reasons for denying claims and did not inform beneficiaries of their appeal rights.

¶The Sterling Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the Aon Corporation, did not pay claims correctly or handle appeals in a timely way. The company has “a demonstrated pattern of failure” to meet Medicare performance standards. Problems were compounded by a rapid growth in enrollment. Sterling said it had taken steps to improve compliance.

¶Two sponsors of popular Medicare drug plans, MemberHealth and Bravo Health, did not act on requests for coverage of specific drugs within 72 hours, as required by the government. Bravo did not comply with federal rules requiring doctors to review all claims denied for a “lack of medical necessity.”

D. Alan Scantland, senior vice president of MemberHealth, a subsidiary of the Universal American Financial Corporation, said, “We don’t believe that we were compromising any beneficiaries’ health because of what we were doing or not doing.”

Representative Bart Stupak, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said he had “verified countless stories of deceptive sales practices by insurance agents who prey upon the elderly and disabled to sell them expensive and inappropriate private Medicare plans.”

Kathleen Healey, a lawyer at the Alabama Department of Senior Services, said: “Despite the prohibition of door-to-door marketing, agents arrive on residents’ doorsteps stating that the president sent them, or that they represent Medicare. Some telemarketers insist they are calling from Medicare, and they tell beneficiaries that they will lose their Medicare if they do not sign up for the telemarketer’s plan.”

Medicare has taken “vigorous action” to halt marketing violations, said Abby L. Block, a Medicare official.

But David A. Lipschutz, a lawyer at California Health Advocates, a nonprofit group, said that Medicare’s generous payments to private plans still encouraged predatory sales practices.

“Every enrollee in a private Medicare plan is a potential source of substantial profits,” Mr. Lipschutz said.
141 2007-10-07 The days of chaos in Congo were supposed to be over. Last year, this country of 66 million people held a historic election that cost $500 million and was intended to end Congo’s various wars and rebellions and its tradition of epically bad government.

But the elections have not unified the country or significantly strengthened the Congolese government’s hand to deal with renegade forces, many of them from outside the country. The justice system and the military still barely function, and United Nations officials say Congolese government troops are among the worst offenders when it comes to rape. Large swaths of the country, especially in the east, remain authority-free zones where civilians are at the mercy of heavily armed groups who have made warfare a livelihood and survive by raiding villages and abducting women for ransom.

According to victims, one of the newest groups to emerge is called the Rastas, a mysterious gang of dreadlocked fugitives who live deep in the forest, wear shiny tracksuits and Los Angeles Lakers jerseys and are notorious for burning babies, kidnapping women and literally chopping up anybody who gets in their way.

United Nations officials said the so-called Rastas were once part of the Hutu militias who fled Rwanda after committing genocide there in 1994, but now it seems they have split off on their own and specialize in freelance cruelty.

Honorata Barinjibanwa, an 18-year-old woman with high cheekbones and downcast eyes, said she was kidnapped from a village that the Rastas raided in April and kept as a sex slave until August. Most of that time she was tied to a tree, and she still has rope marks ringing her delicate neck. The men would untie her for a few hours each day to gang-rape her, she said.

“I’m weak, I’m angry, and I don’t know how to restart my life,” she said from Panzi Hospital in Bukavu, where she was taken after her captors freed her.

She is also pregnant.

While rape has always been a weapon of war, researchers say they fear that Congo’s problem has metastasized into a wider social phenomenon.

“It’s gone beyond the conflict,” said Alexandra Bilak, who has studied various armed groups around Bukavu, on the shores of Lake Kivu. She said that the number of women abused and even killed by their husbands seemed to be going up and that brutality toward women had become “almost normal.”

Malteser International, a European aid organization that runs health clinics in eastern Congo, estimates that it will treat 8,000 sexual violence cases this year, compared with 6,338 last year. The organization said that in one town, Shabunda, 70 percent of the women reported being sexually brutalized.

At Panzi Hospital, where Dr. Mukwege performs as many as six rape-related surgeries a day, bed after bed is filled with women lying on their backs, staring at the ceiling, with colostomy bags hanging next to them because of all the internal damage.

“I still have pain and feel chills,” said Kasindi Wabulasa, a patient who was raped in February by five men. The men held an AK-47 rifle to her husband’s chest and made him watch, telling him that if he closed his eyes, they would shoot him. When they were finished, Ms. Wabulasa said, they shot him anyway.

In almost all the reported cases, the culprits are described as young men with guns, and in the deceptively beautiful hills here, there is no shortage of them: poorly paid and often mutinous government soldiers; homegrown militias called the Mai-Mai who slick themselves with oil before marching into battle; members of paramilitary groups originally from Uganda and Rwanda who have destabilized this area over the past 10 years in a quest for gold and all the other riches that can be extracted from Congo’s exploited soil.

The attacks go on despite the presence of the largest United Nations peacekeeping force in the world, with more than 17,000 troops.

Few seem to be spared. Dr. Mukwege said his oldest patient was 75, his youngest 3.

“Some of these girls whose insides have been destroyed are so young that they don’t understand what happened to them,” Dr. Mukwege said. “They ask me if they will ever be able to have children, and it’s hard to look into their eyes.”

No one — doctors, aid workers, Congolese and Western researchers — can explain exactly why this is happening.

“That is the question,” said André Bourque, a Canadian consultant who works with aid groups in eastern Congo. “Sexual violence in Congo reaches a level never reached anywhere else. It is even worse than in Rwanda during the genocide.”

Impunity may be a contributing factor, Mr. Bourque added, saying that very few of the culprits are punished.

Many Congolese aid workers denied that the problem was cultural and insisted that the widespread rapes were not the product of something ingrained in the way men treated women in Congolese society. “If that were the case, this would have showed up long ago,” said Wilhelmine Ntakebuka, who coordinates a sexual violence program in Bukavu.

Instead, she said, the epidemic of rapes seems to have started in the mid-1990s. That coincides with the waves of Hutu militiamen who escaped into Congo’s forests after exterminating 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus during Rwanda’s genocide 13 years ago.

Mr. Holmes said that while government troops might have raped thousands of women, the most vicious attacks had been carried out by Hutu militias.

“These are people who were involved with the genocide and have been psychologically destroyed by it,” he said.

Mr. Bourque called this phenomenon “reversed values” and said it could develop in heavily traumatized areas that had been steeped in conflict for many years, like eastern Congo.

This place, one of the greenest, hilliest and most scenic slices of central Africa, continues to reverberate from the aftershocks of the genocide next door. Take the recent fighting near Bukavu between the Congolese Army and Laurent Nkunda, a dissident general who commands a formidable rebel force. Mr. Nkunda is a Congolese Tutsi who has accused the Congolese Army of supporting Hutu militias, which the army denies. Mr. Nkunda says his rebel force is simply protecting Tutsi civilians from being victimized again.

But his men may be no better.

Willermine Mulihano said she was raped twice — first by Hutu militiamen two years ago and then by Nkunda soldiers in July. Two soldiers held her legs apart, while three others took turns violating her.

“When I think about what happened,” she said, “I feel anxious and brokenhearted.”

She is also lonely. Her husband divorced her after the first rape, saying she was diseased.

In some cases, the attacks are on civilians already caught in the cross-fire between warring groups. In one village near Bukavu where 27 women were raped and 18 civilians killed in May, the attackers left behind a note in broken Swahili telling the villagers that the violence would go on as long as government troops were in the area.

The United Nations peacekeepers here seem to be stepping up efforts to protect women.

Recently, they initiated what they call “night flashes,” in which three truckloads of peacekeepers drive into the bush and keep their headlights on all night as a signal to both civilians and armed groups that the peacekeepers are there. Sometimes, when morning comes, 3,000 villagers are curled up on the ground around them.

But the problem seems bigger than the resources currently devoted to it.

Panzi Hospital has 350 beds, and though a new ward is being built specifically for rape victims, the hospital sends women back to their villages before they have fully recovered because it needs space for the never-ending stream of new arrivals.

Dr. Mukwege, 52, said he remembered the days when Bukavu was known for its stunning lake views and nearby national parks, like Kahuzi-Biega.

“There used to be a lot of gorillas in there,” he said. “But now they’ve been replaced by much more savage beasts.”
142 2007-10-07 The evidence is amassed in investigations led by the United Nations sanctions committee, as well as in a recently published report by the South Eastern and Eastern Europe Clearinghouse for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons, a research center supported by the United Nations and based in Belgrade. The information is being shared with customs and law enforcement agencies on a restricted basis.

The report, which focuses on Mr. Damnjanovic as one among others in the same trade, compares his operations with those of the well-known Russian arms trader Viktor Bout, saying the two have cooperated, though it says Mr. Damnjanovic has kept a far lower profile. In recent interviews in Belgrade, Mr. Damnjanovic seemed remarkably open in describing his career, and he defended it at length.

“You know how difficult it was to survive here” in the former Yugoslavia, he said in an office in a gated business park. Back in the 1990s when Mr. Milosevic was the Yugoslav president and the country was under sanctions, breaking the law was all but inevitable, he contended.

By his own estimate, the companies he ran flew more than 50 flights from Cyprus to Montenegro in the late 1990s carrying more than 1.5 million packs of cigarettes in a trade supported by Mr. Milosevic’s government and by the authorities in Montenegro. The cigarettes were then smuggled into Italy, European Union law enforcement officials said.

Mr. Damnjanovic said he had no involvement with the smuggling aspect of the operation. “My part was all official,” he said, But he added with a smile: “I think they had to go somewhere. I don’t think it was Montenegro. You should know.”

In 1996, a plane charted by Mr. Damnjanovic that was carrying spare parts for Libyan fighter jets crashed outside Belgrade. His main business partner was killed. Weapons exports to Libya were prohibited under United Nations sanctions at the time.

Over the past decade, weapons shipments have made up a vast majority of his business as he has worked through a series of companies, all based in Belgrade. His latest is named Tomisko, in recognition of his late business partner, Tomislav Miskovic.

Documents obtained by United Nations officials and the Belgrade research center, which were published in the center’s guide, show a continued pattern of companies managed by Mr. Damnjanovic that have flown weapons to regions under United Nations sanctions.

In 2002, Mr. Damnjanovic sent a consignment of weapons — including AK-47-type rifles, rocket launchers, antipersonnel mines and millions of rounds of ammunition — to Liberia, falsifying documents to make it appear that Nigeria was the destination, according to the new report.

Documents signed by Mr. Damnjanovic, and obtained and published by the research center, show that the weapons were flown to Liberia, which was then under United Nations sanctions as punishment for encouraging the civil war in Sierra Leone by supporting rebels there in a gems-for-arms trade deal.

In the same year, the report states, millions of rounds of ammunition shipped by Mr. Damnjanovic to Rwanda were probably intended for Congo.

“What I did was completely official,” Mr. Damnjanovic said in response to the documentation on the Rwanda shipment.

“What somebody else does with the weapons when they get there is up to them,” he said.

According to the report’s authors, despite evidence against Mr. Damnjanovic and other traffickers, they have come to be seen as an essential part of the supply chain for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mr. Damnjanovic said all of his current contracts were commissioned by companies working for the Defense Department in Washington, and he now flies everything from construction material to cigarettes to Iraq for the Pentagon.

“One would have thought that businesses like this should not be rewarded with government contracts when we know what they were involved in in the past,” said Adrian Wilkinson, the team leader of the research center and an author of the report.

Hugh Griffiths, who wrote the report with Mr. Wilkinson, said that law enforcement agents did not have the mechanisms in place to track potential arms smugglers, and that they failed to communicate properly with one another.

“Neither defense contractors nor the military have a profiling system in place which would allow them to identify actors such as Damnjanovic and the others in these clandestine networks,” Mr. Griffiths said.

The United Nations investigators suggest that in 2006, at the same time he was supplying weapons for the United States in Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Damnjanovic supplied 45 tons of weapons to the Islamic Courts Union forces in Somalia, which the United States says have links to Al Qaeda.

Mr. Damnjanovic said the flight was carrying clothes and shoes and was somehow confused with the arrival of a similar aircraft carrying weapons.

Throughout his career it has been a similar tale. No law enforcement agency has ever tried to bring charges against him, and he has seen his fortunes grow steadily, from being an employee of Yugoslavia’s national airline in the early 1990s to becoming the owner of his own company and an Ilyshin II-76, a super-size Russian freight carrier.

But now, perhaps, his past is catching up with him.

The Serbian government recently rescinded his airline’s license to carry arms shipments, thereby curtailing a substantial part of his work.

“Everybody wants to wash their hands of it,” he said, suggesting that the government knew all along of his activities.

And so, in late September, Mr. Damnjanovic gave a farewell party here in Nis for some of his crew and staff members. He told them he would restructure his company and try to compete in the European freight market — legitimately, he said.
143 2007-10-07 “The new generation is into video games, they like instant gratification,” said Richard B. Winning, a part owner of Derby Lane and the president of the American Greyhound Track Operators Association. “They don’t want to sit with a program and figure out how to handicap a dog.”

More than 50 tracks nationwide raced dogs at the sport’s peak in the 1980s, when horse and dog tracks were about the only place to gamble legally outside of Las Vegas and Atlantic City.

Now, only about 35 sites feature live racing, and most are propped up with revenue from card rooms, slot machines and wagering on video simulcasts of higher-stakes races at other tracks.

“The sport is culling itself down,” said John Filipelli, who owns one of the 20 kennels that supply racing dogs to Derby Lane. “Racetracks are closing because they can’t compete. What I can see happening eventually is just a few tracks open,” attached to casinos.

Florida’s greyhound parks have catered to tourists and retirees since the 1920s, one of those picture-postcard pastimes that managed to survive the theme park invasion that began in the 1970s.

Derby Lane, the oldest continuously operating dog track in the world, opened in 1925 and attracted the likes of the Yankees’ legends Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig, frequent visitors when the team trained in St. Petersburg. Old photographs show the grandstand and trackside area teeming with men in snazzy suits and women in long dresses.

Florida remains the center of greyhound racing, home to 13 tracks operating at least part of the year.

After three big years in the late 1980s in which Florida tracks reported more than $1 billion annually in wagering on live races, interest began to wane. Wagering at the state’s tracks slipped to $188.5 million for the 12 months ended June 30, down from $196.3 million the previous year, according to state statistics.

Conversely, the popularity of poker has exploded, with gross receipts at track card rooms rising about 19 percent during the last year.

Winning says Florida’s experience is typical of what is happening in the industry, which is heavily regulated and taxed in all 14 states where dogs race.

“It’s not just the greyhounds — it’s the horses, too,” Winning said. “We’ve all come down, but we’ve all come down together.”

Once drawing around 10,000 people for weekend night races at the height of the tourist season, Derby Lane attracts a few thousand for the same performances now, and fewer on weekdays and in the summertime.

Across the bay from Derby Lane, poor attendance led the Tampa Greyhound Track to end live racing in August after 75 years. The track, in one of Tampa’s worst neighborhoods, took a hit in 2004 when the opulent Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino opened up 10 miles away.

On Florida’s east coast, the struggling Melbourne Greyhound Park, which was damaged in the 2004 hurricanes, cut most of its racing program this year, while poker tables continue to hum. Racing schedules at the Jacksonville area’s three tracks have been combined at one of the sites. Tracks in the Orlando and Miami areas and in Key West have been closed since the early 1990s.

At least a half-dozen more dog tracks in Connecticut, Wisconsin, Oregon and Kansas have shut down in the past decade, while others have gone to only simulcast racing.

The industry has also endured bashing from animal-rights groups that say commercial dog racing is cruel and that many retired and slow dogs are destroyed.

“It has made a major difference,” said Susan Netboy, the founder of the Greyhound Protection League. “It has educated a lot of people who had no idea what they were supporting when they spent their hard-earned dollars at the track. We put a lot of pressure on the industry as a whole.”

The racing industry counters that dogs are well treated and that aggressive efforts in the last two decades to place retired and unwanted animals in good homes — along with fewer breedings because of the declining popularity of the sport — have resulted in far fewer dogs being destroyed.

Winning said the future of dog racing depended on the willingness of state legislatures to allow tracks to compete by adding slot machines and other forms of gambling as the operators see fit.

Slots and other electronic gambling machines are already propping up dog tracks in West Virginia, Iowa, Rhode Island, Alabama and Arkansas.

In Florida, only one dog track, near Fort Lauderdale, has added slots since voters approved them in Broward County.

As a result, the Seminole Tribe of Florida started pushing the state to give it exclusive rights to expanded Las Vegas-style gambling at its six casinos. If that happens, Winning says, most dogs tracks will be left farther behind.

“I’m losing customers every day to the Indians over there,” he said, referring to the Tampa casino a half-hour’s drive from the St. Petersburg track. “How do you compete with that?”
144 2007-10-07 THE Supreme Court has only once ruled on whether reporters may be forced to testify about their confidential sources, in a 1972 decision called Branzburg v. Hayes. Thanks to a cryptic concurring opinion from Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., to this day no one is quite sure what the decision meant.

On the one hand, the majority in the 5-to-4 decision said journalists had no First Amendment protection against grand jury subpoenas. On the other, Justice Powell, who joined the majority, wrote a separate opinion calling on judges to strike the “proper balance between freedom of the press and the obligation of all citizens to give relevant testimony” — whatever that means.

Though Justice Powell’s concurrence was almost perfectly opaque, press lawyers seized on it and for decades convinced countless lower courts that Branzburg had in fact been a victory for the press. That line of argument essentially ground to a halt four years ago when a federal appeals court judge called the press lawyers’ bluff.

“A large number of cases conclude, rather surprisingly in light of Branzburg, that there is a reporter’s privilege,” Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit wrote in 2003.

Since then, the press has been on a losing streak in subpoena cases and has been looking to Congress for relief in the form of a shield law. On Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to send a bill to protect reporters’ sources to the Senate floor.
145 2007-10-07 Blame the former landfill. Blame Melanie Griffith, she of the Aqua Net hair and adenoidal voice who immortalized the stereotypical island lass in the 1988 movie “Working Girl,” until she ousted her mean boss (Sigourney Weaver) and lost her frizzy mullet.

But slowly that is changing. Within the past few years, a small but growing number of hip young things have begun staring in the face of the island’s lack of coolness and embracing it, to the delight of local boosters. A report released in the spring by the Center for an Urban Future, a public policy group, recommended denser development near the ferry to attract more young professionals and artists. But a good many are already there.

Some of the new hipsters were born and bred on the island, and after sampling life elsewhere decided they liked the place of their birth and their like-minded indie friends.

Others have packed up their guitars, their ironic T-shirts, their dark, square-rimmed glasses and their porkpie hats. They bade goodbye to the Village, Williamsburg or Long Island City, took a deep breath and crossed the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, drawn by beautiful Victorian houses, low rents, hills and trees. And they have never looked back; at least they have tried not to.

Creative types who move to Staten Island typically end up on the North Shore, home to the neighborhoods of St. George, Tompkinsville and Stapleton, and the place where much of the island’s small but vibrant underground indie scene thrives.

Compared with other areas of Staten Island, the neighborhoods there are poorer, older and more diverse, home to graceful Victorian houses, thriving Sri Lankan and Mexican populations, much of the island’s public housing and its greatest incidence of crime, though as is true citywide, the crime rate is a fraction of what it was in previous years.

Residents of the North Shore often speak of a dividing line between the island’s northern and southern parts. The South Shore is generally whiter, wealthier and more conservative than the neighborhoods to the north. As Adam Ferretti, a local indie musician, said of the South Shore, “It’s where people put big cement lions on the front lawns.” But the stereotyping runs both ways: many South Shore residents view the North Shore as a dangerous ghetto. And while artists and musicians have gravitated for years to the North Shore, a vibrant local scene never quite emerged.

Mr. Mayer was introduced to the North Shore seven summers ago by an artist friend. In visits to the island, he came to love the shopworn diners that still served egg creams, the dive bars filled with die-hard, and sometimes dying, drinkers, and, perhaps most of all, the rents. That November, he and a roommate moved into a two-bedroom apartment in a blue town house in Stapleton. His rent was $450 a month.

Mr. Mayer also took a rebel’s delight in embracing a place many New Yorkers love to loathe.

“As a German, I see it from the outside, and it is very interesting,” he said one day recently, sitting in his third-floor apartment. “To me, it’s very much what New York City was. Manhattan is not like it was pre-Giuliani. But in Staten Island, you can see the past through a lens. The old convenience stores. The hardware store run by an old man and his mother.”

Two years later, Mr. Mayer asked his girlfriend, a teacher named Trish Strombeck, to join him. She had been living in a rat-infested apartment in Williamsburg and needed little persuading. “Whenever I visited him,” Ms. Strombeck said, “it felt like a mini-vacation.”

Shortly after she moved in, the couple began performing as Trish and Christoph, singing irreverent but tender anti-folk songs inspired by the island and especially their neighborhood, with its ugly duckling charm. They married in 2004 and finally settled in St. George.

Mr. Mayer plays the guitar and narrates a slide show that both celebrates and takes digs at the island. Ms. Strombeck plays a small drum kit and shakes a shaker. They sing about the loneliness of life on Staten Island, the prevalence of nail salons and the abundance of vinyl siding. They have released two CDs, called “Songs From the North Shore (Volumes 1 and 2),” that include titles like “North Shore, Sweet North Shore” and “Please Move to Tompkinsville.”

“It is our muse,” Mr. Mayer said.

The pair also began holding backyard parties with bonfires and music that have enticed their friends from Brooklyn and even Manhattan. They figured that friends who saw the island’s beauty and possibilities would move there.

“But no one followed,” Ms. Strombeck said.

As it turned out, Mr. Mayer and Ms. Strombeck did have some like-minded neighbors, and more kindred spirits move to the island every year. Gradually, like refugees thrown together in distant lands, they found one another.

“Unfortunately, I guess we’re considered hipsters,” Mr. Mayer said. “And we know the few other hipsters that are here, too. If you have a hipster in a deserted, Midwest-style borough, you stick together.”

Most of their friends are couples in their 30s who, like them, moved to the island for its affordability and space, often with procreation in mind. Among them are Wilder Selzer, a performance artist, and his wife, Ann Marie Selzer, who directs film festivals.

The Selzers moved to the island — he from Long Island City, she from SoHo — after getting a grant from the Neighborhood Housing Services of Staten Island that allows people with modest incomes to make down payments on homes. The couple, now parents of a toddler named Lucy, have developed a grudging affection for the area’s working-class vibe, its tiny ethnic diners and its leafy open spaces.

“I still have resistance to being here; it comes in waves,” Ms. Selzer said. “It is the forgotten borough, the goth borough of loneliness. My husband says it’s like Williamsburg without the irony.”

The couple’s circle also includes Sara Valentine, a member of the Hungry March Band, who moved to the island in 2003. Ms. Valentine was a bartender at CBGB who lived in a Williamsburg loft once deemed the best place in the city to see an underground rock show. But she felt that she had burned out on hipster Brooklyn, and she developed a deep desire to live near trees.

Now Ms. Valentine and her husband, a musician and D.J. named Kris Anton, pay $375 to rent a cottage on a farm in Stapleton that belongs to a nudist. Last spring, Ms. Valentine represented Staten Island as part of the “Best of the Boroughs” festival at Performance Space 122 in the East Village. She is also project manager for the Staten Island Composers Project, an Oct. 27 concert that will feature the local musician David Johansen of the New York Dolls.

Despite the enthusiasm of some North Shore expats, an enduring local issue is that not much is going on, and that on weekends people need to leave the island for fun. But there are a handful of places to hang out locally, among them the Cargo Cafe, which has vintage fixtures and artfully peeled wallpaper, and is the closest thing on the North Shore to bohemian chic.

Another attraction is the Every Thing Goes Book Cafe and Neighborhood Stage, a hippie magnet where Mr. Mayer and Ms. Strombeck often perform. The place is owned by the Ganas commune, a group that drew headlines in May 2006 after one of its former members shot, though did not kill, one of the organization’s founders.

The restaurant Martini Red plays host to local bands, and Enoteca Maria, an Italian place, has been warmly reviewed. To much local delight, the gorgeous baroque St. George Theater reopened in 2004, albeit with often shopworn acts; recent performers have included the late-’70s group Air Supply.

Still, local offerings are scattershot and thin, a fact that has confounded some North Shore boosters. If SoHo, then Williamsburg, then Fort Greene have been colonized by the young, the hip and the artistic, why not Staten Island’s North Shore?

One theory, paradoxically, is simply that the North Shore always been home to stable communities.

“The big difference between here and the ghetto warehouse area that turns into the funky art space that turns into the yuppie zone with arugula salads and wine bars,” said Mr. Selzer, the performance artist, “is we didn’t start with the bombed-out zone.”

It is unclear how many newcomers or businesses have recently alighted on the North Shore. But some see momentum as more hip, or hippish, and young, or youngish, people move to the neighborhood.

Recent arrivals include the painter Cynthia von Buhler, who two years ago moved to the island from the meatpacking district with her then fiancé, Russell Farhang, a jazz violinist and manager at a hedge fund from Park Slope. They bought a castlelike home on a hilltop in St. George and got married in its backyard. Ms. von Buhler is also relocating her studio from the meatpacking district — and trying to persuade other artists to do the same.

“The idea is to get more cafes and galleries and more artists here and make this better,” Ms. von Buhler said. “I’d like to be the glue that brings people together.”

Others are skeptical that recent changes will ultimately make a difference. “It is not where it wants to be,” Mr. Mayer said. “And people who have lived here for years doubt whether it’s ever going to get there.”

Perhaps the biggest hurdle between Staten Island and coolness is the most obvious and intractable one of all: the ferry. No other direct transit link with Manhattan exists, and the half-hour ferry ride cements the separateness.

“There is nothing worse than it being 4:29 a.m. and you’re in Manhattan and drunk and running for the ferry,” said Tim Duffy, a 25-year-old islander and lifelong ferry catcher. “Because if you miss that, you’re waiting till 5:30 a.m.”

Yet despite the ferry, or because of it, a thriving and tight-knit group of homegrown indie and hipster types has germinated on the North Shore. These born-and-bred Staten Islanders, largely filmmakers and musicians with a penchant for kitsch and vintage clothes, often hang out in a derelict warehouse on a dead-end street in Stapleton where they rent rehearsal studios.

Two of the group’s anchors, both 27, are Mr. Ferretti, a singer and guitarist with the band Dead Rabbit, and Marisa Cerio, who wears cat’s-eye glasses and plays experimental electronic music.

Mr. Ferretti and his boyfriend, Andrew Phillip Tipton, rent a top-floor, two-bedroom apartment in a Victorian house for $950 a month.

Ms. Cerio, a gallery assistant at the Brooklyn Arts Council, still lives with her parents, which, as it turns out, is a very Staten Island thing to do.

“A lot of people who live in the middle of nowhere are incredibly motivated to move to New York City and do whatever they have to do to live there, to work all hours to live in a closet,” Ms. Cerio said. “We’ve grown up here. The motivation to get out of the house is not as high as for someone who lives in the middle of Kansas.”

The other day, lounging in one of the cozy practice studios, Ms. Cerio and her friends listed the things they once hated but now cherish about their home. The quiet. The trees. The sense of community. Sometimes even the ferry.

“I know it sounds like a whole lot of justification,” Ms. Cerio said. “But if this didn’t exist” — she gestured to her friends, sitting shoulder to shoulder, filling the studio with laughter and smoke — “we’d be trying to get out.”
146 2007-10-07 But the fund tracker Lipper does have a category called “equity income.” To qualify, a fund has to have had an average yield over the last three years that is at least 125 percent of the average for the nearly 3,000 diversified domestic stock funds in the Lipper database. Fewer than 100 funds qualify.

Lipper does not screen them for any specific investing style, although almost all are large-cap value funds “with a dose of income added,” said Jeff Tjornehoj, a senior research analyst at Lipper. He said that no growth-and-income funds made the cut because they often have relatively low yields.

A fund’s name has absolutely no bearing on whether it is included in Lipper’s equity-income category. A few of the 97 funds do not even mention dividends or income in their names, while some others focus on “rising” or “growing” dividends.

The Vanguard Dividend Growth fund is one of the more popular funds in the group. Vanguard converted this portfolio from a utilities fund in 2002.

“The fund was always intended to provide a steady growing stream of dividends,” said Joseph Brennan, the principal at the Vanguard Group in charge of portfolio review. But Mr. Brennan said that the utility industry had changed so much by the early part of this decade — with deregulation and the growing importance of telecommunications stocks in the utilities index — that he thought it was time to broaden the fund.

Today, utilities and telecom stocks each comprise about 1 percent of the portfolio, making them by far the two smallest sectors in the fund.

Donald J. Kilbride, who has managed the fund since last year, said that he tried to be “agnostic” when it comes to sectors. He said that many utilities and telecom stocks might have good yields now, but that he is looking for stocks with better potential dividend growth. This has led him to emphasize some other sectors, like health care and energy, he said.

One of his top picks is Medtronic, the medical device maker based in Minneapolis, because its management has said it will pay out 20 percent of the previous year’s profits each year in dividends.

“Its current yield is only around 1 percent, and that’s pretty low for a dividend fund,” Mr. Kilbride said. “But what I like is their commitment” to a specific payout ratio in future years.

Four of the fund’s top 10 holdings are major integrated energy companies, including Exxon Mobil, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron. He said that while energy prices were already high, he did not think that current share prices were discounting oil at $80 a barrel.

Vanguard Dividend Growth had a total return of 1.6 percent in the third quarter, compared with 2 percent for the S.& P. 500. The fund has had average annual returns of 14.4 percent over the five years through September, according to Morningstar. After deducting 0.38 percent for annual expenses, the fund has a yield of around 1.7 percent.

The average yield for the Lipper equity-income category is around 2 percent, only a bit better than that for many broad market indexes. Annual expenses are deducted from the dividends in order to calculate a fund’s yield.

American companies have been paying out historically low dividends for years. But like so many investing trends, “the appeal of dividends might also be cyclical,” said Brian Rogers, manager of the T. Rowe Price Equity Income fund, which also makes it into Lipper’s equity-income category.

Mr. Rogers, who has managed this fund since 1985, said that dividends were somewhat out of fashion in the 1990s. But he said he thought that investors were becoming more interested in them again, especially since tax cuts have reduced the dividend tax rate below the top tax rate for earned income. He pointed out that as more baby boomers retired, they might gravitate toward stocks that paid heftier dividends.

T. Rowe Price Equity Income has large positions in financial services, consumer goods and health care. The fund, which lost 1.4 percent in the third quarter, has had average annual returns of 15.7 percent over the five years through September. After 0.69 percent is deducted for annual expenses, the fund has a yield of 1.79 percent.

Mr. Rogers said that equity income was a “moderate risk, decent return” strategy. “This type of investing doesn’t shoot up like a rocket, and then flare out,” he said.
147 2007-10-07 Emily Dara Goldberg, a daughter of Sandra Goldberg and Dr. Richard Goldberg of Providence, R.I., was married last evening to Philip Zachary Kimball, the son of Abigail Kuflik Kimball and Robert Kimball of New York. Lisel Burns, the clergy leader of the Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture, officiated at the Foundry, an event space in Long Island City, Queens.

Mrs. Kimball, 30, is an in-house counsel in New York at the Penguin Group, the publisher. She graduated cum laude from Amherst College and received her law degree from Yeshiva University.

Her father is the psychiatrist in chief at Rhode Island Hospital and at Miriam Hospital, both in Providence, and a professor of psychiatry and human behavior at the medical school of Brown University. He is also an author of books, including “The Practical Guide to the Care of the Psychiatric Patient” and “The Psychosocial Dimensions of Cancer.” Her mother is a reading specialist at the Gordon School, a private school in East Providence.

The bridegroom, 29, is a litigation associate at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, a New York law firm. He graduated from Yale and also received his law degree from Yeshiva.

His mother retired as the deputy chief of correspondents and the chief of research at Newsweek. She is now the business manager and research assistant for the bridegroom’s father, a musical theater historian and the artistic adviser to the Ira and Leonore Gershwin Trusts and the Cole Porter Musical and Literary Property Trusts. He is also the editor of “The Complete Lyrics of Cole Porter,” “The Complete Lyrics of Ira Gershwin” and “Cole Porter: Selected Lyrics.”
148 2007-10-07 Melissa Ann Gellman, the daughter of Jane Koch Gellman and Lance Kenneth Gellman of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., was married last evening to Aron Egan Weiss, a son of Lenore G. Cassese of Garden City, N.Y., and the late Steven J. Weiss. Rabbi Bruce S. Block officiated at the summer home of the bride’s parents in Bridgehampton, N.Y., with Rabbi Stephen Wise Goodman taking part.

Mrs. Weiss, 30, is the vice president for global communications for Link Theory Holdings, the owner of Helmut Lang and Theory, apparel companies in Manhattan. She serves on the national board of Naral Pro-Choice America, the abortion rights group in Washington, and on the executive board of Whitney Contemporaries, an organization for young art patrons in Manhattan. She graduated magna cum laude from Cornell.

Mr. Weiss, 35, is the head of business operations at Black Rose Brigade, a graphics design and brand consulting firm in Brooklyn. He graduated from Hofstra, from which he also received a law degree.
149 2007-10-07 Dr. Emily Ann Wessler, the daughter of Marilyn and Barry D. Wessler of Potomac, Md., was married yesterday to Steven Howard Kohn, a son of Marion and Alan D. Kohn of New York. Rabbi M. Bruce Lustig officiated at the Park Hyatt hotel in Washington.

The bride, 34, is an assistant clinical professor of pediatric cardiology at Stanford University School of Medicine, and an attending pediatric cardiologist at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif. She graduated cum laude from Duke University and received her medical degree from the University of Maryland. Her father, who is a telecommunications consultant in Potomac, retired as the chief executive of Plexsys International, a former telecommunications company that was in Herndon, Va.

The bridegroom, 40, is a senior director for corporate business development in the Palo Alto offices of SAP, a German computer software developer. He graduated from the University of Michigan and received an M.B.A. from Cornell. His mother is the controller for Patriot Exploration Company, an oil and gas exploration and investment business in Greenwich, Conn. His father retired as a managing director for technology research at Weiss, Peck & Greer, an investment advisory firm in New York.
150 2007-10-07 Dr. Emily Margaret Stein, an endocrinologist in New York, and Jonathan Philip Berenbom, a reinsurance executive, are to be married this evening. Rabbi Andrew N. Bachman is to officiate at the Yale Club of New York City.

Dr. Stein, 32, will keep her name. She is an instructor of medicine at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, where she does research in the area of metabolic bone disease, and is also an assistant attending physician at Columbia University Medical Center, both in Manhattan. She graduated from Yale, and received her medical degree from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and a master’s degree in clinical investigation from Cornell.

She is the daughter of Sherry and Samuel B. Stein of Brooklyn. The bride’s father is the senior vice president at the Nicotra Group, a real estate development company in Bloomfield, Staten Island. Her mother, who is retired, was an educational evaluator at Midwood High School in Brooklyn and an adjunct professor in the master’s degree program in education at Fordham University.

Mr. Berenbom, 34, is an assistant vice president in the actuarial department of the Partner Reinsurance Company and is based in the Greenwich, Conn., office. He graduated from Haverford College and received a master’s degree in mathematics from the University of Chicago.

He is the son of Judith and Joshua Berenbom, also of Brooklyn. The bridegroom’s mother retired as a teacher of academically gifted children at Public School 208 in Brooklyn. His father is an associate professor of mathematics at Medgar Evers College, also in Brooklyn.
151 2007-10-07 Emily Brown Hermance, the daughter of Kris B. Hermance and Ronald E. Hermance Jr. of Ridgewood, N.J., was married yesterday to Nicholas Slattery Spahr, the son of Elizabeth Slattery Spahr of New York. The Rev. Nils Blatz, an Episcopal priest, officiated at Old Field, a vineyard in Southold, N.Y.

Mrs. Spahr, 27, is the owner of Bb Clover, a women’s clothing store in Ho Ho Kus, N.J. She graduated from Colgate University.

Her father is the chairman and the chief executive of Hudson City Savings Bank in Paramus, N.J. He is a vice chairman of the board of trustees of the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood.

Mr. Spahr, also 27, is a vice president and a stock analyst for Twin Capital Management, a hedge fund in New York. He graduated from American University.

His mother is a senior vice president for residential sales at the Corcoran Group, the real estate company in New York.
152 2007-10-07 An article last Sunday about the Woodstock Film Festival misspelled the given name of the director of “Moving Midway,” one of the films. He is Godfrey Cheshire, not Godrey.
153 2007-10-07 They make excellent therapy dogs. Mine visits Noogieland at Gilda’s Club on a regular basis, as well as nursing homes.

Older racers are wonderful companions for the elderly, since they do not require excessive exercise.

They are also great family dogs with children of all ages.

As retired racing dogs that have completed two years of track schooling, they even enjoy obedience training and are quite good at it.

Yes, greyhounds may follow you to the bathroom, but so what? An adjustment period during the transition from track to home life is normal, as it is when one brings any new dog into a house.

Greyhounds come in as many colors as personalities and are a loving breed that should not be stereotyped.

Out and About in Betsie, on $5 and a Prayer

Re “Riding in Luxury, and Yet Missing the Real Trip” (Generations column, Sept. 30):

Vincent M. Mallozzi should know that during the 1970s as his family was tooling into and out of East Harlem in a 1963 Rambler 660 station wagon, a doppelgänger grew in Brooklyn: the Martins of East 27th Street, between M and N.

My two brothers, three sisters and I spent the better part of our childhood traversing Brooklyn and beyond crammed in the back of a used Rambler wagon. We called ours Betsie, and she had no air-conditioning, no FM radio, no defroster, no heat, no seat belts that I can recall, a front passenger-side door that opened only from the outside and, like Mr. Mallozzi’s car, a hole in the floor (back seat, left side).

Betsie ran on $5 of gas and a prayer, literally. Before my mother would turn the ignition key, she always had us join her in a Hail Mary. It worked every time ... well, almost.

We had the breakdowns, too, of course, the most famous of which involved my mom and a den of Cub Scouts on the West Side Highway heading home from a trip to the Cloisters. But we loved Betsie, and she loved us back.
154 2007-10-07 Sag Harbor’s mayor, Greg Ferraris, said there was nothing he could do about the church. “The village doesn’t have the funds to buy anything at this point in time,” he said. “We rely on East Hampton and Southampton Towns for their community development programs.”

Mary Wilson, the community preservation fund manager for the Town of Southampton, said community preservation money could possibly be used to acquire the property. The town is doing an appraisal to assess the fair market value of the church building and its half-acre parcel.

But that is just a backup plan. The town cannot interfere with a willing sale, Ms. Wilson said, adding, “If that deal falls through, we would certainly explore possibilities of acquisition.”

The single-nave church has been a landmark since it was built in 1835. It was moved in 1863 from High Street to its present location in the village center.

The tray ceiling in the sanctuary has a border painted blue and mauve. Ten stained glass windows run floor to ceiling. The centerpiece is a grand Moller organ, installed in the early 1900s and still working.

An Italianate-style bell tower once rose 60 feet over the roofline, but the 1938 hurricane sent the belfry crashing down. The wreckage was never fully addressed: the choir balcony was sealed off and a temporary brace has supported that portion of the roof ever since.

This damage and other problems — a leaky roof, peeling paint, chipped plaster — led the congregation to put the church up for sale in May. The Rev. Tom MacLeod, who became pastor in 2002, said its seven trustees estimated that it would cost $90,000 for the most necessary repairs and more to make the church accessible to the handicapped.

With an active congregation of 40 for much of the past few decades and no philanthropic funds, Mr. MacLeod said, the members unanimously decided they could no longer afford the upkeep on a 10,000-square-foot building.

Within a week and a half, they negotiated and accepted “a viable offer,” Mr. MacLeod said.

The congregation plans to build a smaller church elsewhere in the village with space for the Rainbow Preschool, which has been renting the church’s large, sunny basement.

The buyer, Dennis Suskind, is a retired partner at Goldman Sachs who said he planned to make the church his home. He said that although he never intended to buy a place of worship, he and his wife had been looking to downsize from their 10-acre home in Bridgehampton.

“We thought this would simplify our lives and we could walk into the village, which is, really, one of the most attractive villages on Long Island,” he said.

A former Southampton Town Council member, Mr. Suskind has a history of involvement in East End preservation. He served 25 years on the Peconic Land Trust’s president’s council and six years on the board of the Nature Conservancy’s South Fork chapter.

Mr. Suskind said he planned to maintain the integrity of the church’s exterior and restore it. The church is recognized by the state as a historic building but has no landmark status.

“I’m not thinking of desecrating it — I’m preserving it,” he said. “My first preference is that it stays a church. But that’s just not the case.”
155 2007-10-07 Out and About in Betsie, on $5 and a Prayer

Re “Riding in Luxury, and Yet Missing the Real Trip” (Generations column, Sept. 30):

Vincent M. Mallozzi should know that during the 1970s as his family was tooling into and out of East Harlem in a 1963 Rambler 660 station wagon, a doppelgänger grew in Brooklyn: the Martins of East 27th Street, between M and N.

My two brothers, three sisters and I spent the better part of our childhood traversing Brooklyn and beyond crammed in the back of a used Rambler wagon. We called ours Betsie, and she had no air-conditioning, no FM radio, no defroster, no heat, no seat belts that I can recall, a front passenger-side door that opened only from the outside and, like Mr. Mallozzi’s car, a hole in the floor (back seat, left side).

Betsie ran on $5 of gas and a prayer, literally. Before my mother would turn the ignition key, she always had us join her in a Hail Mary. It worked every time ... well, almost.

We had the breakdowns, too, of course, the most famous of which involved my mom and a den of Cub Scouts on the West Side Highway heading home from a trip to the Cloisters. But we loved Betsie, and she loved us back.

When Issues Are Local, Local Regulation Is Best

A Sept. 30 letter writer states, “State government must keep local government power in check, so as to protect individual property rights, preserve a market economy and not place local self-interests above the common good.”
156 2007-10-07 “Pamina Devi,” which the director Peter Sellars commissioned for the New Crowned Hope festival in Vienna last year, is a case in point.

Last year, Ms. Shapiro, who had moved to the United States in 1991, returned to Cambodia with her American husband, John. They set up shop on a five-acre estate just outside Phnom Penh, and early this year they founded the 31-member Khmer Arts Ensemble, Cambodia’s first full-time independent dance company since the Khmer Rouge took over in 1975.

Dancers at the ensemble make $100 a month for full-time work. The ministry of culture is Cambodia’s largest employer of dancers, paying them $30 to $50 a month, plus performance fees. (In comparison, jobs in local garment factories pay a minimum of $50 a month.)

“Our goal over the next few years is to get up to a more livable wage, $300 to $500” a month, said Mr. Shapiro, executive director of the Khmer Arts Academy, an umbrella group that includes the performance ensemble as well as a dance school in Long Beach, Calif.

The academy’s total budget has grown to more than $500,000 this year, from $80,000 when they founded it in 2002. The Shapiros have grand plans. Mr. Shapiro says they’d like to start a dance research and publishing arm, an international exchange program and a costume shop. One can have such dreams in Cambodia, largely because costs in the country are so low.

“We thought about doing this in the United States,” Mr. Shapiro said. “The economics didn’t work out. An ensemble of 31 members — that’s a ballet company. It’s really expensive.” In Cambodia, $100 a month is a decent wage.

Ms. Shapiro has deep roots within the government system. She was in the first class to graduate from the Royal University of Fine Arts after it reopened following the fall of the Khmer Rouge in 1979, and taught there for several years. Her uncle was the country’s minister of culture in the 1980s.

Mr. Shapiro says the couple tried at first to work within the system, but it wasn’t a good fit. “The university, like other systems in Cambodia, is a hierarchical system of patronage,” he said. “Sophiline doesn’t have a high position in government. She’s an individual artist. She says: ‘I’m going to make a dance. I’m going to pay for it.’ She’s cutting off a lot of levels above her.”

“We want to take classical dance and give it more emotion and drama, to make dances that are critical of society,” he continued. Old-guard government officials “scratch their heads and say, ‘Critical? That’s not what dance is for,’ ” he said. “We have an entirely different concept of what art can be used for.”

The Khmer Rouge, radical Communists who oversaw the deaths of about a quarter of the population in the late 1970s, devastated classical Cambodian arts. In the uneasy years since their overthrow by the Vietnamese, most artistic energies — and money — went into cultural preservation. Only now has attention begun to shift toward creation.

That shift has not gone down altogether smoothly. “Pamina Devi” is, in part, a story about the clash between men and women. But Mr. Shapiro said the ministry of culture would not let the ensemble use male dancers — too radical a departure from the female-dominated canon. Instead, the women playing male characters wear pants.

Khim Sarith and Him Chhem, secretaries of state at the culture ministry, said they were unaware of the decision by a previous minister to bar the company from using men. Through a translator, Mr. Him Chhem explained that classical court dance was traditionally dominated by women. He said he had yet to see “Pamina Devi” but hoped Ms. Shapiro would ground her work in a clear understanding of the form.

The government can exert subtle control in many ways short of outright censorship. Some of Ms. Shapiro’s dancers still work for the ministry and thus are especially vulnerable.

“We are glad to have more dance companies if they can apply all the ministry’s requirements to preserve our Cambodian dance,” Mr. Khim Sarith said.

Innovation is fine, he said, as long as it does not damage the integrity of the form. “We need preservation and innovation,” he said, “but the innovation must apply the basic foundation and style of the dance.”

Cambodian dance began as a form of religious devotion, and those spiritual roots are very much on Ms. Shapiro’s mind. The week before leaving for the five-city United States tour, Ms. Shapiro and her company held a lavish “teacher spirit” ceremony (“Sampeah Kru”) at their studios. On silver trays, they laid out offerings of pigs’ heads, chickens, ducks and tropical fruits. There were thick banana stalks garlanded with fresh jasmine and topped with hard-boiled eggs.

“It’s a way of showing respect for our teachers and asking the teachers to guide us,” Ms. Shapiro said. “We believe our teachers’ spirits are watching us, to make sure we respect the dance and aren’t fooling around.”

Classical Cambodian court dance, of which “Pamina Devi” is an example, consists of a slow unfolding of fixed gestures. Hands open into flowers; fingers fold into thorns or trace the path of a tear. Everything curves. Toes curl up, fingers bend backward, the spine takes on a dangerous sway. It’s best, really, to give up all modern notions of time and accept that this dance can be no more rushed than the sea.

“Dances were a form of prayer: they connect earth to heaven,” Ms. Shapiro said. “The slowness is to maintain a sense of spirituality. It is a way of praying.”

She has turned Mozart’s “Magic Flute” into a kind of modern Cambodian morality tale. Depending on one’s perspective, it’s about responsibility shirked, the dangers of ideology, the children of conflict and one young woman who grows up to find strength in herself.

“There’s a new energy coming up,” Ms. Shapiro said. “There’s a desire to catch up with the rest of the world. We’ve been falling behind for so many years; we want to catch up. The nation is in a process of transforming.”

Her distinctive blend of old and new is an inspiration, said Hang Borin, 27, a teacher at the Royal University of Fine Arts, who started an experimental dance ensemble called Trei Visay (Compass) with his friends last year. “She brings foreign stories and makes classical dances,” he said. “She has good ideas.”

Pumtheara Chenda, 21, who dances the role of Pamina Devi and used to perform with the Ministry of Culture’s classical dance troupe, said she liked working with Ms. Shapiro because she learned about the depths of a dance, not merely its steps.

“When I performed with the ministry, I just know how to perform, but I don’t know what it means,” she said. “They don’t explain about the story. They just say, ‘Do this, do that.’ I knew nothing. With Sophiline, I know the story.”

Ms. Chao Socheata, who has recovered from the spirits that ailed her earlier this year, plays Preah Arun Tipadey, the Sarastro role. She likes the story of Pamina Devi, who is caught in a battle between her mother and a father figure, “because it’s about parents who don’t understand their children and don’t pay attention to their children,” she said through a translator. “It relates to my personal life.”

She said that the spirits still visit sometimes when she dances. “My body knows the spirits come,” she said. “But it’s just to watch, not to possess.”
157 2007-10-07 A tournament that made its debut last week in Miami may become an annual event.

The Miami Open was the idea of Blas Lugo, an international master. It received some corporate backing, but was primarily supported by two sponsors who put up $20,000 each. Its guaranteed prize fund of $50,000 would have risen to $100,000 if more than 650 people had entered.

A highlight, said Dr. Eric Hecht, one the sponsors, was the participation of Hikaru Nakamura, who “was trailed around like he was Tiger Woods.” He finished in an eight-way tie for first, taking the title on tie-breaks.

The performance was a welcome one. Nakamura had not stood out since winning the National Open in June and tying for first in the World Open in July.

There have been high expectations for him since 2005, when, at 16, he became the youngest United States champion since Bobby Fischer.

One reason for Nakamura’s slow development may be that he had not played in as many top international tournaments as juniors like Magnus Carlsen of Norway and Sergey Karjakin of Ukraine. Nakamura said he had not received many invitations.
158 2007-10-07 He cared only about the Forbes reader. Writers’ egos, famously large, concerned him not one bit. When editing, he would hammer his views directly into reporters’ copy, often in capital letters. Flaccid writing and weak thinking brought out his bark and bite.

Here are some examples, culled from an aging file known internally at Forbes as the Abuse File. I’ve kept them because I treasure them:

“This is badly written and badly edited. It would be an insult to foist it on the reader.”

“This is a real snoozer, lacking in specifics. Why not just send them a nice lacy valentine and forget the prose.”

“I’m sending this one back because the character is deader than a dodo.” Can’t the writer “inject a little life without adding 10,000 words?”

“Please fix this quickest. It lacks most of the ingredients of a Forbes story. The quotes are room emptiers.”

“This is the kind of sentence that drives readers to stop reading.”

“This is a paid advertisement. Did you forget to say he walks on water?”

As you can see, the comments were blistering. But they were also instructive. Any writer who heeded them became the better for it. Here are some more:

“If I can’t stay awake editing this, how can a reader stay awake reading it? What’s the point? If it has a point, maybe we can make a story of it.”

“I can’t make head nor tail of this. There’s a story buried in all this confusion, but I can’t find it. Fix it or kill it.”

“This is a remarkable job of interviewing an interesting and colorful man and getting precisely one quote.”

Writers were not the only ones to feel the Michaels lash. “Your initials are on this so I suppose you understand it,” he wrote to one of his editors. “I don’t.” Atop another article, he wrote: “Replace or run white space.”

He regularly banned words and phrases he considered overused. “Fast track,” “game plan,” “bottom line” and “superstar” were some examples. “Upscale” was another: “If I see this word again I’ll upthrow,” he wrote.

More than 40 years after George Orwell wrote “Politics and the English Language,” his 1946 essay on the decline of the language, Mr. Michaels made his writers read it. “Political language — and with variations this is true of all political parties, from Conservatives to Anarchists — is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind,” Orwell wrote.

MR. MICHAELS knew, of course, that there was plenty of wind in financial writing, and he worked mightily to expel it. The sharper the words, the better the article. Here you go:

“This is exactly the sort of lazy writer jargon that will put us out of business. Please use the rich resources of the English language.”

“Too bloody complicated. That’s not writing. Make it simple and interesting. That’s writing.”

“This is so full of holes, it’s like Swiss cheese.”

“Here’s another one I can’t understand without help from a lawyer and accountant.”

“This is more an essay as written than a Forbes article. It badly needs the concrete images, the real people that will anchor it to reality. It’s called shoe-leather reporting.”

Conventional wisdom was, if not always wrong, surely to be questioned. “We at Forbes practice antitrend journalism,” he wrote. So he welcomed positive articles about companies whose stocks were in the cellar and negative articles about highfliers. One of his pearls: “It’s not much of a company, but it’s a hell of a stock.”

James Michaels began his career as a wire service reporter. At 26, working for United Press, he broke the news of Gandhi’s assassination, scooping all competitors. “Mohandas K. Gandhi was assassinated today by a Hindu extremist whose act plunged India into sorrow and fear,” he wrote. “Rioting broke out immediately in Bombay.”

That scoop won him praise, his son said, from Herbert Bayard Swope, a reporter for The New York World, and winner of a Pulitzer Prize in 1917, the first year they were given. “That was a superb story you did of Gandhi’s assassination,” Swope wrote in a 1948 letter Mr. Michaels. “Congratulations. Go on.”

In 1961, Mr. Michaels became editor of Forbes. By the time he retired in 1999, he had edited 1,000 issues of the magazine and improved the work of hundreds of reporters.

Scary smart, with a scowl to stop a freight train — that was Jim Michaels. Tough guy. Great teacher. Now gone.
159 2007-10-07 Anantara Resorts (www.anantara.com), which has three luxury properties in Thailand and one in the Maldives, is scheduled to open its fifth new property on Dec. 15, on Bali. This beachfront resort, just a short stroll from Seminyak, a town full of shops and restaurants, will have 59 ocean-view suites, a rooftop bar, a Thai restaurant, an infinity pool and a spa and fitness area. The property will mix a contemporary look and feel with traditional Balinese design elements (above), and will rely on glass paneling to incorporate the natural seaside environment. Nightly rates start at $400.
160 2007-10-07 Who Left the Dogs Out?...
161 2007-10-08 SAP finally closed the deal on Business Objects, scooping up the business-intelligence software maker. But now the German giant is finding itself trying to defend the deal. Shares in SAP closed down 4 percent Monday at 39.95 euros on the Frankfurt...
162 2007-10-08 On "Intervention," Pam, an alcoholic, drank vodka and then drove off, spurning a producer's offer to drive. They filmed her efforts to stay within the lanes. (A&E) Today's New York Times article about the criminal and legal ramifications of realit...
163 2007-10-08 Business Objects may have finally found a suitor in SAP, but it appears it had a welcome reception waiting. Trading in the French software maker's stock options jumped last week, before the $6.8 billion deal was announced early Monday, according t...
164 2007-10-08 Victor Niederhoffer, the hedge-fund manager who lost his entire $130 million portfolio in the Thai stock market crash of 1997, has found himself out of luck again. The latest downfall of Mr. Niederhoffer, who in September was forced to close two o...
165 2007-10-08 SAP, the big German software company, has agreed to buy Business Objects, a leader in the fast-growing market for business intelligence software, for $6.8 billion. The move by SAP underlines the appeal of companies whose software is used to cull t...
166 2007-10-08 Thousands of financial professionals in London are likely to lose their jobs over the next year as a result of the credit crunch, and many of them may face a jobless Christmas, experts say. There may be 6,500 fewer professionals in the City of Lon...
167 2007-10-08 Unlike many other young men who inherit great wealth, Mr. Prince also struck out on his own and joined the Navy Seals at a time when few other men of his economic class were willing to serve in the military. After his father died and left him a fortune, Mr. Prince’s experience in Special Operations led him to found Blackwater, and he has made a point of hiring other former members of the Navy Seals, including some who now play prominent management roles.

But now that Blackwater is under scrutiny for its involvement in the Sept. 16 shootings of as many as 17 Iraqis in downtown Baghdad, some critics are questioning whether Mr. Prince’s political connections have propelled the company’s sudden rise.

“He is an ideological foot soldier, not only in the war on terror, but also in the broader Bush agenda,” said Jeremy Scahill, the author of a new book called “Blackwater: The Rise of the World’s Most Powerful Mercenary Army” (Nation). “He is a visionary when it comes to military technology and asymmetric warfare. But he is also a bankroller of Republican and right-wing religious causes.”

Yet supporters say the image of Mr. Prince as a Republican carpetbagger and war profiteer is nothing more than an inaccurate cartoon. “Republican connections have nothing to do with Blackwater,” said Chris Taylor, a former Blackwater vice president.

“In the senior positions at Blackwater, there are Democrats,” he added. “If Erik is a conservative, I never heard anybody say that you have to be a conservative to be here. People need to know just how exceptional a guy he is. He’s very generous, and greatly respected in the company.”

Mr. Prince did not respond to a request for an interview. But during his Congressional testimony last week, when asked about his political connections, he responded by saying that he did not think his political contributions were “germane” to the lawmakers’ inquiry into Blackwater’s operations in Iraq.

Others who know him suggest that there is a more complicated dynamic tension between Erik Prince, the aggressive, no-holds-barred Navy Seals veteran, and Erik Prince, the well-mannered wealthy son, that explains the man and the corporation he has built in his image.

“I think that he thinks he is like Bruce Wayne in Batman,” said Robert Young Pelton, the author of “Licensed to Kill” (Crown Publishing Group), a book on contractors in Iraq, who is one of the few journalists to have interviewed Mr. Prince extensively. “Bruce Wayne lives in a mansion and then at night he is out in the bat cave with the Batmobile. And that is Erik. I think he is conflicted.”

Mr. Prince grew up in Holland, Mich., where his father, Edgar Prince, had founded the Prince Corporation, an automotive parts supplier to the major car makers based in Detroit. According to Mr. Scahill’s book, the trauma of suffering a serious heart attack in the 1970s deepened Edgar Prince’s religious faith, and by the 1980s he was helping to finance conservative religious groups like the Family Research Council.

Erik entered the Naval Academy, but later transferred to Hillsdale College, a small, conservative school in southern Michigan. He also became politically active, working on campus for the presidential campaign of Pat Buchanan in 1992.

After college he made it into the Navy Seals following Officer Candidate School, and seemed eager to pursue a military career. But the death of his father, and the illness of Mr. Prince’s first wife, who later died of cancer, intervened, and he left the Navy. His family sold the Prince Corporation for more than $1 billion in 1996, a windfall that gave Erik Prince the financial freedom to create Blackwater.

Working with another former Seal, Al Clark, Mr. Prince sought to create a world-class training facility that could be used by American military and law enforcement personnel. They built their facility in 1997 on a rural site in North Carolina, just south of the Virginia border near Norfolk, which is home to a major Navy base and other military posts. But it was only after the Sept. 11 attacks that Blackwater began to emerge as a major security contractor in war zones.

Mr. Pelton said it would be wrong to assume that Mr. Prince’s political connections account for his success. “It is a mistake to characterize him as his father, or by the right-wing groups his father supported,” Mr. Pelton said. “Politically, I think he is more of a libertarian. He hates government sloth, even as his company gets most of its business from the government.”
168 2007-10-08 The Health and Human Services secretary, Michael O. Leavitt, said Sunday that Mr. Bush was ready to work it out. “The president has already said, ‘I want a compromise,’ ” Mr. Leavitt said on the ABC program “This Week.” But Democrats say that they have already compromised with Senate Republicans and they are in no hurry to scale back the plan.

Republicans acknowledge they could suffer some short-term damage from an issue easily framed as either favoring health care for poor children — or not.

“Certainly in the immediate, superficial look, everybody is for covering kids who don’t have health insurance,” said Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman of the House Republican Conference.

But he and other Republicans say they eventually can turn the issue to their advantage by making the case that Democrats are spending too much, taking a first step toward national health care and devoting tax money to coverage for some families who can afford insurance. They contend their stance could have special resonance with conservatives unhappy with the recent Republican reluctance to resist popular spending programs.

“If this was October of next year, I’d be really worried,” said Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the second-ranking House Republican. “But this is October of this year and the beginning of us getting our credibility back by showing that we are willing to take principled stands on spending.”

House Republican leaders are confident they can hold their forces together and sustain the president’s veto in a vote scheduled for Oct. 18. But over the next two weeks, Mr. Kuhl and more than two dozen other Republicans will face an onslaught of advertisements and public activities intended to put pressure on them to vote to override it.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is taking on eight Republicans in competitive districts with a series of automated calls and radio advertisements that remind listeners that their lawmaker gets taxpayer-paid health care while opposing the expansion of the program administered by each state.

Beginning Monday, a coalition of liberal and labor groups will start a $1 million advertising effort, with a national advertisement to run on cable channels and local advertisements aimed at specific lawmakers. The national commercial shows a series of children beginning with a baby girl and states, “George Bush just vetoed Abby.” It says Mr. Bush puts excessive war spending over health care at home.

“The president’s ‘yes men’ in Congress need to stand up to Bush and stand up for families who work hard but simply can’t afford insurance,” said Brad Woodhouse, president of Americans United for Change, one group leading the effort.

The health care fight is coming at an inopportune moment for Congressional Republicans. In the Senate, a string of retirements has created openings for Democrats to increase their slim majority. House Republicans have had retirements of their own and party fund-raising is lagging behind Democrats by a wide margin.

The Republican targets of the advocacy campaign say they do not view it as much of a threat, saying many of their voters will not consider the advertisements credible and that tactics like robocalls can backfire.

“I don’t worry about it,” said Representative Steve Chabot of Ohio, who noted that he strongly supported the insurance program when it was created in 1997. “I am perfectly satisfied with my vote and there is a range of reasons why I think this is a bad bill.”
169 2007-10-08 In news accounts of the founding Mr. Graham was said to have quietly told several of the organization’s founders, among them Betty Friedan, that to truly advance the cause of gender equality, American women would need a political lobby on a par with the N.A.A.C.P. That year, Mr. Graham, who was not reappointed to another term with the employment commission, became the first director of the National Teacher Corps, a program created to bring schoolteachers to depressed areas of the country.

Richard Alton Graham was born on Nov. 6, 1920, in Chicago, and reared in Lima, Ohio, and Milwaukee. He earned a bachelor’s degree in engineering from Cornell in 1942, and during World War II served with the Army Air Forces in Iran.

After the war, Mr. Graham joined his father in developing and manufacturing a variable-speed drive transmission for electric motors, which was used, the younger Mr. Graham later said, “in everything from food processing to printing to mechanical hearts.”

In 1961, Richard Graham entered public service, becoming a deputy to R. Sargent Shriver, the first director of the Peace Corps. From 1963 to 1965, Mr. Graham was the Peace Corps’ director in Tunisia. A 1963 article in The New York Times about the Tunisia program noted Mr. Graham’s concern that his volunteers’ living conditions not be too soft: he moved them out of modern apartments into less opulent local quarters among the people they were serving.

Mr. Graham earned a master’s degree in education from Catholic University in 1970, followed by a Ph.D. in philosophy from what was then the Union Graduate School. (It is now the Union Institute and University.)

In the mid-1970s, he directed the Center for Moral Education, which had been founded at the Harvard Graduate School of Education by the distinguished psychologist Lawrence Kohlberg. From 1975 to 1976, Mr. Graham was president of Goddard College, in Plainfield, Vt., where he helped found the Goddard-Cambridge Center for Social Change, which included a program in women’s studies.

From the mid-1980s until his death, Mr. Graham was an adviser to the Council for Research in Values and Philosophy, an organization based in Washington that promotes cross-cultural understanding.

Besides his daughter, Nan, of Manhattan, Mr. Graham is survived by his wife, Nancy Aring Graham, whom he married in 1949; another daughter, Peggy Sue Graham (known as Busy) of Royal Oak; three sons, Charles (known as Hoey), of Moscow, Idaho; Dick, of Laguna Beach, Calif.; and John, of Potomac, Md.; a brother, Robert, of Simms, Tex.; a sister, Sue Graham Mingus, the widow of the jazz bassist Charles Mingus, of Manhattan; 13 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.

Mr. Graham, who was a Democrat from the late 1960s on, was sometimes publicly critical of NOW in recent years, faulting what he saw as its emphasis on abortion rights and equality for lesbians at the expense of more general issues like child care and health care.

But in 1991, reflecting on the improved status of American women since the 1960s, Mr. Graham told Newsday, “There is pleasure in having been part of the change.”
170 2007-10-08 Business Objects, which has dual headquarters in Paris and San Jose, Calif., had been rumored to be a takeover target for more than a month. Its share price had risen about 15 percent in the last few weeks, as SAP, Oracle and I.B.M. were all said to be interested in buying the company.

The SAP offer of 42 euros in cash is roughly 20 percent above last week’s closing price for Business Objects, which places a value of more than 4.8 billion euros ($6.8 billion) on the company.

In its most recent quarter, Business Objects reported a 23 percent increase in sales, to $363 million, while profits rose 68 percent to $66 million.

John Schwarz, the chief executive of Business Objects, said in the conference call that 40 percent of his company’s customers were also SAP customers. “We have a tremendous opportunity to align and package solutions together,” he said.

SAP is the leading maker of software that businesses use to automate operations ranging from accounting to marketing to manufacturing. These so-called enterprise resource planning systems serve as the software nervous system of large corporations.

SAP, analysts say, needs to add more capabilities to its software to increase sales and prompt customers to buy new versions. The promise that business intelligence software might be able to glean insights from the data flowing through SAP’s enterprise planning system could justify the price of the Business Objects purchase, industry analysts say.

The goal, Mr. Kagermann said, was to put “better analytics” into “our end-to-end business process software.”

He added that he did not anticipate cutting the Business Objects work force as a result of the merger.

The $18 billion-a-year business intelligence market is increasingly moving into the hands of larger companies. They see business intelligence as an important addition to a full line of software products for companies. Microsoft has made a big push into business intelligence in the last two years.

Business Objects was the largest of the publicly traded business intelligence companies, which include Cognos and MicroStrategy. There are also a few significant privately held business intelligence software companies, and SAS, headquartered in Cary, N.C., is by far the largest.
171 2007-10-08 “We wanted our fortune cookies to be a little bit more value-added,” Mr. Chow said. “We wanted to get some different perspective, to write something that is more contemporary.”

Wonton Food, the largest fortune cookie maker in the country, produces about 4.5 million cookies a day. The company made headlines in 2005 when 110 people won about $19 million in the Powerball lottery after playing a “lucky number” sequence from the back of a Wonton fortune.

Wonton has a catalog of 10,000 fortunes, and about a quarter of them are in rotation at any given time. It introduced 600 new ones several months ago, including about 150 in the popular “fortune-telling” category. Other message categories are humor, motivational sayings, riddles and translated Chinese idioms. “They can’t be offensive, got to be positive, and rated G,” said Derrick Wong, vice president for sales at Wonton.

But, he added, as customers requested more fortunes with actual predictions rather than cryptic sayings, the writers removed their rose-colored glasses.

“It’s very hard to come up with more fortunes,” Mr. Wong said. “Some people may not like them.”

Some diners complained; others searched for meaningful explanations.

Was one writer having a bad day? (“Perhaps you’ve been focusing too much on yourself.”) Were the cookies giving voice to worries about the economy or terrorism? (“There may be a crisis looming, be ready for it.”)

Mr. Chow characterized the new fortunes as “cautious” rather than negative, and said he had received complaints about only two messages so far. One was the “disastrous day” note. The other said: “Your luck is just not there. Attend to practical matters today.”

Wonton plans to remove those two from circulation, Mr. Chow said, adding that he welcomes customer feedback about the others.

“I got some people saying that you’re making people think, and that’s good,” he said. "But I have people writing to me saying that it’s not positive enough.”

Most people who receive one of the downbeat fortunes don’t take them too seriously. Karyn Turnbull, 33, an education software designer in Austin, Tex., said her fiancé had been warned about a “disastrous day” when they celebrated their engagement at the Chinese restaurant where they had their first date.

“He laughed and said if he had gotten them before, he might not have proposed,” Ms. Turnbull said.
172 2007-10-08 There are so many ways to muck up a dance. As any seasoned observer will admit, you hope for actual art but aren’t surprised to see another dud. (As one critic said recently, “I just hope for competence.”)

Still, it’s impressive, sort of, to see so many examples of theatrical wrongheadedness in one program as was managed on Friday night at City Center’s Fall for Dance festival. The price of admission, $10, is still something (albeit a fast dwindling something) in this city, and neither the cash outlay nor the more precious expenditure of two hours was worth it for such an uninspiringly safe lineup.

This is especially unfortunate given how much engrossing new work can be had in New York for bargain-basement prices. City Center could be more adventuresome in seeking out serious contemporary work.

But then, serious wasn’t the order of the evening, as was obvious from the start with the American premiere of “Quick!” by Srishti-Nina Rajarani Dance Creations. That piece abused eight classical Indian dancers and musicians by having them flash their feet and vocal cords to enact a day in the life of harried London businessmen. In this age of complex transcultural and immigration issues it’s unfortunate that the choreographer, Nina Rajarani, working with two very distinct worlds, presented such a clichéd metaphor.

Another United States premiere, an excerpt from the South African Via Katlehong Dance troupe’s “Nkululeko,” offered a similarly rousing ending, mixing percussive dance forms with high-energy music and flashy costumes. And while a stone-throwing pantomime offered a hint of complexity, as with “Quick!,” the dance was pleasurable only on a kinesthetic level, and only at times.

Camille A. Brown’s solo, “The Evolution of a Secured Feminine,” has plenty of charms, from fleet, voluptuous movement to Ms. Brown’s ability to play the sexy funny woman. But on Friday she seemed intent on torpedoing those charms through an excess of mugging. If you’re going to dance to the likes of Ella Fitzgerald, you’ve got to play it a little cooler. Still, “Evolution” leaves an impression.

Elisa Monte’s 1979 duet, “Treading,” has been saved from its essential blandness in recent years by the superb Alvin Ailey dancers Clifton Brown and Linda-Denise Fisher Harrell. As danced here by Tiffany Rea and Matthew Fisher of Elisa Monte Dance, this atmospheric study, to Steve Reich music, neither pleased nor bothered. It just passed.
173 2007-10-08 “The iPhone was a milestone in terms of how people use a mobile device,” said Karsten Weide, an analyst with IDC. “The GPhone, if it does come out, will help Google with distribution for their online services.”

At the core of Google’s phone efforts is an operating system for mobile phones that will be based on open-source Linux software, according to industry executives familiar with the project.

In addition, Google is expected to develop mobile versions of its applications that go well beyond the mobile search and map software it offers today. Those applications may include a Web browser to run on cellphones.

While Google has built phone prototypes to test its software and show off its technology to manufacturers, the company is not likely to make the phones itself, according to analysts.

In short, Google is not creating a gadget to rival the iPhone, but rather creating software that will be an alternative to Windows Mobile from Microsoft and other operating systems, which are built into phones sold by many manufacturers. And unlike Microsoft, Google is not expected to charge phone makers a licensing fee for the software.

“The essential point is that Google’s strategy is to lead the creation of an open-source competitor to Windows Mobile,” said one industry executive, who did not want his name used because his company has had contacts with Google. “They will put it in the open-source world and take the economics out of the Windows Mobile business.”

Some believe another major goal of the phone project is to loosen the control of carriers over the software and services that are available on their networks.

“Google’s agenda is to disaggregate carriers,” said Dan Olschwang, the chief executive of JumpTap, a start-up that provides search and advertising services to several mobile phone operators.

Google declined to comment on any specifics of its mobile phone initiative. But its chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, has said several times that the cellphone market presented the largest growth opportunity for Google. “We have a large investment in mobile phones and mobile phone platform applications,” Mr. Schmidt said in an interview this year.

Industry analysts say that Google, which has little experience with complex hardware, faces significant challenges.

“Running a Web site and a search engine is one thing,” said Mr. Weide of IDC. “But developing a phone is a whole different game. It will not be easy for them.”

Mr. Weide added that Google’s impact on the industry will depend to a large extent on its ability to sign deals with wireless carriers that distribute hundreds of millions of phones each year and often control what software and services run on them.

Some carriers, especially in the United States, are likely to give Google a cool reception. Companies like Verizon Wireless and AT&T have spent billions of dollars building and upgrading their networks, establishing relationships with customers, subsidizing handsets and creating their own mobile Internet portals. Now they want to make sure those investments pay off, in part, through mobile advertising, and they see Google and other search engines, who are after the same ad dollars, as competitors.

As a result, most carriers in the United States have chosen to shun the major search engines for now. Instead, they have promoted the search engines and ad systems of small technology companies like JumpTap and Medio Systems, whose services they can stamp with their own brands.

Most carriers declined to comment on Google’s plans. But Arun Sarin, the chief executive of Britain’s Vodafone Group, which offers the Google service on its phones, said it was not clear what compelling functions Google would offer that are not already available.

“What is it that is missing in life that they are going to fulfill?” Mr. Sarin said. “It is not a no-brainer. You can reach Google already through a number of devices. You don’t need a Google phone to do that.”

Google’s desire to loosen the carriers’ control over their networks has hardly been a secret. The company recently lobbied the Federal Communications Commission to impose rules on any carrier who wins a coming auction for valuable wireless spectrum. The rules, which the F.C.C. adopted despite opposition from Verizon and others, require that the network using a portion of that spectrum be open to any handset and software applications from any company.

Google said it is considering bidding for some of that spectrum. But regardless of who wins it, phones based on Google’s software would be able to take advantage of it.

Google’s lobbying, as well as its work on a phone software platform that would be open to other applications, represent an effort to bring to the mobile Internet the dynamics of the PC-oriented Internet, which is free of control by network operators. Google is hoping that it can beat competitors in an open environment.

The mobile phone project at Google was built in part around Android, a small mobile software company it acquired in 2005. An Android co-founder, Andy Rubin, had founded Danger, which created the popular T-Mobile Sidekick smartphone. Mr. Rubin works at Google’s headquarters in Mountain View, but another part of Google’s team is reported to be in Boston, where Android’s co-founder, Rich Miner, another veteran of the mobile phone industry, is based.

Some analysts say there are no guarantees that Google will be able to replicate its online success in the mobile world.

“The wireless market does not have the same global scale and scope efficiencies, nor the lack of transactional friction, of software on the Internet,” said Scott Cleland, a telecommunications industry analyst who recently testified before the Senate against Google’s proposed acquisition of DoubleClick.

“It is a completely different world and completely different set of economics,” said Mr. Cleland, who has opposed Google on a number of policy issues.

Microsoft, whose mobile operating system has been available for years, has distribution agreements with 48 handset makers and 160 carriers around the world. Still, only 12 million phones sold this year will be based on Microsoft’s software, giving it 10 percent of the smartphone market, according to IDC.

Microsoft declined to comment on potential competition from Google. “The market is huge, and our partners are really motivated to bring Windows Mobile phones to market,” said Doug Smith, director for marketing of Microsoft’s mobile communications business.

Mahesh Veerina, the founder and chief executive of Celunite, which makes cellphone software based on Linux, said Google’s offering was likely to be attractive to small carriers, who may see it as a competitive weapon.

But if Google-powered phones prove to be a hit with consumers, other carriers may feel pressure to follow suit, said Richard Doherty, director for the Envisioneering Group, a consulting firm.

“No one wants to be the last carrier to endorse Google,” Mr. Doherty said.
174 2007-10-08 When Joe Cannon, the editor of The Deseret Morning News in Salt Lake City, Utah, spoke to a secretive Christian networking group holding a conference there last month, he said he was searching for grist for his weekly column.

Never mind that the meeting of the Council on National Policy, the group in question, was actually closed to the press, and that he had agreed to keep quiet on what transpired at the event, which included speeches by Vice President Dick Cheney and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, the presidential candidate.

His paper’s rival, The Salt Lake Tribune, quickly pounced on him for his appearance, which included his thoughts on “what had to happen right for America to be founded,” he said.

Mr. Cannon, a former Republican lobbyist and chairman of the state G.O.P., now finds himself defending what he thought was a good idea at the time.

“That was before I realized exactly the pain it caused for a number of people at the paper,” Mr. Cannon said Friday. “If I could rewind this tape, I wouldn’t have gone.”
175 2007-10-08 Interior Minister Pascal Couchepin, of the Liberal Democratic Party, has even suggested that the SVP’s worship of Christoph Blocher, the billionaire who is the party’s driving force and the current justice minister, is reminiscent of that of Italian fascists for Mussolini.

[On Saturday, a march of several thousand SVP supporters in Bern ended in clashes between hundreds of rock-throwing counterdemonstrators and riot police officers, who used tear gas to disperse them. The opponents of the rally, organized by a new group called the Black Sheep Committee, had tried to prevent the demonstrators from marching to Parliament.]

The message of the party resonates loudly among voters who have seen this country of 7.5 million become a haven for foreigners, including political refugees from places like Kosovo and Rwanda. Polls indicate that the right-wing party is poised to win more seats than any other party in Parliament in the election, as it did in national elections in 2003, when its populist language gave it nearly 27 percent of the vote.

“Our political enemies think the poster is racist, but it just gives a simple message,” Bruno Walliser, a local chimney sweep running for Parliament on the party ticket, said at the rally, held on a Schwerzenbach farm outside Zurich. “The black sheep is not any black sheep that doesn’t fit into the family. It’s the foreign criminal who doesn’t belong here, the one that doesn’t obey Swiss law. We don’t want him.”

More than 20 percent of Swiss inhabitants are foreign nationals, and the SVP argues that a disproportionate number are lawbreakers. Many drug dealers are foreign, and according to federal statistics, about 70 percent of the prison population is non-Swiss.

As part of its platform, the SVP party has begun a campaign seeking the 100,000 signatures necessary to force a referendum to let judges deport foreigners after they serve prison sentences for serious crimes. The measure also calls for the deportation of the entire family if the convicted criminal is a minor.

Human rights advocates warn that the initiative is reminiscent of the Nazi practice of Sippenhaft, or kin liability, under which relatives of criminals were held responsible and punished for their crimes.

The party’s political campaign has a much broader agenda than simply fighting crime. Its subliminal message is that the influx of foreigners has somehow polluted Swiss society, straining the social welfare system and threatening the very identity of the country.

Unlike the situation in France, where the far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen campaigned for president in the spring alongside black and ethnic Arab supporters, the SVP has taken a much cruder us-against-them approach.

In a short three-part campaign film, “Heaven or Hell,” the party’s message is clear. In the first segment, young men inject heroin, steal handbags from women, kick and beat up schoolboys, wield knives and carry off a young woman. The second segment shows Muslims living in Switzerland — women in head scarves; men sitting, not working.

The third segment shows “heavenly” Switzerland: men in suits rushing to work, logos of Switzerland’s multinational corporations, harvesting on farms, experiments in laboratories, scenes of lakes, mountains, churches and goats. “The choice is clear: my home, our security,” the film states.

The film was withdrawn from the party’s Web site after the men who acted in it sued, arguing they were unaware of its purpose. But over beer and bratwurst at the Schwerzenbach political rally, Mr. Walliser screened it for the audience, saying, “I’m taking the liberty to show it anyway.”

For Nelly Schneider, a 49-year-old secretary, the party’s approach is “a little bit crass,” but appealing nevertheless. “These foreigners abuse the system,” she said after Mr. Walliser’s presentation. “They don’t speak any German. They go to prostitution and do drugs and drive fancy cars and work on the black market. They don’t want to work.”

As most of the rest of Europe has moved toward unity, Switzerland has fiercely guarded its independence, staying out of the 27-country European Union and maintaining its status as a tax haven for the wealthy. It has perhaps the longest and most arduous process to become a citizen in all of Europe: candidates typically must wait 12 years before being considered.

Three years ago the SVP blocked a move to liberalize the citizenship process, using the image of dark-skinned hands snatching at Swiss passports. And though the specter of terrorism has not been a driving issue, some posters in southern Switzerland at the time showed a mock Swiss passport held by Osama bin Laden.

Foreigners, who make up a quarter of the Swiss work force, complain that it is harder to get a job or rent an apartment without a Swiss passport and that they endure everyday harassment that Swiss citizens do not.

James Philippe, a 28-year-old Haitian who has lived in Switzerland for 14 years and works for Streetchurch, a Protestant storefront community organization, and as a hip-hop dance instructor, said he is regularly stopped by the police and required to show his papers and submit to body searches. He speaks German, French, Creole and English, but has yet to receive a Swiss passport.

“The police treat me like I’m somehow not human,” he said at the Streetchurch headquarters in a working-class neighborhood of Zurich. “Then I open my mouth and speak good Swiss German, and they’re always shocked.

“We come here. We want to learn. We clean their streets and do all the work they don’t want to do. If they kick us out, are they going to do all that work themselves? We need them, but they need us too.”

SVP officials insist that their campaign is not racist, just anticrime. “Every statistic shows that the participation of foreigners in crime is quite high,” said Ulrich Schlüer, an SVP Parliament deputy who has also led an initiative to ban minarets in Switzerland. “We cannot accept this. We are the only party that addresses this problem.”

But the SVP campaign has begun to have a ripple effect, shaking the image of Switzerland as a place of prosperity, tranquillity and stability — particularly for doing business. On Thursday, a coalition of business, union and church leaders in Basel criticized the SVP for what they called its extremism, saying, “Those who discriminate against foreigners hurt the economy and threaten jobs in Switzerland.”

“In the past,” said Daniele Jenni, a lawyer and the founder of the Black Sheep Committee who is running for Parliament, “people were reluctant to attack the party out of fear that it might only strengthen it. Now people are beginning to feel liberated. They no longer automatically accept the role of the rabbit doing nothing, just waiting for the snake to bite.”
176 2007-10-08 ALL TOO REAL Perhaps more than any other program on television now, ''Intervention,'' A&E's documentary series about addiction, highlights the sticky situations reality show producers can find themselves in as they document unpredictable and unsta...
177 2007-10-08 McCARTHY--Jack . Best friend for 30 years. I will miss you terribly. In my heart you are ''on the bag'' forever. Martin Winkelman...
178 2007-10-09 F.B.I. agents recovered three medals that had been stolen from the Long Island newspaper’s headquarters and later auctioned off. The medals are to be authenticated and then returned to Newsday....
179 2007-10-09 Images from the exhibition at the Musée du Luxembourg in Paris....
180 2007-10-09 A vision of morning rush hour in Grand Central Terminal, by artist Jeff Scher. With music by Shay Lynch.
181 2007-10-09 Sony's Intel Inside ad is part of the "Beauty, Inside and Out" campaign. It will run on the Google click-to-play video network.
182 2007-10-09 No one - with the possible exception of a few highly placed folks at the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department - can be sure if regulators will approve the proposed hook-up between XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Rad...
183 2007-10-09 Aired Monday night on NBC: At a recent appearance, President Bush said, "My job is a decision-making job; as a result, I have made a lot of decisions.'" Apparently Bush's decision that day was to write his own speech. Republican presidential candi...
184 2007-10-09 The law enforcement tool that made it all possible - the taser gun - has been treated to cooing headlines of late....
185 2007-10-09 The Democrats gear up for an effort to override a presidential veto....
186 2007-10-09 Shifting Careers blogger is holding virtual office hours at The New York Times Small Business Summit...
187 2007-10-09 After wilting in the dog days of August, hedge fund managers rebounded to post boffo returns last month. Hedge funds earned 2.26 percent, according to the Hennessee Hedge Fund Index, while Hedge Fund Research found that the average fund returned 2...
188 2007-10-09 In the latest reminder of the immense wealth created since Google went public in August 2004, shares in Internet giant surpassed $600 in Nasdaq trading on Monday, joining Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway among the six stocks that top that mark....
189 2007-10-09 Shares of SOHO China, a Beijing property developer, soared 15 percent on their first day of trading Monday in Hong Kong in the latest hot public stock offering. The strong debut of SOHO, which values the company at $6 billion, comes at a time when...
190 2007-10-09 "If he opts out, we'd be out then," General Manager Brian Cashman said. "That would be my strong recommendation."

Cashman said that the Yankees' stance could change because there would be "more people involved in the process." He could have been referring to George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner, who recently told The Record of Hackensack, N.J., that he wanted to keep Rodriguez. Still, if Rodriguez opts out, Yankees officials have said they think he will sign elsewhere and do not want to partake in talks to increase his price tag.

"I just think, you have a chance to retain the player prior to that date, and to do it after that doesn't make as much sense," Cashman said. "It becomes a different economic animal."

Boras is primed for a run at another landmark contract. He would not comment on the possibility that the Yankees could lose the benefit of Texas's payment, but it will not have an impact Rodriguez's thinking.

What is Rodriguez thinking? He had bloodshot eyes Monday night after the Yankees' 6-4 loss to Cleveland ended their season. Rodriguez would not say if he had wept because he might have played his last game with the Yankees.

"I've always said it: I love New York," Rodriguez said. "For me, as a player, to come full circle in New York, it's the most comfortable I've felt. Hopefully, things work out."

Boras was aware of what Rodriguez said about New York, but noted that he had other options. The Angels, the Cubs, the Red Sox, the White Sox, the Dodgers and the Mets are teams that could pursue Rodriguez.

"I think Alex has been through free agency before, and I think he's shown he's very comfortable in New York," Boras said. "But he also knows there are a lot of dynamics that have to happen for things to work out."

During a telephone interview, Boras offered a glimpse into how he will market Rodriguez to teams by calling him an I.P.N. player. Boras's acronym refers to Rodriguez's iconic value, his performance value and his network value.

Despite Rodriguez's modest performance (4 for 15, one homer) against Cleveland, his value as a performer is unquestioned. He hit 54 homers, drove in 156 runs, scored 143 runs and batted .314 this season. Boras said only five players had produced 299 or more runs in a season, including Babe Ruth.

"Babe Ruth did it twice," Boras said. "Alex already has done it at 31, so he has a lot of time to surpass that."

Regarding iconic value, Boras noted how attendance at Yankee Stadium had increased in each of Rodriguez's four seasons with the Yankees. The Yankees drew about 3.5 million fans in 2003, the year before Rodriguez arrived, and attracted nearly 4.3 million this season. Rodriguez is a part of that surge, but not the only reason for it.

"It's a situation where the brand is different because of the athlete," Boras said. "The franchise is at its highest value."

As Boras negotiated with Texas on Rodriguez's $252 million deal, which he signed after the 2000 season, he said the reason he wanted an opt-out clause after seven years was because he expected that regional sports networks would prosper and would increase revenue streams for teams. The YES Network, which televises Yankees games, was worth about $800 million when it started in 2002. It is now worth $3 billion.

Lee Berke, an industry analyst, said that a team with a regional sports network could increase revenue by adding a star like Rodriguez. "A-Rod would be a contributing factor," Berke said. "He wouldn't be the only reason that an R.S.N. succeeds or fails."

If Rodriguez does not opt out, he could become a free agent after the 2008 season, when he would earn $27 million, unless the Yankees bumped his salary to $32 million for 2009 and 2010. There is no guarantee that Rodriguez will stay with the Yankees, but there is a guarantee that a rich man will became richer.

"I hear people say, 'Boras is the guy taking it to the owners,'" Boras said. "This is about fairness. This player is in a unique place and a unique situation. He's got to get a unique salary."
191 2007-10-09 Many investors concluded that the Fed’s remarks about inflation gave it latitude to act, pushing markets higher, with much of the gains coming after the release of the Fed meeting minutes. The S.&P. 500 closed up 12.57 points, or 0.8 percent, at 1,565.15, and the Dow finished up 120.80 points, or 0.9 percent, at 14,164.53. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.54 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,803.91.

The gains came despite clear signals that Fed officials see a cloudy economic forecast for the months ahead. Federal Reserve economists lowered their economic growth forecasts for the fourth quarter and 2008. Fed members said problems in the housing market would continue unabated for several quarters, creating downward pressures on job and wage growth. And they appeared divided on whether consumer spending would continue to expand.

“Given the unusual nature of the current financial shock, participants regarded the outlook for economic activity as characterized by particularly high uncertainty, with the risks to growth skewed to the downside,” the report said.

That concern was enough for a unanimous decision on the rate cut.

“Without such policy action, members saw a risk that tightening credit conditions and an intensifying housing correction would lead to significant broader weakness in output and employment,” the report said. “The impaired functioning of financial markets might persist for some time or possibly worsen, with negative implications for economic activity.”

While Fed members remained concerned about volatility in the financial sector, they also sounded a small note of optimism, noting the economy’s “resilience” in the face of past market disruptions — a possible reference to market crashes in 1987 and 1998. In those cases, the Fed aggressively cut rates only to find the economy was healthier than it had expected. The Fed could now be looking at a similar case.

“At the time the decision was made, we were going through what appeared to be a financial Armageddon,” Mr. Larson of Voyageur said. “They overreacted in the sense that the economy might be better off than we thought it was at that point.”

The Labor Department said last week that summer job growth was much stronger than originally thought. A report that showed a loss of 4,000 jobs in August — the first monthly decline in four years — was revised sharply upward, to a gain of 89,000 jobs.

That initial report stoked fears of a recession and was taken into account at the Fed’s meeting. “Employment probably was not as weak as the most recent monthly data had suggested,” the minutes said, but Fed members added that “further slowing of employment growth was likely.”

Some analysts on Wall Street still remained optimistic about a rate cut at the Fed’s next meeting on Oct. 30 and 31. “The minutes certainly did not do anything to change our expectation that the Fed is likely to cut rates again,” said Julia Coronado, senior United States economist at Barclays Capital.

“In the minutes they explicitly say they’ve marked down their forecast for growth,” she said. “Ultimately they think the pressures on inflation have eased.”
192 2007-10-09 Woody O’Cain, the admissions director at Furman University in South Carolina, said he received thousands each year.

“I laugh and tell people that’s the kind of stuff that replaces the zeros on my paycheck,” Mr. O’Cain said. “I realize a lot of them are strategic. A guidance counselor says be sure to write a thank-you note because they want it to be added to the file. But there are plenty that are very heartfelt.”

Still, Mary Fitzgerald Hull, a college adviser at a public high school in Maryland, seemed to strike a nerve among college admissions officers longing for authenticity when she asked recently for sample thank-you notes on a Web site for admissions professionals. Ms. Hull said one of her students disagreed with her mother on what was appropriate.

“Can you imagine your daughter going to her counselor and saying, ‘My mom and I can’t agree on what should go into a thank-you note?’” Dan Rosenfield, an admissions official at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, said in an interview.

“To be concerned about, ‘Am I going to say the wrong thing?’” Mr. Rosenfield continued, “Or ‘Am I going to write a thank-you note that hurts me?’ It just gets crazy.”

Miss Manners, Judith Martin, who writes a syndicated etiquette column that runs in more than 200 newspapers, says she, for one, does not think thanks are needed for a campus visit: “I would never, ever say, ‘Don’t write a thank-you note under any circumstances.’ I don’t want to discourage them. But it is not really a situation that is mandatory.”

Still, some admissions advisers leap to Ms. Hull’s defense.

“It seems like a small thing, but I tell my students that every contact with the college contributes to their perception of you,” said Patrick J. O’Connor, director of college counseling at the private Roeper School in Birmingham, Mich.

Bonnie R. Corman, an educational counselor and psychotherapist in Santa Barbara, Calif., does not put note-writing on her students’ to-do lists but advises those who want to send thanks to avoid lined paper. Still, she sternly rejected a young woman’s proposal to write on her mother’s personal stationery.

“I asked her, ‘How would I feel if I received a note with someone else’s name?’” Dr. Corman said.

Parents also get into the act, like the couple who recently thanked Mr. O’Cain of Furman for a “most positive” campus visit. Then they put in a plug for their son, saying that he had always been “a high achiever and a hard worker,” and that they knew Furman would be just the place to “help him reach his potential.”

Ms. Hull, who advises at Col. Zadok Magruder High School in Rockville, Md., said this year was the first that a student had asked her for a sample note. “In this competitive atmosphere, people are looking for anything they think will help them stand out,” she said. “I thought it was nice that she wanted to write a thank-you note.”

She added that some of her colleagues might like thanks themselves. “Last year, one teacher here said, ‘I have written all these recommendations, and not one student has thanked me.’ ”

Anna McGuire, Ms. Hull’s student, said she had been writing thank-you notes since she was young. She even recalled birthday presents’ being taken away until the notes were written.

Still, she and her mother differed over whether a note was necessary after visiting Guilford this past summer.

“I totally did not want to write one at all,” said Anna, a 16-year-old high school junior. “She insisted. And with my mother, I try to do what she says.”

Her mother, Grace, leaned toward a typed letter. Anna favored something more informal. But, she added, “I didn’t know if I should mention whether or not I intended to apply — I do — or who to mention in the note, as I met with both a tour guide and a representative from the college’s admission office.”

Even when thank-yous are received, they are not necessarily kept. Admissions officials at some colleges, like New York University, Johns Hopkins and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, say they are tossed.

Barbara F. Hall, associate provost for enrollment management at N.Y.U., said writing a note was “a very polite thing to do.” But, she added, the university does not keep the notes, because “with our reading files twice, we don’t need extraneous material, and that is extraneous.”

At other campuses, like Williams College and Princeton, the notes go into applicants’ files.

“Is it necessary to write a thank-you note?” said Janet L. Rapelye, dean of admissions at Princeton. “No. But I’m still in favor of them. Expressing gratitude is a lovely quality.”

Ms. Rapelye added, “In and of itself, it’s not going to change a decision,” and she suggested that the people who should really be thanked were the teachers and college counselors.

Sometimes they are. Carolyn Lawrence of Jamul, Calif., who advises students and their parents on college admissions, recalls a note she received from a student admitted early to her first-choice college. It came on a postcard of the Eiffel Tower. It said:

b) in a month-long anxiety attack waiting to hear back from colleges

c) vacationing in Paris with my family, eating crepes, and being eternally grateful to Carolyn Lawrence for her help.

“The answer is C. Thank you.”
193 2007-10-09 WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 — Senator Barack Obama presented a plan on Monday to decrease the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and fight global warming by creating an auction system requiring power companies and other industries to pay for their pollution. By the year 2020, he said, emissions would be reduced to levels from 1990.

In a speech in New Hampshire, Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential candidate from Illinois, called for imposing a national cap on carbon emissions, investing $150 billion over 10 years to develop new energy sources and reducing dependence on foreign oil by 35 percent by 2030.

“No business will be allowed to emit any greenhouse gases for free,” Mr. Obama said in Portsmouth, N.H. “Businesses don’t own the sky, the public does, and if we want them to stop polluting it, we have to put a price on all pollution.”

The energy speech was the latest effort by Mr. Obama to cast himself as a critic of how business has been conducted in Washington. Every president since Gerald R. Ford, Mr. Obama argued, has pledged to curb fossil fuel use, but the United States’ dependence on foreign oil has climbed.

He proposed instituting a mandatory “cap and trade” program across the economy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the level recommended by top scientists, a figure that he did not specify Monday. Under his plan, businesses would be required to buy allowances to pollute, which would create financial incentives to limit energy use or reduce emissions.
194 2007-10-09 Equipped with police scanners and street smarts, photojournalists for the city’s tabloid newspapers race to the site of breaking news, vying to document the lives, deaths, scandals and successes that punctuate life in New York. Friction between photographers and police officers is not uncommon as chaotic scenes unfold in public locations.

On Sept. 3, Mr. Nicholas was among reporters and photographers who headed to Chelsea after word came that a pipe bomb had detonated in front of an acting studio owned by Michael Imperioli, a member of the cast of “The Sopranos.”

Mr. Nicholas was arrested on a charge of obstructing governmental administration, a misdemeanor, when he snapped pictures using a flash after an officer told him not to, the police and witnesses said. His press credentials issued by the Police Department were suspended, and both of his Nikon cameras were taken as evidence.

Mr. Nicholas said he believed he was being unfairly banished from the scene. The police said he disregarded orders that were issued to all the journalists there.

Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, said Mr. Nicholas was instructed not to use his camera because the bomb squad feared that an undiscovered bomb might be nearby and that a flash could trigger another explosion.

“The immediate concern was a secondary device,” he said, adding, “There have been a number of incidences where he hasn’t complied with directions.”

Mr. Nicholas said that he had not heard any safety warnings and that he planned to fight the misdemeanor charge. For the moment, he is working without press credentials and is using a borrowed camera.

Todd Maisel, the vice president of the New York Press Photographers Association, said he disagreed with the decision by the police to take Mr. Nicholas’s cameras, saying it seemed excessive. But Mr. Maisel, a longtime news photographer for The Daily News, also criticized Mr. Nicholas for yelling and swearing after his arrest. “He has a responsibility to maintain decorum,” Mr. Maisel said.

Three days after the arrest in Chelsea, Mr. Nicholas was arrested for trespassing and given a desk appearance ticket after being on the roof of a building in the Bronx where he was photographing officers responding to an episode in which plainclothes transit officers shot and killed a man who had attacked them on a subway platform at 176th Street.

Mr. Browne said that Mr. Nicholas was on the roof of a building on Davidson Avenue where the landlord has signed an affidavit allowing the police to arrest trespassers without receiving specific complaints.

Mr. Nicholas said he had been invited into the building by residents and did not think he had broken any law.

The charges against Mr. Nicholas carry relatively light penalties. People convicted of obstructing governmental administration can be sentenced to up to a year in jail. Those found guilty of the form of trespassing Mr. Nicholas has been accused of can be jailed for up to 15 days.

But because Mr. Nicholas is on parole, the arrests could have deeper repercussions. If he is found guilty of either offense, he could be sent to prison to serve the remaining six years of his sentence in the 1990 shooting. Mark E. Johnson, a spokesman for the State Parole Division, said that he could not comment on Mr. Nicholas, but that parole decisions were made on a case-by-case basis.

“Anytime someone is convicted of a crime, it could be a violation of parole that would send them to jail,” he said. “In such cases, we look at a person’s whole record while on parole.”

While pondering his future, Mr. Nicholas points to the years since he was sent to jail as evidence of rehabilitation. In prison he advised inmates on the law and organized a prisoner advocacy group, he said. He also said that he earned a two-year degree, then after his parole, went to New York University, graduating in the spring of 2006 with a humanities degree.

His first published news photograph, of a highway crash, appeared last fall in a small newspaper in upstate New York. Eventually he began working regularly for The Post.

“It is a privilege to photograph this city,” Mr. Nicholas said. “If Homer were alive today recording the deeds of men, he’d be a photojournalist.”

James McGrath, who runs a photo agency called Atlas Press, said he had been working with Mr. Nicholas for about eight months. “I don’t think anybody works harder,” he said of Mr. Nicholas. “He has a drive to do something with his life.”
195 2007-10-09 “It’s an innovation,” said Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, which selected Union City educators to speak about the iPod classes at the group’s annual conference in Atlantic City Oct. 24-26. “Most people think of the iPod as just entertainment.”

At José Martí, the silver iPods, with built-in video screens, cost about $250 each and are passed out at the beginning of class along with headsets and Spanish-to-English dictionaries. The iPods are collected at the end of class, and school officials said that none have disappeared or been broken.

In one recent class, eighth-grade students mouthed the words to the rock song “Hey There Delilah” by the Plain White T’s as they played the tune on the iPods over and over again. The braver ones sang out loud.

“It speaks to me,” said Stephanie Rojas, 13, who moved here last year from Puerto Rico and now prefers to sing in English. “I take a long time in the shower because I’m singing, and my brothers are like, ‘Hurry up!’”

Pedro Noguera, a sociology professor at New York University who studies urban schools, said that more districts were using new technologies like iPods to connect with students. For instance, he said, teachers have designed video games around history lessons and assigned students to re-enact novels and plays on YouTube.

“You know the No. 1 complaint about school is that it’s boring because the traditional way it’s taught relies on passive learning,” Mr. Noguera said. “It’s not interactive enough.”

In many affluent communities, iPods have evolved into an essential accessory for students. In 2004, Duke University led the way by outfitting its entire freshman class with iPods that were preloaded with orientation information and even the Duke fight song. While Duke no longer gives away iPods, it maintains a pool of them that are lent to students for classes. Last spring, 93 of the 2,000 or so courses at Duke required iPods.

The Brearley School, a private girls school on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, has used iPods to supplement foreign-language textbooks and its music, drama and English classes. Every Brearley student in seventh through ninth grades is required to buy or rent an iPod.

Here in Union City, the iPods are a splurge for many of the immigrant families who live in this densely packed urban center, once known for its embroidery factories. About 94 percent of the district’s 11,000 students qualify for free or reduced lunches.

The Union City district, which has a $197 million annual budget, places a priority on bilingual classes because more than one-quarter of its students are learning basic English skills. District officials said the stakes are high; 4 of the district’s 12 schools have been identified as needing improvement under the federal No Child Left Behind law, largely because not enough bilingual students have passed the state reading and math tests.

Grace Poli, a media specialist at José Martí, said that she approached district officials about buying 23 iPods for an after-school bilingual program in 2004 after being struck by students’ passion for them. Spanish-speaking students seemed bored by their English-language textbooks, she said, which they found outdated and irrelevant.

The program became so popular that it was added to the regular school schedule the following year, and in 2006, Ms. Poli received 60 more iPods. Last May, the district decided to buy 300 iPods to expand the program to other schools this fall.

Ms. Poli scoured the music charts for songs that appealed to students, compiling an eclectic mix of tunes by Shania Twain, Barry White, U2 and the Black Eyed Peas. She downloaded their songs to the iPods and typed out the lyrics. Then she deleted all the nouns — and in turn, the verbs and adjectives — forcing the students to fill in the missing words and learn their meaning.

In class, they sing or recite the completed lyrics back to her.

“A lot of our bilingual kids are very shy, and they feel like outsiders,” said Ms. Poli, whose parents immigrated from Ecuador. “You have kids who never said a word in English, and now they’re singing Black Eyed Peas. It was a lot of work, but it was worth it.”

Ms. Poli has also downloaded audio books, including the Harry Potter series, and added recording devices to the iPods so that students can listen to their pronunciation as they read poetry or talk with one another.

While the iPods have been used mainly in bilingual classes, the district plans to try them with students who have learning disabilities and behavioral problems as part of the program’s expansion, which is set to begin next month. Last year, Ms. Poli helped an alternative education class create podcasts of test-taking tips that were shared with the entire school.

Ms. Poli said her Spanish-speaking students — known around the school as Pod People — have been able to move out of bilingual classes after just a year of using the digital devices, compared with an average of four to six years for most bilingual students.

Geri Perez, the principal at José Martí, said parents have requested that their children be enrolled in the iPod-equipped classes. Ms. Perez, who does not speak Spanish, said that bilingual students who once shied away from talking to her have gained self-confidence and now come up to her in the hallways.

Dianelis Cano, 13, who moved here from Cuba less than two years ago, said that she had learned so much English that her mother, a saleswoman in a clothing store, bought her an iPod over the summer as a reward for good grades. Dianelis loads her own songs onto the iPod to practice English outside school, though she also includes Spanish music.

“I’m going to check your iPod to make sure there is English music there,” Ms. Poli teased her. “I’m going to make home visits.”
196 2007-10-09 ABOUT 10 years ago I was sitting next to a young woman in the window seat on a flight to Washington. During the flight, I noticed she was writing postcards. I peeked at the words she was writing and discovered she was an author on a book tour sending notes to her friends.

It seemed so romantic and exciting to me. Even though I never spoke to her, I have to believe that serendipitous encounter is one reason I started a community art project called PostSecret and why I am now traveling on my fourth book tour.

It should be noted that I don’t actually write books; I compose them from the postcards that are mailed to me. I essentially invite strangers to anonymously send me untold secrets written on homemade postcards. So far, I have received more than 150,000 inspiring, remorseful, funny, hopeful and even sexual secrets from around the world on every topic imaginable.

Not surprisingly, travel experiences were one of the secrets that people felt they needed to share. And now, when I travel to talk about the PostSecret Project, I never feel alone. The secrets I read stay with me, like baggage. When I enter a shuttle bus, wait by my gate or sit on a plane, I am reminded of the anonymous voices sharing with me their latent animosities, soulful confessions or the hidden acts of kindness that happened to them while traveling.

One postcard I received had a hilarious picture of two pilots jauntily walking through an airport in crisp suits. We all have seen these people. We have all been annoyed by these people. The secret on the card read, “Stop walking through the airport like you own the place!”
197 2007-10-09 SOHO China’s initial public offering on Monday raised nearly $1.7 billion, or as much as Google raised in its 2004 public stock offering in the United States.

SOHO’s founders, Pan Shiyi and Zhang Xin, a husband and wife team known for their stylish developments in Beijing, are now worth close to $4 billion on paper, based on the closing price.

Country Garden’s largest shareholder is the founder’s 25-year-old daughter, Yang Huiyan, to whom the founder gave all of his shares in 2005. She is thought to be the richest person in China, with shares now valued at about $16 billion.

Last year, the richest individual in China, according to Forbes, was Wong Kwong Yu, a retailing entrepreneur who was said to be worth $2.3 billion.

“This is sort of the best play in this market,” said Michael Pettis, an associate professor of finance at Beijing University and a former investment banker. “In real estate, you’re getting overinflated profits from borrowing money to get cheap land and then selling at inflated prices. And then you’ve got a stock market that is valuing a dollar of earnings at about 40 or 50 times. So you’ve got a bubble on top of a bubble.”

The rise of SOHO China and its real estate peers is emblematic of the economic growth in China, as well as the country’s ambitions. An unprecedented construction boom in China is helping drive up the prices of commodities around the world.

As China becomes more urban, millions of people are being moved, sometimes against their will, to make way for sprawling housing developments and central business districts.

Many big projects, however, are erected in helter-skelter fashion, sometimes with as many as 50 look-alike high-rises crowded onto a single plot.

“The scale of what’s happening there is unimaginable,” said Thomas J. Campanella, an assistant professor of city and regional planning at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill and the author of the coming book “The Concrete Dragon,” a chronicle of China’s rise. “The greatest chapters of American urban development just pale in comparison to what is happening today in China.”

Property developers who held valuable land near large urban centers are now sitting on enormous fortunes.

On lists of China’s wealthiest individuals, there are many real estate developers, like Shimao’s Xu Rongmao ($6.7 billion) and Chen Zhuolin of Agile Properties ($4.7 billion).

There have been warnings, of course, about a real estate downturn and the dangers of a recent jump in inflation, which some analysts fear could slow the economy, particularly after the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.

But in spite of talk of housing bubbles, illegal land grabs and corrupt developers, China remains in a real estate bonanza.

Global investment banks are among those cashing in. Goldman Sachs and HSBC took SOHO public. Merrill Lynch, UBS and Credit Suisse have played a role in big real estate offerings.

And Morgan Stanley has done more than most, helping raise $6 billion over the last three years by taking eight Chinese real estate companies public, including Shimao, Agile and Country Garden, whose shares are now valued at more than $27 billion.

Shares in most of the developers climbed even higher after being listed. Shares of Shimao, for instance, have almost quadrupled since trading began in June last year. Agile’s stock has climbed more than 300 percent in less than two years.

For SOHO China, going public means paying down debt and refilling the coffers of a company that already has prime land in Beijing’s central business district, where a crush of luxury residences and office towers are going up, seemingly all at once.

Zhang Xin, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker, and her husband, Pan Shiyi, a real estate developer who also has a popular blog, have used a blend of marketing wizardry, savvy land deals and international architects to help create a huge fortune in just over a decade.

The company’s residential developments, like Jianwai SOHO in central Beijing, are populated by entrepreneurs, movie stars and Western executives, and even accompanied by Starbucks coffee shops.

“I’m really amazed at what I’ve been seeing in China,” Professor Campanella said. “It’s as if home improvement and decoration are the No. 1 avocations there.”
198 2007-10-09 Fears of mercury contamination have prompted many pregnant women to forgo fish entirely. Yet an increasing number of studies indicate that omega-3 fatty acids, found mostly in fish, are essential to brain development in fetuses and newborns. “Advice that limits seafood consumption might reduce the intake of nutrients necessary for optimum neurological development,” wrote scientists from the National Institutes of Health and the University of Illinois at Chicago.

This month, if you buy a Yoplait Yogurt and mail in the pink lid, the company will donate 10 cents to Susan G. Komen for the Cure, the breast cancer charity. But what if you just donated the value of the 41-cent stamp instead?

Such are the quandaries for consumers in October, when store shelves are filled with pink products whose sales benefit various breast cancer groups. Pink campaigns in stores provide significant amounts of money to breast cancer charities. But just because a product wears pink doesn’t mean that buying it helps fight breast cancer.

Tea is getting a lot of good press these days. Many studies have linked regular tea drinking to a lowered risk of cancer, heart disease and hypertension. But when it comes to calories, all teas are not created equal, said Lisa R. Young, a nutritionist at New York University.

A 16-ounce bottle of the popular Arizona Green Tea with Ginseng and Honey, for instance, contains 140 calories and 34 grams of sugar. A grande Tazo chai tea latte at Starbucks packs 240 calories and 41 grams of sugar.

“I see so many educated people who, when I tell them it has calories, look at me and say, ‘It does?’” Dr. Young said. “These are people who wouldn’t get the whole-milk cappuccino, but they get the venti chai because it’s only tea.”
199 2007-10-09 “The time for social marketing of bed nets in a big way is over,” Dr. Kochi said in an interview. “It can become a supplemental strategy for urban areas and middle-income countries.”

Two years ago, social marketing was at the heart of a scandal when it was revealed that the United States Agency for International Development, or USAid, which distributes foreign aid, was spending 95 percent of its malaria budget on consultants and 5 percent on goods like nets, drugs and insecticide. Under attack from several senators championing the fight against malaria, the agency later announced that it would spend at least half its budget on goods.

Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, called the new W.H.O. policy “a great move,” adding, “We knew social marketing doesn’t work.”

In practice, nothing much had been working. In 2000, a world health conference in Abuja, Nigeria, set a goal: by 2005, 60 percent of African children would be sleeping under nets. By 2005, only 3 percent were.

The theory behind social marketing, which is also used to distribute condoms and oral rehydration salts, is that the poor see more value in brand-name goods they pay for than handouts they get free, and that the trade creates small entrepreneurs.

The usual comparison made is to Coca-Cola, which reaches Africa’s remotest corners. But Dr. Kochi rejected that model, saying, “I’m not sure whether the poorest of the poor actually drink Coca-Cola.”

He argues that the insecticide-filled nets, when used by 80 percent or more of a village, create a barrier that kills or drives off mosquitoes, protecting everyone in the area, including those without nets. Individual nets tended to just drive mosquitoes next door, to bite someone else. As such, he said, nets ought to be treated as a public good, like the measles or polio vaccines, which the world does not charge the poor for.

Free net distributions are usually done in a week or two, by armies of workers who are paid a few dollars a day by the Red Cross or health ministry to cover a country or other large region. Distributions have been tried in Sierra Leone, Niger, Togo and elsewhere, sometimes in conjunction with measles shots or deworming drugs.

The new model is beginning to prevail but has not completely swept the field. Some donors still use some social marketing. Unicef, the world’s largest buyer of nets, distributed 25 million last year, of which 92 percent were given away, said its medical director, Dr. Peter Salama. The main American program, the President’s Malaria Initiative, plans to hand out more than 15 million nets by 2008, of which about 75 percent will be free, said its coordinator, Rear Adm. Tim Ziemer.

In June, Admiral Ziemer and the first lady, Laura Bush, who has made malaria her crusade, helped hand out 500,000 free nets in Mozambique and Zambia.

Social marketing may be useful during gaps between mass distributions, said Trent Ruebush, a malaria expert at the initiative and USAid. The best insecticide-filled nets last three to five years, but babies will be born in that time, or new families will move into an area. “We feel it is one of various effective ways to go,” Dr. Ruebush said.

Experiences in Kenya played a large part in persuading the W.H.O. to change its policy, said Dr. Peter Olumese, a medical officer in the agency’s malaria program.

Maendeleo, a village of about 140 mud-walled shacks with tin roofs, was part of a five-year study of 40 health districts. When it started in 2002, the only nets were those for sale in small shops, Dr. Olumese said, and only about 7 percent of people had them.

Social marketing was introduced by Population Services International, a large aid contractor. That increased coverage to about 21 percent by early 2006.

Then, late last year, the health ministry got a big grant from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria that allowed it to hand out 3.4 million free nets in two weeks. Coverage rose to 67 percent, and distribution became more equitable. Under social marketing, Dr. Olumese said, the “richest of the poor” had 38 percent coverage, while the “poorest of the poor” — like Maendeleo’s rice farmers — had only 15 percent. After the handouts, they were about equal.

It also turned out to be cheaper, Dr. Olumese said. With consultant fees, transportation, advertising and shipping, social marketing added about $10 to the cost of each net beyond the $5 to $7 that Danish or Japanese makers charged. But even with payments to volunteers, the added cost of free distribution was only about $1.25 per net.

“There has been a paradigm shift,” Dr. Olumese said. “We need to use the momentum we have right now.”

Between the giveaways, he said, nets should be handed out free to all pregnant women and mothers who visit health clinics. Some women struggle to afford even the 10 cents per child cost of identity cards that let them visit clinics. “Asking a mother to make a decision to feed her child or buy a net is not fair,” he said.

In Maendeleo, a village elder, Benson Gacu, confirmed that price was a major impediment. “Our people are poor, and very few could afford to buy a mosquito net even for 50 shillings,” or about 75 cents, he said. “We are happy that the nets are free.”

Francis Mureithi, a local shopkeeper, said he still had some 50-shilling nets for sale because the government had given free ones only to families with children under 5.

But, Mr. Mureithi noted, sales of malaria pills were way down.
200 2007-10-09 BANGKOK, Oct. 8 — The military junta in Myanmar said Monday that it had chosen its deputy labor minister to act as a liaison with the opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.

It said the minister, Aung Kyi, a retired general, would act as “liaison minister” but did not elaborate on what this responsibility would involve. State television said the appointment came after a recommendation by a United Nations envoy, Ibrahim Gambari, during a visit to Myanmar last week.

Rights activists and others have expressed concern that the junta would take cosmetic steps to deflect international anger over its violent suppression last month of huge pro-democracy protests in Myanmar, formerly Burma.

An unknown number of people were killed during the peaceful uprising, and hundreds were arrested. Since the demonstrations were crushed, the government has been carrying out nighttime searches and arrests, and the state news media said arrests were continuing.

In an earlier concession to international demands, the junta’s leader, Senior Gen. Than Shwe, said last week that he would meet with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, but only if she renounced some of her democratic demands, including her support for international sanctions against Myanmar’s government.
201 2007-10-09 Postmenopausal women who have panic attacks appear to be at higher risk for cardiovascular disease and death.

Researchers who followed 3,300 women ages 51 to 83 found that a history of full-blown panic attacks over six months was associated with a more than fourfold risk for coronary heart disease. They also found a 75 percent increase in mortality from all causes, compared with women who did not have panic attacks.

The women were enrolled in the larger Women’s Health Initiative Observational Study, which is looking into the risk factors for heart disease, cancer, fractures and other causes of mortality among postmenopausal women. The current study, published in the October issue of The Archives of General Psychiatry, was partly financed by Glaxo Wellcome, now called GlaxoSmithKline.

The researchers found that women who had panic attacks were also more likely to smoke, and to have high blood pressure, diabetes and symptoms of depression, as well as a history of cardiovascular problems. The increased risk for women who had had even one panic attack during the six-month period was still present.

“This is consistent with previous studies that have suggested that certain negative emotional states can be associated with adverse medical outcomes,” said Dr. Jordan W. Smoller, the lead author and an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard. But he added, “We can’t say whether the association with panic attacks is a direct causal connection or whether the panic attacks are a proxy for some other factor.”
202 2007-10-09 NEW SOURCE OF NATURAL GAS In the first energy production in waters north of the Arctic Circle, natural gas from a spot 90 miles off the coast of Norway in the Arctic Ocean will start to be shipped to the East Coast, where it will be burning in fur...
203 2007-10-10 At Tuesday night’s debate among Republican presidential hopefuls, the candidates jockeyed furiously to claim the mantle of the biggest tax cutter. But the laissez-faire fervor seemed to die down a bit when the talk turned to one topic: hedge fun...
204 2007-10-10 Mariano Rivera said just now that if the Yankees dismiss Joe Torre as their manager, it will play a role in his decision to return to the team. "It might have a lot to do with it," he said. "I've been with Joe for so many years. The kind of person...
205 2007-10-10 The last post generated some excellent nominations for cascades, and I welcome more, as well as suggestions for stopping mistaken cascades. To inspire you, here's a great description of the phenomenon from the 19th-century German philosopher, Arth...
206 2007-10-10 Some hedge funds may intentionally inflate returns to avoid reporting losses and keep investors on board, according to a new study. Signs of such misreporting in the $1.7 trillion industry are more common among managers who focus on securities tha...
207 2007-10-10 Pzena Investment Management, which oversees more than $30 billion in assets for institutions, wealthy individuals and mutual funds, set a price range of $16 to $18 per share for its upcoming initial public offering. In an amended prospectus filed ...
208 2007-10-10 Steven G. Schulman, a former partner at the law firm now known as Milberg Weiss, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to a racketeering conspiracy charge. Mr. Schulman, 56, of New York City, admitted in federal court to being part of a scheme in which the fi...
209 2007-10-10 Software maker Cognos has apparently not ruled out a sale of the company, after SAP's deal to buy a rival left it as the only large, independent vendor of business-intelligence software. SAP said on Sunday it would buy Business Objects for 4.8-bil...
210 2007-10-10 Deborah Siegel, a scholar and writer, leaves the academic track for an independent path....
211 2007-10-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
212 2007-10-10 At a news conference, Cleveland Chief of Police Michael McGrath said the police recovered two guns in the school.

One student, Mychael Wilmore-Smith, a 14-year-old sophomore, said she heard shooting, and then she heard the student with the weapons.

“He was yelling, ‘Shut up. Shut up. I hate this school,’ ” she said.

She turned a corner and saw her boyfriend, Michael Peek, hit by a shot and crumple to the floor, She said she ran in fear for her life.

“I was scared, and I was scared for Michael,” she said. Her boyfriend was taken to the hospital, and she said he was fine.

Another student, LaToya Sparks, 15 and a sophomore, said she saw the student on his rampage.

“I was 12 feet away from him as he was shooting,” she said afterward. “People were running each other down. I was afraid that I was going to die.”

Several students said the shooter was called “Jack Black” by others because he resembled the actor in the movie “The School of Rock,” and was a bit loud like the actor. He favored Goth fashions, they said, and he walked with a bit of a limp that some kids made fun of. Earlier in the week, some of them said, he had gotten into a fight with another student, over whether or not there was a god, and both had been suspended.

Televised scenes outside the school showed dozens of police cars, SWAT team members running in and terrified parents being reunited with their children coming out of the school as a light rain fell off and on throughout the harrowing afternoon. Gurneys were seen being wheeled out of the school and loaded into ambulances. Time and again, stunned parents and students said in interviews that they felt like they were watching a scene that happened somewhere else to someone else — not at their school and not to them.

One student, Doneisha LeVert, told The A.P. that she heard the principal say “Code Blue” over the public address system, and that prompted students to start running. Others said that word of the violence spread quickly from student to student in cellphone calls and text messages.

SuccessTech is a nontraditional public high school whose mission, according to its web site, is “Problem-based service learning with an emphasis on technology.”

Students must have good grades to apply, and then they go through an interview process before they are picked. Students and parents interviewed today said courses are tougher than at other schools and teachers more attentive. There are not many fights at SuccessTech, they said.

“This is a magnet school,” said Mary Hamm, a parent. “You have to apply to get in , so it’s for advanced kids.

“But I don’t know why they don’t have metal detectors in this school.”

School officials canceled classes for Thursday, and Friday had already been scheduled as a day off. The school occupies the third, fourth and fifth floors of a sprawling building in downtown Cleveland, across from the local offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigations, and near the city’s police headquarters.
213 2007-10-10 Boeing said today that continued challenges in completing the assembly of its first 787 “Dreamliner” jets would force it to delay initial deliveries of the plane by six months, to late 2008.

The news, which follows a three-month delay to the plane’s flight-test program announced last month, is a serious setback to Boeing and to the Dreamliner, which has so far lined up 710 orders from nearly 50 airlines, making it the fastest-selling commercial aircraft in history.

“We are disappointed over the schedule changes that we are announcing today,” Boeing’s chief executive, Jim McNerney, said in a statement from the company’s headquarters in Chicago. “Notwithstanding the challenges that we are experiencing in bringing forward this game-changing product, we remain confident in the design of the 787, and in the fundamental innovation and technologies that underpin it.”

Boeing said the first 787 deliveries, to All Nippon Airways of Japan, were now scheduled to begin in late November or December 2008, instead of the original target date of May. The first test flight, which had been expected by the end of this year, is now expected to take place by the end of March, Boeing said.

Boeing said the delay was not expected to have a material effect on its earnings for this year or for 2008. Still, Boeing’s stock swooned on the news, which evoked memories of June 2006, when Boeing’s European rival, Airbus, announced a six-month delay to its A380 “superjumbo” jet — news that prompted a 26 percent plunge in shares of its parent company, European Aeronautic Defense and Space. Boeing shares were down 3 percent, at $98.41 at 1:30 p.m..
214 2007-10-10 Mr. Jacobs said on Tuesday that Mr. Levy had been home for almost a week, and that he had spent the week before in a clinic that specializes in treating substance abuse and depression.

Discussions were under way among New Jersey Democrats on Tuesday to pressure Mr. Levy to step down, according to several people who have been briefed on the talks but would not speak for attribution since they did not want to be accused of divulging confidential discussions.

Democrats may be concerned that the embarrassing episode could affect this fall’s elections, including the races for the State Legislature, where all 120 seats are up for grabs.

Even Gov. Jon S. Corzine seemed to endorse Mr. Levy’s resignation. When asked, Mr. Corzine told reporters in Trenton, “I think if the mayor isn’t fulfilling his obligations, hasn’t lived up to the oath of office, I think that’s probably the appropriate step.”

Mr. Jacobs would not say whether the mayor’s absence was related to his admission last fall that he had misrepresented his military service in Vietnam. After a series of articles in The Press of Atlantic City, the mayor conceded that although he was in the Army, he was not in the Special Forces.

The United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, is investigating whether Mr. Levy used the misrepresentation to collect larger payments under his military pension.

Mr. Levy, 60, was last at City Hall on Sept. 26 and has not been seen publicly since. Mr. Jacobs said his client enrolled at the Carrier Clinic, an inpatient treatment center in Belle Mead, N.J., specializing in the treatment of psychiatric disorders and substance abuse.

Mr. Jacobs declined to say why Mr. Levy was treated at the clinic; he would say only that he had been discharged last Thursday and was resting at home in the Venice Park section of Atlantic City.

The mayor will remain at home for four to six more weeks, Mr. Jacobs said.

The disclosures about Mr. Levy on Tuesday were part of a day of fast-moving events in an episode that has thrust this struggling city of 40,000 into the national spotlight.

Mr. Levy’s disappearance also brought to mind the problems of other mayors here, five of whom have either been convicted of corruption or have pleaded guilty to malfeasance in the last 40 years.

As a result of his absence, Mr. Levy has been fending off a legal challenge in court. On Tuesday, Mr. Jacobs appeared before a Superior Court judge here to defend against a lawsuit filed by a City Council member.

The councilman, G. Bruce Ward, has questioned the validity of the mayor’s transfer of powers to the city’s business administrator, Dominic Cappella.

Mr. Ward has argued that because Mr. Levy did not designate Mr. Cappella through a written statement, Mr. Cappella has no authority to serve and that the mayor’s office should be declared vacant.

Mr. Ward acknowledged Tuesday that the rules outlining mayoral succession do not indicate that transfers necessarily be made in writing, but he said he would argue that a verbal notice is not enough.

“You certainly can’t transfer a lease, you can’t transfer an assignment to a contract, you can’t get married, you can’t get divorced without someone signing something,” Mr. Ward said.

He added that while he hoped Mr. Levy would be able to make a quick recovery, his interest was more in the office of mayor than on who held it. With the resignation, the City Council president, William H. Marsh, is expected to assume the office.

“The vacancy of the office is impersonal,” Mr. Ward said. “It has nothing to do with the individuals.”
215 2007-10-10 A German scientist whose studies of chemical reactions on solid surfaces have affected agriculture, manufacturing and environmental science won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry today.

Gerhard Ertl, an emeritus professor at the Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society in Berlin, received the $1.5 million prize for pioneering work in surface chemistry, which has applications across a broad array of fields. It helps explain the processes in manufacturing computer chips, in the function of automobiles’ catalytic converters and on the surface of stratospheric ice crystals that have implications for global warming.

The prize was announced by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on Dr. Ertl’s 71st birthday, and he said in remarks broadcast from Stockholm that winning the prize “is the best birthday present that you can give to somebody.” He was born in 1936 in Bad Cannstadt, Germany.

In an interview with the Associated Press from his office in Berlin, he said, “I am speechless,” and added, “I was not counting on this.”

Dr. Ertl’s work focuses on the encounter between the surfaces of solids and how they interact with gasses. When gas molecules bump up against a surface, they might simply bounce off a surface or be absorbed. Dr. Ertl focused on the ways that the gases might be absorbed and, say, break apart or interact with other captured molecules.

Sophisticated experiments by Dr. Ertl and colleagues over the decades into surfaces, gases and the catalysts that can boost interactions between them helped shed light on the process by which nitrogen-rich fertilizers can be manufactured and ultra-thin layers of semiconductors can be deposited on microchips. The principles lead to a better understanding of how corrosion works in everything from a rusty gate to a containment vessel in a nuclear power plant.
216 2007-10-10 Chevron said yesterday that it expected its third-quarter net income to be significantly below the $5.4 billion it earned in the second quarter, because of a sharp drop in its refining margins.

The company, an oil and gas producer, said in an interim report that one-time items also should hurt earnings.

Refining margins are expected to be a drag on third-quarter earnings for integrated oil and gas producers as well as independent refiners as refining margins dropped by more than half from second-quarter levels in some United States regions.

The amount of oil Chevron processed at American refineries fell about 8 percent, to 812,000 barrels a day, mostly because of planned and unplanned shutdowns.

Shares of Chevron fell 2.1 percent, to $90.83, in after-hours trading.
217 2007-10-10 Eddy Curry’s shoulder injury yesterday was found to be relatively mild, a report that qualifies as the best news the Knicks have had in weeks, if not months.

A stubborn cloud hung over the Knicks last week, even on the few days that the sun broke through the gray sky in Charleston, S.C. They opened training camp without Coach Isiah Thomas, who was stuck in New York, awaiting a verdict in his sexual-harassment trial. Camp broke with concerns about Curry, the Knicks’ franchise player. In between, Thomas lost his trial, faced daily questions about the team’s sullied reputation and fended off a boycott threat by the Rev. Al Sharpton.

By the time the Knicks arrived in Columbia, S.C., to play their first preseason game Monday, Curry was in street clothes and Thomas was somewhere between edgy and exhausted. His answers were clipped, his voice lifeless and his trademark smile nowhere to be found.

If anything were to brighten Thomas’s sour mood, it would be a positive report on Curry, which came yesterday afternoon. Dr. Answorth Allen, the team orthopedist, reviewed Curry’s magnetic resonance imaging exam and confirmed the initial diagnosis: a labral tear with no rotator cuff damage.

Team officials remain hopeful that Curry will be out for no more than a week or two. They have not ruled out the possibility that Curry could return in time for the Oct. 17 exhibition game at Boston, which Curry said was his goal.
218 2007-10-10 “Your only chance of winning is throwing a Hail Mary pass,” said Hob Bryan, a Democratic state senator. “Haley’s suddenly got to start talking to the Christians, and they were just supposed to vote for you anyway, because God says you can’t vote for a Democrat.”

The challenge for Democrats in Mississippi is to build on a base of perhaps 40 percent of the vote, made up of blacks and yellow-dog Democrat voters; it is a difficult though not insurmountable hurdle. With Mr. Barbour, the former Republican National Committee chairman, as an overwhelming favorite, Mr. Eaves has chosen to force a classic Republican gambit back on Republicans themselves.

Democrats in the South “always have to clear this cultural hurdle first,” said Thomas F. Schaller, associate professor of political science at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, and an expert on Southern politics. “This is, generally speaking, the way you have to do it in the South.”

Already, this most unorthodox of Democratic campaigns — a strange contortion of swings from the far right, aimed from the left — is attracting attention, some grass-roots support in a Deep South state with a history of hardshell populism, and enough last-minute scorn from Mr. Barbour that Eaves workers are gleeful merely at having forced the powerful incumbent on the attack.

On Main Street in the small towns, some nod appreciatively as Mr. Eaves evokes a “new day in Mississippi, where our children go to school with voluntary, student-led school prayers.”

As he intones in one television commercial, “We have a responsibility to provide a moral framework for our kids.”

Mr. Barbour, who will be 60 years old on Oct. 22, has clearly been annoyed to be the subject of such criticism from a Democrat. “My opponent loves to quote the Bible,” Mr. Barbour said sarcastically at a debate here last week — an unusual line of attack in a state with more churches per capita, by some counts, than any other. “I’ll spare you the sanctimony,” the governor said at another point, swatting down yet more inspiration from Scripture.

“This campaign should be on public policy,” the exasperated governor continued, at the debate at Mississippi State University here. “That’s what I want to focus on, making life better for Mississippians,” he insisted, after an evening of holy writ from Mr. Eaves.

The Eaves campaign, with its heavy emphasis on prayer and faith, says it is gaining with evangelicals and born-again Christians in Mississippi, a voting bloc making up perhaps half of the electorate here. And evangelicals are paying attention.

Observing from his headquarters in Tupelo, Miss., the Rev. Donald Wildmon, executive director of the American Family Association, a conservative Christian advocacy group, confesses to being flummoxed: “Here you have a Democrat, most of the time who are liberals, talking about issues you would expect coming from a conservative Republican. How’s that going to play out? I think it’s going to be interesting.”

Others — Mr. Barbour’s campaign staff members, along with some preachers — are skeptical, and national Democrats are nowhere to be seen around this race. Indeed, Mr. Eaves said some told him they were staying away because he is strongly anti-abortion. He even rebuked the Democratic National Committee for leaving Jesus out of an Easter statement.

Mr. Eaves, soft-spoken, smooth-faced and well-known in Mississippi even at 41 thanks to billboards, television advertisements and a few high-profile cases, does not see his venture as a hybrid.

“I’m a Democrat because Democrats invest in people; I’m a Democrat because I’m a Christian,” he said in a recent interview, after shaking hands at a diner in the courthouse town of Kosciusko. “Jesus came to help the people. He healed the sick, and he tried to help the poor. The Democrats’ core fiber is to help people. That was Jesus’ mission.”

The campaign has been replete with suggestions that Mr. Barbour has maintained a financial connection to his old lobbying firm in Washington. Mr. Barbour says his assets are held in a blind trust, the details of which he refuses to disclose, though one of his former partners has said the governor receives a fixed retirement “payment” from the firm.

“Governor, just come clean, tell us where your treasure is,” Mr. Eaves intoned in a preachery sing-song at last week’s debate.

On the stump, he makes far more headway with his message about prayer. Worship in school is clearly on the voters’ minds, at least as much as new jobs Mr. Barbour boasts of bringing with some splashy industrial catches.

As Mr. Eaves strode into the Choctaw County courthouse recently, in the tiny town of Ackerman, he was asked: “How do you put school prayer back in schools?” The question came unprompted from Dee Ann Williams in the county extension office. “Here’s how you do it,” Mr. Eaves answered readily. “Voluntary, student-led. We’re setting aside the time.”

Afterward, Ms. Williams said she was well satisfied with the answer.

At Pap’s Place, a diner on Main Street in Ackerman, the Bible was open under the Elvis albums and the Ten Commandments were on an engraved plaque in the window.

“John Arthur sounds pretty good. He’s going to cut the sales tax and put prayer back in schools,” said Charles Salley, behind the cash register, as Mr. Eaves’s bus pulled out of town.

“Put the Good Lord back in everything. That’s a priority,” Mr. Salley said.
219 2007-10-10 The horror faced by two abducted boys was revealed in court, where their captor pleaded guilty and prosecutors said a video showing him torture one boy underlined why he should die in prison. The kidnapper, Michael Devlin, left, offered no apologies but shed light on why one of his victims stayed with him more than four years: The terrorized boy, Shawn Hornbeck, cut a deal just as Mr. Devlin was beginning to strangle him, telling Mr. Devlin he would do whatever was asked of him to stay alive. “I attempted to kill him, and he talked me out of it,” Mr. Devlin said. Mr. Devlin abducted a second boy early this year, days before both victims were discovered alive in his apartment in the St. Louis suburb of Kirkwood. Mr. Devlin received dozens of life sentences after his pleas to more than 80 counts, including sexual assault, kidnapping and attempted murder.
220 2007-10-10 Many investors concluded that the Fed’s remarks about inflation gave it latitude to act, pushing markets higher yesterday, with much of the gain coming after the release of the Fed meeting minutes. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up 12.57 points, or 0.8 percent, at 1,565.15, and the Dow finished up 120.80 points, or 0.9 percent, at 14,164.53. Both closes were records. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.54 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,803.91.

The gains came despite clear signals that Fed officials see a cloudy economic forecast for the months ahead. Federal Reserve economists lowered their growth forecasts for the fourth quarter and 2008. Fed members said problems in the housing market would continue unabated for several quarters, creating downward pressures on job and wage growth. And they appeared divided on whether consumer spending would continue to expand.

“Given the unusual nature of the current financial shock, participants regarded the outlook for economic activity as characterized by particularly high uncertainty, with the risks to growth skewed to the downside,” the report said.

That concern was enough for a unanimous decision on the rate cut.

“Without such policy action, members saw a risk that tightening credit conditions and an intensifying housing correction would lead to significant broader weakness in output and employment,” the report said. “The impaired functioning of financial markets might persist for some time or possibly worsen, with negative implications for economic activity.”

While Fed members remained concerned about volatility in the financial sector, they also sounded a small note of optimism, noting the economy’s “resilience” in the face of past market disruptions — a possible reference to market crashes in 1987 and 1998. In those cases, the Fed aggressively cut rates only to find the economy was healthier than it had expected. The Fed could now be looking at a similar case.

”At the time the decision was made, we were going through what appeared to be a financial Armageddon,” Mr. Larson of Voyageur said. “They overreacted in the sense that the economy might be better off than we thought it was at that point.”

The Labor Department said last week that summer job growth was much stronger than originally thought. A report that showed a loss of 4,000 jobs in August — the first monthly decline in four years — was revised sharply upward, to a gain of 89,000 jobs.

That initial report stoked fears of a recession and was taken into account at the Fed’s meeting. “Employment probably was not as weak as the most recent monthly data had suggested,” the minutes said, but Fed members added that “further slowing of employment growth was likely.”

Some analysts on Wall Street still remained optimistic yesterday about a rate cut at the Fed’s next meeting on Oct. 30 and 31. “The minutes certainly did not do anything to change our expectation that the Fed is likely to cut rates again,” said Julia Coronado, senior United States economist at Barclays Capital.

“In the minutes they explicitly say they’ve marked down their forecast for growth,” she said. “Ultimately, they think the pressures on inflation have eased.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
221 2007-10-10 Ms. Farmer said she often is mistaken for a man, but her New York State nondriver photo identification card clearly lists her as female.

She said the bouncer followed her up the stairs and back to the table, asked her party to pay for the appetizers they had eaten and made them leave the restaurant.

Telephone calls to the management at Caliente Cab Company were not returned yesterday. The bouncer was not named as a defendant in the lawsuit.

The Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund filed the lawsuit on behalf of Ms. Farmer in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. It accuses the restaurant of discriminating against Ms. Farmer because her appearance did not comply with society’s norms concerning gender identity.

A 2002 amendment to the city’s human rights law protects the rights of city residents whose gender expression is different from their sex at birth. The state’s civil rights law does not include a similar protection. But the defense fund argues that it should be interpreted as protecting New Yorkers against sexual stereotyping, in which people are expected to conform to gender-appropriate behavior.

Although Ms. Farmer is not transgender, the legal defense group considered the suit to be a strategically important case with the potential to set a precedent, said Michael D. Silverman, the organization’s executive director and general counsel. The lawsuit’s claims are being made under both city and state law.

The fact that the bouncer refused to look at Ms. Farmer’s identification card before ejecting her showed that he was judging her simply by how she looked, Mr. Silverman said.

Sexual stereotyping, he said, was expanded as a legal concept under a 1989 decision by the United States Supreme Court. In that case, Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins, the court found, 6 to 3, that a woman had failed to make partner at the accounting firm Price Waterhouse in part because she was considered too “macho.” The court ruled that male supervisors discriminated against her on the basis of stereotyped notions of appropriate female appearance and behavior.

“We’re asking the court to say that sex stereotyping by public accommodation is just as harmful when practiced by a public accommodation like a restaurant as it is when it is practiced by an employer,” Mr. Silverman said. “If Khadijah were wearing pearls and white gloves, would the bouncer have treated her like that?”

Kenji Yoshino, a Yale Law School professor who studies gender and sexuality under the law, said Ms. Farmer’s claims were much stronger under the city law. “The New York City statute is so much more directly on point.”

Ms. Farmer said she is mistaken for a man on a daily basis — especially in bathrooms and locker rooms, where she often gets funny looks. “I have a script that is almost routine,” she said. “I say, ‘I am a woman, and I’m supposed to be here.’”
222 2007-10-10 Stephen B. Burbank, the University of Pennsylvania law professor and special master who led last week’s arbitration hearing, sided with the team after hearing from Rich McKay, the Falcons’ president and general manager, and lawyers from the N.F.L. Players Association, which represented Vick.

The Falcons argued that Vick, who pleaded guilty to federal charges for his role in a long-running dogfighting operation, knew he was in violation of the contract when he signed a $130 million deal in December 2004.

EVANS SUPPORTS LOSMAN Lee Evans could not get over how a sputtering offense contributed to the Bills’ collapse Monday night.

Evans, a fourth-year receiver, also wanted J. P. Losman back as the starting quarterback once he was ready to return after missing the past two games with a sprained left knee.

“I don’t think it’s a controversy in my opinion,” Evans said, hours after Buffalo squandered an 8-point lead in the final 20 seconds of a 25-24 loss to the Dallas Cowboys. “Take it with a grain of salt, but when J. P. is healthy, it’s still his position to lose,” Evans said. “I think J. P. has played well given the circumstances. If they make that change, they make that change. But in my opinion, it’s J. P.’s job.”

Losman was expected to resume practicing this week and should be cleared to play when Buffalo (1-4) plays host to Baltimore on Oct. 21.

SIMMS TO INJURED RESERVE The Buccaneers plan to place the backup quarterback Chris Simms on injured reserve today, creating room on the roster to bring in a replacement for the injured running backs Carnell Williams and Michael Pittman. Simms had his spleen removed after the third game of last season and has struggled to regain his form.

AROUND THE LEAGUE The N.F.L. has suspended the Bengals starting cornerback Johnathan Joseph for Sunday’s game at Kansas City, the club said. He was suspended for violating the league’s substance-abuse policy. ... Falcons offensive tackle Wayne Gandy will miss the rest of the season after the first major injury of his 14-year career. Gandy tore a ligament in his knee on Atlanta’s next-to-last offensive play of a 20-13 loss to the Titans. ... Chiefs quarterback Damon Huard’s magnetic resonance imaging test showed no damage to his shoulder, and he may be ready to start Sunday against Cincinnati, Coach Herman Edwards said. ... Packers linebacker Nick Barnett was charged yesterday in Appleton, Wis., with two counts of disorderly conduct stemming from an altercation with two women in a bar this summer.
223 2007-10-10 When asked if he thought developments had already reached that stage, he added: “I’d like to understand the circumstances. I don’t have all the facts.”

Mr. Levy’s lawyer, Edwin J. Jacobs, declined to answer when asked if Mr. Levy wanted to stay in office. Mr. Jacobs said he planned to issue a statement on behalf of Mr. Levy that would “fully explain all of the mayor’s circumstances.”

Mr. Jacobs would not say whether the mayor’s absence was related to his admission last fall that he had misrepresented his military service in Vietnam. After a series of articles in The Press of Atlantic City, the mayor conceded that although he was in the Army, he was not in the Special Forces.

The United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, is investigating whether Mr. Levy used the misrepresentation to collect larger payments under his military pension.

Mr. Levy, 60, was last at City Hall on Sept. 26 and has not been seen publicly since. Mr. Jacobs said his client enrolled at the Carrier Clinic, an inpatient treatment center in Belle Mead, N.J., specializing in the treatment of psychiatric disorders and substance abuse.

Mr. Jacobs declined to say why Mr. Levy was treated at the clinic; he would say only that he had been discharged last Thursday and was resting at home in the Venice Park section of Atlantic City.

The mayor will remain at home for four to six more weeks, Mr. Jacobs said.

The disclosures about Mr. Levy were part of a day of fast-moving events in an episode that has thrust this struggling city of 40,000 into the national spotlight.

Mr. Levy’s disappearance also brought to mind the problems of other mayors here, five of whom have either been convicted of corruption or have pleaded guilty to malfeasance in the last 40 years.

As a result of his absence, Mr. Levy must also fend off a legal challenge in court. Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Jacobs appeared before a Superior Court judge here to defend against a lawsuit filed by a City Council member.

The councilman, G. Bruce Ward, has questioned the validity of the mayor’s transfer of powers to the city’s business administrator, Dominic Cappella.

Mr. Ward has argued that because Mr. Levy did not designate Mr. Cappella through a written statement, Mr. Cappella has no authority to serve and that the mayor’s office should be declared vacant.

Mr. Ward acknowledged Tuesday that the rules outlining mayoral succession do not indicate that transfers necessarily be made in writing, but he said he would argue that a verbal notice is not enough.

“You certainly can’t transfer a lease, you can’t transfer an assignment to a contract, you can’t get married, you can’t get divorced without someone signing something,” Mr. Ward said.

He added that while he hoped Mr. Levy would be able to make a quick recovery, his interest was more in the office of mayor than on who held it. If Mr. Levy resigns or if Mr. Ward prevails in his lawsuit, the City Council president, William H. Marsh, will assume the office.

“The vacancy of the office is impersonal,” Mr. Ward said. “It has nothing to do with the individuals.”

Mr. Ward said that Judge Valerie H. Armstrong was expected to hear arguments in the suit Friday afternoon.

Meanwhile, residents were concerned about the effects of Mr. Levy’s absence.

“Even though Atlantic City didn’t have the most stellar reputation to begin with, this has been beyond belief,” said Warren Massey, a longtime opponent of Mr. Levy who has led a recall petition drive since August. “The black eye that this has caused Atlantic City will take years to go away.”

“He’s an absentee mayor, as you can see by all this here,” he said.

Still, Mr. Levy continued to have supporters in some quarters.

“He’s a good mayor,” said Doug Oulton, 52. “He has a right to say who’s in charge or not.”

Asked about what could have led the mayor to disappear, Mr. Oulton said: “Everybody’s got skeletons in their closet. If he said he was in the Special Forces, who cares? As long as he’s a good mayor.”

For other residents, any sympathy about the mayor’s clinic stay was tempered by the sense of embarrassment that his absence caused the city.

“If he’s being treated for depression or whatever, that’s O.K., just tell somebody,” said Georgieanne Ross, 64. “Even Britney Spears did that.”
224 2007-10-10 Most consumers still believe that if a product is on the shelf of a reliable store like Home Depot, somebody has tested it and proved it safe. At the least, they assume they would have heard about any dangers, the way they know about toxic substances in Chinese toys and toothpaste. But as Eric Lipton reported in The Times this week, that can be a dangerous assumption to make.

One harrowing example of a hazardous product is Stand ’n Seal, a spray designed to waterproof tiles and then “evaporate harmlessly.” At least two people died and 80 were sickened or hospitalized after using it in 2005. Yet more than two years after such reactions were reported to the manufacturer, to the stores that carried the product and to the federal government, some cans of the hazardous spray were still being sold to unwitting customers.

The federal watchdog designated to protect buyers from this sort of danger is the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or what is left of it. Under the Bush administration’s ideological drive to weaken agencies that regulate business, the commission has been “hollowed out,” in the favorite Washington phrase, to less than half its former strength. Its staff, which was 978 strong in its heyday, now numbers only 401. It has outdated laboratory equipment, and in another sign of neglect, the Bush administration has failed for months to appoint one of the commissioners.

The Stand ’n Seal case makes it clear that the safety commission is increasingly unable to protect consumers quickly. Since no premarket testing is required, companies are allowed to decide whether their own products are safe. They are required to report possible hazards or problems within 24 hours to the commission. In the case of Stand ’n Seal, it took three months from the time the company first received an alarming report of how its product affected customers until the commission finally issued a formal recall. Even after the recall, some of the cans were still on shelves as late as spring 2007.

Consumers deserve better. There needs to be a more effective way to report when there are problems with a product, and the commission should be required to make the complaints available to the public as they come in. Once the commission decides on a recall, the company should be required to advertise to let consumers know. The commission should also be able to levy bigger fines on manufacturers, and selling these goods should be illegal.

Congress has finally begun to recognize that the Consumer Product Safety Commission is yet another federal agency that has been stripped of its powers to protect the public. Senator Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, is among those pushing to rebuild the agency, a few million dollars at a time. He, and others in Congress, should keep pushing. When greed or inefficiency trumps safety, consumers need a muscular Consumer Product Safety Commission to fight back.
225 2007-10-10 “For the longest period of time, consumers formed their attitudes through TV, print, radio,” Mr. Maloney said, “and from the middle ’90s onward, there was more influence from the Net.”

He added: “In the last year, there appears to be an acceleration of attitude-forming, opinion-forming, online, instead of in the traditional media, and we have to respond appropriately.”

A survey of how consumers are influenced in their buying decisions, which Intel undertook this year, showed that “three or four out of the top five sources have something to do with the online media,” Mr. Maloney said, including search engines and blogs in addition to Web sites.

“TV, print, can play a role,” he added, “but once you’re researching a purchase, we need to engage with you in a deeper way.”

That is why Intel is changing the media outlays for its own ads to more than 50 percent online in another two years, from about 15 percent two years ago, Mr. Maloney said. Intel spends about $300 million a year worldwide on its own advertising, created by agencies that are part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Spending on ads in the online media in the United States has been growing rapidly as Americans alter the way they consume media. In the first half of 2007, Internet ad revenue totaled almost $10 billion, the Internet Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers reported last week, an increase of nearly 27 percent from the same period a year ago.

Technology companies like Intel are presumably more comfortable working with the online media than their lower-technology counterparts. But lower-tech companies, too, are changing their media plans.

For instance, the American Egg Board, which promotes egg consumption, used to spend all its ad budget in traditional media like television and radio. But a campaign introduced last month by the Grey division of Grey Global, part of the WPP Group, is adding online media, like a redesigned Web site (incredibleegg.org) and blogs.

About 10 to 20 percent of the egg board’s total budget of more than $10 million will be spent in new media.

“It was a big change for us,” said Kevin Burkum, vice president for marketing at the egg board in Park Ridge, Ill. “TV is still very important to us,” he added, “but it’s not the be-all and end-all as it used to be.”

Another example of the trend is provided by a leading producer of public service advertising, the Partnership for a Drug-Free America. Online media, which have carried few ads from the partnership, are expected to account for 10 percent of all its ads this year and as much as 31 percent by 2010.

The “Intel inside” co-op program, which began in 1991, works this way:

If a company that buys chips from Intel agrees to take part in the program, Intel sets aside a certain amount of money for co-op ads. Mike Hoefflinger, general manager for the global partner marketing group at Intel, described the amount as “a single-digit percentage” of its total sales to that chip customer. That set-aside money is then used to reimburse the customer for something like half the cost of ads that feature the “Intel inside” logo.

If Company X buys $10 million worth of microprocessors from Intel, for example, Intel sets aside, say, 5 percent of that revenue, or $500,000, for co-op ads. If Company X buys an ad bearing the “Intel inside” logo for $100,000, it is reimbursed for half that cost, or $50,000. That leaves $450,000 still set aside by Intel to reimburse Company X for additional co-op ads.

One real-life Company X is Sony Electronics in San Diego, which takes part in the co-op program in advertising its Vaio line of computers.

“Sony welcomes the change,” said Mike Abary, senior vice president for information technology product marketing at Sony Electronics, part of the Sony Corporation of America.

“We found, especially in this category, there are more effective results with the online media than any other,” he added.

For his company, Mr. Abary said, online marketing will account this year for “more than a third” of media placements, “and we anticipate it’s going to be higher in ’08.”

Some of the “Intel inside” co-op ads that Sony is running appear on the click-to-play video network operated by Google.

Intel’s 35 percent online requirement “shows how far online advertising has come,” said John Burke, director for industry development at the New York office of Google.

“One of the joys of working in advertising at the moment is that all of the rules are being reinvented,” he added. “We see increasingly how online advertising, which was once the redheaded stepchild, is becoming center stage.”

A redheaded stepchild at center stage? Sounds like a revival of “Annie” — to be performed online, of course.
226 2007-10-10 WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 — Health insurance companies cited by federal auditors for violation of Medicare standards said Tuesday that they were addressing the deficiencies and would improve service to patients, who will be able to switch plans in the last six weeks of the year.

The commitments came as Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, and two other members of Congress expressed concern about the marketing of private Medicare plans and their handling of claims, appeals and grievances.

Carolyn P. Haynes, a compliance officer at WellPoint, one of the nation’s largest insurers, said the company had hired additional employees to answer telephones and pay claims filed by or for Medicare beneficiaries.

Ms. Haynes said WellPoint was reducing its claims backlog and telephone waiting times and expected to be in compliance with federal standards by the end of this month.

Pamela Mariea-Nason, public policy director at CareOregon, based in Portland, said her company was “very serious” about correcting deficiencies and was revising its procedures.
227 2007-10-10 In a bipartisan rebuff of White House hubris, the House has overwhelmingly endorsed an overhaul of the inspector general process to insulate it from the waste, fraud and political meddling that are a hallmark of the Bush administration.

The vital measure would strengthen the independence of inspectors general so they can blow the whistle on internal agency abuses without fear of retribution. It sets seven-year terms and narrows the grounds for removing an inspector general to specified causes, not political vagaries. It also strengthens the budget resources of investigators, and creates an oversight council that would encourage professionalism but also investigate allegations about abusive inspectors.

The need for bolstering some 50 federal inspectors general has become a grim subtheme of the Bush administration’s arrogant massing of executive power. Most recently, State Department employees accused the White House-appointed inspector general, Howard Krongard, of blocking rather than abetting their efforts to uncover fraud and abuse in the contract billions being showered on Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. Krongard denies serving as the administration’s lap dog against embarrassment. Critics accuse him of delaying investigations, censoring reports on security weaknesses in Baghdad and tipping off a fellow political appointee of a pending inquiry.

Other allegations of compromised investigations have been raised about inspectors general at the Commerce Department, NASA, the Smithsonian Institution and the Legal Services Corporation.

Clearly, the inspector general process, created in 1978 to protect the taxpayers’ interests, needs bolstering against the political meddling of this and future administrations. The House voted 404 to 11 for reforms, despite the White House’s threat of a veto. The Senate should show comparable determination to see fraud and abuse weeded out by in-agency investigators.

The inspector general problem is one more barn door to be closed on an irresponsible administration. The sooner Congress acts, the better for responsible government.
228 2007-10-10 French prosecutors requested a fine and a civics course for a woman who planted a lipstick-red kiss on an all-white painting by the American artist Cy Twombly, Agence France-Presse reported yesterday. The trial, which comes days after intruders broke into the Musée d’Orsay in Paris and punched a hole in a painting by Claude Monet, concerns Rindy Sam, a 30-year-old artist who was arrested in July after kissing the Twombly work at an exhibition in Avignon, France. “I just gave it a kiss,” Ms. Sam told the court, which was shown a reproduction, above, of the lipstick mark. “It was an act of love; when I kissed it, I wasn’t thinking. I thought the artist would understand.” The prosecution demanded a fine of 4,500 euros ($6,300) and a civics course as punishment for what it called a form of cannibalism, though it said the young woman “clearly does not realize what she has done.” Mr. Twombly’s untitled work, measuring about nine by six feet, is valued at almost $3 million. A verdict is expected in a few weeks.
229 2007-10-10 A year ago “Madama Butterfly” served unofficially as a prototype for the new Metropolitan Opera, an advertisement for a Met now masterminded by Peter Gelb and poised for a change toward the theatrical. This impregnable Puccini potboiler, dressed up in Anthony Minghella’s gorgeous pageantlike production, returned to the house on Monday. The cast was new, but the dancing, the splendid costumes, the forays into Japanese theatrical culture and a general flamboyance were there intact.

Behind the tasteful glitter and attention-getting visual coups was a traditional, almost literal rendering of the opera. This trans-Pacific morality tale of careless seduction with bad results first appeared more than a century ago, but it remains live ammunition for those who don’t think much of America’s current behavior toward the rest of the world. The Minghella production demurs; it keeps clear of politics and metaphorical updates. It tells the story that the opera tells, albeit in the grandest of terms.

Cio-Cio-San, she of the title role, is one of opera’s great paradoxes: the frail, 15-year-old bride given music of unrelenting hurricane force. The Met played the frailty card a year ago with Cristina Gallardo-Domâs, sacrificing vocal power for a more palpable sense of physical vulnerability. Patricia Racette sang the part on Monday as big-time Italian opera, with strength, taste and emotional generosity. What an exhausting role this must be in every way.

Classifications of tenor voices run to words like elegant or rich. Roberto Alagna, the season’s Lieutenant Pinkerton, has more the working man’s sound: blunt and tough, with moments of impressive muscle and, with them, lapses in musical grammar. Mr. Alagna is free (to put it kindly) in matters of rhythm and note values. He and the performance’s conductor, Mark Elder, had trouble all evening figuring out what the other was going to do next.

This season’s first “Madama Butterfly” had an underdone, unready quality. Contact between stage and pit drifted in and out of sync. There were a number of what sounded like backstage collisions; the Act II curtain snagged. The striking pantomime at the opening curtain was pretty much ruined on both sides of the footlights. Sets banged; audience members coughed and shuffled feet nervously. We Americans do not like silence, especially when it catches us unawares.

Maria Zifchak (Suzuki) and Luca Salsi (Sharpless) were the solid secondary principals. David Cangelosi, Keith Miller, Youn Mok Jeong, Dean Peterson, David Won and Edyta Kulczak all did well. The impressive sights of this “Butterfly” came from Han Feng (costumes), Michael Levine (sets), Carolyn Choa (choreography), Peter Mumford (lighting) and the Blind Summit Theater (puppetry).
230 2007-10-10 Mr. Fruit Face, as a friend of mine disdainfully calls him, has always been a guaranteed hit with the Transformer-age crowd. But his art is more serious and self-important than that. You can imagine him to have been the sort of initially jocular, learned dinner party companion whose arrogance makes itself known by the salad course. That he inspired thousands of appalling 20th-century Surrealists, apparently shocked at the genius of conceiving a gherkin to replace a nose, or a rose a cheek, isn’t his fault.

Born in Milan in 1536, the son of a local artist, he started out painting conventional, darkling portraits. They’re brittle but deft. He paid obeisance to Leonardo da Vinci via intermediaries like Bernardino Luini, who is said to have been a family friend. Commissions for stained glass and tapestries, permitting minor flights of peculiar fancy, eventually landed him in the employ of Maximilian II, in Vienna, then of Maximilian’s cultivated son, Rudolf II.

There he finally cooked up his famous faces. They satisfied a taste for exoticism. This was the era of high humanist curiosity. Newly rediscovered ancient texts like Pliny’s natural history circulated among scholars and artists; in the show, watercolors of animals and fish by Arcimboldo, exacting models he adapted for parts of faces, show him to be firmly grounded in science and real observation. Global exploration and advances in fields like optics and engineering stirred Rudolf, like other enlightened patrons, to wish to possess whatever was the rarest, the finest, the strangest, the most inexplicable art and artifacts. From such cabinets of curiosities — attempts to catalog and rationalize the irrational — evolved, one day, the modern museum. This was Arcimboldo’s milieu and motivation.

Usefully, the show includes more than a few works by sculptors and decorators who also catered to a fixation on the marvelous. Coconuts, conch shells, ostrich eggs and coral, gathered from the distant corners of the earth, become goblets, bowls and hilts for swords, three-dimensional versions of his painted faces. They’re about art’s roots in mysticism and magic. Painting itself is a sleight-of-hand trick, after all: colored dirt becomes an illusion.

Along which lines Arcimboldo clearly picked up pointers from Bosch and no doubt from Persian miniaturists. A gorgeous show of classic Iranian art happens to have just opened at the Louvre, and it includes several astonishing paintings from Arcimboldo’s time: fantastical landscapes populated by wild creatures. Stare at the mountain scenes, and faces can begin to suggest themselves in the salt-taffy rock formations and trees.

All artists have their niches, and this commonplace slip of the mind became for Arcimboldo a virtual cottage industry. A bust of a bearded librarian, with a tin-man face made of books, and bookmarks for fingers, is a clever feat of virtuosity, like the “reversible” pictures he painted: right side up, they’re still lifes; upside down, portraits.

More interestingly, he also painted a three-quarter view of an old man, grossly desiccated, memorably perverse because somehow still dignified, almost courtly in his dotage, with branch stumps for a stubble, and a portrait of a German jurist, the humanist Johann Ulrich Zasius, with a plucked chicken for a head, a fish mouth and fish-tail chin. It’s scary in ways that can almost remind you of Velázquez’s portrait of Pope Innocent X, troubling the mind like a half-remembered nightmare.

So too a quartet of stiff, plain-spoken little portraits of the family of Pedro Gonzalez, whose distinction was to grow hair all over their faces, like the Wolf Man, an accident of nature akin to the Virgin Mary’s portrait appearing in a grilled-cheese sandwich.

The universe concocts such marvels, which man emulates through art and industry, hoping to best. That was Arcimboldo’s bottom-line goal, and his ambition, so frank and intellectual, gives to his prankish, often grotesque work its stylish hauteur.

Come to think of it, no wonder the French love him.
231 2007-10-10 A clubhouse attendant packed the belongings from Alex Rodriguez's locker into cardboard boxes yesterday, in what may have been a sign that Rodriguez did not plan to visit Yankee Stadium anytime soon. He may never return as a member of the Yankees ...
232 2007-10-10 WHOM CAN SHAREHOLDERS SUE?  Shareholders looking for deep pockets to sue in securities fraud cases faced an uphill battle at the Supreme Court. In arguments over a closely watched shareholders' suit, the court appeared strongly inclined to leave i...
233 2007-10-11 Garry Kasparov, the former world champion and current presidential nominee of the Other Russia, a small opposition group, gave a one hour speech this morning to thousands of business people at the World Business Forum at Radio City Music Hall in N...
234 2007-10-11 A new report, using census and election data, shows that the number of young minority voters in 2006 was still far disproportionate to their overall population....
235 2007-10-11 The rise of open-source cellphone software will challenge wireless handset makers and carriers....
236 2007-10-11 Senator John McCain leveled charges of inexperience at Mitt Romney and took Rudolph W. Giuliani to task for his opposition to the line-item veto....
237 2007-10-11 Some thoughts on self-promotion and blogging for small business owners....
238 2007-10-11 Virgin Mobile USA, the pay-as-you-go phone service from Sprint Nextel and Richard Branson's Virgin Group, priced its initial public offering at $15 per share, the low end of the expected range. The company sold 27.5 million shares, or a stake of a...
239 2007-10-11 Sony Financial Holdings gained 3.8 percent on its first day of trading in Tokyo after raising 320 billion yen ($2.7 billion) in Japan's largest initial public offering of 2007. The Tokyo-based insurance unit is Sony Corporation's second-largest so...
240 2007-10-11 Morgan Stanley has received an Indian merchant banking license that will allow it to resume onshore investment banking advisory and underwriting services in this fast-growing country where companies are in constant need of capital to finance their...
241 2007-10-11 SRM Global, a hedge fund run by a former UBS trader, Jon Wood, has built a 4 percent stake in the ailing British mortgage lender Northern Rock. The news sent Northern Rock's shares up more than 40 percent Wednesday, before closing 66.7 pence, or 3...
242 2007-10-11 A New York hedge fund adviser, Sandell Asset Management, has agreed to pay more than $8 million to settle charges that it engaged in improper short sales in connection with the merger of Hibernia and Capital One Financial, securities regulators sa...
243 2007-10-11 Hedge funds should disclose indirect investments in companies and do a better job of informing clients and banks about the risks they take, a working group made up of fund executives suggested on Wednesday in an attempt to appease critics, who had...
244 2007-10-11 A fund run by Galleon Group lost more than 9 percent in September after missing the stock market rally sparked by the Federal Reserve's larger-than-expected interest rate cut. Galleon Captain's Offshore lost 9.6 percent last month, leaving it down...
245 2007-10-11 Once upon a time there was FM radio. This service offered music and talk almost 24 hours a day, with limited commercial interruptions. Now, however, FM radio is just another conduit for the iPod juggernaut.

The Belkin Tunebase FM connects to almost any iPod, including the new Touch, and transmits audio to any car radio. It plugs into a car’s cigarette lighter and charges the iPod while connected.

Unlike previous FM transmitters, however, the Tunebase can scan the airwaves for an open channel that is not being used by a radio station, to ensure audio quality. When you click a button, the transmitter displays the best frequency, allowing you to tune into that same frequency on your car radio to hear the audio.

The Tunebase also includes an audio jack for use with other devices like cassette tape adapters, if your car stereo plays tapes. The device, which costs $90, is available this month online and in stores.

With the Tunebase you can go back to the early days of radio: more music and talk, and considerably fewer commercials. JOHN BIGGS
246 2007-10-11 A new iPod amplifier and speaker system from Bowers & Wilkins may have the airy name Zeppelin, but at 16.5 pounds it seems lead-like.

The weight of this two-foot-long ovoid comes from five speakers and an amp that the company says puts out an average of 100 watts of power. An iPod Nano, Classic or Touch can clip into a chrome mount at the center of the unit.

The back panel has ports for S-video, U.S.B. and mini phone jack connections, so that it can play sound from a TV, computer or CD player as well as from an iPod. The five speakers produce impressive sound, but they don’t work well in the middle of a room, because the rear-firing subwoofer assaults anyone standing behind it.

The Zeppelin comes with a compact remote that looks like a polished river stone, except for the minuscule buttons that control most of the iPod’s functions, including volume.

At a suggested retail price of $600, this Zeppelin may be just right for playing your favorite blues-inflected rockers. Say, maybe, Cream?
247 2007-10-11 “I think it’s a terrible idea,” said Mr. Hitz, who now teaches at the University of Virginia. “Under the statute, the inspector general has the right to investigate the director. How can you do that and have the director turn around and investigate the I.G.?”

A C.I.A. spokesman strongly defended the inquiry on Thursday, saying General Hayden supported the work of the inspector general’s office and had “accepted the vast majority of its findings.”

“His only goal is to help this office, like any office at the agency, do its vital work even better,” said Paul Gimigliano, the spokesman.

Current and former intelligence officials said the inquiry had involved formal interviews with at least some of the inspector general’s staff and was perceived by some agency employees as an “investigation,” a label Mr. Gimigliano rejected.

Several current and former officials interviewed for this article spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the inquiry.

The officials said the inquiry was being overseen by Robert L. Deitz, a trusted aide to the C.I.A. director and a lawyer who served as general counsel at the National Security Agency when General Hayden ran it. Michael Morrell, the agency’s associate deputy director, is another member of the group, officials said.

Reached by phone Thursday, both Mr. Helgerson and Mr. Dietz declined to comment.

In his role as the agency’s inspector general since 2002, Mr. Helgerson has investigated some of the most controversial programs the C.I.A. has begun since the Sept. 11 attacks, including its secret program to detain and interrogate high value terrorist suspects.

Under federal procedures, agency heads who are unhappy with the conduct of their inspectors general have at least two places to file complaints. One is the Integrity Committee of the President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency, which oversees all the inspectors general. The aggrieved agency head can also go directly to the White House.

If serious accusations against an inspector general are sustained by evidence, the president can dismiss him.

Both those routes avoid the awkward situation officials describe at the C.I.A. and preserve the independence of the inspector general.

But one intelligence official who supports General Hayden’s decision to begin an internal inquiry said that going outside the agency would “blow things way out of proportion.”

A report by Mr. Helgerson’s office completed in the spring of 2004 warned that some C.I.A.-approved interrogation procedures appeared to constitute cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, as defined by the international Convention Against Torture.

Some of the inspector general’s work on detention issues was conducted by Mary O. McCarthy, who was fired from the agency last year after being accused of leaking classified information. Officials said Mr. Helgerson’s office was nearing completion on a number of inquiries into C.I.A. detention, interrogation, and “renditions” — the practice of seizing suspects and delivering them to the authorities in other nations.

The inspector general’s office also rankled agency officials when it completed a withering report about the C.I.A’s missteps before the Sept. 11 attack — a report that recommended “accountability boards” to consider disciplinary action against a handful of senior officials.

When the report was made public in August, General Hayden took the rare step of pointing up criticisms of the report by the former intelligence director, George J. Tenet and his senior aides, saying many officials “took strong exception to its focus, methodology and conclusions.”

Some agency officers believe the aggressive investigations by Mr. Helgerson amount to unfair second guessing of intelligence officers who are often risking their lives in the field.

“These are good people who thought they were doing the right thing,” said one former agency official. “And now they are getting beat up pretty bad and they have to go out an hire a lawyer.”

Agency officials have also criticized the length of the inspector general’s investigations, some lasting more than five years, which have derailed careers and generated steep legal bills for officers under scrutiny.

The former agency official called General Hayden’s review of the inspector general “a smart move.”

Since taking over at the C.I.A. in 2006, General Hayden has taken several steps to soothe anger within the agency’s clandestine service, which has been buffeted in recent years by a string of prolonged investigations.

He has brought back two veteran agency operatives, Steven R. Kappes and Michael J. Sulick, both of whom angrily left during the tenure of Porter J. Goss, the C.I.A. director, to assume top posts at the spy agency. He also supported the president’s nomination of John A. Rizzo, a career agency lawyer and someone well-respected by covert operatives, to become the C.I.A’s general counsel.

Mr. Rizzo withdrew his nomination to the post last month in the midst of intense opposition from Senate Democrats.

“Director Hayden has done a lot of things to convince the operators that he’s looking out for them, and putting the I.G. back in its place is part of this,” said John Radsan, who worked as a C.I.A. lawyer from 2002 to 2004 and is now a professor at William Mitchell College of Law.

Mr. Hitz and other former C.I.A. officials said tensions between the inspector general and the rest of the agency were natural. Conflicts most often arise when the inspector general reviews the actions of the agency’s directorate of operations, now known as the National Clandestine Service, which recruits agents and hunts terrorists overseas.

“The perception is like in a police department between street cops and internal affairs,” said A. B. Krongard, the agency’s executive director from 2001 to 2004.

Resentment of the inspector general’s work has also at times extended to the agency’s general counsel’s office, whose legal judgment is sometimes second-guessed by after-the-fact investigations. “In some of our reports, we were quite critical of the advice given by the general counsel,” Mr. Hitz said.

The C.I.A., created in 1947, had an in-house inspector general selected by the director starting in 1952 who investigated failed operations like the Bay of Pigs invasion against Cuba in 1961.

But that position was viewed as lacking clout and independence, and in 1989, partly in response to the Iran-contra affair, Congress created an independent inspector general at the agency, appointed by the president and reporting to both the director and to Congress.
248 2007-10-11 Like other leading Republicans, he called for limiting medical liability and for tax incentives to encourage people to purchase insurance. But the thrust of his remarks dealt with chronic diseases, like diabetes, that are driving the cost of treatment.

“Medicare reimbursement now rewards institutions and clinicians who provide more and more complex services,” he said. “We need to change the way providers are paid to focus their attention more on chronic disease and managing the treatment. This is the most important care and expense for an aging population. And in a system that rewards quality, Medicare should not pay for preventable medical errors.”

Mr. McCain also offered a challenge to the pharmaceutical companies, saying the price of drugs was a key part of the rising costs.

One way to limit that cost, he said, was to force companies to reveal the price of their drugs. As it now stands, pharmaceutical companies often charge varying rates and consumers do not have access to the wide variation in prices.

“Here in Iowa the Attorney General is suing 78 drug companies accusing them of inflating drug costs paid by Iowa taxpayers through the Medicaid system,” he said. “Problems with costs are created when market forces are replaced by government regulated prices. If drug costs reflects value, fine. But if there are ways to bring greater competition to our drug markets by safe re-importation of drugs, by faster introduction of generic drugs or by any other means, we should do so. If I’m elected President, we will.”

He also took the pharmaceutical companies to task for having misplaced priorities.

“Pharmaceutical companies must worry less about squeezing additional profits from old medicines by copying the last successful drug and insisting on additional patent protections and focus more on new and innovative medicine,” he said.

Mr. McCain also talked in detail about the responsibility that individuals, families and communities have to encourage healthier lifestyles, and slow the rise of chronic diseases driven by unhealthy living.

“The final important principle of reform is to rediscover our sense of personal responsibility,” he said.

“Cases of diabetes are going up, not only in the baby boom generation, but among younger Americans, obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure are all on the rise,” he said. “Parents who don’t impart to their children a sense of personal responsibility for their health, nutrition and exercise — vital quality-of-life information that political correctness has expelled from our schools — have failed their responsibility.”

Mitt Romney and Rudolph Giuliani have also outlined health care proposals, and on some of the broad principles — encouraging competition, creating “portable” insurance and opposing any mandates on people getting coverage — all three Republican candidates are in agreement. They all also are harshly critical of Democratic plans that propose universal coverage or near universal coverage.

But Mr. Romney’s plan seeks broad reform by giving states more flexibility in how they can spend federal money so they can reform their own systems as he did in Massachusetts.

Mr. Giuliani, on the other hand, is placing an emphasis on reshaping how Americans get their insurance, moving from an employer-based system to one where individuals buy their own insurance. In order to encourage that, he has said he would offer tax incentives of up to $15,000 per family so they could purchase their own insurance.

Mr. McCain also proposed a tax incentive to encourage people to buy insurance, but he said that the first priority had to be driving down costs.
249 2007-10-11 The blanket of China’s air defense radar now almost matches similar networks in developed countries, China’s state news media reported. The announcement coincided with Taiwan’s first National Day military parade in 16 years.
250 2007-10-11 A power struggle among the upper echelons of the Russian security services broke into the open this week when the head of the federal drug control service published an open letter in a prominent newspaper. The official, Viktor Cherkesov, called for unity among the security services after the arrest on corruption charges of several officials of the drug service. The arrests were carried out by the F.S.B., the main successor to the K.G.B. In the letter, Mr. Cherkesov called for unity among the security services as a way to avoid potential “catastrophe.”
251 2007-10-11 Danny Williams, the Conservative premier of Newfoundland and Labrador who successfully battled several major oil companies in an offshore oil project for increased payments and benefits for the province, was re-elected with almost 70 percent of the popular vote.
252 2007-10-11 Mississippi’s loose campaign finance laws allow lawyers and companies to contribute heavily to the judges they appear before. That is terrible for justice, since the courts are teeming with perfectly legal conflicts of interest. It also creates an ideal climate for partisan selective prosecution. Since everyone is making contributions and nurturing friendships that look questionable, a prosecutor can haul any lawyer and judge he doesn’t like before a grand jury and charge corruption.

The Justice Department indicted Justice Diaz and Mr. Minor on an array of unconvincing bribery and fraud charges. Justice Diaz was acquitted of all of them. The federal prosecutors then brought tax evasion charges against him. Justice Diaz was acquitted again and still sits on the Mississippi Supreme Court.

Mr. Minor was not as lucky. He beat many of the charges in the first trial, but the jury failed to reach a verdict on others. Federal prosecutors went after him again, and this time Mr. Minor was convicted on vague allegations of trying to get “an unfair advantage” from judges — the very thing Mississippi’s lax campaign finance laws are set up to allow.

The case fits a familiar pattern. The corruption Mr. Minor was charged with was disturbingly vague, as it was with Ms. Thompson, whose only “crime” was awarding a contract to the lowest bidder, and Mr. Siegelman, who was convicted for fairly routine political behavior.

Mr. Minor’s prosecution, like the others in this scandal, gave a big boost to the Republican Party. The case intimidated trial lawyers into stopping their political activity. “The disappearance of the trial-lawyer money all but wiped out the Democratic Party in Mississippi,” Stephanie Mencimer reports in her book, “Blocking the Courthouse Door.”

There also appears to have been pro-Republican favoritism. Mr. Minor’s lawyers say prosecutors were not interested in going after similar activity by trial lawyers who contributed to Republicans. Time magazine recently reported that in Alabama, one of the main witnesses against Mr. Siegelman also told prosecutors of possible corruption involving Jeff Sessions, a Republican senator from Alabama, but they did not pursue it.

And there is the matter of timing. The prosecution of Mr. Minor and Justice Diaz came just as Gov. Ronnie Musgrove, a Democrat, was running for re-election against Republican Haley Barbour. The Republicans spent heavily to tie Mr. Musgrove to Mr. Minor, and Mr. Musgrove was defeated.

In Wisconsin, Ms. Thompson’s trial coincided perfectly with Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle’s re-election campaign, and Republicans tried to link Doyle to Thompson. Mr. Siegelman’s prosecution looks like it was timed to prevent him from becoming governor again. It may be that all three of these cases were simply attempts to use the Justice Department to get Republican governors elected.

Ms. Thompson was fortunate to get a good federal appeals court panel, which ordered her released. Mr. Minor and Mr. Siegelman may not be so lucky. Former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and many other key players in the United States attorneys scandal are gone, but Congress has a lot more work to do in uncovering the damage they have done to the justice system.
253 2007-10-11 With 710 orders worth $100 billion from 50 airlines, the Dreamliner has been the fastest-selling commercial aircraft in history. It is also one of the most innovative. It is being made, in pieces, all over the world, with only the final assembly taking place at Boeing’s plant in Everett, Wash.

Its fuselage will be the first to make extensive use of composite materials rather than traditional aluminum. It will use new energy-efficient engines, and its interior cabin is being designed to provide more humidity and bigger windows for passenger comfort.

The first delivery of the planes, to All Nippon Airways of Japan, is now scheduled for late November or early December 2008, rather than the original date of May. The first test flight will take place at the end of March 2008, rather than at the end of this year, Boeing said.

While Boeing said the delays would not lower the company’s earnings for this year or for 2008, the announcement was clearly a setback in the image of a program that had appeared to be nearly flawless in its execution. It also showed that Boeing, which had the program on a highly ambitious schedule, might have been overly optimistic about what it could deliver — and when.

“Annoyance is the first word that comes to mind,” said Howard Rubel, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. “It’s annoying because they have done so many good things to get this program right. But this provides that the program is a little more complicated than they expected.”

In a conference call with analysts, Mr. McNerney said that Boeing anticipated producing 109 Dreamliners through the end of 2009, three fewer than initially planned. When pressed by analysts over whether this new delivery schedule, in light of the supply chain problems, was still realistic, Mr. McNerney maintained that it was.

“Recognizing that there is risk with any new airplane program,” Mr. McNerney said, “we still remain confident that this new plan is achievable and we are all aligned to make it happen.”

Scott Carson, head of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said yesterday it was too early to determine what penalties Boeing might have to pay to customers as a result of the delay.

“We have taken this into account in our financial models,” said Mr. Carson. “In some cases, our customers say, ‘We will work with you.’ Some will insist on some form of compensation.”

One of the big American customers for the 787 is Northwest Airlines, which has orders for 18 Dreamliners and had expected to get its first planes in August 2008. The Dreamliner is central to Northwest’s plans to expand its international routes by more than 4 percent a year through 2010.

But Ben Hirst, a Northwest spokesman, said a six-month delay would probably not hurt its plans. “A longer delay, obviously, we would have to recalibrate,” he said.

Continental Airlines has 25 787s on order. The first one was expected in 2009 with deliveries continuing through 2013, said Dave Messing, a spokesman. “It’s too early to tell what impact, if any, Boeing’s announced 787 program delay will have on Continental,” he added. Continental has not determined whether the 787s will replace existing planes or add to its fleet, Mr. Messing said.

Cai von Rumohr, an analyst with Cowen & Company, said that the delay gave Boeing that “chance to do it right” and added that it should not hurt Boeing in its competition with Airbus, which suffered after announcing a six-month delay in its A380 superjumbo jet in June 2006. It has also had problems in producing the A350. The A350, a midsize, wide-bodied plane, would compete directly with the 787 but is not expected to be available until 2013.

“People got over the setbacks in the A380,” Mr. von Rumohr said. “They are not going to go to Airbus, whose plane is not going to be ready until 2013.”

Production of the 787 is being spread to suppliers across the globe in an effort to cut costs and spread the financial risk involved in the program. Yet even with this new and far-flung production — as well as the new composite body — Boeing had planned for an ambitious test-flight program for the Dreamliner, scheduling just nine months from first flight until first delivery, two months less than the tests on its newest commercial plane, the 777.

But Boeing maintained that the delay would provide the company with the breathing room to work out its supply chain problems and get the program back on schedule.

“The reason we think we will meet the new timetable is the detailed bottoms-up planning that we have done to assure that we can make it,” Mr. McNerney said.
254 2007-10-11 At the hearing, both Mr. Secreto and Kathleen Grimm, the deputy chancellor for operations, declined to comment directly on Tuesday’s arrests, despite continued questioning from council members.

Still, much of the hearing focused on the line of authority between officers and principals. Peter F. Vallone Jr., the chairman of the Public Safety Committee, suggested that Tuesday’s arrests showed that arguments between school and the police were not unusual in the hallways of the schools.

Echoing the questions of several other council members, Mr. Vallone asked Assistant Chief Secreto who had the ability to determine if an arrest was needed.

“With fights between kids and no injuries, the principal can make that call,” he said. “Once you have an injury, you have a crime, and that is when we are going to make that call.”

The Police Department took control over school safety officers under a memorandum of understanding signed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 1998. Robert Jackson, the chairman of the Council Education Committee, said that it was not clear if the agreement had been reviewed or renewed since then.

Ms. Grimm said no formal agreement was necessary, since the Education Department was simply part of city government controlled by the mayor, like the Police or Fire Departments.

According to a police patrol guide, officers are supposed to notify principals before an arrest happens, but a principal has no authority to determine whether that arrest should occur.

“The principal is in charge of the building — she is in charge of making sure she creates a safe environment where children can learn,” Ms. Grimm said. “When a crime is committed, that is when law enforcement takes over. That happens in our schools, that happens in our hospitals, that happens in all our institutions.”

Mr. Vallone said he was considering introducing legislation to set clear protocols between the Police and Education Departments.

Outside the hearing, Gregory Floyd, president of Local 237 of the Teamsters union, which represents school safety agents, spoke on the steps of City Hall with the two officers who were injured in the dispute on Tuesday, Nadine Penniston and Mark Ruiz. Neither officer spoke, but Mr. Floyd held up a picture of Ms. Penniston’s hair, some of which was pulled out during the scuffle.

“Safety agents have been wrongfully accused of criminalizing the schools, but they are the ones being treated like criminals,” Mr. Floyd said. “They are the ones being assaulted and degraded.”

Hours later, several students showed up to testify about being arrested by school officers. One student said he was held for hours in a “holding room,” while another spoke of being screamed at by a 300-pound officer. A student from Aviation High School in Queens said his six-inch ruler was confiscated by an officer who called it a “hazard to society.”
255 2007-10-11 The sprint car star Ricky Stenhouse Jr. signed with Roush Fenway Racing and will move to stock cars next season. Stenhouse, who turns 20 later this month, will run the full ARCA schedule next season. Stenhouse, from Olive Branch, Miss., raced for Tony Stewart Racing this season in the National Sprint Car and National Midget Car Series. He won 2 races and had 14 top-10 finishes in 22 starts.
256 2007-10-11 The Senate Judiciary Committee announced that it would open hearings next week on the nomination of Michael B. Mukasey to be attorney general. Members of the committee, Democrats and Republicans alike, have suggested that Mr. Mukasey should be easily confirmed, although he can expect tough questions about his views on the Bush administration’s counterterrorism policies. Mr. Mukasey, a retired federal judge from New York, is expected to testify on the first day of the hearings next Wednesday.
257 2007-10-11 Dr. Ertl and colleagues conducted sophisticated experiments over the decades into surfaces, gases and the catalysts that can boost interactions between them. Those experiments helped shed light on processes like the manufacture of nitrogen-rich artificial fertilizers or the functioning of fuel cells. The research has led to a better understanding of how corrosion works in everything from a rusty gate to a containment vessel in a nuclear power plant.

In a statement released yesterday, Catherine T. Hunt, the president of the American Chemical Society, congratulated Dr. Ertl, calling him a “spectacular scientist” working in a field “that often receives little public attention, and yet has transformed lives in so many ways.” She said, “In the future, this research will help us tap new sources of renewable fuels, for instance, and produce smaller, more powerful electronics products.”

Praise flowed from others in the field. Gabor A. Somorjai, a renowned expert in surface chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley, said, simply: “Gerhard Ertl has been a colleague and a friend. He’s deserving of the prize.”

A professor of chemical engineering at Princeton University who has worked closely with Dr. Ertl over the years, Ioannis G. Kevrekidis, held up Dr. Ertl as an example of a great mentor. “In addition to being a good scientist, he’s one of the most wonderful and inspiring people one could work with,” Dr. Kevrekidis said.

In a follow-up e-mail message, he added that Dr. Ertl is “somebody who can bring out the best in people quietly and with grace.” The research, Dr. Kevrekidis said, allowed scientists to actually see surface reactions at the micron level and below — “actually see it in real time, as opposed to guessing.” The research also informed work in mathematical and computational modeling, he said.

Besides, Dr. Kevrekidis said, “Many of the images and movies this technology allowed us to see possess intense physical beauty, beyond the scientific information they embody.”

The Nobel prizes, which are to be handed out by King Carl XVI Gustaf at a ceremony in Stockholm on Dec. 10, are being announced this week. On Monday, the prize that recognizes achievement in “physiology or medicine” went to Mario R. Capecchi, of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City; Oliver Smithies of the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill; and Sir Martin J. Evans of Cardiff University in Wales, for their work that led to the technique of manipulating the genes of mice.

Tuesday’s award, in the field of physics, went to Albert Fert, of the Université Paris-Sud in Orsay, France, and Peter Grünberg, of the Institute of Solid State Research at the Jülich Research Center in Germany, whose work in magnetics led to the development of the kinds of hard drives that have allowed computers and music players to shrink to tiny dimensions.

During the news conference, Dr. Ertl admitted that when he heard that a German had won the physics Nobel on Tuesday, he figured another German would not win the chemistry prize, and so he was certain he would not win.

When asked how he thought the prize would change his life, Dr. Ertl said, “I hope it will not change it very much, but everybody who got it before told me it will be changing your life.” He said he simply wanted to continue doing his work.

As for how he planned to spend his big day, he told the assembled reporters that he would be attending a birthday party with his family in the evening, but at the moment, “I am waiting for my wife,” he said. “She picks me up for lunch.”
258 2007-10-11 “We are making sure that a rule designed to help executives with a legitimate purpose is not being used for illegitimate purposes,” Ms. Thomsen said. She declined to say if any specific investigation had advanced to the point where inquiry letters had been sent.

Planned stock sale arrangements, the details of which do not have to be disclosed publicly, specify the number of shares to be sold regularly by an executive and are intended to protect against accusations of trading on inside information. Such plans last for a year and are typically renewed when they expire, securities lawyers said.

Ms. Thomsen said that federal investigators were examining a range of issues involving automatic trading programs. They include improper disclosure, the appearance of unusually favorable dates to begin or halt selling, and plans where excessive discretion is used.

Mr. Mozilo has sold shares through arranged schedules since 2004. But the pace of his sales, which have generated $300 million in gains for him since 2005, began to increase in October 2006 when he put a new program in place.

Less than two months later, Mr. Mozilo began a second selling program, as The Los Angeles Times reported last month. This plan started on Dec. 12 and increased the number of shares he intended to sell each month to 465,000 from 350,000.

Then on Feb. 2, Mr. Mozilo amended the second plan, according to regulatory filings, increasing the total number of shares to be sold each month to 580,000.

“I’m steaming when I think of the schoolteachers, sanitation workers and firefighters who have taken a loss on this stock and he’s still cashing out,” Mr. Moore said yesterday in an interview. “Where is the sense of shared sacrifice?”

North Carolina has several pension plans that own a total of 506,000 shares in Countrywide, or about $9.5 million at yesterday’s closing price. Mr. Moore serves as trustee of the state’s $87 billion in pension plans.

Late Friday, Countrywide said that Mr. Mozilo would sell almost all of his remaining shares this week before his October 2006 selling program expires at the end of the month.

As a result, each day this week he has exercised roughly 140,000 options with a strike price of $9.94 and sold the stock at prevailing market prices. Given that the stock has been trading around $19 this week — it closed yesterday at $18.80 — Mr. Mozilo has generated gains of roughly $4 million in the last three days.

The options that Mr. Mozilo is exercising do not expire until 2011. But in a statement last Friday, Mr. Mozilo said that his trading plan, intended to diversify his holdings, forced him to sell.

“The upcoming sales are driven by rules within the 10b5-1 plan that were established long ago,” he said, “and should in no way be viewed as any indication of my future outlook for Countrywide.”

Regulatory filings show that Mr. Mozilo has about 500,000 shares remaining and 280,000 options. A year or so ago, he held 1.2 million Countrywide shares and 2.5 million options.

Countrywide is scheduled to release its third-quarter earnings on Oct. 26. Analysts expect the report to be grim, reflecting a steep decline in mortgage lending and rapidly growing delinquencies and defaults among borrowers.
259 2007-10-11 GRINNELL, Iowa, Oct. 10 — Senator John McCain will propose on Thursday overhauling the nation’s health care system by offering new incentives for both patients and doctors to emphasize prevention and wellness, while moving toward compensating medical providers based on the quality of their work.

Mr. McCain’s proposal also calls for tax incentives of $2,500 to $5,000 to help those who cannot afford insurance to buy it. That measure, he said in a conversation between campaign stops here, would also help drive competition among insurance companies.

“If we don’t act by 2015, the health care system will explode,” Mr. McCain, of Arizona, told an audience here on Wednesday.

Like other Republican presidential candidates this year, Mr. McCain is focusing on market-based solutions for problems in the health care industry. But he is also placing a much greater emphasis than any of his opponents on judging the performance of doctors.

Measuring such performance could prove controversial, which Mr. McCain acknowledged. But he said that without measuring their performance, particularly in treating chronic ailments like diabetes and heart disease, it would be impossible to cut wasteful spending.

Dan L. Crippen, a domestic policy adviser for the McCain campaign, used the example of a doctor treating a patient with Type 2 diabetes. Instead of being paid for each medical service performed, the doctor would be paid for a month or year’s services, with the variety of treatments bundled together. Then the doctor would be judged on performance in treating the disease, which could affect payment.
260 2007-10-11 The Dow and Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell yesterday after Boeing said it expected a delay in deliveries of its Dreamliner jet and early corporate results prompted concern about the outlook for profits.

The Nasdaq was up slightly, with shares of the Costco Wholesale Corporation hitting an all-time high after the retailer reported robust earnings.

But outside the retail sector, several major companies in businesses from paper products to pet supplies suggested a slowing economy was taking its toll on corporate profits, sapping investor sentiment.

Boeing, which pushed back deliveries of its highly anticipated 787 Dreamliner, was the top drag on the Dow. Shares of Boeing’s suppliers also fell, including Spirit Aerosystems, Honeywell International and Rockwell Collins.

Boeing shares fell 2.7 percent to $98.68, while shares of Spirit Aerosystems fell 6.4 percent, to $35.92; Honeywell declined 0.9 percent, to $60.71; and Rockwell Collins dropped 2.4 percent, to $74.04.
261 2007-10-11 Greater cultivation of crops to produce ethanol could harm water quality and leave some regions of the country with water shortages, a panel of experts is reporting. And corn, the most widely grown fuel crop in the United States, might cause more damage per unit of energy than other plants, especially switchgrass and native grasses, the panel said.

The panel, convened by the National Research Council, said improved agricultural practices, water recycling and other steps might reduce possible problems. But it added that “fundamental knowledge gaps” made it difficult to predict what would happen as the nation’s embrace of biofuel crops expanded. Meanwhile, it said, it would be “prudent” to encourage the use of ethanol sources other than corn.

Production of ethanol from corn kernels is on the rise, the panel said, adding that President Bush has called for the annual production of 35 billion gallons of ethanol by 2017, an amount that would account for about 15 percent of liquid transportation fuels in the United States.

But increased production could greatly increase pressure on water supplies for drinking, industry, hydropower, fish habitat and recreation, the report said. Facilities that turn plants like corn into liquid fuel would add to the pressure on water supplies, though these bio-refineries are relatively modest water consumers compared with agriculture, the panel said.

The research council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, issued the report yesterday. It is available at the academy’s Web site, nas.edu. It was financed by the National Science Foundation, the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies and foundations.

The report noted that additional use of fertilizers and pesticides could pollute water supplies and contribute to the overgrowth of aquatic plant life that produces “dead zones” like those in the Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere.
262 2007-10-11 LONDON, Oct. 10 — Hedge funds should disclose indirect investments in companies and do a better job of informing clients and banks about the risks they take, a working group made up of fund executives suggested on Wednesday in an attempt to appease critics, who had called for more transparency and government regulation.

Andrew Large, a former Bank of England deputy governor who works for a London hedge fund and led the working group, said he hoped that the initiative would create a standard that hedge funds would obey or risk losing clients.

The group included 14 executives of hedge funds, including GLG Partners, Cheyne Capital, Man Group, Och-Ziff Capital Management and Gartmore.

The attempt to set up a disclosure standard has been applauded by some, including the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, who had said the best approach was for hedge funds to regulate themselves and increase disclosure rather than face more regulation. Others, including Paul Kenny, general secretary of Britain’s GMB union and a critic of hedge funds, called the effort window dressing and said the government should not let the industry govern itself.

The rules would apply to hedge fund managers doing business in Britain and would be voluntary. But Mr. Large said he hoped a customer’s decision to invest would be influenced by whether a hedge fund complied with the best practices.
263 2007-10-11 “Pamina Devi: A Cambodian Magic Flute,” a new work by Sophiline Cheam Shapiro, unfolds like a silent film, taking such gradual, measured hold that by the time it’s over, you can’t help feeling as if you’ve crossed over to another world.

The story, a retelling of Mozart’s “Magic Flute,” is a celebration of youth, love and enlightenment that places its title character between her estranged parents. Unable to abide by either’s rigid ways, she discovers, more through honor than rebellion, that she possesses enough fortitude to carve her own path.

Performed by the 32 dancers, musicians and singers of the Khmer Arts Ensemble of Phnom Penh at the Joyce Theater on Tuesday night, the 90-minute production was commissioned in 2006 by Peter Sellars for a festival in Vienna. Tender and faintly campy in the sweetest sense — as when glimmers of irritation flicker across the performers’ faces — “Pamina Devi” is an exotic journey enriched by subtle political undertones.

All of the dancers are women, even those playing male roles; their jeweled costumes give splendor to their highly articulated feet and sinuous arms and hands, in which supple fingers curl backward to extraordinary effect. Even though Ms. Cheam Shapiro’s Cambodian tale, told with English subtitles, is occasionally dense — navigating the names practically requires sketching out a family tree — the staging and characterization isn’t nearly as opaque.

In the dance-drama, Pamina Devi, portrayed by the delicate Pumtheara Chend, is abducted by Thornea (Sok Sokhan) to the dismay of her mother, Sayon Reachny, the Queen of the Night (the wonderfully imperious Sam Sathya). After the queen and her devotees liberate Preah Chhapoan (Kong Bonich) from a krut, or garuda bird, he promises to rescue Pamina Devi. Armed with a portrait of her and a magic flute, he travels to the Realm of the Sun, ruled by the young girl’s pompous, controlling father, Preah Arun Tipadey (Chao Socheata).

Ms. Cheam Shapiro’s lyrics, translated from Khmer, can be unintentionally funny. (After Preah Chhapoan gazes longingly at Pamina Devi’s portrait, his subtitle reads, “Between the two of us, we would produce the most perfect children.”) Yet they don’t dim this production’s vibrancy. From the percussive, tangy music to the powerful bodies encased in gold, “Pamina Devi” is something of a quiet spectacle, and its message is freedom.
264 2007-10-11 But he acknowledged that it has punctuated a debate about the fair value of music that has accelerated in the last few months. Before Radiohead’s superstar panhandle, Prince offered a free song through Verizon phones (and roughly three million free copies of his new album in a British newspaper). And Trent Reznor of the rock act Nine Inch Nails, which, like Radiohead, is effectively free from a record contract, recently encouraged concertgoers to simply “steal” the band’s new album and “give it to all your friends.”

Radiohead’s move comes just as a federal jury in Minnesota last week decided that a mother found liable for copyright infringement for sharing music online should pay damages amounting to about $9,250 apiece for 24 songs.

Mr. Edge summed up the pricing pandemonium simply: “Digital technology has reintroduced the age of the troubadour. You are worth what people are prepared to give you in the digital age because they can get it for nothing.”

In another departure from convention, the band declined to send out early copies of the music for reviewers and has not settled on a traditional single to push to radio stations. As a result, programmers are improvising. In San Francisco, for instance, the rock station KITS-FM, Live 105, has the entire album on its Web site (live105.com) and will let fans vote to determine which songs merit airplay.

“We just want to be involved in it,” said Dave Numme, the station’s program director. “We just want to reflect what’s going on out there and give our listeners a chance to tell us what they think of it.”

But the band is not departing from convention entirely with the new album. A boxed set that includes various extras is being sold on www.inrainbows.com for a set price of about $80. And Radiohead plans to release “In Rainbows” as an old-fashioned CD no later than January, though it has not determined if it will return to a major label to do so.

Radiohead completed its long-term contract with EMI with 2003’s “Hail to the Thief,” which sold roughly one million copies in the United States. The band will also tour next year.

“The final acid test,” Mr. Edge said, “is come January, when the music has been available. Will there still be sufficient demand for a CD for us to feel that we’ve proved that making music available does not necessarily cannibalize CD sales?”

Various voices in and out of the industry have urged Radiohead to detail its “In Rainbows” sales data, but the band’s managers declined to reveal them in an interview this week. It is not clear that the band will ever disclose how many copies of the digital album it has distributed or the average price paid, though Courtyard has been running an office pool on the results. But Radiohead’s managers did dispute rumors that more people have bought the deluxe boxed set. And they added that most fans who have ordered the download have elected to pay something.

“The majority of the public are really decent human beings who are honest,” Mr. Hufford said.
265 2007-10-11 PICKETS, THEN A PROPOSAL      Six hours after union leaders sent Chrysler's 45,000 workers to the picket lines, the United Automobile Workers and the automaker announced a tentative agreement. The terms are expected to echo the contract that was h...
266 2007-10-11 AS the weather cools, rock climbers must trade their shorts in for pants. The trick is to gain protection against colder temperatures without any restriction of motion.     Made of stretchy or durable material, this season's crop of climbing pants...
267 2007-10-12 Up Next in Video
268 2007-10-12 Up Next in Video
269 2007-10-12 Up Next in Video
270 2007-10-12 Up Next in Video
271 2007-10-12 Aired Thursday night on NBC: During a recent survey, 67 percent of Americans said that they hate Paris Hilton. Which is surprising, because the survey question was, "Are you happy with your homeowner's insurance?" This week, two scientists won the...
272 2007-10-12 US Weekly has nothing on us here at The Quad, where we can land celebrity interviews with the best of them. In this week's edition of the Q&A, we sat down with college football's most popular couple, Ian and Chrissy Johnson. Ted S. Warren/Associat...
273 2007-10-12 Should "I'd do anything for my kid" include breaking the law?...
274 2007-10-12 Has Citigroup's Charles O. Prince III maneuvered himself into checkmate, or is he in control of the chessboard? Was the mega-bank's latest management shuffle a bloop single or a fly out? The elevation of Vikram S. Pandit to the new role of head of...
275 2007-10-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
276 2007-10-12 The Buddhist monks demonstrating against the government in Myanmar should be awarded a Nobel Peace Prize as well, he said....
277 2007-10-12 Och-Ziff Capital Management, the hedge-fund firm with nearly $30 billion in assets under management, set a price range of $30 to $33 a share for its proposed initial public offering of 36 million shares. Underwriters have the option for an additio...
278 2007-10-12 In July, Merrill Lynch reported a solid second quarter. Profit was up 31 percent over the previous year and essentially flat from the prior quarter. The chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, sent a memorandum to employees outlining risks he saw in t...
279 2007-10-12 The collapse of two Bear Stearns hedge funds amid the meltdown in the subprime mortgage market this summer is a tale of reckless investing, according to BusinessWeek. What emerges, it contends, is a portrait of a cash-starved portfolio piled high ...
280 2007-10-12 Driven by an improving regulatory and investment climate, the European hedge fund industry is growing rapidly and could shortly overtake the industry in the United States, an investment analyst contended Thursday at a conference organized by Deche...
281 2007-10-12 Dan Nye, LinkedIn’s chief executive, said the company will allow only outside applications that it approves, and it is interested in a share of the revenue of companies that use its platform. No food fights need apply....
282 2007-10-12 Credit: Jonathan Player for The New York Times
283 2007-10-12 “I think the Fed, at this stage, has really no choice but to hold off another cut,” said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, a research firm in Princeton, N.J.

Mr. Baumohl said the uptick in consumer spending and the higher-than-expected inflation figures meant that the Fed was looking at an economy that appeared to be persevering. The Fed would be reluctant to cut rates, he said, given the signs of underlying strength and the bubbling-up of inflation risks as reflected in wholesale prices.

“If there’s any uncertainty on the part of the Fed as to whether there are inflation pressures picking up,” Mr. Baumohl said, “they’re going to err on the safe side and not raise rates.”

Other analysts cautioned against drawing larger conclusions from this morning’s data.

“The trend in sales has been down for over a year now, and this is a temporary blitz,” said Ian C. Shepherdson, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics. “It means nothing in terms of the underlying trend.”

Mr. Shepherdson said most of the sales increase came from automobiles, reflecting the seasonal discount in prices used by dealers to sell off outdated models. Core retail sales, which exclude gas and automobile purchases, rose 0.2 percent in September.

“To me this is not exactly evidence of a strong consumer,” Mr. Shepherdson said.

Indeed, despite the increase in sales, consumer confidence stayed flat in September, holding at the lowest level in a year, according to a survey released today by Reuters and the University of Michigan.

Consumers’ expectations that inflation will rise in the next year fell slightly last month. And a preliminary report on October suggested that confidence among consumers is continuing to drop.

Much of the September sales increase went toward accommodating higher energy prices. Health care sales were also a factor. And consumers may be faced with still higher prices next quarter as businesses pass along higher costs for materials and goods used in production.

The Producer Price Index, which measures wholesale prices paid by businesses, rose 1.1 percent in September after a 1.4 percent dip in August. The core rate of inflation, a less volatile gauge that excludes food and energy costs, rose 0.1 percent, a slight deceleration from the month before, the Labor Department said this morning.

Prices for raw materials, or so-called crude goods, continued to increase, with the core rate jumping 1.6 percent last month. Overall crude prices are up 11.4 percent from last September, compared with a 4.4 percent year-over-year increase in finished goods. These costs, located higher up the production pipeline, are typically passed on to consumers, signaling a likely increase in retail prices in the months ahead.

On the consumer level, retail sales rose 0.6 percent in September after a 0.3 increase in August. Gasoline sales rose 2 percent, their largest increase since May. Department store business continued to dwindle, dipping 0.5 percent in August. And eating and drinking sales remain unchanged since July, the Commerce Department said.
284 2007-10-12 STATE COLLEGE, Pa., Oct. 11 (AP) — An exchange of words with another motorist on a campus road was blown out of proportion by Internet-fueled rumors and news media speculation, Penn State Coach Joe Paterno said Thursday night.

The unidentified motorist complained to the university police about Paterno’s conduct after the incident last Friday. No charges were filed.

Paterno, on his weekly radio show Thursday night, said the incident happened after he noticed a car had driven through a stop sign.

Paterno said that when the driver stopped, he blew his horn at her. “Then I pulled up beside her because there was nothing coming the other way,” Paterno said. He added that he pointed at her and said, “Boy, you went through that sign.”

Paterno said he told the driver: “‘Don’t do that again, because I took your license number.’ And I really hadn’t taken her license number. All of a sudden, somebody knocks on my window. I put the window down, and he says, ‘That’s my wife.’”

Paterno said he responded to the driver’s husband, “Boy, that’s your problem,” although he said he later regretted saying that.
285 2007-10-12 Mr. Romney gained national attention when he was governor of Massachusetts for his plan to bring universal coverage to residents of that state. His national approach, which he announced in a speech in Florida in August, is aimed at empowering other states to come up with solutions to rising health costs and the uninsured by allowing them to use federal assistance with greater flexibility.

On Thursday, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, who announced his plan in a speech before the Rotary Club here, said that any health care proposal must first focus on containing spending. To accomplish that, he said, the emphasis should be on better treating chronic diseases, like diabetes and heart disease, which account for 75 percent of all health care costs.

"Has any candidate insisted that genuine and effective health care reform requires accountability from everyone: drug companies, insurance companies, doctors, hospitals, the government and patients?" Mr. McCain asked. "Yet that is the truth upon which any so-called solution must be based.”

To that end, he called for hospital and doctor compensation to be linked to performance, starting with making Medicaid and Medicare reimbursements dependent on the results that they achieve.

He also singled out pharmaceutical companies, insisting that they reveal the price of their drugs to consumers, and called for “greater competition to our drug markets by safe re-importation of drugs, by faster introduction of generic drugs” or by other means.

Mr. McCain also proposed that reimbursement for the treatment of chronic diseases should be drastically altered.

"We should pay a single bill for high-quality health care, not an endless series of bills for presurgical tests and visits, hospitalization and surgery, and follow-up tests, drugs and office visits," Mr. McCain said.

But people also have a duty to live a more healthy lifestyle to help prevent diseases, Mr. McCain said.

"Has any candidate warned that we have a personal responsibility to take better care of ourselves and our children?" he said. "Yet that is the only way to prevent many chronic diseases."

Dan Crippen, a senior domestic policy adviser for the McCain campaign, said the needs of people without insurance, especially children, would also be addressed in a McCain administration. The campaign proposes a tax credit of $2,500 to low-income individuals and $5,000 to low-income families who obtain their own insurance.

But the first step is to contain costs, the campaign says. Health care accounts for 16 percent of the gross domestic product, or $2.2 trillion, Mr. McCain noted in his speech.

"You worry about the uninsured, but they are a symptom of a larger problem," Mr. Crippen said. "Unless you do something about cost, you are chasing your proverbial tail."

Mr. McCain’s plan could drive up spending, for instance to add clinics or pay more to doctors who are deemed effective in treating their patients. But the campaign said it had not done a full analysis.

Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney have not assessed the costs of their plans, either.

Mr. Giuliani used the announcement of his health proposal to criticize Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who wants to make health insurance mandatory but calls for new options for buying private or public insurance at affordable rates. Mr. Giuliani called her plan "socialist" and accused the Democrats of advocating a "nanny state."

Mr. McCain also criticized the Democratic plans, but his comments were more in passing and were far less barbed.

But when asked about Mrs. Clinton his speech, he said her proposal was “eerily” similar to the plan she came up with in 1993, when she headed a health care reorganization effort during her husband’s administration. “I think they put some lipstick on a pig,” he said, “but it’s still a pig.”
286 2007-10-12 In a statement late on Wednesday, Israel’s Discount Bank said it had “decided to end all activities with banks associated with Gaza and with all branches of other banks located there.” It said its decision was made in light of the Israeli government decision last month to declare Gaza “hostile territory.”

Bank Hapoalim, the only other Israeli lending bank that did business with Gaza bank branches, made a similar statement on Sept. 25, although bank officials in Gaza and an Israeli official spokesman said that the new policy had not been implemented.

Thousands of Gaza’s public sector employees and workers were paid at the beginning of October, meaning that they are able to buy food for Id al-Fitr, the three-day festival that starts on Friday and marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. But those payments contributed to a shortage of currency in the Gaza banks, and residents who came to draw cash this week were turned away.

The Israeli shekel is the official currency in the Palestinian territories, in keeping with agreements under the Oslo peace accords in the mid-1990s. The shekels must be supplied from Israel.

Usually, Gaza’s bank branches send vans to the Erez crossing, on the Gaza-Israel border, to fill up with currency. Shlomo Dror, a spokesman for the Israeli government agency that deals with the Palestinians, said that Israel supplied currency to the Palestinian banks in the West Bank, and that the Palestinian Authority then transferred cash to Gaza via Israeli territory, in coordination with the Israeli authorities. The Erez crossing has frequently been closed because of mortar and rocket attacks by Palestinian militants, Mr. Dror noted.

The cash that arrived Thursday afternoon was the first to get through in three weeks, according to officials in Gaza. Still, there are 500 million shekels in circulation in Gaza, according to Muhammad Kirresh, a Palestinian economic analyst — enough, he said, to meet current needs. The bank shortages, he said, were caused by the “uncertainty and fear of the future” after the Bank Hapoalim announcement, which led people to withdraw large sums of cash.

In the longer term, said Mr. Araj, the Gaza government adviser, the Bank of Israel, an Israeli state institution, could supply currency to Gaza. Alternatively, he said, the main Bank of Palestine could carry out transactions with Israeli commercial banks through its branches in the West Bank, which would, in turn, deal with Gaza. As a last resort, he suggested, Gaza could look into bringing out its own currency or, he said sardonically, go back to bartering.

Four months after the Hamas takeover, though, the economic pressure on Hamas appears to be having some effect. Speaking in a mosque after prayers late on Wednesday, Mr. Haniya said that the Hamas rule of Gaza was “temporary,” and that Hamas had agreed to enter into dialogue with Fatah in one of the Arab capitals after Id al-Fitr.

Nabil Amr, a media adviser to Mr. Abbas, told reporters in the West Bank city of Ramallah, “There are no arrangements to hold any dialogue with Hamas in any Arab countries after the Muslim holiday.”

In Jerusalem on Thursday, police officers questioned Israel’s prime minister, Ehud Olmert, for a second time as part of a criminal investigation into whether he tried, as acting finance minister, to help steer the sale of an Israeli bank to a friend in 2005.
287 2007-10-12 Responsibility for risk management lands with Mr. O’Neal, but also with Ahmass L. Fakahany, Merrill’s co-president and a member of Mr. O’Neal’s inner circle. According to a memo on May 16 that announced the promotion of Mr. Fakahany and Gregory J. Fleming to co-presidents, the risk management team ultimately reported to Mr. Fakahany.

Merrill clearly recognized some shortcomings. On Sept. 10, Edward Moriarty was appointed to the newly created role of chief risk officer. “Ed’s promotion reflects the importance of deeper and more comprehensive risk management discipline under a single senior executive,” said a memo at the time.

What is puzzling, however, is how a problem that management recognized came to hurt the firm so badly. Merrill plans to write down $4.5 billion on collateralized debt obligations and $463 million worth of leveraged loans. In his July memo, Mr. O’Neal said the bank was aware of the risks and had taken precautions against them. “Over the last six months,” the memo said, “we have worked successfully to position ourselves for a more difficult market for C.D.O.’s and been proactively executing market strategies to significantly reduce our risk exposure.”

Brad Hintz, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, summed it up this way, “Merrill’s $4.5 billion write-down is significantly higher than that of its peers and represents a significant breakdown of the firm’s risk management process.”

Merrill noted in its release that its other businesses were expected to report revenue growth of more than 20 percent. While Mr. O’Neal conceded in the release that Merrill could have done better on its mortgage-related risk management, he said the firm had done well managing risk in other businesses including leveraged finance.

So far, Merrill seems to have assigned blame to three individuals: Dow Kim, the former co-head of global markets and investment banking, who announced in May that he was leaving to start a hedge fund; Osman Semerci, the former head of fixed income who had been in that job for more than a year; and Dale M. Lattanzio, one of Mr. Semerci’s lieutenants.

While convenient, pointing the finger of blame and the subsequent purge overlook the fact that the fixed-income unit has been a revolving door of management and the reality that Mr. Kim, while perhaps sharing responsibility, left before the problems surfaced. (When he left, Merrill applauded his good work.)

A review of Merrill’s fixed-income strategy shows that in 1998, it took a beating on Long-Term Capital Management. As a result, according to Mr. Hintz, Merrill “decimated” its fixed-income team and missed the bulk of the bull market from 2003 to 2005.

Then Merrill barreled into a higher-risk fixed-income business with Mr. Kim responsible for building a strategy. But he — and his superiors — seemed to struggle to find the right mix. In July 2006, three senior fixed-income executives left when Merrill decided that someone else — Mr. Semerci, a fixed- income salesman — was the right person to build a more risk-oriented fixed- income business. Last week, Mr. Semerci and a lieutenant were fired and another executive, one with expertise in commodities, took over.

Merrill’s share price has lagged behind those of its peers and the broker-dealer index. Since Dec. 2, 2002, when Mr. O’Neal took over, the stock is up 85.2 percent compared with 168.2 percent for the broker-dealer index, according to Thomson Financial. It has lagged all its rivals. .

The management musical chairs extends beyond trading. Robert J. McCann, head of Merrill’s global private client business, left in 2003 because of tension between him and Mr. O’Neal, executives close to both men said. Mr. McCann returned six months later when Mr. O’Neal purged two other lieutenants, Arshad R. Zakaria, then co-head of global investment banking and institutional securities, and Thomas H. Patrick, a two-time chief financial officer who was executive vice chairman at the time he was fired.

This summer, Mr. McCann tried to resign again, according to two people briefed on the situation. Mr. McCann was unhappy with Mr. O’Neal’s appointment of two co-presidents, which effectively demoted him and marginalized the wealth management unit, which no longer reported directly to the chief executive.

A Merrill spokesman, Jason Wright, said it was not true that Mr. McCann tried to resign. Ultimately, Mr. O’Neal persuaded Mr. McCann to stay, the two people with knowledge of the situation said. Mr. Wright denied this as well.

Power struggles are common on Wall Street. What seems unusual about Merrill is how crucial decision makers — Mr. Zakaria, Mr. Kim, Mr. Semerci — quickly became pariahs. (Merrill cut ties with Mr. Kim when it announced the write-down. The bank is not expected to invest in his hedge fund.)

Banks should take risk, and bank chiefs are paid a lot of money to manage that risk. At Merrill, it seems, there was talk of managing risk and hope that someone was doing it.

After Mr. O’Neal wrote in July that Merrill was “managing risk and market activity every day,” he said: “It’s what our clients pay us to do, and as you all know, we’re pretty good at it.”
288 2007-10-12 “I’m convinced we need a much stronger supervisory authority for the financial markets,” said Olle Rossander, a writer and a commentator on Swedish business. “We’ve had a tradition of self-regulation here; it’s been a little like the Wild West.”

Gabriel Urwitz, chairman of the private equity firm Segulah and a former professor of financial economics, said the Swedish financial supervisory authority, Finansinspektionen, did not have enough regulators and the necessary regulation to monitor traders properly.

He also questioned whether the agency “has the experience and competence to deal with the challenges” of a modern market.

At the center of the scandal is D. Carnegie, the region’s biggest independent investment bank. Problems began last spring when the bank disclosed that it had overestimated its profit in some derivatives contracts by 630 million kronor, or $97 million, from 2005 to 2007.

But it was not until the regulatory agency issued a report on Carnegie on Sept. 27 that the scandal received front-page coverage. The regulator pointed to “serious deficiencies in the governance and control of the bank’s operations,” and blamed the bank’s board and management. As examples, it noted that Carnegie did not require daily checks on the bank’s positions to determine risk, and that traders themselves had ascribed values to their positions.

While the regulatory agency stopped short of revoking the bank’s license, it imposed a heavy fine, 50 million kronor, on Carnegie, and forced the chief executive, Stig Vilhelmson, and its board, to resign.

“It is very serious that a company with such a large trading business hasn’t had the right controls in place,” Ingrid Bonde, director general of Finansinspektionen, said when the report was released. “Of course we ask ourselves if this has happened at Carnegie, how can we be sure that it doesn’t happen in other companies.”

Ms. Bonde said the authority had initiated an investigation into several other companies.

After the release of the report, critics questioned the way the agency handled the matter, both the delay in reacting and the harshness of the punishment.

“It’s as if they discover that they’ve been waiting for too long, and because of this they use the big guns,” Mr. Urwitz said. “But the role of a regulator shouldn’t be to kill, but to make sure that business can continue, in an improved fashion.”

A few days later, the focus shifted to the ministry of finance, where Mats Odell, the Christian Democratic minister of financial markets, had been preparing a major privatization of about 150 billion kronor in state-owned assets.

Carnegie had been advising the government on the sale, offering recommendations on, among other things, how to sell a 6.6 percent stake in OMX. Also advising Mr. Odell were two aides, both of whom had held crucial positions at Carnegie while some of its trading problems occurred.

One aide, the state secretary Urban Funered, who had been a group compliance officer at Carnegie, oversaw the Finansinspektionen, which wrote the report on the bank. While there are no indications that Mr. Funered influenced the report, his ties to Carnegie led to his resignation on Oct. 3.

The second aide, Karin Forseke, who led the government’s council for divesting state-owned companies, also resigned. She had been Carnegie’s chief executive from 2003 through March 2006.

Mr. Odell has resisted calls to resign. The political opposition, the Social Democrats, have demanded that the sales be delayed until new advisers can evaluate the procedure.

Analysts expect that the sale of the assets, including OMX, will continue, but calls are growing for the regulatory framework to be strengthened.

What this means for OMX is unclear. For its part, OMX does not believe the Carnegie scandal will hinder efforts to make Stockholm and the Nordic region one of the main European financial centers.

“I don’t see these events having an effect on the trust in the Nordic stock market or what we are doing right now,” Magnus K. Bocker, the chief executive of OMX, said. “Just like it doesn’t have a big effect on the Swiss bourse when UBS does a billion-dollar write-down of their subprime loan investments.”

Nasdaq said that it had “confidence in the current and future growth of the Nordic marketplace.”

Bruce Weber, a professor at the London Business School and a specialist on stock exchanges, said OMX’s Nordic exchange had a bright future.

“There’s an opportunity here,” he said. “But it would be unrealistic for Stockholm to expect that a Nasdaq merger means it will become a Wall Street or a City of London.”
289 2007-10-12 PepsiCo, the beverage and snack foods maker, said yesterday its third-quarter profit rose 17 percent on the strength of its international division and a tax benefit.

PepsiCo said it earned $1.74 billion, or $1.06 a share in the quarter, up from $1.49 billion, or 89 cents a share, a year earlier.

Revenue in the period, which ended Sept. 8, rose 11 percent, to $10.17 billion from $9.13 billion last year.

Excluding one-time items, PepsiCo earned 99 cents a share, more than the 96 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, but the company’s stock fell $1.83, more than 2 percent, to $71.77 a share.

Pepsi, based in Purchase, N.Y., makes the Pepsi line of soft drinks, Frito-Lay snacks, Gatorade and Tropicana drinks and the Quaker foods business.
290 2007-10-12 The letter, issued to mark the end of the holy month of Ramadan this week, is in part another response from the Muslim world to a speech made by Pope Benedict XVI in his hometown, Regensburg, Germany, in September 2006, in which he suggested that Islam is a religion of violence. He later issued a rare personal apology for offending Muslims.

The pope is the first of some 25 Christian figures addressed specifically in the 29-page letter, titled “A Common Word Between Us and You.”

The letter quotes the Koran and the Bible, particularly the New Testament, to illustrate how their basic principles mirror each other. It says the Prophet Muhammad’s stance was perhaps inspired by the Bible.

The letter notes that there are differences between the religions and that Islam teaches its faithful to resist those who attack them, but it concludes that the world’s two largest faiths should compete only “in righteousness and good works.”

Among the 138 signatories were senior theologians from around the world, including Sheik Ali Gomaa, the grand mufti of Egypt and hence the top Sunni Muslim figure there, as well as about a dozen other grand muftis. Ayatollah Mostafa Mohaghegh Damad, a Shiite Muslim from Iran, also signed.

The consensus was put together mostly by the Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought in Jordan, founded by Prince Hassan bin Talal. Scholars said that the emphasis on Koranic texts made possible the tricky business of getting signatories from a wide range of sects.

“Terrorists don’t have the right to speak for Islam, that is the point that is urgent for the Muslim world to get across,” said Timothy Winter, a lecturer in Islam at Cambridge University and a convert to the faith who was among the signatories. The letter is an effort to overcome the difficulty of finding one voice to speak for Islam because of its diffuse hierarchy, Mr. Winter said.

The letter was welcomed by various leaders and institutions, including the Baptist World Alliance and the Most Rev. Rowan Williams, archbishop of Canterbury. There was no immediate reaction from the Vatican. Pope Benedict recently re-established an office for interfaith dialogue that he had shuttered, but his emphasis has been on concrete actions like protecting Christian minorities in Muslim lands.

Some analysts see the letter as being addressed as much to Muslims as Christians, although the chances of it influencing radicals is considered slim. Radicals often interpret “love thy neighbor” as help thy neighbor find Islam, said Prof. Muqtedar Khan, director of Islamic Studies at the University of Delaware.

In addition, politics, not theology, shape anti-Western attitudes among Muslims, Professor Khan said. “They have a problem with the occupation of Iraq, with the Israeli treatment of the Palestinians; it’s not about Christianity.”
291 2007-10-12 Retailers are in for a tough fall — and consumers are in for deep discounts.

Big chains reported a bleak September yesterday, with sales at stores open at least a year rising just 1.7 percent, the weakest performance in five years, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group.

As a result, more than a dozen retailers, from the luxury emporium Nordstrom to the discounter Target, cut their earnings forecast for the final three months of the year.

Those troubles will be a boon to shoppers: To clear all that unsold fall merchandise in time for the crucial holiday shopping season, retailers are expected to dangle steep markdowns in coming weeks.

“Managers and district managers don’t know where to put all this clothing,” said John D. Morris, a retail analyst at Wachovia Securities. By his estimate, markdowns are up 5 percent this fall compared with the same period a year ago, “and rising fast,” Mr. Morris said.

Retailers blamed several factors for the downturn: a tight credit market, a poor housing market, unseasonably warm weather and a strong showing in September 2006, which made this year’s performance lackluster by comparison.
292 2007-10-12 All these topics have popped up in the debates — but not issues that speak directly to everyday life in big cities and surrounding towns. Those have been shunted aside.

What are the candidates’ thoughts on mass transit, pollution, homelessness, poverty, the fast-growing Medicaid burden, the future of public hospitals, housing that a working stiff can afford, not to mention roads and bridges that are falling apart?

Don’t feel bad if you haven’t a clue what they think. They have not been asked to debate these questions, and for the most part they have not strayed from the script to offer an idea or two of their own.

Republicans or Democrats, “they’re in a bubble of avoidance” on issues that “apply to 95 percent of people’s lives day to day,” said Liz J. Abzug, a New York political consultant.

This is, for sure, a lament that also arose in past elections. But there is added poignancy to it this time, given who is running.

In both parties, the front-runners are New Yorkers: former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Who better than they to raise the banner of urban America? The same might be said about Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a former mayor of Cleveland.

While we’re at it, the Republicans will hold their 2008 national convention in Minneapolis-St. Paul. After the horrific bridge collapse in Minneapolis in August, who better than they to discuss the federal role in repairing urban America’s worn infrastructure? There’s been not a peep about it in the debates.

Well, some experts say, what else can you expect?

“We don’t pay attention to cities unless there’s a riot,” said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. “It’s a terrible thing to say, but that’s the truth. It takes a riot to put cities on the national agenda.”

The calendar is also an inescapable reality, said John H. Mollenkopf, a political scientist at the City University of New York Graduate Center. Despite the rush of big states to hold primaries on Super-Duper Tuesday, Feb. 5, attention for now is fixed, as ever, on the nonurban early birds of Iowa and New Hampshire.

ONE result, Professor Mollenkopf said, is that candidates “hit the themes that are highest on sort of a generic public opinion poll of what the top issues are: terrorism, security, health care.”

Fred Siegel, a historian at Cooper Union, describes himself as a fan of both Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton. Neither, he says, has much to gain by concentrating on big-city issues. “Hillary’s more worried about Methodists in Ohio,” Professor Siegel said. And while “Rudy is playing up his achievements in New York,” he also “wants to cast himself as a national, not a local, figure.”

But to Bruce Katz, the director of metropolitan policy at the Brookings Institution, “the political class at the national level is about 20 years out of date as to how the country has changed because of population growth, demographic diversity and economic restructuring.”

“We’re a metro nation,” Mr. Katz said. “It’s time to start acting like one.” For him, that means discussing, preferably sooner than later, issues like climate change, housing, infrastructure and transportation.

“If you’re not talking about cities and suburbs, you might as well not be having the conversation,” he said, “because these are the places where all this really comes together.”
293 2007-10-12 PLYMOUTH MEETING, Pa., Oct. 11 — A 14-year-old boy was arrested Wednesday night after the police received a tip that he was plotting a shooting spree at a high school in this northern suburb of Philadelphia, the authorities said.

The police said that the boy had been planning a “Columbine style” attack on students at Plymouth Whitemarsh High School and that in searching his home, they had found a 9-millimeter assault rifle, dozens of authentic-looking BB and air guns, and seven hand grenades he was making, four of which were operational.

At a news conference Thursday, the Montgomery County district attorney, Bruce L. Castor Jr., stood before a table that held the seized weaponry, which looked daunting even though most of it was air-powered imitations.

The genuine assault rifle, for which no ammunition was found in the home, was bought legally at a gun show by the boy’s mother, the police said. But she bought it for her son, Mr. Castor said, adding that as a result his office was still deciding what charges to file against her, if any.

The boy, whose name was withheld because he is a minor, attended the middle school associated with Plymouth Whitemarsh until 18 months ago, when his parents began schooling him at home because he was being bullied by other students, the police said. He tried to recruit another onetime student at the school to join him in the attack, they said, and that former student alerted the police.
294 2007-10-12 They’re dancing with wolves these days at the New Victory Theater.

“They” are the family first encountered in the pages of “The Wolves in the Walls,” written by Neil Gaiman and illustrated by Dave McKean and dealing with a girl named Lucy who is certain she hears wolves in the walls of the house where she lives with her tuba-playing father, her jam-making mother and her brother.

Naturally no one believes her, although everyone is quick to tell her that everybody knows that “if the wolves come out of the walls, then it’s all over.”

And, of course, they do.

Which gives the National Theater of Scotland, in collaboration with the Improbable theater company of London, the material for creating what it rightly calls “a musical pandemonium.”

Transferring this brief, charming book to the stage, the director Vicky Featherstone, the musician Julian Crouch and Nick Powell of Improbable have employed all manner of theater arts, song, music, dance, sets, costumes, props, lighting, sound and projection to turn the proceedings into 75 intermissionless minutes of high-spirited all-out Halloween-season fun for audiences age 7 and up and up.

So, singing, dancing and conferring with her pink pig puppet, Helen Mallon brings to vivid life the acute-of-ear Lucy. Audiences hear Dad (George Drennan) play that tuba, see Mum (Anita Vettesse) at the stove with her many jars of jam, and witness Brother (Paul James Corrigan) coming to grips with his video games and air guitar.
295 2007-10-12 After their return a grateful Watkins gave Park a set of 20 mammoth-plate albumen prints (from a total of 30 produced during the trip) and 62 stereoviews, including one of the Park family picnicking at the camp. All were signed and notated by Watkins.

The Watkins gift remained in the Park family. In 1968 the family’s Victorian mansion in North Bennington, Vt., became a museum, the Park-McCullough House. It has decided to de-accession the albumen prints and stereoviews, which Christie’s is selling as two lots on Thursday.

Watkins’s first prints of Yosemite have historical importance because they documented the site to an enraptured American audience and helped persuade Congress and President Lincoln that Yosemite needed protection. In 1864 Lincoln granted the Yosemite Valley and the Mariposa Grove of giant sequoias to the State of California as a public preserve. That grant is considered a precursor of today’s national park system.

The Vermont museum’s decision to sell the prints is raising eyebrows, coming as it does right after a decision by the Maier Museum of Art at Randolph College in Lynchburg, Va., to consign to Christie’s four of its paintings — including George Bellows’s 1912 “Men of the Docks,” valued at $25 million to $30 million — to bolster its endowment. Karol Lawson, the Maier’s director, has resigned in protest.

Patricia Gordon-Michael, the executive director of the Park-McCullough House, defends her board’s decision to sell the Watkins photos, though the decision was made before she took the job in June.

“We do not have a climate-controlled gallery or the means to show the prints,” she said. “Until now they have been properly stored at the Sterling and Francine Clark Institute in Williamstown, Mass., but they are too beautiful and important to be stored all the time. They need to be seen. They are exquisite.”

“No crisis prompted the decision,” she added. “None of the proceeds from the Watkins sale will go for the operating budget or into the general fund; they will go into a restricted endowment fund.” She said the fund would be used for “direct protection” of the collection — for example, to purchase appropriate storage containers and archival materials.

The 35-room Park-McCullough mansion has thousands of items in its collection, including antiques of the Renaissance Revival, Arts and Crafts and Victorian styles; Hudson River School paintings; Tiffany lamps; vintage clothing; and carriages. It is open seven days a week from mid-May through Oct. 15 and has about 6,000 visitors a year.

“The prints were discovered quite by chance in a storage area in the attic in the late 1960s,” said Laura Paterson, the photography specialist at Christie’s. “They’re extraordinarily rare because they are from Watkins’s first series of Yosemite photographs and massively important in terms of Watkins’s career. He was intrepid, taking extraordinary shots from dangerous vantage points with incredibly heavy cameras. I’m quite certain his negatives were among the largest used in the West at that time.”

Watkins’s work is also credited with inspiring painters like Albert Bierstadt and photographers like Ansel Adams, whose “Portfolio Three” of Yosemite Valley is in the same auction, with an estimate of $90,000 to $120,000.

The Watkins prints are “rather fragile creatures but over all in quite good shape,” Ms. Paterson of Christie’s said. “The prints are faded a little, but don’t show foxing or water damage,” she added, using a term for staining and discoloration.

The set of 20 albumen prints is expected to bring $250,000 to $350,000. The 62 glass positive stereoviews are estimated at $20,000 to $30,000. Christie’s said it set the estimates on the low side to attract institutional bidders, hoping that the collections would remain intact. Coincidentally, on Tuesday Sotheby’s is selling a handful of Watkins’s mammoth-plate prints of Yosemite in individual lots, as well as several Ansel Adams views of Yosemite. These Watkins prints, mostly done later in the 1860s, are thought to be part of a group of 19th-century photos de-accessioned by Harvard University in the 1960s. Each Watkins print of Yosemite carries the same estimate: $30,000 to $50,000.

Other photography events of interest next week include Sotheby’s Tuesday sale of Nancy Richardson’s collection of 20th-century photographs, with works by Harry Callahan, Walker Evans, Robert Frank, Aaron Siskind, Frederick Sommer and Josef Sudek.

Thursday through Oct. 21, Guernsey’s will auction the Jack Naylor collection of photography (featuring works by Margaret Bourke-White and Edward Curtis), daguerreotypes and vintage cameras at the Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street. The preview begins Wednesday at 11 a.m.

Through tomorrow, Mallett, the antiques store at 929 Madison Avenue, at 74th Street, is showing a series of limited-edition silver-gelatin prints and pieces of lacquered and steel 1970s furniture designed by Willy Rizzo, a portrait photographer whose work appeared inParis Match.

The portraits of Gary Cooper, pistol in hand; Picasso riding a goat sculpture; Jack Nicholson with a cigar; and a young Jane Fonda with bared midriff are not to be missed. Whatever is not sold at Mallett will move to the Paul Smith shop at 9 Albemarle Street in London from Nov. 15 to 24.
296 2007-10-12 Two professors, Wm. Gerard Sanders of Brigham Young University and Donald C. Hambrick of Penn State, studied 950 companies from 1994 to 2000 and found that those whose chiefs got more than half their compensation in stock options were far more likely to take risks in more and bigger acquisitions and somewhat more likely to spend heavily on research and equipment.

But the risks they took were often poor ones. “The more that a C.E.O. is paid in stock options, the more extreme the firm’s subsequent performance, and the greater the likelihood that the extreme performance will be a big loss rather than a big gain,” they report.

Their calculations, by the way, are based on the value of options when they are granted, not by their eventual value when they are cashed in.

The reasons for the poor performance of option-laden bosses seem obvious. An option holder will get rich if the stock soars, but he is no worse off if it falls a lot rather than a little. So a project with a huge possible profit may seem attractive even if a big loss is also possible, or even probable.

It appears that executives who have a lot of options with exercise prices far below the current market price — and thus would lose value if the stock price fell — make better decisions. “It tends to impose a more balanced view of risk,” Professor Sanders said. “It is your own money you are betting with, not just somebody else’s.”

There are other ways to take a risk, of course. We’ve learned that some bosses are willing to commit accounting fraud. Professor Sanders said other research of his indicates “there is a positive relationship between fraud and high option pay.” In some cases, the fraud comes after a big investment has gone bad.

If you believe this research, it makes a lot of sense to reduce options for bosses, or to change them, so that executives are more like shareholders. They could be given in-the-money options, with exercise prices below the current market price, so that price drops would hurt. (Perfectly legal, so long as it is disclosed.) Or they could get restricted stock.

Professor Sanders said another recommendation often made, tying options to an index so an executive would not profit if a stock just rose with the market, could be counterproductive. “That might make the excessive risk takers really go wild,” he said.

Instead, he suggested granting in-the-money options and requiring the executive to hold on to the stock — or at least the shares not required to pay taxes — for years after the option was exercised.

That might not be popular with ambitious chief executives. For options to have the same total value when issued, companies shifting to in-the-money options would grant fewer of them than they do now, and so the boss’s profit from a brilliant move would be lower. But his loss from a disastrous one would also be real, and that could make life a bit less painful for other shareholders.
297 2007-10-12 “The identity of a Turk was very much an engineered one in order to form a unified nation,” he added.

That identity was built on a painful foundation. Beyond the Armenian genocide, in which 1.5 million Armenians in eastern Turkey were killed, there were mass deportations of Greeks and executions of Islamic leaders and Kurdish nationalists.

“The Turkish state and society both have traumatic pasts, and it’s not easy to face them,” said Ferhat Kentel, a sociologist at Bilgi University in Istanbul.

Mr. Kentel compared Turkey’s beginnings to a tenant who realizes that the house he has just rented is not new, but instead “has all kinds of rubbish and dirt underneath.”

“Would you shout it out loud at the risk of being shamed by your neighbors,” he asked “or try to hide it and deal with it as you keep living in your only home?”

The highly centralized Turkish state has chosen the latter. To do anything else would be to invite divisions and embolden independence-minded minorities, the thinking went. Textbooks talk little about the events that began in 1915, and they emphasize defensive action taken against Armenian rebels sympathetic to Russia, Turkey’s enemy at that time.

“The word ‘genocide,’ as cold as it is, causes a deep reaction in the Turkish society,” Mr. Kentel said. “Having been taught about its glorious and spotless past by the state rhetoric for decades, people feel that they could not have possibly done such a terrible thing.”

Fethiye Cetin, a lawyer and the author of a book about her family’s history, said it was not until she was 25 that she learned that her grandmother was an Armenian adopted by a Muslim family after being separated from her parents in 1915.

“We grew up, knowing nothing about our past,” said Ms. Cetin, who now helps represent the family of Hrant Dink, a Turkish newspaper editor of Armenian descent who was shot dead in January, at the trial of the teenager and suspected accomplices accused of the killing.

“It was not talked about in the family environment,” Ms. Cetin said. “It was not taught at schools and one day came when we suddenly faced facts telling that there has been an Armenian genocide on this land.”

But while the Turkish state has kept this history closed, a growing number of intellectuals and writers are working hard to open it. Changes carried out by the Turkish government to enter the European Union have also helped open debate in society.

A further step was taken by the current government this year when it called for a joint international commission to review the events, including opening up long-closed state archives.

Mr. Kentel participated in a conference this year on the subject that caused much tension and debate but brought the topic into the public realm. The event drew a few noisy protesters but the broader reaction was muted.

In a sign of just how far the Turkish state still has to go, in Istanbul on Thursday, a court convicted Mr. Dink’s son, now the editor of the newspaper Agos, and the paper’s publisher on charges of insulting Turkish identity for reprinting Hrant Dink’s comments about the genocide. Their sentences were suspended.

Measures like the genocide bill in the United States Congress serve only to complicate the work of those trying to open society, Ms. Cetin and Mr. Kentel said. It was not an honest attempt to heal, as lawmakers who supported it argued, they said, but a political statement issued to prove a point, which creates a highly charged, unfriendly atmosphere.

Bills on the Armenian genocide in foreign countries “make it even more difficult for people to simply talk,” Mr. Kentel said.

Ms. Cetin’s book, “My Grandmother,” was widely read, she said, because it appealed as an intimate human story, not a political statement. “Every change comes with its pain, and that’s what we’re going through right now,” she said.
298 2007-10-12 With space tight at the five camps and a very short season, from late June through early September, a lottery decides admission. The unpublicized deadline to apply is Nov. 30.

Last year, 2,000 groups of hikers competed for 800 openings. About a quarter were repeat customers.

Some reserve space at all five camps so they can hike the entire trail. But others carve out mini-loops that could be completed in a long weekend, as my 17-year-old daughter, city-slicker husband and I did last August, embarking on a 30-mile mini-loop. We stayed a night at a camp on the shores of picturesque May Lake and two nights at Sunrise Camp, perched on a granite ledge overlooking a vast meadow and beyond to the Clark Mountain range.

Our journey started at Tuolumne Meadows, following the rippling water of the Tuolumne River that eventually roared down a gorge so beautiful to behold that we could hardly focus on our footing. As would happen time and again, we moved along thinking the best was behind us, only to be wowed by yet another marvel.

A steep climb through a lush grove of lodgepole pines would suddenly yield to an aerial view of Yosemite Valley’s landmark domes glinting in the sunshine. Or a vast alpine meadow ringed by snow-capped mountains would unexpectedly surrender a pristine lake tempting us to extend our lunch break.

Yet, though they may not admit it, the most exciting view of the day for a lot of hikers is a quiet cluster of little white canvas bungalows at the end of a long hike.

The camps are “good for anybody who likes to hike but doesn’t have all the backpacking equipment or is hesitant to be out there all on their own,” said Deedee Smith, a camp reservations specialist. “It’s also great for older people who can’t carry a lot and for families who want a good experience but don’t want to be overwhelmed.”

For the Kelley family, the Sunrise camp was the perfect spot for a family reunion. Karen Kelley, 70, and her husband, Kalon, 68, both experienced hikers from Santa Barbara, Calif., walked a challenging 30-mile loop from Tuolumne Meadows to rendezvous at the Sunrise camp with their son from Sacramento, who hiked eight miles straight uphill from Tenaya Lake with his wife and two boys, 6 and 3.

“We kept them going with M & Ms and promises of seeing their grandpa at the top of the mountain,” said the boys’ mother, Liane Randolph.

Only about 5 percent of the 3.2 million visitors to Yosemite each year leave the crowded valley floor with its famous waterfalls to explore the stunning wilderness miles from any road and accessible only by foot or mule.

To encourage visitors to venture into the mountains, the first of five High Sierra Camps was constructed by the National Park Service in 1916 and the last completed in 1961. Purists have long decried their presence in the midst of John Muir’s pristine wilderness and denigrated their comforts.

“It’s backpacking for sissies” is how my friend Alice Cantelow characterized the camps when, as energetic teenagers 40 years ago, we hiked past a cluster of canvas bungalows where guests had gathered for a tasty repast. We trudged onward and later pitched our own camp, made a fire, boiled some dehydrated hamburgers for dinner, then struggled to hang a bear-bag to keep our food safe while we slept — fitfully.

BUT years later, as my old bones began to ache at the thought of sleeping on the hard ground, and a heavy backpack seemed more like punishment than vacation, I was tempted by the comforts of the High Sierra Camps.

With lodging and meals provided by the camps, the only essentials a hiker needs to pack are water bottles, a jacket, a poncho and a First Aid kit — though some hikers load up with toiletries, extra clothes and shoes that can add 20 pounds. For those who can’t get along without their lounge chairs, a box of books, an artist’s easel or a case of wine, there is the option of hiring mules.

Yosemite has 800 miles of trail, and while the High Sierra loop is relatively short, it winds up and down through a spectacular sample of the park’s most scenic wilderness. The trail is well maintained and absolutely free of litter. In four days of hiking, a single Band-Aid wrapper was the only piece of trash I saw on the trail.

There are considerable elevation changes between camps, situated at altitudes ranging from 7,800 to 10,300 feet, so hikers should be prepared for steep switchbacks.

Mr. Garretson, 65, recalled that in his youth, he dreaded going uphill, but discovered during his recent trip that downhill was harder on his aging knees, especially the 3,000-foot descent from the Vogelsang camp to the one at Merced Lake. “It worked best if I moved really slow and walked like a duck,” he said.

John Bullock, 68, of Shropshire, England, who has traveled to Yosemite three times to hike the trail or portions of it, said: “The thing about the camps is that they offer a variety of ways getting to and from them, some more challenging than others. Except for ‘hutting’ in the Swiss Alps, I don’t think there’s anything quite like this in the world.”

During his most recent expedition in August, he packed in “a liter of Jim Beam” and stayed an extra couple days at each camp to either relax or take day trips to remote areas “not even shown on trail maps.”

Having visited all the camps more than once, he eagerly compared them. Mr. Bullock said the summer skies are amazing at the Vogelsang camp, at 10,300 feet, where winters bring as much as 30 feet of snow.

“It’s best to go when there is no moon,” Mr. Bullock said. “You have never seen the Milky Way until you’ve been there.”

The camps at May Lake and Merced, both on the water, may be the most popular because, unlike the other camps, they offer hot showers and flush toilets instead of smelly latrines. Showers usually provided at the Sunrise camp were eliminated in early August this year because of a drought. And showers are not offered at the Vogelsang and Glen Aulin camps.

Each camp has room for about 40 people a night. Hikers are placed in four- or six-person tents, with groups fewer than four usually assigned a roommate or two. Hearty breakfasts and tasty dinners, as well as optional picnic lunches, are camp trademarks thanks to mule trains that deliver fresh fruit and vegetables several times a week. Steak is featured at all the camps on Saturday evening.

Sitting down to a gourmet meal at a table with other hikers is a far cry from how Jack Yocum, 62, a veteran backpacker and woodsman, had ever experienced the High Sierras. “We’re here because he wanted me to come with him,” said his wife, Carole, who wore stylish exercise warm-ups and gold earrings.

“I’m just not a hiker,” she said. “I’m more ‘Take me to the local Hilton’ for a vacation or ‘Let’s go on a cruise.’ ”

Nevertheless, she managed to handle six days on the trail and 40 miles, keeping pace with her husband and their friends from Florida who joined them. She would readily go again, she said, but only if she can get reservations at the High Sierra Camps.

RESERVATIONS at the five High Sierra Camps in Yosemite are awarded by lottery, with an entry deadline of Nov. 30. Applications are available by calling (559) 253-5674 or at www.yosemitepark.com/Accommodations_HighSierra_HowtoApply.aspx.

Additional space usually becomes available beginning April 1 because of cancellations.

The nightly cost per person this year was $136 a person for lodging and two meals, with the option of buying a sack lunch for the trail. Lodging is in four- or six-person canvas cabins with dormitory-style frame beds, mattresses, pillows and blankets. The staff tries to keep groups together in the same tent.

There is an option of just eating meals at the camps. At additional cost, hikers can arrange a saddle trip or guided hike.

Hikers may reserve space for groups no larger than eight.

The camps usually open between June 15 and July 1, and close in mid-September. Early in the season is the best time for blooming wildflowers — but also mosquitoes.

Temperatures are warmest in August and September, but water is less plentiful, and shortages can shut down the showers.
299 2007-10-12 The director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, has ordered an unusual internal inquiry into the work of the agency's inspector general, whose aggressive investigations of the C.I.A.'s detention and interrogation programs ...
300 2007-10-12 A SHAKE-UP AT CITICitigroup's embattled chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, announced a major reorganization and management shake-up   as questions linger about his ability to run the giant bank.       NEWSCAST FOR THE WEB   Unlik...
301 2007-10-13 John McCain today issued some of the harshest direct criticism so far of a fellow Republican. Update: Romney campaign fires back....
302 2007-10-13 Trying to resolve one of Mexico City’s oldest and most intractable problems, Mayor Marcelo Ebrard sent more than 1,000 police officers in riot gear into the historic center to keep street vendors from setting up stands and blocking sidewalks. The operation to clear the vendors from 87 streets downtown was carried out peacefully, though several hundred angry vendors staged a march to protest. Over the years, the vendors have developed into a political force to be reckoned with and have managed to keep their illegal stands in operation despite the efforts of past mayors to move them to indoor markets. At least a quarter of the Mexican economy is informal, and attempts to clear the streets of unlicensed vendors have often been interpreted in the past as an attack on the poor.
303 2007-10-13 The team is led by Robert L. Deitz, a close aide to General Hayden at the C.I.A. who also served under him as general counsel of the National Security Agency. Mr. Deitz agreed before Friday’s news reports to brief the Senate and House Intelligence Committees next week about the inquiry, officials said Friday.

Some current and former agency officials said the inquiry was improper because it could be viewed as an effort to influence investigations. Mr. Helgerson is finishing several reports on detention, including one on the practice of seizing terrorism suspects and delivering them to foreign prisons, officials who have followed his work said.

A spokesman for General Hayden said the inquiry was “a straightforward management review, nothing more,” saying it “can only strengthen oversight at the C.I.A.” The spokesman, Paul Gimigliano, added, “It’s ridiculous to suggest that this is in any way an attack on the concept of a vigorous system of inspection and investigation.”

But Representative Silvestre Reyes, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the House committee, called the inquiry troubling, noting that the inspector general’s independence is written into the law.

In a letter, Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, asked Mike McConnell, director of national intelligence, to instruct General Hayden to drop the inquiry.

“I just don’t want to see I.G.’s intimidated,” Mr. Wyden said in an interview. He added, “People who know they’re doing the right thing are not afraid of oversight.”

Mr. Helgerson, who joined the C.I.A. in 1971, was named inspector general by President Bush in 2002. He reports to General Hayden and to Congress and can be removed only by the president.

Mr. Helgerson has angered senior officers in the National Clandestine Service with what they consider to be unfair and drawn-out inquiries. “There have been complaints about the impartiality and methodology of some investigations,” said one official who would speak of the agency’s internal deliberations only on the condition of anonymity.

Tensions arose over the inspector general’s examination of the shooting down of a missionary plane in Peru in 2001 based on the C.I.A.’s mistaken identification of the aircraft. Mr. Helgerson raised questions in 2004 about the legality of the agency’s interrogation methods for Qaeda suspects and in 2005 issued a blistering report on the agency’s failure to prevent the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Mr. Wyden said General Hayden “fought very, very hard” to prevent the inspector general’s 9/11 report from becoming public. Ultimately, Congress passed legislation requiring its release, and it was made public in August.

One former C.I.A. official said Friday that another flash point in relations between the agency and Mr. Helgerson was a report on a botched case in which, because of a name mix-up, a Lebanese-born German citizen was seized in Macedonia, beaten and imprisoned in Afghanistan.
304 2007-10-13 Any big, fast-growing company confronts the “law of large numbers” — that is, growth rates naturally tend to slow as a company gets bigger. That should not be a real issue for Google, analysts say, until it gets to be about twice its current size.

In 2007, the company’s revenue is projected to reach $11.5 billion, a 58 percent annual increase. Google, they say, is riding a tidal shift in advertising onto the Web that is just getting under way. Today, only 5 to 10 percent of advertising budgets are spent online, even though most Americans now spend as much time on the Web as watching television.

But in the short term, the number to really watch is Google’s spending. Last quarter, expenses that came in higher than anticipated surprised Wall Street and temporarily hit Google’s stock price. “The biggest challenge to Google’s stock is going to be if it gets the rap of being an overspender and not rewarding shareholders fully,” said Scott Cleland, an analyst at the Precursor Group.

Google is hiring at a torrid pace. The company keeps doubling the number of engineers it hires each year, adding 4,000 last year. “You simply can’t maintain the quality at 4,000 hires that you had at 250 or 500 or 1,000,” said Edward Lazowska, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington.

Larry Page, a Google co-founder, said at a conference last week that hiring was a big concern. “We never have enough people to do what we want,” he said. “We always need to hire. But there are limitations to how fast you can recruit people.”

Google is hiring so aggressively to support its ambitious strategy, which now extends well beyond its core business in search and online ads.

It has begun offering Web-based software like word processing and spreadsheets — areas where Microsoft is the dominant supplier. Its coming mobile phone software will put Google in competition with telecommunications companies. With YouTube, which it bought for $1.65 billion last year, Google has become a major distributor of entertainment, which could put it in conflict with cable TV companies.

These moves are assaults on huge businesses that have entrenched competitors. Google’s management style, geared to nurture individual innovation, may not be suited to the task, analysts say.

“Google needs to make sure that its management culture is in sync with the strategy,” said Thomas R. Eisenmann, an associate professor at the Harvard Business School. “I’m not sure the bottom-up approach will do it.”

“The great risk to Google is that someday it will face real competition in search,” said Jordan Rohan, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets.

Google looks so strong today in part because of the stumbles of its principal rivals, Yahoo and Microsoft. Both have invested heavily to catch up in search and online ad auctions, but without success so far. In September, Google’s share of Web searches in the United States was 67 percent, up from 54 percent a year earlier, reports Compete.com, a Web analytics firm. The Yahoo share was 19 percent, compared with 29 percent a year earlier. And Microsoft had 9 percent, up slightly from a year ago.

The company’s market lead is so large that advertisers tailor their technology to work best on Google ad networks, and Web publishers design their sites to best pull in more Google users.

Jim Lanzone, chief executive of Ask.com, the fourth-largest search engine with about 4 percent share, sees no “silver bullet” that could greatly shift market share. Ask.com is acknowledged as an innovator in using graphics, audio and video in its results. The search market, he said, is so large that Ask.com can thrive by gradually inching forward.

But Silicon Valley start-ups and venture capitalists are betting that there is room for major innovation in search. Powerset and Hakia are two well-financed start-ups working on natural-language search, where a user types a question instead of keywords.

Google, too, is apparently pursuing disruptive new search technologies. Narayanan Shivakumar, a computer scientist who heads Google’s Seattle office, is being given 100 engineers over the next three years to try to come up with search technology that beats its current offering, according to an industry consultant told of the project.

Google’s rising market power could also slow it. George F. Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research, was visiting corporate clients across Europe this week. “Nearly every company I meet here, as in the U.S., sees Google as an enemy or a potential enemy,” he said from Paris. “That could close doors for Google and make it harder to do deals with potential partners.”

Not only Google’s market power, but also its reach and influence on how millions of people navigate their digital lives invite scrutiny. Privacy advocates say Google’s dominance and practice of keeping search histories of users raise many dangers. Google’s vast databases and search tracking, they say, raise the prospect of a corporate Big Brother.

Google’s motto is “Don’t be evil.” But Privacy International, a London-based organization, ranked Google last among Internet companies and called it “an endemic threat to privacy.”

Search engines like Google identify the searches done using a particular computer, rather than actually knowing who is at the keyboard. Yet privacy advocates say that unless rules are in place to limit what kinds of personal data can be collected and how long it can be stored, Google can effectively know who you are without knowing your name.

The privacy issue, they say, will only increase as Google grows and extends into new markets. “Google underestimates how strongly people care about privacy and underestimates governments’ willingness to take action,” said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a privacy rights group.

That group and others have urged the Federal Trade Commission and European authorities to block Google’s planned $3.1 billion purchase of the online advertising company DoubleClick, or to make privacy protections a condition of the deal.

In technology, dominant companies look invincible for years until they are unseated by the next wave of previously unforeseen innovation. I.B.M. ruled the mainframe era and Microsoft the personal computer boom. Google has emerged as a power of the Internet economy. Huge profits and market power are the rewards for being a keystone company in each era. It is no surprise, then, that I.B.M. and Microsoft were the targets of landmark federal antitrust suits.

What the next technology wave might be is anyone’s guess. But what Wall Street will be looking for is a turn, a shift in momentum. One such shift, analysts suggest, could be a combination of slowing growth and declining profit margins. Google’s ad revenue comes mainly from two sources: text ads from its own search results and ads it places on the Web sites of other companies. On the latter, it pays 80 cents or so of each dollar to the Web site and keeps the rest. Increased competition in ad networks, especially from Microsoft, will drive the payouts higher, nibbling away at Google’s profits.
305 2007-10-13 Some agency officials were said to be uncomfortable holding the work as a model before Pfizer resolved questions about content. Just days before the mock-up was set for release, the S.E.C. staff would not give it unqualified approval. Pfizer executives quickly backpedaled on their ambitions. Regulators urged Pfizer to blur the report’s text, making it unreadable, and attach a disclaimer.

“This is a hypothetical document, and it will not look like this next year,” the disclaimer said, adding that the company would work with the S.E.C. on form and content to ensure that the final document met regulations.

The episode is a setback for Pfizer, which has been trying hard to reclaim the mantle as a governance leader but seems to stub its toe at every turn. Within the S.E.C., it is the latest flashpoint in a debate over the pay disclosure rules.

In one corner, the S.E.C. chairman, Christopher Cox, has been pushing companies to present compensation reports clearly and concisely. In the other, the agency’s staff — the corporate finance division, in particular — has been more concerned with substance than style.

Both are crucial. After a review of 350 proxies, S.E.C. officials stressed this week that analysis and presentation matter. But differences remain over their priorities.

Ever since the S.E.C.’s pay disclosure rules took effect earlier this year, the roots of this debate had been forming. Despite a wealth of data, investors complained that pay reports were bogged down by legalese. Crucial figures, meanwhile, were buried so deep that unearthing them required both an M.B.A. and an archaeology Ph.D.

This spring, Mr. Cox went on a plain English push.

Around the same time, William Lutz, a communications consultant and a former English professor at Rutgers, found the accessibility of the new compensation reports troubling. In the 1990s, Mr. Lutz led the S.E.C. effort to make mutual fund prospectuses easier to understand.

Mr. Lutz said he approached Mr. Cox about creating more reader-friendly reports, and received a go-ahead. This summer, he found a volunteer in Margaret M. Foran, Pfizer’s corporate secretary.

Pfizer executives saw it as an important initiative as well as way to restore the company’s tarnished image as a governance leader. At nearly 18,000 words, Pfizer’s 2006 proxy quickly became an example of disclosure run wild.

A year earlier, the company said its disclosure practices went above and beyond the rules. Even so, many investors criticized Pfizer after they learned about the nearly $200 million exit package for the former chairman and chief executive, Henry A. McKinnell — including $82 million in retirement benefits.

By August, Pfizer executives were actively trying to develop the new pay report. While Mr. Lutz worked on streamlining its structure, Gordon Akwera of Addison, a firm specializing in financial communications, joined the team to tweak the format.

Over the next month, the group made several crucial changes, mainly to the look. They reorganized the material into sections, moving from general to specific topics. They made it easier to navigate by using color, different font sizes and a two-column structure, based on Addison’s research. The biggest change was the creation of a total compensation table, where they pulled in additional information — details like performance targets and realized stock options — that had been buried in other charts.

Mr. Lutz said several S.E.C. officials reviewed early drafts, including Mr. Cox. “The chairman has been involved and provided encouragement,” Mr. Lutz said. “He wants to be able to say to companies: here is something to look at for good ideas for communicating better. We are trying to give him something to use.”

But S.E.C.’s corporate finance staff, which has overseen the changes in the pay disclosure rules, did not participate in the mock-up effort. “We were aware that they were working on it,” John W. White, the corporate finance division’s director, said. “The staff has not been involved at all in providing input into the presentation.”

In the last week or so, corporate finance staff members reviewed the document and did not like what they saw. “They are very unhappy,” Mr. Lutz said, recounting long calls with regulators who requested several pages of changes. “Communication is not their concern.”

Since then, the mock-up team has toned down expectations. Pfizer said that it would use concepts from the redesign but would make adjustments before filing next year’s proxy.

Mr. White, S.E.C.’s corporate finance director, lauded the effort and suggested that his staff had no qualms with the mock-up now that it had the disclaimer. Still, he left little doubt where he stood.

“Our review process, our comments and our focus is very much on the content,” he said. “But we enthusiastically support the chairman’s focus on plain English and presentation.”
306 2007-10-13 MIAMI, Oct. 12 — His poll numbers are in the tank, and the Republican presidential candidates barely mention his name. But it took President Bush less than an hour on Friday to rake in $1 million from the party faithful.

The official purpose of Mr. Bush’s trip to Florida was to talk to a friendly audience of business leaders here, urging Congress to adopt pending free trade agreements with Peru, Colombia and Panama, as well as South Korea.

As he often does in Florida, the president drew big applause when he called for a free Cuba.

“In Havana, the long rule of a cruel dictator is nearing an end,” he said.

Before the main event, he took a trip to Pinellas Park, not far from Clearwater, where 60 people paid up to $25,000 each to have lunch with him.

The luncheon , Mr. Bush’s 21st fund-raiser this year and the 13th behind closed doors, was at the expansive house of Brent Sembler, a shopping mall developer from a family of major Republican donors.
307 2007-10-13 What began as a dispute over compensation for future use of programming on the Internet, over cellphones or in media yet to be invented has unexpectedly turned into a brawl over a decades-old residuals system. That formula pays writers and others when movies and television shows are sold on DVD or on cable television.

In July producers offered writers a choice: Delay their request to set compensation for new media pending a study of the market, or accept a radical change in the residuals system that would permit additional payments only after a company had recouped the cost of a movie or television show.

Writers angrily rejected both options, while demanding that companies double the base on which they pay home video residuals, from 20 to 40 percent of the studios’ and networks’ actual revenue from sales.

Producers recoiled at what they saw as newly militant guild leaders trying to undo an arrangement — basing residuals on only a fraction of actual home video revenue — that writers and others in Hollywood had resented from the moment they agreed to it in the early 1980s.

Looking backward, many union members concluded that they simply should have fought harder for a bigger share of what was then a new market, and resolved never to let it happen again.

In recent years at the powerful Writers Guild of America West, an aggressive slate of fresh leaders headed by the union’s president, Patric Verrone, ousted an executive director who had been regarded as too sympathetic to the companies, installed new managers with labor union backgrounds and resolved to re- establish what they saw as their guild’s eroding power. All of this has contributed a tone of personal animosity to exchanges between the sides in the current bargaining.

But even highly compensated writers who might have more to lose than gain from a strike have been galvanized by what they viewed as an attack on a sacred principle: the right to residuals. The proposal was seen as doubly insulting because of the notion that studio accounting could be trusted to tell when costs had truly been recovered. (To allay suspicion, producers offered to let an independent auditor keep an eye on the books.)

“I’m booked morning to night, that’s how freaked out everyone is,” said Dennis Palumbo, a screenwriter turned psychotherapist whose practice serves a number of Hollywood writers. Among working writers, Mr. Palumbo said, the prevalent feeling is that “if residuals are not off the table, we should strike.”

Linda Lichter — whose firm, Lichter, Grossman, Nichols & Adler, has many writers among its clients — said, “The companies are big multinational corporations, and all of them are pushing back at talent as much as possible.” At the same time, she said, “You have rage on the part of writers and other guilds about how they got taken on DVDs in the past.”

Some observers now contend that company representatives acted from a mistaken belief that threatening the residuals system would chase writers back to what studios and networks really wanted: a delay in setting pay schedules for the rapidly changing world of new media.

“The studios used brinkmanship too early,” said Bruce Feirstein, a screenwriter who has written about Hollywood for The New York Observer. Faced with a long-term decline in studio script development, he added, even the guild’s less aggressive writers had come to see residuals as “a way to send kids to school between projects,” and not fair game in a negotiation.

For producers, of course, a next move might be to withdraw their residuals plan, possibly in return for a private assurance that writers would respond with a similar movement, and perhaps in time to undercut the strike authorization vote.

A spokesman for the producers declined to discuss possible tactics. Neal Sacharow, director of communications for the Writers Guild of America West, said in a statement, “If the companies were to take their rollbacks off the table, it would be a signal that they were prepared to engage in serious negotiations.”

That would leave only the problem of figuring out where entertainment industry unions fit in the digital future.

The path to a solution might well lead back to a study group, if the sides could find a mechanism to establish trust, for instance by positing that any new pay mechanism would be retroactive to the beginning of the contract being negotiated.

But ultimately, determining the real value of new electronic distribution systems may not be any easier.

Speaking at a Hollywood panel discussion this week, Michael Rogers, a consultant who has served as The New York Times’s futurist in residence, reckoned that the remaining task would be no harder than pinning “jelly to the wall.”
308 2007-10-13 A divided federal appeals court ruled yesterday that a human rights lawsuit filed against 50 major corporations that did business in South Africa under apartheid should be revived and reconsidered by the lower court that dismissed it.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reinstated the suit, which was filed in 2002 by three separate groups of plaintiffs in eight federal courts across the country. They argued that the corporations, most of which are American, violated international law by aiding and abetting the apartheid system in South Africa.

The plaintiffs sued the corporations — among them Citigroup, General Electric, E. I. DuPont de Nemours, I.B.M., General Motors, Shell Oil and ExxonMobil — under the Alien Tort Claims Act, which was passed in 1789 to protect American ships and diplomats from attack when they were overseas. In 2004, Judge John E. Sprizzo of Federal District Court in Manhattan dismissed the case, saying that his court did not have jurisdiction to consider the suit.

In his ruling to dismiss, Judge Sprizzo wrote that the courts must be “extremely cautious in permitting suits here based upon a corporation’s doing business in countries with less than stellar human rights records.” He warned that such suits could have “significant, if not disastrous, effects” on trade.

A three-judge panel of the appeals court reversed that decision, saying that Judge Sprizzo did have jurisdiction and returning the case for reconsideration.

“The majority allows three class actions on behalf of all persons who lived in South Africa between 1948 and the present and who suffered damages as a result of apartheid to go forward in a United States court against American, Canadian and European corporations that sold goods and materials or made loans to the Union of South Africa during the apartheid era,” one of the appellate judges, Edward R. Korman, wrote.
309 2007-10-13 It had already been vandalized at the Museum of Modern Art when a small-time artist named Tony Shafrazi sprayed the words “Kill Lies All” on it in 1974. In the creepy, amnesiac way that celebrity and money operate in America and in the art world, Mr. Shafrazi went on to become a rich and powerful art dealer.

The painting moved some years ago from the Prado to the Reina Sofía and was finally let out of its glass prison. I’ve never loved “Guernica,” to tell the truth. Its lofty ambition obscures the detriments of its telegraphed emotions and inflated billboard-size Cubism, but time only adds to its patina of glory for the crowds that come to commune with it and who can now get almost, but not quite, close enough to touch the picture.

Proximity is the cost, and virtue, of a civil and democratic society. We run the risk that some lunatic or self-promoter will violate the public trust of an open space because we value that space as a democratic ideal. Part of what’s beautiful about an art museum, aside from what’s on view, is that it implies trust — it lets us stand next to objects that supposedly represent civilization at its best and, in so doing, flatters us for respecting our common welfare.

Complaints that museums are snobbish palaces and that works of art in them are treated like holy relics may not be all wrong, but they miss the point that people go to museums partly to enjoy this compact with what, as a society, we decide has enduring value — with art whose fragility and vulnerability to attack make our encounters with it that much more special.

Even a commercial art gallery that sells lousy art trusts the public enough to let strangers off the streets through the doors to see what’s on the walls. Unlike many museums, galleries are free. Often they’ve got the best shows in town. You don’t pay to get in, nor do you have to buy the art. You’re just expected not to touch the pictures.

Walling off art behind alarmed glass wouldn’t guarantee total safety, anyway, although people in France might well be asking about erratic security there. A spate of attacks includes one in July in Avignon by a woman, an artist named Sam Rindy, who left a lipstick-stained kiss on a white painting by Cy Twombly, saying that she thought it had improved the picture. On Tuesday Ms. Rindy’s lawyer, playing the obvious French card, told a court in Marseille that she had been “overcome with passion.”

The lawyer for the picture’s owner responded, “In love, there need to be two consenting people.”

Touché. But the alternative to an open society can’t be what the Louvre does with the “Mona Lisa.” Every year it seems to recede farther behind glass. Parked, as if in amber, where guards can move crowds swiftly past it, it seems hardly a real painting any longer. It’s a station on the cross of package tourism and an emblem of our own worst fears and impulses, the opposite of the way you experience “Guernica.”

It’s tempting to look for a grand, unified theory of vandalism, but the specific motivations of the people who attack art are clearly as diverse as the objects they choose to hurt. I admit that I wasn’t entirely surprised to learn the next morning about the shenanigans at Orsay, having spent White Night in Paris, where I was awakened at 5 in the morning by the sound of drunken revelers inching along my hotel window ledge.

But more often it’s not pranksters who slash art but self-promoters with a supposed cause. For the moment, let’s leave aside the opportunism of artists who seem to provoke reactions. Their art may be a cheap trick, but that’s never an excuse for violence. With the memory in mind of the riots that broke out last year following the publication of cartoons mocking Muhammad in a Danish newspaper, Al Qaeda extremists recently promised a reward to anyone who kills the publisher of a newspaper in Sweden that lately printed a Muhammad cartoon and the artist who did it. No doubt they’re disappointed at their failure so far to rekindle similar mayhem.

You might say that what troubles such terrorists is precisely the freedom that art, and its public display, represent. Many of the criminals are religious and sexual puritans. They are offended by art’s power to embody values they fear. Art has a totemic power that goes back to cave paintings, which is too easy to dismiss in the modern world. It’s why ancient Greeks used to chain statues to prevent them from fleeing, and why in the Philippines enraged citizens attacked billboards of Ferdinand Marcos.

But art is also expensive, even more so in an increasingly deranged commercial art world, and the combination of money and symbolism means that attacking art will make headlines unlike other acts of ordinary vandalism.

Getting attention is always the bottom line. That the hooded Swedes with crowbars in Lund went straight to YouTube (the video has since been removed) was predictable and ominous, a case of Internet self-promotion that is minor compared with the beheadings in Iraq, but with the same idea: that direct technological access promotes acts of violence whose basic requirement is to be witnessed.

Thanks to its historic authority, the aura of “Guernica” has become like a bubble or halo that psychologically separates it from the gazing mobs, never mind that there’s no longer a glass wall. Standing before it, you can almost imagine that it has, historically speaking, passed beyond harm — that to attack it now would only make the picture a martyr, that it’s indestructible.

Of course it’s not.
310 2007-10-13 “A lot of it is more for fun than for making money,” said Mr. Foley, who estimates he has invested about $125 million in Montana in the past few years, mostly in real estate.

The rise of a new landed gentry in the West is partly another expression of gilded age economics in America; the super-wealthy elite wades ashore where it will.

With the timber industry in steep decline, recreation is pushing aside logging as the biggest undertaking in the national forests and grasslands, making nearby private tracts more desirable — and valuable, in a sort of ratchet effect — to people who enjoy outdoor activities and ample elbow room and who have the means to take title to what they want.

Some old-line logging companies, including Plum Creek Timber, the country’s largest private landowner, are cashing in, putting tens of thousands of wooded acres on the market from Montana to Oregon. Plum Creek, which owns about 1.2 million acres here in Montana alone, is getting up to $29,000 an acre for land that was worth perhaps $500 an acre for timber cutting.

“Everybody wants to buy a 640-acre section of forest that’s next to the U.S. Forest Service or one of the wilderness areas,” said Plum Creek’s president and chief executive, Rick Holley.

As a result, population is surging in areas surrounding national forests and national parks, with open spaces being carved up into sprawling wooded plots, enough for a house and no nosy neighbors.

Here in Flathead County, on the western edge of Glacier National Park, the number of real estate transactions, mostly for open land, rose by 30 percent from 2003 to 2006, according to state figures. The county’s population is up 44 percent since 1990.

The United States Forest Service projects that over the next 25 years, an area the size of Maine — all of it bordering the national forests and grasslands — will face development pressure and increased housing density.

But the equally important force is the change in ownership. According to a Forest Service study, not yet published, more than 1.1 million new families became owners of an acre or more of private forest from 1993 to 2006 in the lower 48 states, a 12 percent increase. And almost all the net growth, about seven million acres, was in the Rocky Mountain region.

Institutions, pension funds and real estate investment trusts have been particularly aggressive buyers. Over the last 10 years, at least 40 million acres of private forest land have changed hands nationwide, said Bob Izlar, the director of the Center for Forest Business at the University of Georgia. It is a turnover that Mr. Izlar said was unmatched at least since the Great Depression.

Here in the West, questions of clout and class have been raised by the new arrivals.

This year, the conservation group Trout Unlimited, which had been considering ending its involvement in disputes between private landowners and fishermen over public access to fishing streams, backtracked after its members rose up in protest. Some members accused the group of siding with the landowners by not fighting for fishermen’s access rights.

In parts of Colorado where communities have committed tax money to preserve open space, conflicts have erupted on the borders of the public lands over whether the programs — which in many cases buy out an owner’s right to develop property, but not the property itself — are simply enriching landowners who keep the land and the public off, too.

“When you’re there, you’re on four million acres,” said Michael Carricarte, who bought an 800-acre property in Glenwood Springs, Colo., in 2005, and now has the place, bordered on three sides by federal land, up for sale, asking $23.5 million.

“To get to where our property touched public land would take three hours by public road, but from our house it was 10 minutes by four-wheeler or Jeep," he said.

Mr. Carricarte, 39, said he was now in the process of selling a conservation easement to the Aspen Valley Land Trust that would lock 600 acres, all bordering public land, into permanent preservation.

Longtime residents tied to the old timber economy are finding it difficult to keep up. In parts of New Mexico and Colorado, the timber industry has all but collapsed; log harvests in the national forests have fallen to about one-fourth of what they were 20 years ago in the Rocky Mountain region, and less than a tenth what they were in the Pacific Northwest.

Some privately owned timberlands have increased production, but in the West, where more than two-thirds of all forest land is publicly owned (compared with about one-sixth in the eastern United States) private owners, even if they want to allow logging, cannot make up the difference.

Ronald H. Buentemeier, a second-generation forester, said he struggled every day to get enough wood to stoke the family-owned mill he runs in Montana, the F. H. Stoltze Land and Lumber Company.

“There’s not enough private land out there,” said Mr. Buentemeier, a blunt-talking 66-year-old with a flat-top crew cut. “We’ve been pulling rabbits out of the hat to keep going.”

In ways that would have been unthinkable only a few years ago, environmentalists and representatives of the timber industry are reaching across the table, drafting plans that would get loggers back into the national forests in exchange for agreements that would set aside certain areas for protection.

Both groups are feeling under siege: timber executives because of the decline in logging, and environmentalists because of the explosion of growth on the margins of the public lands.

One of the most ambitious proposals is here in Montana. It would allow some logging in the Beaverhead and Deerlodge National Forests in the state’s southwest corner in exchange for the designation of new areas within the forests as permanent wilderness.

Some timber companies say that gaining conservationists as allies may be the only way to get back into the national forests, and so stay in business. But both sides say that success will require a turn of the historical momentum against logging in the West that began in the early ’90s.

A court decision in 1991 involving the northern spotted owl required the Forest Service to manage for more than just timber production. The national forests in the northern Rockies constricted logging, fostering expansion in other forest areas like the South.

“If there’s anything the industry should have learned over the years, it’s that we can’t do this by ourselves,” said Gordy Sanders, the resource manager at Pyramid Mountain Lumber, one of the mill operators involved in the Beaverhead and Deerlodge negotiations.

Many environmentalists say they have come to realize that cutting down trees, if done responsibly, is not the worst thing that can happen to a forest, when the alternative is selling the land to people who want to build houses.

Stoltze Land and Lumber, for example, which owns about 36,000 acres near the border of Glacier National Park, has said that the failure of the logging industry would leave the company no option but to sell land into the booming development market.

That prospect chills the blood of people like Anne Dahl, the director of the Swan Valley Ecosystem Center, a conservation and education group.

“I’m a former tree hugger who was opposed to everything, every timber sale,” Ms. Dahl said, “but now I see that the worst thing you can do is lose it all to development.”

Other new partnerships are emerging. Last year, the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Indian tribes, which have a reservation south of Whitefish, joined with conservationists to buy a square mile of land from Plum Creek that was deemed crucial to the endangered bull trout.

The tribes chipped in $4.8 million, half the purchase price, and the Trust for Public Lands put together the other half. The two parties recently completed a plan to manage the property jointly, said the Salish and Kootenai tribal chairman, James Steele Jr.

Plum Creek, based in Seattle, changed its corporate structure in 1999 to become a real estate investment trust. Some Plum Creek property has been bought by conservation groups, including about 68,000 acres in the Blackfoot Valley northwest of Helena. Negotiations continue for more conservation sales, with money surging into funds organized by groups like the Nature Conservancy and the Trust for Public Lands.

Mr. Holley, the Plum Creek executive, said that his company was committed to both the timber and real estate businesses, but that only a small percentage of its land, perhaps 30,000 acres or so, had the combination of attractions — proximity to public lands but also to other amenities, like shopping and restaurants — to make sale for development feasible.

The Forest Service, meanwhile, is struggling to find its own balance. A spokesman for the agency said that the national forests across the West were increasingly tilting toward recreation and away from logging. But the growth in population on the forests’ edge also means more need than ever to thin the trees, through some logging, if only for wildfire protection.

Tom Tidwell, the regional forester for 25 million acres of national forest that includes Montana, northern Idaho, North Dakota and part of South Dakota, said the Forest Service was eager to keep timber companies in business to help with the thinning.

“We’re more in the need of the industry,” Mr. Tidwell said. “It’s essential that we have someone to do that work so that taxpayers don’t have to pay for it.”

One broiling and unresolved issue is who gets to use the land as it changes hands.

Most private timber tracts in the West, including those owned by Plum Creek, have traditionally been open to recreational use, treated as public entry ways into the vast national forests, grasslands and wilderness areas that in Montana alone add up to nearly 46,000 square miles, about the size of New York State. But in many places, the new owners are throwing up no trespassing signs and fences, blocking what generations of residents across the West have taken for granted — open and beckoning access into the woods to fish, hunt and camp.

“Part of our character is that we have so much big sky and open country,” said Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana, a Democrat who has publicly sparred with Plum Creek about its land sales. “We’re going to have to be creative. There’s no textbook written on how to do this.”
311 2007-10-13 Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, concluded the negotiations by describing new proposals from the Americans as constructive if still insufficient.

The American and Russian ministers of foreign affairs and defense agreed to have experts analyze the fresh American offerings debated Friday and to meet again in six months.

American officials said that while the Russians may have showed hostility in public, their approach during closed-door sessions was far more constructive.

“What you saw playing out before the cameras did not reflect the substance and the progress of the private meetings that followed,” said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary.

The new American proposals presented by Ms. Rice and Mr. Gates included an invitation for Russia to join the United States and NATO as a full partner in designing and operating an antimissile system guarding all of Europe.

The offer even could include invitations for Russian and American officers to inspect and even be stationed as liaison officers at each other’s missile defense sites.

This concept of a new “Joint Regional Missile Defense Architecture” was described by senior administration officials as the most advanced and elaborate proposal on missile defense cooperation between Washington and Moscow.

“We remain eager to be full and open partners with Russia on missile defense,” Mr. Gates said.

Acknowledging that the two sides differed sharply on how to preserve the best aspects of treaties reducing nuclear warheads and guaranteeing verification, the American secretaries also proposed that issues involving missile defense, conventional forces and nuclear arms be treated as “a strategic framework,” to be discussed in an organized, parallel manner.

Mr. Lavrov, however, called for the United States to freeze its plans for developing missile defense bases in Poland and the Czech Republic while discussions continue on a compromise.

But Ms. Rice made it clear that the Bush administration would not halt its efforts in those two countries. The United States, Ms. Rice said, “is engaged in discussions, negotiations, with our allies, and those will continue.”

Although the sides agreed that their ministers of foreign affairs and defense would meet again in six months, the talks did little to dispel Russian concerns over American intentions on missile defense, or to persuade the Kremlin to cancel its threat to suspend compliance with a treaty covering the array of conventional forces in Europe.

Mr. Putin often veers from the diplomatic language typical of such high-level meetings. On Friday, meeting with the Americans at his residence in Novo-Ogaryovo, outside of Moscow, the outwardly warm interactions that once marked relations, at least between the countries’ two leaders, had clearly chilled in public.

Mr. Putin seemed to catch Mr. Gates and Ms. Rice off guard with his remarks, since no public statements were planned in advance.

Mr. Putin, though, arrived with notes and spent eight minutes welcoming the opportunity to talk about where Russia strongly disagreed with the Bush administration.

His remarks seemed to anger Ms. Rice, though Mr. Gates reacted impassively.

Mr. Putin kept the Americans waiting 40 minutes before he appeared. But Mr. Putin hardly rushed his guests away, as the private meeting went far longer than scheduled.

In addition to Mr. Putin’s remarks on missile defense, he suggested that Russia would withdraw from the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty, which barred short- and medium-range missiles from Europe, unless it were renegotiated and expanded to include other countries.

Mr. Putin also suggested that the Bush administration was pressing ahead with its security plans in Eastern Europe at the expense of relations with Russia.

“We hope that in the process of such complex and multifaceted talks,” Mr. Putin said, referring to the format of the meetings on Friday, “you will not be forcing forward your relations with the Eastern European countries.”

A senior American official summarized the day’s efforts by saying the long-term goal of talks with the Russians remains “to create a virtuous cycle of cooperation.”

The two sides agreed to discuss a method for jointly monitoring and assessing the ballistic missile threat — taken to mean Iran — and to use that information to guide plans for antimissile systems in Europe that would benefit Russia, the United States and NATO.

Mr. Gates described American plans to place 10 antimissile interceptors in Poland and an advanced targeting radar in the Czech Republic as no threat to Moscow’s nuclear missiles.

“I would just like to emphasize that the missile defense system proposed for Central Europe is not aimed at Russia,” Mr. Gates said. “It would have no impact on Russia’s strategic deterrent.”

Mr. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, insisted however that the American missile defense bases in Poland and the Czech Republic were “a potential threat for us.” He threatened that if the two bases were completed, “We will have to take some measures to neutralize this threat.”

He did not elaborate, but Russian military officials have warned they would consider reorienting their missiles’ targets to Europe if American missile defense bases were installed in Poland and the Czech Republic.
312 2007-10-13 LISS--Miriam R., on Sunday, October 7, 2007. Miriam R. Liss of Silver Spring, MD. Beloved wife of the late Joseph H. Liss, devoted mother of Marsha B. Liss, cherished grandmother of Joel and Sam. Funeral services were held on Monday, October 8, 20...
313 2007-10-13 KODAK QUITTING OLYMPICS      Eastman Kodak will end its century-long Olympic sponsorship after the 2008 Beijing games as the company changes its marketing strategy following losses in 8 of the last 10 quarters....
314 2007-10-14 BANGKOK, Oct. 13 — In a continuing campaign of arrests in Myanmar, the authorities have caught their most-wanted man, a former student leader who helped organize recent protests, Amnesty International said Saturday.

The organizer, U Htay Kywe, 39, was the last remaining leader of a group called the 88 Generation Students Group, which had led protests against a fuel price increase in mid-August that grew into huge demonstrations against the military junta.

Two other members of the group were also arrested, as well as another dissident, according to Amnesty, a London-based human rights group. Although the report could not be independently verified, members of Burmese exile groups in Thailand said they believed it to be true.

One of the people reported to have been arrested is Daw Mie Mie, 35, who was prominent in photographs and videos of the first small demonstrations that had been smuggled out of the country. She appeared in those shots with her fist raised.

The government cracked down on the protests, many led by Buddhist monks, in late September. It says 10 people were killed; diplomats and exiles say the number is much higher.
315 2007-10-14 “Performing there was like a seal of approval for young talent,” said Brad Rosenstein, who was curator of a 2007 exhibition on Mr. Banducci and the club for the San Francisco Public Arts Library and Museum. Satirical political comedy was “unknown before the Hungry I,” Mr. Rosenstein said.

Interviewed by The New York Times in 1970 about the performers who played at his club, Mr. Banducci said: “I can’t say whether I ‘discovered’ them or not. It was a time when everything just fell in. Anyone you picked up you discovered. The environment was correct. But the I was the leader. Other clubs looked to see who we booked.”

In 1953, a young, agentless Mort Sahl arrived at the club’s open auditions. He was initially hired for a week.

“If I hadn’t met him, I’d be washing cars today,” Mr. Sahl said of Mr. Banducci in a telephone interview on Thursday. “It took me a long time to catch on, but he gave me the time to find my voice.”

Mr. Banducci shaped the young comedian’s image, telling him to shed his coat and tie in favor of a V-neck sweater and to “open the newspaper and take my chances,” Mr. Sahl said. “We broke all the rules politically in comedy.”

The club was also a platform for folk music. The Kingston Trio recorded live there, as did Glenn Yarbrough. The jazz pianist Vince Guaraldi, long before he wrote the music for “Peanuts” television specials, played there.

Mr. Banducci was an advocate for his performers, and he expected his audiences to treat the artists with respect, Mr. Sahl said.

Attempting to minimize distractions, he installed cork doors to muffle the sound of the cash registers and would not allow drinks to be served during performances.

Harry Charles Banducci was born on Feb. 17, 1922, in Bakersfield, Calif. His mother was a fan of the opera singer Enrico Caruso, and Mr. Banducci changed his name to Enrico because he liked it better, his niece said.

Mr. Banducci is survived by his daughter, Allegra, and his son, Gregory.

He was a concert violinist when he bought the Hungry I in the early 1950s from Eric Nord.

He later opened Enrico’s, a sidewalk cafe on Broadway in San Francisco that became a popular meeting place for artists and other public figures. Mr. Banducci often held court there himself.

In an era when a single nightclub could catapult a performer into movies and television, the Hungry I played a special role, but its importance faded as television superseded live entertainment in many cities.

When the club closed in 1970, Mr. Banducci told The Times: “Everyone should know why nightclubs are dying all over. The talent is too high-priced and you can see the same acts on television. You can even learn about a comic’s boil on his right foot on TV.”

But it was memorable while it lasted. In an interview with The San Francisco Chronicle this year, Mr. Banducci recalled the club fondly:

“I gave people artistic freedom, allowed them to express themselves as they wished, without any interference from me or anybody else.”
316 2007-10-14 The stock market rose again last week. For the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, it was the fifth consecutive weekly gain.

Last week’s advance was hard-won. Stocks dropped for three days in a row, then rebounded on Friday after a surprisingly strong report on retail sales for September and a modest reading for core wholesale inflation, excluding food and energy, for the month. Some economists said that this data made another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve less likely, but the market rose anyway.

General Motors shares gained 11.6 percent for the week, the best performance among the Dow industrials. For the year, G.M. is up 38.8 percent, again the best in the Dow.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 27.07 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 14,093.08. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 4.21 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,561.80. The Nasdaq composite index rose 25.36 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 2,805.68.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.68 percent from 4.64 percent the previous week.

Correction: October 21, 2007 

 The Bond Yields chart on the DataBank pages from Aug. 12 through last Sunday transposed the four-week yield changes for Treasury notes and municipal bonds. And the Regional Indexes chart in the DataBank on Oct. 7 and last Sunday used an incorrect scale; it should have indicated changes of plus or minus 8 percent, not 4 percent. Today’s charts, on Page 12, show the correct changes for the last four weeks. A reader pointed out the Bond Yields error in an e-mail message last week.
317 2007-10-14 “We’re not in the business of keeping the media companies alive,” Mr. Edwards says he tells many media executives. “We’re in the business of connecting with consumers.”

Mr. Edwards may be more blunt than most. But many large marketers are taking huge chunks of money out of their budgets for traditional media and using the funds to develop new, more direct interactions with consumers — not only on the Internet, but also through in-person events.

Adventurous companies like Nike have been experimenting with these alternatives since the 1990s. But now, even the most conventional marketers are making these alternatives a permanent — and ever bigger — part of their advertising budgets.

Last year, Johnson & Johnson decided to boycott the so-called upfronts, an annual event when advertisers get together with television executives to negotiate for commercial time. In August, General Motors said that 2008 would be the last year for its longtime sponsorship of the Olympics. In May, A. G. Lafley, the chief executive of Procter & Gamble, told financial analysts that the company would spend less on traditional media and more on its Web site, in-store advertising and promotional events.

“If you step back and look at our mix across most of the major brands,” Mr. Lafley said, “it is clearly shifting.”

Add it up, and the money flowing out of the traditional media is huge — even at a time when ad budgets in general are growing, advertising research shows. The 25 companies that spent the most on advertising over the last five years cut their spending last year in traditional media by about $767 million, according to Advertising Age and TNS Media Intelligence. And in the first half of this year, those companies decreased their media spending an additional 3 percent, or $446 million, to $14.53 billion, according to TNS Media Intelligence.

True, Nike increased its spending on traditional media in the United States by 3 percent from 2003 to 2006, to $220.5 million. But in the same period, it increased its nonmedia ad spending 33 percent, to $457.9 million, according to the Advertising Age data.

Behind the shift is a fundamental change in Nike’s view of the role of advertising. No longer are ads primarily meant to grab a person’s attention while they’re trying to do something else — like reading an article. Nike executives say that much of the company’s future advertising spending will take the form of services for consumers, like workout advice, online communities and local sports competitions.

“We want to find a way to enhance the experience and services, rather than looking for a way to interrupt people from getting to where they want to go,” said Stefan Olander, global director for brand connections at Nike. “How can we provide a service that the consumer goes, ‘Wow, you really made this easier for me’?”

BUT media companies rely on advertising to pay the bulk of their programming and newsroom costs. Traditionally, the “service” provided by advertising was cheaper media content for consumers. But the services of the future may be virtual workout coaches, map applications for cellphones, health advice and matchmaking services.

Nike executives portray the shift in strategy as a return to the company’s roots in the 1970s, when, in the words of an early magazine ad, Nike grew through “word-of-foot marketing.” In the early days, Nike displayed posters from local races in stores and was host for local runs on the West Coast. Most early employees at Nike were runners themselves, often disciples of Bill Bowerman, the former college track coach, who founded Nike with Phil Knight, the company’s current chairman.

In the 1980s, Nike began the large television campaigns that propelled the brand to global fame. Early ones included ads starring Michael Jordan and Spike Lee. Its “Revolution” ad in 1987 featured the Beatles song of the same name to introduce the Air Max shoe. And the “Just Do It” series in 1988 showcased images of athletes, including a wheelchair racer and a runner who was 80. In the 1990s, Nike ran ads with Tiger Woods and the United States women’s soccer team that inspired fans and became part of sports culture.

Nike continues to have a strong and ubiquitous presence on television by sponsoring famous athletes. And almost 70 percent of the company’s traditional ad spending was for TV commercials in 2006, though that share dropped to 45 percent for the first half of this year, according to Nielsen Monitor-Plus.

Today, however, many Nike ads are shown only on the Internet. Wayne Rooney, the British soccer player, is currently featured in a series of online videos for Nike. In 2005, Nike placed a 2-minute, 46-second clip of the Brazilian soccer player Ronaldinho online, instead of on TV. The video has had more than 17 million views on YouTube and became so well known that some television networks like Sky Sports and the BBC showed it in their news coverage — free.

“We don’t automatically think about television anymore,” said Joaquin Hidalgo, vice president for global brand marketing at Nike. “There was a time when brands like Nike could tell kids through the medium of television what was cool, what was in, what was not in, because that was the only window they had into the world. That has completely changed now.”

More confirmation that television ads were losing influence came in 2005, when a series of commercials for the Nike ID shoe flopped. The 10 ads for the Nike ID, a design-it-yourself shoe, ran that April on MTV — just the place a marketer might consider ideal for such a message. Now, Mr. Edwards laughs about that campaign.

“I could question whether the work was too creative or just ineffective, but it didn’t work in terms of conversion,” he said in an interview at Nike’s headquarters in Beaverton, Ore. “We didn’t see sales go up. It was just nothing. It was like we ran them, and waited and nothing happened.”

SOMEWHERE along the path toward big-box stores and blockbuster brands, mass advertising lost a good part of its impact. Consumers began splitting their time on the couch between more and more diversions — video games, instant messaging and hundreds of TV channels. Content exploded on the Internet, with free articles and videos available whenever consumers wanted them. And for some people with digital video recorders, the idea of watching a television commercial has started to seem quaint.

“We are all concerned about when DVR penetration has reached critical mass and consumers have been trained to skip all advertising,” said Lee Doyle, chief executive for North America at Mediaedge:cia, an agency that buys ad space. “That’s the world we’re all afraid of.”

A glance at ad revenue at several big companies from last year shows the trend. At the Tribune Company and The New York Times Company, ad revenue increased less than 1 percent last year. Time Inc., the magazine unit of Time Warner, reported ad revenue increases of only 2 percent last year. GemStar TV Guide was down 9 percent. In radio, ad revenue at Westwood One fell 11 percent.

Of course, consumer brands have never spent every cent of their advertising budgets on television commercials, radio spots and print ads. For many years, companies have also mailed promotions to people’s homes, sponsored sports and community events and paid for signs within stores. But there is a growing interest in these and other, newer alternatives to commercials and newspaper pages.

Kraft is paying to advertise in a virtual supermarket in the online world called Second Life. Continental Airlines advertises on chopstick packets, Geico on turnstiles, McDonald’s on the floor of sports arenas and Walt Disney on the paper used on examination tables in doctors’ offices.

Well-known brands are also trying new approaches, hoping to generate buzz both online and off. Procter & Gamble, for example, opened a temporary Charmin-brand public bathroom in Manhattan. Microsoft dropped thousands of parachutes holding software onto a town in Illinois last year, and Target suspended the magician David Blaine in a gyroscope above Times Square for two days.

Some advertisers make their own content and post it online, sidestepping the media outlets. Burger King has created video games, and Sprite, which is owned by Coca-Cola, is running a social networking site for cellphone users.

Digital media spending is doubling every year at many big companies, industry data indicate. But the research firm Outsell found this year that 58 percent of marketers’ online spending went to their own Web sites, rather than to paid ads. More than two million people visited Nike-owned Web sites in July, according to Nielsen//NetRatings.

Nike’s global sales have climbed in the last four years — to more than $16 billion from $10 billion. And executives say the new type of marketing is a part of that trend.

The company plans to use the Nike+ idea in other sports categories, which could include basketball, tennis and soccer. While $29 for a Nike+ sensor hardly covers the cost of the device and the site maintenance and customer service, Mr. Edwards coolly points out that Nike+ is as much about marketing as it is about product.

AS consumers spend more time online, running their virtual lives and connecting with other people more through typing than talking, Nike executives contend that they also want more physical interaction with brands. Nike is running more events on the ground, like last year’s three-on-three soccer matches for youths in 37 countries and its San Francisco marathon for women.

Nike even calls the third floor of its New York store the “Nike Running Club.” There, runners can map out running routes, receive training advice and attend an evening speaker series — all free, even if they trot in wearing Adidas or Brooks sneakers.

The company pays 5 coaches and 17 pacers to lead runs three times a week in Central Park. Nike running-gear sales clerks are expected to join in. The goal is to use the club to endear people to the brand and to provide opportunities for them to try products.

At a recent Tuesday night gathering, Linda Martello, 34, an executive assistant, said she was grateful to Nike. After she injured one of her calf muscles, she said, a Nike coach helped her figure out that she was wearing the wrong shoes. (She, of course, bought a pair of Nikes.)

“I love it here, I do,” she said as she stretched for the evening run.

Ms. Martello stood to head out on the run.

“And they’re not pushing product in my face, as if I was shopping,” she continues. “That’s why I come here. I’m not pressured.”

The group — 131 that night — sprinted out of the store’s 57th Street entrance, up Fifth Avenue, past the Plaza Hotel and into the southeast entrance to Central Park. Their footwear was varied: some wore New Balance, Saucony, Reebok and Adidas. But Nike dominated, and anyone who saw them jogging would surely notice the Nike swoosh on most of their shirts. The group, though sweaty and of varied athletic abilities, flashed by — turning heads of passers-by and other runners.
318 2007-10-14 On the serious side, Mr. Marriott announced that his company was expanding its youth career initiative, which recruits and trains at-risk youth to work in one of the 3,000 Marriott hotels worldwide. One success story is Dumitru Marius, a young Romanian who was born in a prison near Bucharest and grew up in an orphanage. Mr. Marius now works as a server in a Marriott hotel and was profiled in the September issue of Condé Nast Traveler.

Community work “goes back to our roots,” Mr. Marriott told a travel industry gathering in New York last week. “My father was offered a similar opportunity by a teacher in Ogden, Utah, who gave him a chance to go to college,” he added. “Until then, he was a sheepherder, just like his father. Without that important break, Marriott International would not exist today.”

To continue the tradition, he said, the J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foundation is giving a $250,000 grant to expand the program into new countries. ELIZABETH OLSON

THE SOUP SPECIAL When Douglas R. Conant goes to Applebee’s, he takes the Campbell Soup company jet.

Mr. Conant, Campbell’s chief executive, has supplemented his income by serving as a director of Applebee’s International since 1999. Although Applebee’s pays its outside directors $171,000 a year in cash and stock, Campbell pays the cost of Mr. Conant’s private flights to the other company’s board meetings.

Last year, that perquisite cost the soup company’s shareholders $64,065, according to its latest proxy statement. That amount was in addition to the $100,000 cost of Mr. Conant’s personal car and driver and his $48,000 “personal choice” account for spending on financial planning and other services.PATRICK McGEEHAN

IT’S ALL IN THE REMIX Madonna has reportedly agreed to a 10-year, $100 million-plus contract with Live Nation, the concert promoter, that would end her long relationship with Warner Music. But she would not be the only one signing on with Live Nation for a lot more money.

Michael Rapino, Live Nation’s chief executive, has a revised contract that raises his pay significantly all the way back to January and promises him $1 million in cash just for holding his job. Mr. Rapino’s annual salary was set at $650,000 in March 2006, but a new agreement he signed this month raised his pay to $950,000, retroactive to Jan. 1.

He earned no bonus in 2006, according to the company’s latest proxy statement. But his revised contract granted him a $1 million “retention bonus” that is essentially an advance against future bonuses.

Then again, if he does not earn those bonuses by the end of 2009, the agreement states that “they shall be deemed earned.” PATRICK McGEEHAN

SPREADING THE WEALTH These days, more corporate boards are reining in severance benefits and those payouts that follow a merger or acquisition. But that does not appear to be the case at the Synergy Financial Group. Top executives aren’t the only ones getting a nice package. Even the directors can collect enough to buy a new car or two, now that the company has been bought by New York Community Bancorp.

Synergy directors who leave after a merger, the company’s proxy says, are entitled to cash severance of between $96,000 and $120,000.

The only catch is they need to have served for at least two years. ERIC DASH
319 2007-10-14 “I guess they thought I was a good fit because I’m a familiar face, someone they’ve seen at the Garden over the years,” Gronsbell said. “I was certainly enthusiastic about being asked to be a part of it, and more than happy to help out.”

Jeanie Baumgartner, the Rangers’ vice president for marketing, described Gronsbell as “a very valuable member of our team who gives us many different insights he has gained from attending games with his daughter, his wife and his father, all of whom represent different generations of fans.”

“David is very serious and very committed,” Baumgartner added. “And he’s very passionate about his teams.”

Gronsbell, who attended the Rangers’ season opener against Florida with his father — he wore a Mike Richter jersey and his father a Mark Messier jersey — said that the board was not intended “to tell the Rangers that Brian Leetch should not have been traded or that Glen Sather is doing a bad job.”

After their first meeting in 2004, the board members toured the Rangers’ locker room and had a chance to chat with Coach Tom Renney.

“He’s a friendly, enthusiastic guy who is very approachable,” Gronsbell said of Renney. “He is the complete opposite of a coach like John Muckler, who had a terrible personality and always seemed to be depressed.”

One recent event that arose from the advisory meetings was Casino Night on March 6. Many of the Rangers and their season subscribers schmoozed and played roulette, blackjack and other casino games, with all of their winnings going to the Garden of Dreams Foundation, which supports children in crisis.

As he thought back across the seasons on all the great saves, dramatic goals, game-winning baskets and heartbreaking losses he has seen, Gronsbell recalled a scene from a Knicks-Bulls game in 1981. Gronsbell, 8 at the time but more than capable of sizing up talent from his seat behind Marv Albert at the broadcasting table, asked his father to get an autograph from Chicago’s Orlando Woolridge.

“My father gets up and goes somewhere for a little while and comes back with a yearbook that he said was signed by Woolridge,” Gronsbell said. “I was ecstatic. I cherished that autograph.”

Years later, Gronsbell realized that his father, not Woolridge, had signed the yearbook.

“He tried but couldn’t get the autograph, but he didn’t want to disappoint me, ” Gronsbell said. “My dad was, and still is, my best friend, and he was just doing something he felt would make me happy.”

Alan Gronsbell, also an accountant, summed up the value of a lifetime of watching the Knicks and the Rangers with his son.

“For me and David, the Garden is a pleasant distraction from the grind of everyday life,” he said. “The games, no matter who wins or loses, have always been vehicles for developing a special bond between us.”
320 2007-10-14 “I’m not going to tell you they’ll be absolutely insensitive to a slowdown in the United States, but they will be less sensitive to them,” he said. “You’ll see a slowdown, but not the catastrophic decline that has led to financial crises in the past.”

Also using history as a guide — and just as a rough one, too — Michael Hartnett, global emerging-market equity strategist at Merrill Lynch, cautioned that a Fed rate cut could be a negative sign for emerging markets. Mr. Hartnett said in a note to clients that when the federal funds rate is adjusted, share price indexes in the developing world tend to move in the same direction, as both the Fed and emerging-market investors react to changes in the economic cycle.

But he is inclined to minimize the significance of the correlation this time around. The global boom has produced especially big benefits to emerging-market economies, so it would take an especially big slowdown in the United States to derail the bull market, he reasoned.

Such a downturn is not out of the question, Mark W. Headley, president of Matthews International Capital Management, a specialist in Asian markets, said in explaining his cautious stance.

He calls the American housing market “a bottomless pit at this point,” and he does not have high hopes that the rate cut last month will reverse, or even significantly limit, the damage.

“A consumer-led slowdown in the United States is going to have an impact on global growth and on a lot of Asian economies,” he said. “I don’t think anyone’s going to be impervious to it.”

The investment choices that fund managers make in emerging markets tend to conform to how upbeat they are about the global economy and just how resistant they expect companies in those markets would be to any pervasive slump.

Jerry Zhang, manager of the Evergreen Emerging Markets Growth fund, is optimistic, if not brimming with confidence. “The U.S. represents the biggest cyclical risk within a structurally O.K. story,” he said, offering a thumbnail sketch of the economic backdrop. He thinks that shares of commodity producers will continue to excel in such conditions.

Among his favorites are two companies in Brazil: the iron ore miner Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, known as C.V.R.D., and the energy company Petróleo Brasileiro. In Eastern Europe, he likes the Russian energy producer Lukoil and KazMunaiGaz, which is a rough equivalent in Kazakhstan, the former Soviet state.

Mr. Zhang also has a high and far-flung regard for banks, including Sberbank, the big Russian savings bank; ICICI Bank in India and China Merchants Bank.

Mr. Hallett also likes commodities producers, but he prefers his commodities to be comestible instead of industrial. His thesis is that China and India will devote enormous resources to keeping citizens in the countryside instead of streaming into already overcrowded cities, and that this will require expanding the supply of food and water.

“There is a wonderful arbitrage where China is very short of water and faces the possibility of being short of food, while Brazil is the Saudi Arabia of water,” Mr. Hallett explained. “There is a very interesting increase in trade in soybeans from Brazil to China.”

Potential beneficiaries of this trend include América Latina Logística, a provider of transportation services for Brazilian railroads; Israel Chemicals, which produces potash for fertilizer; and the IOI Group, a Malaysian purveyor of palm oil.

Thomas A. Mengel, manager of the Ivy International Growth fund, is extremely bullish on emerging markets. He goes so far as to suggest that a slowdown in the United States would be a boon to China by cooling off an economy growing at an otherwise unsustainable annual rate above 10 percent.

“In a soft-landing scenario, China should do well, even if exports to the U.S. slow,” he reasoned. “Domestic demand is going up strongly, so the economy can continue to grow at a fast pace as long as the U.S. doesn’t go into recession. Maybe 9 percent to 10 percent growth wouldn’t be a bad thing.”

MR. MENGEL’S portfolio is heavily invested in Asia, and he mentioned a number of companies based in and around China as particular favorites, including the phone company China Mobile; the Hong Kong clothing maker Esprit; Agile Property, which does business in mainland China but is listed in Hong Kong, and the Internet portal operator Sina.

Selections elsewhere include the mining companies Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, and he casts another vote for ICICI Bank.

Mr. Headley of Matthews International prefers stocks and markets that are comparatively shunned by investors. He likes DBS Bank in Singapore, Korean banks generally and “Hong Kong companies that are not crazily overvalued and are participating in the China story,” like the conglomerate Swire Pacific, which has interests in Cathay Pacific Airways and Hong Kong real estate.

He is cautious about Chinese-listed stocks and others in the developing world that he considers to be trading on very high valuations.

“Aren’t these stocks priced to perfection?” Mr. Headley said. “I don’t think it would cause much of a hiccup from any direction to pull many of these things down.”
321 2007-10-14 “If everyone and anyone is able to go on Facebook, then belonging to it no longer indicates a college-student identity,” he added.

Similar sentiments have been heard whenever Facebook has expanded, said Matt Cohler, the company’s vice president for strategy and business operations. When the fledgling company first expanded beyond its roots at Harvard to include Yale, he said, “The people at Harvard complained about it and said, ‘Hey, this used to be just for us!’” The fretting subsides each time, he said, “as soon as they go back to using the program and realize this hasn’t done anything to deteriorate their experience.”

FOR the most part, in fact, the entry of millions of people with, you know, jobs and stuff, has been greeted with an epic “whatever,” said Clay Shirky, an adjunct professor in New York University’s interactive telecommunications program. “The average Facebook user isn’t going to care that people utterly unlike them are doing things they utterly don’t care about on some other corner of the site,” he said.

Facebook can avoid its “there goes the neighborhood moment,” he said, as long as it allows people to stay in their silos and gives them control over who can peek at their profiles. “As long as the individual users still feel their culture is preserved in their corner of Facebook, the growth won’t bother them.”

But the grown-ups are everywhere.

Take a look, for example, at Carl Kasell’s page. Mr. Kasell, the 73-year-old announcer on the NPR news program “Morning Edition,” sends up his own stodgy image on the weekly news quiz show “Wait Wait ... Don’t Tell Me!” and he now has 1,602 “friends.” Under personal information, Mr. Kasell gives his favorite quote as: “For NPR News, I’m Carl Kasell.”

Don’t worry, though, if you, gentle reader, don’t have a Facebook page of your own yet; Mr. Kasell isn’t that much hipper than you. He does not actually maintain the page himself. He reads the messages and comes up with responses, and Melody Joy Kramer, the 23-year-old associate producer for the show, enters them onto the page, in a cross-generational partnership.

Ms. Waldman — she of the creepy 40s — finds herself using Facebook in many of the ways that younger people do, except for the sexual cruising: she keeps up with old friends, makes new ones and uses the network to, well, network.

For instance, it turned out that Ms. Waldman’s age, 48, was just fine with the young woman, Lisa Szczepanski, with whom she traded grammar jokes. Ms. Szczepanski lives in Queens and Ms. Waldman lives in Milwaukee, but they have become as close as electrons allow. Ms. Waldman calls Ms. Szczepanski “My Facebook kid,” and got a Mother’s Day card from her last spring. (“Even my own kids don’t do that!” she joked.)

Ms. Waldman also used Facebook in her volunteer work. She leads 12-week family education programs through the National Alliance on Mental Illness, and last spring, she needed a speaker for one of the classes. She posted a request on a Facebook page about mental health, asking for “someone with a mental illness who has experienced breakdown and recovery to talk about their experience with the class.”

She soon heard from Megan Banner, a 20-year-old who had suffered a bout of mental illness in her high school years, recovered and now attends college in Milwaukee. Ms. Banner said she had been thinking about getting involved with advocacy for mental illness issues when she saw Ms. Waldman’s note, and “It was as if it was meant to be.”

They chatted over Facebook and met at a local Starbucks. Ms. Banner spoke to the class and, in a message via Facebook, recalled, “I had the crowd crying.” She said she believed that she “gave some people the hope to continue.”

Since then, Ms. Banner has engaged in more advocacy and speaking about mental health. The evening with Ms. Waldman’s class, she said, “just changed my whole life.”

Young and old will inevitably use the technology of Facebook differently, said Nicole Ellison, an assistant professor in the telecommunications, information studies and media department at Michigan State University.

Students define themselves through membership in many social networks in the real and virtual worlds, including classroom, dorms, extracurricular activities and hobbies. “There are fewer of those for adults,” Ms. Ellison said, who “will not be as interested in sharing their love of R.E.M.”

To some extent, a generation gap is already apparent in the Facebook population, said Mr. Shirky, of N.Y.U. Younger people will use it more naturally and differently than older folks, who for the most part will see a Facebook page as something like the dreaded Christmas letter, with its prosaic updates on one’s life events, and less the sense of “living your social life online, hammer and tongs,” the way younger people tend to.

That is only natural, he said, because “People our age are going to find uses for the tool that have to do with the maintenance of life already in process, rather than making one up out of whole cloth” — in part, he added, because “our social lives are more boring.” And that, he said, is only logical: “We’ve made the mistakes we’re going to make, God willing, and we’ve settled down.”

Some longtime observers of technology also wonder if Facebook will hold the interest of adults. Paul Saffo, a technology consultant who teaches at Stanford, said that Facebook’s rapidly multiplying programs and widgets might compromise the simple, clean design that made the site popular in the first place — which could be especially irritating to adults. “We want fewer steps, not more,” he said.

Worse, he said, is that social software means “we all get to be in fourth grade again,” renegotiating the rules of engagement with others. Do you respond to every friend request? Is it rude to cut someone away as part of a friend-list pruning? Once again, he said, “You have to worry about bruised feelings.”

Each new technology for communication, from the telephone to e-mail to Facebook “poking,” goes through a similar cycle, he said. “First we invent the technologies, then we figure out the social norms that tame the technology and allow it to occupy a nondistracting part of our life.” In other words, for Facebook to truly succeed, he said, it will have to recede.
322 2007-10-14 Meghan Elizabeth Hewit, the daughter of Nan Hewit and Russell Hewit of New Vernon, N.J., was married yesterday afternoon to John Walker McCormick, the son of Ellen McCormick of Weston, Conn., and T. D. McCormick of Manchester, Vt. The Rt. Rev. Abbot Giles P. Hayes, a Roman Catholic monk, performed the ceremony at the Church of Christ the King in New Vernon.

The bride, 29, is a project manager at Groves Development Group, a fund-raising consulting firm in New York that works primarily in the arts. She graduated from Dartmouth and received a master’s degree in performance studies from New York University

Her father is a founder and a senior partner in Dughi & Hewit, a law firm with offices in Cranford and Mount Laurel, N.J. The bride’s great-grandfather Cornelius A. McGlennon was a congressman representing the eighth district of New Jersey from 1919 to 1921.

The bridegroom, 31, is a trader at Sailfish Capital Partners, a hedge fund in Stamford, Conn. He graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University.

His mother, who is retired, was the executive assistant to the chief executive of Retail DNA, a provider of software for the fast-food industry, which was then in Stamford. His father retired as a history teacher and a ski coach at the Stratton Mountain School, a boarding school in Stratton, Vt., of which he is now a trustee. The bridegroom is also the stepson of Judith McCormick.
323 2007-10-14 As it turns out, in New York State, pool alarms already became mandatory last year — for new or renovated pools. Mr. Cooper’s April bill aimed to include older pools in Suffolk County, but he tabled that version in part because the county’s health department reported that only a fraction of drownings would be prevented by pool alarms. So the legislature agreed to a bill that doesn’t include alarms at all. In fact, this bill doesn’t require constituents to dig into their pockets, or do much of anything.

Instead, it relies on children themselves. The new bill focuses on public education via a “Be Pool Smart” campaign that calls on elementary school students to create posters. The winner’s artwork will be slapped on the cover of pool safety pamphlets published at a minimal cost by the county printer. The pamphlets are then to be distributed free at schools, libraries and pool supply stores.

Just how many children can be saved from drowning thanks to a brochure isn’t clear. What is clear is this: Suffolk County has already been there, done that. In 2005 the county created a Pool Safety Task Force made up of legislative representatives, officials from the County Executive’s Office, the Health and Planning Departments, child safety advocates and a pool industry expert. Their recommendation? A poster contest to increase public awareness. And a pamphlet. The contest, aimed at high school students, was put into effect during the 2005-2006 school year. As summer approached, a winning entry was announced; it was one out of only four posters received by the task force, said the office of the Setauket legislator who led the effort, Vivian Viloria-Fisher.

That poster contest was “the basis of a countywide educational campaign promoting pool safety,” according to a task force press release. Sadly, it didn’t save the 9-year-old girl who drowned in Cutchogue that summer. And it certainly didn’t help save the six children who drowned in swimming pools in Suffolk County this summer.

There’s no denying that educating parents about pool safety is imperative. All swimming pools have a built-in risk factor, and even under strict adult supervision a child can drown. In one devastating case this year, a 4-year-old girl in Commack was found dead in the shallow end of her family’s pool, although other people had been in the backyard at the time.

This new “Be Pool Smart” poster and pamphlet campaign shouldn’t be “the cornerstone” of a safety bill; it should just be one part of it. After all, a brochure is only as effective as its distribution, and the county is barely financing this effort. There ought to at least be money for postage so that residents can receive this crucial safety information in their mail.

Through partnerships with pool and spa retailers that have the advertising budgets for awareness campaigns, the county might create public service announcements for television, radio and newspapers, running year-round to reinforce the message. In addition, public pools could offer free swimming lessons to youngsters — certainly an invaluable, life-saving skill for children living on an island.

In the end, pool safety requires not only absolute parental supervision, but a whole panoply of practical precautions — pool covers, fences, alarms. Toss in an educational brochure for good measure, but pamphlets alone won’t safeguard children from unspeakable disaster. Lawmakers ought to know that.
324 2007-10-14 An article last Sunday about the pending sale of the Sag Harbor Methodist Church misidentified the position held by Mary Wilson, who described how community preservation money might be used to acquire the property if the sale fell through. She is the community preservation fund manager for the Town of Southampton, not the town attorney.
325 2007-10-14 “There are so many types of people here — old, young,” said Gary Gangone, 39, of Jericho, who came to the weekly get-together of classic automobile aficionados with his 12-year old son, Vincent. “But everyone has the same common theme — they love cars.”

When Ray Langdon pulled up in a copper and beige 1960 Chevy Impala low-rider, a dozen spectators hovered. He released a lever, and the body of the car hissed as it was lowered within two and a half inches of the ground.

“Bellmore is one of the hottest areas in the Northeast for people to come to who have really nice cars,” said Mr. Langdon, 54, of Bellmore, “and even for people who don’t have really nice cars.”

On and off for more than 15 years, 200 to 300 car owners and spectators have filled the lot on Friday evenings and talked car talk. Some just watch, others make business connections, and still others come for different reasons.

“Well, it’s the only place they let us show off,” said Joe Bonaparte, 61, of North Merrick, sitting with other members of a club called the South Side Boys.

For years a group calling itself the Friday Night Cruisers organized the gatherings. It disbanded more than five years ago when its permit from the Town of Hempstead was not renewed. But old traditions die hard.

The cruise nights run from sometime in the spring until the end of daylight saving time.

Vincent Garcia, a Nassau County police spokesman, said any law-abiding person could park in the train station lot. “They are subject to all the rules and regulations that all people are subject to,” he said.

Marco Costiglio, 29, of Bellmore, said of the car culture, “It’s becoming big again.” He was at the Bellmore event with his wife, Nicole, 24, and their aquamarine teal 1959 Rambler.

When a young driver showed off by maneuvering his car around the lot on two wheels, Bill Bosman, 53, of Valley Stream, said, “Well, at least he knows what to do if he gets a flat.”

Mr. Bosman and his wife, Stephanie, 54, sat in front of their 1967 Plymouth Barracuda along with Diane and Bruce Marmon, both 56 and from East Meadow, and their 1953 Plymouth Cranbrook.

When asked if the wives owned either car, Ms. Marmon insisted that she owned the Cranbrook just as much as her husband did. “You know the saying,” she said. “What’s his is hers and what’s hers is hers.”

As the night chilled and they got into their cars to head home, Ms. Bosman pulled her sweater tight and said, “Yeah, we’ll be back next weekend.”
326 2007-10-14 NESSA is oddly endearing. This small neighborhood bar and eatery has charming, sophisticated details usually reserved for a much larger establishment, like the huge baroque mirror next to the sleek modern bar, mellow lighting from sconces and flickering votives and, not least, billowy floor-to-ceiling sheers that separate the long bar from the intimate eating area.

With its list of exclusively Italian wines, the place styles itself as an enoteca, or little wine bar, but Nessa is more than that. It offers a menu of satisfying items, from tea sandwiches to steak. The carb-loaded menu, however, could use some rethinking. Diners trying out the South Beach diet even half-heartedly will have to order carefully.

A dish of astringent olives is brought to every table, but with our wine aperitif, plain bread — which wouldn’t alter the taste of the wine — would have been preferable. It’s hard to get, but not impossible. Servers will suggest, instead, bruschetta ($3 each), panini ($8), tramezzini ($5). But insist, as did a diner at a nearby table, whose shouting (a last resort) finally moved the kitchen to send out a few slices of plain bread.

In general, though, servers were willing and charming, if overly prone to injecting words like excellent and wonderful with every dish described. We found the bread-based appetizers suggested by our waiter largely uninspired. Tramezzini were the exception. These dainty little crustless triangular sandwiches, with fillings like pancetta and balsamic onion, spicy shrimp salad, or mozzarella and basil, were all equally pleasing. An overly salty topping of tomato salad and another of sweet-sour onions (agro dolce) with Gorgonzola, both on bruschetta, required frequent refilling of water glasses. And the nicely pressed and toasted eggplant panini could have used more filling.

Soups are not offered. But among the several salads listed, fava bean was simple and first-rate: a base of arugula held lots of fresh favas, cooked to tender without being mushy; shaved pecorino and a lemony dressing perfected the dish. Fatty pignoli added interest to the usual seared tuna, but sweet stuffed figs quelled rather than stimulated appetite. A big disappointment was unpleasantly soft, bland octopus scattered with extremely salty olives.
327 2007-10-14 From early on, we read together every night. Sometimes Storyman showed up to do the reading — a guy wearing red BVD’s, a beach towel cape and a Zorro mask who appeared to be Dad, but was never confirmed to be. (“We know it’s you, Dad, come on, we really do, admit it.”)

For years I invoked the 20-minutes-a-night reading rule, which was particularly torturous to enforce in the summer. Even into middle school, I’d read aloud to them. When I was given the first Harry Potter book to review for The Times, I read it to them, to get the experts’ opinion.

Mornings, before school, I don’t allow them to watch ESPN “SportsCenter,” so my jock son has developed the habit of reading the sports pages.

On long trips, like the annual 13-hour drive we made for years to Grandma and Grandpa’s cottage in Michigan, we didn’t let them watch movies in the van or listen to music on their portable CD players. We got books on tape from the library, and while they moaned to high heaven, I can still remember driving through the night on Interstate 80 in Pennsylvania and listening to Jerry Spinelli’s novel about an amazing boy named “Maniac McGee,” who could run like the wind, wasn’t afraid to live by himself and somehow had grown up totally oblivious of people’s race. My four sat in the dark Astro van, not making a sound. When I thought they were asleep, I turned it off, but they yelled, “Come on, Dad, we want to keep listening!”

I don’t think it matters so much what they read, as long as they keep at it. I like the droll, macabre, literary quality of the Lemony Snicket series, and I don’t like the bratty, rich Westchester girls of the Clique series, but either way, I’m pleased when my daughter asks to go back to the bookstore because the newest one is out. My own reading tastes weren’t much at her age. I read mostly sports novels, and my favorites were about mediocre athletes who rose up at the crucial moment to win the game.

My wife and I have subscribed to magazines of all sorts for them. Some I like, some I don’t: Teen Vogue, Mad magazine, American Girl, ESPN, Sports Illustrated. The one day each month I can be sure the boys will spend several hours reading is when Surfer and Surfing magazines arrive.

I try to find a book that will match their interests and then drop it in their general vicinity. (This can mean picking it up and dropping it several times.)

At best, my success has been middling. Three of the four read on their own, but it’s not steady; it comes in bursts. Last summer, my least academic child, who was working as a lifeguard six days a week, 10 hours a day, came home and sat for hours, deep into the night, rereading the six Harry Potters in preparation for the seventh. On his own he ordered the new one, picked it up at midnight and devoured it in a few days. Over the summer, my oldest read “Anna Karenina” to get ahead for the Russian lit course that he’s taking this fall at college.

For the last few weeks, before bed, I’ve been reading to my 13-year-old daughter, whose life is way too full of long, exhausting, overprogrammed days. We’re rereading her old picture books: “The Lorax” by Dr. Seuss; “A Bad Case of Stripes” by David Shannon; “The Seven Silly Eaters” by Mary Ann Hoberman. They’re relaxing and fun, and without going too deep into it, I think we’re both pining for a simpler, younger time.

The goal is to make them lifelong readers and therefore lifelong learners. I was a late bloomer and, I’m ashamed to say, didn’t make a fraction of what I should have of my college education. Though I took several history courses, I never understood basic things, like the Civil War. Then, in middle age, I stumbled upon “The Killer Angels,” by Michael Shaara, the Pulitzer Prize-winning historical novel on the Battle of Gettysburg. For the first time I felt what the Civil War was and suddenly had an urgent need to know more, consuming a couple dozen histories, biographies and memoirs over the next few years.

Recently I made a trip south with my twins to look at colleges. We were in Charleston, S.C., on a Friday night. The streets were full of young women from the College of Charleston in summer dresses and young men from the Citadel in their military dress whites and grays. It was something right out of a book.

Two books, actually, both by Pat Conroy. When we got home, I dropped “The Lords of Discipline” near the twin interested in military stuff, and “My Losing Season” near the jock twin.

It’s been weeks and the books sit in their original spots, unopened. But parenting is sometimes a war of attrition, and when it comes to reading, like Colonel Chamberlain at Gettysburg, General Grant at Vicksburg and General Sherman on his march to Atlanta, I believe the cause to be worth the fight, and am determined not to be deterred.
328 2007-10-14 There were familiar warning signs for both of them — an initial sharp rise in unemployment, followed by slower increases that continued for a couple of years. In each case, as often happens with recessions, there was no agreement that a recession was under way until months after it started.

Diagnosis of a recession is hard because no single virus causes it. Instead, a recession seems to be a result of a confluence of many hard-to-measure factors. A decline in investment spending is typically one of them, and a recession is generally one of those rare events when residential and nonresidential investment both happen to decline together.

In some respects, the current situation looks a lot like the period leading up to the 1990 recession. We were coming out of a housing boom then, and the economy was emerging from an associated lending crisis — the savings-and-loan debacle. Now we are dealing with the subprime mortgage “crisis,” but so far, we have not seen the decline in nonresidential investment that occurred in 1990.

There are also some similarities to the 2001 recession, which likewise followed a huge speculative boom. The bursting of the Internet bubble brought a huge decline in corporate investment, and the 2001 recession helped to cleanse investors of their exaggerated hopes for the stock market, particularly for technology and the dot-coms. A similar cleansing of thinking appears under way regarding the housing market. But residential investment is not as big a component of gross domestic product as nonresidential investment; the decline in the housing market has apparently not yet been enough to push us into recession territory.

Consumer confidence indexes have not yet fallen as they did at the onset of the last two recessions. But confidence is a delicate psychological state, not easily quantified. It is related to the stories that people are talking about at the moment, narratives that put emotional color into otherwise dry economic statistics.

In August 1990, for example, a series of events in the Persian Gulf severely damaged business confidence, and that sequence seems to explain the timing of the 1990 recession. Saddam Hussein started his surprise invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2, 1990, and the United States began sending jet planes to Saudi Arabia shortly thereafter; the Gulf War abruptly became a virtual certainty. Mr. Hussein asked Muslims around the world to join in a jihad against the forces opposing him. In the United States, people started canceling business trips. August was also the month when intense public conversation began about the economy’s weakness. In a sense, that was when the recession started, not the July date given by the bureau committee.

It is clear that salient, emotion-arousing narratives — those that capture the popular imagination and damage public confidence — are central to the etiology of recessions. As these stories gain currency, they impel people to curtail their spending, both in business and their personal lives.

IS this happening now? A disturbing narrative began to unfold in the last couple of months. People began talking of failed institutions — of the possibility that savings socked away in a money market account might actually be invested in subprime loans and so be lost. There has been fear of locked credit markets, of possible bank failures and runs on banks.

Some of these tales have faded — bank runs no longer seem a risk. But confidence in the economy remains fragile. More shocks are likely as an era of huge real estate speculation apparently ends, with the possibility of further surges in foreclosures and failures of financial institutions.

The narrative is still unfolding, and the extent of its virulence is not yet known.
329 2007-10-14 Ortiz and Ramírez combined to reach base safely in all 10 of their plate appearances as the Red Sox defeated C. C. Sabathia and the Cleveland Indians, 10-3, in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday night. On Saturday night in a 13-6 loss in 11 innings, Ortiz and Ramírez each went 1 for 4 with a walk. Ramírez hit a two-run homer that drove in Ortiz in the fifth against Rafael Pérez, who replaced Indians starter Fausto Carmona.

One of Carmona’s challenges was trying to subdue Ortiz and Ramírez, which the Indians could not do in the opener. The left-handed-hitting Ortiz, a designated hitter who bats third, and the right-handed-hitting Ramírez, a left fielder who bats fourth, have been on base in 33 of their 46 plate appearances in the postseason. Those statistics usually crop up only on PlayStation.

“We know what we’re doing,” Ortiz said. “We work out every day. We have an approach. I don’t think it’s new for you guys to watch me and Manny hitting. We keep it simple. That’s how it is.”

What makes Ortiz and Ramírez so devastating and so difficult for pitchers is that they are smart hitters who happen to be power hitters, too. Neither wastes at-bats by swinging from their cleats like some one-dimensional sluggers. They are typically patient and are adamant about hitting strikes. If they do not see strikes, they are content to accept a walk.

Ramírez twice had 0-2 counts in Game 1 and was slick enough to foul off pitches or take pitches before ending up with walks. Mike Lowell, who benefits from being behind two of the best hitters in baseball from the fifth slot, asked Ramírez if he was fouling off pitches simply to have fun.

“I’ve never seen anything like it,” Lowell said. “They’re unbelievable. They’re aggressive, they’re patient, they’re picking their spots, and it doesn’t seem like it’s just one thing. They just have such solid at-bats.”

Ramírez and Ortiz combined to go 4 for 4 with five walks, one hit batter, three runs batted in and four runs scored. It was the first time in playoff history that two teammates reached base in every plate appearance with at least five appearances apiece, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.

“Every time you look up, they’re on base,” second baseman Dustin Pedroia said.

Manager Terry Francona said he knew Ortiz and Ramírez could not maintain this incredible pace for a season, but he hoped they could sustain it for “a nice little playoff run.” If that happens, the Red Sox might not lose again.

“They’re taking their walks, keeping the lineup moving, trusting the other guys in the order,” Francona said. “It makes them very, very dangerous.”

Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein told ESPN.com last year that Ortiz and Ramírez could be talked about in 60 years the way fans and journalists talk about Ruth and Gehrig now. If Ortiz and Ramírez do not end up on the same level as Ruth and Gehrig, Epstein said they could at least be remembered as one of the top-10 tandems.

When Epstein was asked Saturday where Ortiz and Ramírez ranked as a duo, he said he did not have the time to put them in historical perspective. But Epstein eventually described what the pairing could mean for Boston.

“We go from a good lineup to a pretty devastating lineup when those guys are both locked in at the same time,” Epstein said.
330 2007-10-14 Using a sassy, almost conspiratorial tone (“Carrying a rat on your shoulder is especially fun because it bothers other people”), Hodgman is very straightforward about life with so many dependents from the wild kingdom. It’s the good, the bad and the messy in this book. There are, for example, several pages devoted to what the author defiantly refers to as “poop,” and other intimate dietary matters are discussed: “It takes a hedgehog a long, noisy time to eat a worm.” She also sensitively describes the procedure (and the accompanying churn of emotion) when it comes time for an animal friend to be mercifully euthanized.

Part autobiography, part pet-care guide, “The House of a Million Pets” offers Hodgman’s own remedies and practical tips for raising animals, like how to prepare a waterless bath to get rid of fur mites, or how to tell if a baby bird’s back is broken. And she offers good advice for prospective young pet wranglers (“You should always carefully research a pet’s needs before you buy it”), even if she sometimes doesn’t follow it herself.

It’s also clear that Hodgman will do just about anything for an animal in need, even carrying an abandoned baby sugar glider around in her bra to keep it warm — at her grandfather’s funeral. By the end of the book, you realize Hodgman is one Crazy Pet Lady. “Good” crazy, though.

And speaking of crazy, Marley, the uncontrollable 97-pound Labrador retriever who’s been lumbering over the best-seller lists, now has an edition adapted for the 8-to-12 crowd. “Marley: A Dog Like No Other” is John Grogan’s reworking of his 2005 book “Marley & Me: Life and Love With the World’s Worst Dog.” This version leaves out the adult scenes of violent crime and marital issues to focus on the dog’s misadventures. (With a picture-book edition called “Bad Dog, Marley!” available as well, perhaps Grogan’s next book should be called “Marketing & Me.”)

Even younger readers should pick up early on that Marley is going to be a challenge. The dog breeder offers the pup to Grogan and his wife at a discounted rate, and they later see Marley’s father careering wildly across the yard. “I detected an odd, slightly crazed, yet somehow joyous gaze in its eyes,” Grogan writes. “It was as though this animal had just seen a ghost — and couldn’t possibly be more thrilled about it.”

The apple didn’t plop far from the tree in Marley’s case, and his rambunctious puppyhood lands him in obedience school. “We were beginning to figure out that he was not like other dogs. We needed professional help,” Grogan notes. But Marley flunks out of school, drives Grogan’s wife nearly to her breaking point after he eats the couch cushions, and has wall-gouging panic attacks during thunderstorms.

While the book mostly recounts Marley’s unfortunate moments, it also reveals the dog’s unabashed personality and how his people learned to love him despite his overenthusiastic approach to life and breakable objects. “Marley,” like “The House of a Million Pets,” shows that caring for animals is a lot of responsibility and would make good preparatory reading for the child working the “I promise I’ll take care of it!” angle for potential pet ownership.h
331 2007-10-14 LISSAUER--Robert ....Always. Lovingly, Melinda...
332 2007-10-14 ANIKEEFF--Nancy Hotchkiss, originally of New York and late of McLean, VA, died on October 8, 2007. Devoted wife of Nicholas M. Anikeeff and loving mother of Anthony H. Anikeeff and A. Michele Mullins. She is also survived by her grandchildren, Ale...
333 2007-10-14 WEINSTOCK--Israel, 71, attorney, real estate developer, and business consultant from Belle Harbor, Queens, died on September 4 after an extended battle with cancer. In a career that lasted more than 40 years, he specialized in civil litigation and...
334 2007-10-14 The bikes are one-size-fits-all, with adjustable seats. Children under 14 are not allowed to use the bikes. Maps showing the locations of the Vélib stations throughout Paris are available for free at the mairie, or city hall, in each of Paris's  ...
335 2007-10-15 In the next issue of Foreign Affairs magazine, the Republican candidate details his vision on a variety of topics....
336 2007-10-15 Scenes from the start of the Chinese Communist Party's 17th National Congress in Beijing....
337 2007-10-15 It makes no sense to encourage people to live healthier, he said, while making the government even more dependent on having people smoke....
338 2007-10-15 To become a better snowboarder in a hurry, nothing tops a heli-trip.
339 2007-10-15 Civil Rights Groups, and others, are wondering why Senator Dianne Feinstein voted in favor of an unworthy judicial nominee....
340 2007-10-15 So far this year, Mitt Romney placed 10,893 political ads, mostly in Iowa....
341 2007-10-15 - In today's New York Times, Bill Carter previews the Fox Business Network: "In a pep talk to his troops Friday afternoon, Roger Ailes, the chairman of both networks, said, 'I'm not interested in anything short of a revolution.'" - Josh Schwartz, ...
342 2007-10-15 Last month, the debt markets passed their first test of the fall with better-than-expected results. Now comes the second challenge. Six banks will start selling at least $11 billion in debt on Monday to finance the buyout of the Texas energy giant...
343 2007-10-15 The last time Oracle made an unsolicited bid for a company, the chief executive of the target firm, PeopleSoft, compared Lawrence J. Ellison to Genghis Khan and called his team a bunch of sociopaths. BEA Systems, notes MarketWatch, apparently has ...
344 2007-10-15 A federal judge set bond at $1.5 million Friday for Melvyn Weiss, the co-founder of Milberg Weiss, who was indicted in an alleged kickback scheme. Mr. Weiss made his first court appearance after being indicted last month in the federal probe. His ...
345 2007-10-15 The biotechnology company Bioheart slashed the expected price range of its planned initial public offering, while slightly increasing its size, according to a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday. The company n...
346 2007-10-15 The chairman of the U.A.W.’s bargaining committee, Bill Parker, president of Local 1700 in suburban Detroit, said he too would recommend that workers vote against the contract. It is rare for U.A.W. members to reject a tentative agreement, and union leaders are careful not to send out any deal that might stand a chance of defeat.

In 1982, workers at Chrysler defeated a contract that would have given them profit-sharing payments instead of immediate wage cuts, but voted to stay on the job until the differences could be ironed out. The defeat came three years after Chrysler workers granted concessions to the carmaker to help it avoid bankruptcy.

But even as some dissent emerged today, the union’s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said the contract was “overwhelmingly supported” by the council. “We give people an opportunity to express themselves,” he said of those who opposed it. “We’re a very democratic union.”

He went on: “We did the very best that we could in this set of negotiations. I’m very pleased with the outcome, and we’re prepared to go out into the field” to urge workers to vote for the contract. He said the union hoped to complete voting by the last week of the month.

Mr. Gettelfinger maintained that there was “as strong of language in this agreement as we’ve ever had” on job security, but he did not discuss the company’s investments.

He said he had met Friday with officials at Ford Motor, the final Detroit company with which the union must reach agreement, but would not say when talks there would begin. He said he hoped talks there would be settled “without any altercation.”

The developments on the Chrysler contract came as G.M. released details showing that the health care trust created in G.M.’s new contract stands to become the company’s biggest shareholder.

The trust would hold roughly 16 percent of G.M. stock, because of a convertible note that G.M. is investing in order to establish the trust. That level would make it G.M.’s biggest institutional shareholder, surpassing the State Street Corporation, which has about 13 percent of G.M. stock.

G.M. and the U.A.W. reached agreement on their contract on Sept. 26, after a two-day strike. Workers approved the contract last week.

It established the trust, called a voluntary employee benefit association, which would assume G.M.’s liability for health care benefits for G.M. workers, retirees and their families over their lifetimes.

Today, G.M. said the liability for its U.A.W. members was about $46.7 billion.

G.M. agreed to spend $29.9 billion to finance the trust, which are generally created at a discount to their total liability. The G.M. investment includes cash as well as a five-year, $4.37 billion convertible note, which will be invested in the trust on Jan. 1.

The note is equal to 109 million newly issued G.M. shares at $40 a share. G.M. can convert the note after three years, meaning in 2011, the same year that the U.A.W. contract expires. It can also convert it if G.M.’s share price reaches $48.

G.M. stock was down $1.34, to $41.30 in late morning trading.

The trust would be run by an independent board that is expect to include union and company advisers, although G.M. said it might not take part if that affects the accounting for its liability. The new contract with Chrysler calls for the creation of a similar trust, and it is expected to be a feature of any agreement with Ford Motor, as well.

G.M.’s chief financial officer, Frederick Henderson, said the VEBA “will be a very large shareholder of General Motors.” He said he would expect its trustees to “vote the stock in the same proportion as all shareholders.”

Speaking on another aspect of the contract, Mr. Henderson said G.M. would no longer pay retirement health care benefits for newly hired workers, even when they reach full status at the company.

The contract creates a new two-tier wage and benefit system that pays sharply lower wages and less-generous benefits to workers in the lower tier of wages.

But instead of post-retirement medical benefits, those workers would receive 401(k) funds that presumably would pay for their medical coverage after retirement.

G.M. said it expected to promote workers from the second tier to the higher-paying first tier, as veteran workers retire or leave the company. It said about 75 percent of its workers would be eligible to retire, or take early retirement benefits, by 2011.

But even when the newly hired workers advance, they would not be eligible for traditional retiree health care benefits, G.M. said.

U.A.W. leaders had no immediate comment on the G.M. disclosures.
347 2007-10-15 Several terrified passengers were able to escape the fiery trap, but two men and an infant died and 10 people were injured. Names of the victims had not been released.

The loss of life was surprisingly low, in the view of officials, given the number of vehicles involved, the searing heat and the tight space.

“We’re pretty mystified by it, ourselves,” said Tom Lackey, a sergeant with the California Highway Patrol. “Physics was not friendly in that environment, and it led to some very disastrous circumstances. You basically had a furnace here for 14 hours.”

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency in Los Angeles County, a move to allow the state to deploy emergency workers and equipment.

Workers had most of the accident debris removed by Sunday afternoon and had determined that the roof of the tunnel was probably sound.

But the inside clearly suffered structural damage, as evidenced by the steel reinforcing rods that had separated from the walls. Concrete had more or less melted from the walls of the tunnel — once white and smooth, now salmon colored on one side and pocked with deep black gashes. A heavy smell of char and smoke remained.

Interstate 5 begins at San Ysidro, one of the main Mexican border crossings, and interlaces the major population centers of the state, including San Diego, Los Angeles and Sacramento. It continues north through Oregon and Washington to the Canadian border.

The section of the roadway where the accident occurred carries 225,000 vehicles daily, many of them trucks carrying much of the nation’s food supply through the Central Valley. Like many roadways in California, I-5 suffers from overuse.

On Saturday and Sunday, motorists found themselves sitting at times for two hours just to cover the stretch of closed highway. As weekend drivers snaked their way from Northern California south, traffic around the tunnel resembled the worst of 4 p.m. Friday afternoon traffic on any of the area’s busiest freeways.

Anne Hilbert had traveled all of one mile during an hour-and-a-half stretch of her drive from Ojai, in Ventura County, to her home some 100 miles to the south in Orange County. “We were at a retreat, and there was no TV,” Ms. Hilbert said, who was sitting in her car on the freeway. “But we’re on the last leg, and they’re doing a good job.”

At least 70 California transit workers planned to work through the night into Monday to assess damage and remove debris in anticipation of opening the highway in both directions by early this week.

“We should be able to open traffic even as we repair the walls,” said Douglas Failing, a district director for the California Department of Transportation. But the tunnel, a narrow slope surrounded by hills, could take weeks to reopen, Mr. Failing said. For some Californians, the delays were business as usual on ever-congested and deteriorating roadways.

“It’s what you can expect,” said Julio Castro, who was making his way from Sacramento to San Diego for work. “That’s California, especially L.A.”
348 2007-10-15 General Electric Company has promised to spend $25 million to help refurbish several Bridgeport neighborhoods, The Connecticut Post reported yesterday. The newspaper, which obtained three proposals for development plans under the state Freedom of Information Act, reported yesterday that the award of the money is expected to be announced in November or December. The Connecticut Housing Finance Authority is researching several developers and reviewing plans and budgets, the newspaper reported.
349 2007-10-15 And the board remains concerned that the lack of other senior executives is hurting the company’s ability to make, acquire and market films. While at Miramax, the brothers had an impressive record of developing talent from within, but that was at a much larger company — Miramax had nearly 500 employees, the Weinstein Company has about 220 — and many of the people who learned the craft from the brothers are now working for their competitors. So for the time being, it’s the Harvey and Bob Show.

That might be enough if the movies were working. Although the Weinsteins got off to a great start with “Hoodwinked,” a surprise animation hit, movie after movie, big and small, has tanked. “The Libertine,” “Breaking and Entering,” “School for Scoundrels,” “Nomad,” “The Hunting Party,” and most notably, “Grindhouse,” a $75 million display of artistic hubris and tone-deaf marketing, have created a huge pothole on the road to what was supposed to be a bright future.

Bob Weinstein’s Dimension division, which has always financed the brothers’ loftier ambitions, has scored some hits recently with the “Scary Movie” franchise (its profits are split with Disney), a remake of “Halloween,” the Stephen King horror film “1408.” Michael Moore’s documentary “Sicko” also connected. But those successes can’t fully offset the lack of performance in the rest of the company.

One thing has not changed — Harvey himself. On the phone from Hong Kong, Harvey, who made himself the corporate face of independent film with his successes at Miramax, sounded angry and weary at the same time.

“From the beginning of time, people have always been concerned about how I was doing and tried to spread ill will,” said Harvey, who has always been the public face of their business. “But we have been on top so long, they can’t knock us down.”

A few years ago, when he and his brother still worked at Miramax, we had a similar conversation for an article in New York magazine. He cast himself as Tuco, the “ugly” from “The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.” When cornered naked in a bathtub by a loquacious gunman, Tuco pulls his own gun out of the soap suds and shoots the guy dead.

“When you talk, you talk. When you shoot, you shoot,’” Harvey said, his hands forming revolvers. “These guys are busy talking like old ladies about, ‘What is Harvey going to do? What is he going to do?’ While they are talking, I am shooting.”

Harvey seems to be back in hot water and he is pretty much surrounded. Does he have a few more rounds to fire or is he just blowing bubbles?

After selling Miramax to Disney in 2005 following a long battle, Harvey and Bob Weinstein formed the Weinstein Company with more than $1 billion in equity and credit arranged by Goldman Sachs. Then, in an unusual move, they diversified to smooth out the ups and downs of the business, investing in ASmallWorld.net, a social community for swells; Ovation, a cable channel; Genius, a video distributor; and, in a kind of throwback to the garmentos who created the movie business, they bought Halston, a storied if tattered fashion brand. An exclusive retail distribution arrangement with Blockbuster, the development of a direct-to-video business, and a separate fund for Asian films have further rounded out the company.

Board members, again with the not-for-attribution caveat, say that if Harvey wants to make more acquisitions, those would be financed by raising more money in the first quarter of next year. The core business, as they are quick to remind him, is still the movies.

But that business has changed. The Weinstein Company is still looking to acquire or produce something for small money and have it blow up huge. And for years, Harvey Weinstein was the first and last stop for indie hopefuls hoping to make it big.

Now, there are a dozen or more companies, many staffed by people who broke in with the Weinstein-era Miramax, that are looking for the same thing. Brad Grey, the head of Paramount, was once Harvey’s assistant, while David Linde, co-chair at Universal; Mark Gill, chief executive at The Film Department; Chris McGurk, chief executive of Overture; and Rick Sands, chief operating officer at MGM, along with a host of other marketing and distribution executives, were all schooled in the Weinstein method.

And the Weinstein-less version of Miramax has hardly gone away. Led by Daniel Battsek, the specialty division will be in the middle of this year’s Oscar race with “No Country for Old Men,” and “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.”

Meanwhile, the Weinstein Company has either returned or sold several films it acquired with a flourish, including “Vince Vaughn’s Wild West Comedy Show” and “All the Boys Love Mandy Lane.” And the failure of many of the company’s high-profile efforts has hurt its position in vying for other promising films. Filmmakers who admire Harvey’s love of film and competitiveness nonetheless opt for partners who don’t have a reputation for going ballistic when they don’t get their way. (Last spring, when the director Luc Besson complained about the distribution of his movie “Arthur and the Invisibles,” Harvey called him a “has-been” and publicly offered him $1 million if he could prove the movie was as expensive to make as he claimed.)

Harvey insists he and his partners have already seen good returns. “Right now, we are printing money, and we had a fantastic board meeting two weeks ago,” he said. “I think the press is obsessed with us.”

Mr. Weinstein argues that even the box office losers will eventually perform because risk has been hedged and deals for international rights, DVD proceeds, and pay television one-offs will yield profits. At the Oscars, he expects “The Great Debaters,” a film directed by Denzel Washington and produced by Oprah Winfrey, and “Grace Is Gone,” a war-related film starring John Cusack, to be in the mix. There are huge box office expectations around “The Mist,” another Stephen King project from Dimension.

But if the Weinstein catalog does not contain its share of winners, the value of the entire enterprise will be called into question. It is, in part, a self-created problem, with Harvey’s refusal to sit quietly while he built the company — by overpromising and underdelivering, he created a huge opening for a whisper campaign by his critics. There is a legion of competitors in Hollywood and New York who only tolerated Harvey Weinstein when he was on top and who are eager to do a happy dance on his company’s grave.

They should not put their hands in the air just yet. The Weinstein brothers have roared back to life more times than the average monster in one of Bob’s money-making horror movies. But they remain deeply challenged, with some big losses on big bets, antsy investors and a lack of bench strength in a world of competitors they helped train and build.

That doesn’t mean Harvey is in danger of slipping below the surface — his backers have far too much at stake — but it could end up getting hotter in there still.
350 2007-10-15 Last month, the debt markets passed their first test of the fall with better-than-expected results. Now comes the second challenge.

Six banks will start selling today at least $11 billion in debt to finance the buyout of the Texas energy giant TXU to two private equity firms. Analysts, bankers and investors see the offering as the biggest test yet of the high-yield credit market, which nearly shut down this summer.

In what is expected to be a packed meeting this afternoon at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan, banks led by Citigroup will offer $7 billion in loans and $4.5 billion to $5 billion in bonds, according to people briefed on the matter.

Much is riding on a successful sale. Turmoil in subprime mortgages seeped into the market for high-yield loans and bonds, which are often used to finance leveraged buyouts. Investors who had clamored for that debt in the last two years stopped buying the loans and bonds.

Banks that had rushed in to earn lucrative fees by financing the leveraged buyouts were saddled with billions of dollars in unsold debt. Many were forced to make significant write-downs in the last two weeks, and they must still contend with more than $300 billion in deals yet to come.
351 2007-10-15 HOPING FOR A REVOLUTION What Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, expects from the Fox Business Network is a revolution. And ''when Mr. Murdoch wants something, you try to deliver it,'' the network's chairman says.      ANOTHER SH...
352 2007-10-16 Apple dropped the price of music downloads not protected by copy restrictions from $1.29 to 99 cents, coming close to the price charged by Amazon.com and others....
353 2007-10-16 London's housing market continues to defy the skeptics. While prices are slumping around the U.K., London valuations remain on pace for a 17 percent increase in 2007, according to the latest Financial Times house price index. The average price for...
354 2007-10-16 Strangely, Corvette Funfest, one of the largest, friendliest and most accessible Corvette shows, is perhaps the least well known of the three majors....
355 2007-10-16 Movie Gallery, the money-losing video-rental chain, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, reporting assets of $892 million and debt totaling $1.4 billion. The company, hurt by competition from Blockbuster and Netflix, has proposed a reorgani...
356 2007-10-16 Citigroup acknowledged on Monday that its risk management models did not function properly during this summer's credit crisis, contributing to the company's 57 percent drop in third-quarter profit. The bank suffered heavy blows to its fixed-income...
357 2007-10-16 Toys "R" Us co-owner Kohlberg Kravis Roberts faced a protest by about two dozen people outside its office here on Monday, urging the private equity giant to get rid of lead-tainted toys, Reuters reported. The protest comes as the toy industry in t...
358 2007-10-16 The founder of the defunct hedge fund Wood River Capital Management was sentenced to three years in prison on Monday for his role in a scheme that led to about $88 million in investor losses. The founder, John Whittier, pleaded guilty in May to se...
359 2007-10-16 Nomura Holdings, Japan's largest securities firm by revenue, said Monday that it would shut its American residential mortgage-backed securities business, the latest casualty of the subprime mortgage crisis. Nomura said in a statement that it would...
360 2007-10-16 The Fox Business Network made its debut on Monday. The Times's Alessandra Stanley wrote: The mood on Rupert Murdoch's latest television venture was so giggly and upbeat that it belied its own crawl, showing sinking stock prices. This is not a netw...
361 2007-10-16 One of the big but little-noticed economic stories of the past few years is the sharp slowdown in US productivity growth. Dean Baker and John Schmitt are on the case; their recent article is definitely worth reading. Baker and Schmidt argue that t...
362 2007-10-16 SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 16 — After raising its revenue forecast for the quarter last month, Intel did not disappoint investors today when it reported even better-than-expected sales and profits on growing demand for personal computers.

The strength came from healthy personal computer demand as well as a more stable pricing environment, after several quarters of a bruising price war that had taken a toll on Intel’s profits.

Intel’s revenue rose 15 percent to $10.09 billion from $8.74 billion in the year-ago period.

Net income for the quarter, which ended Sept. 29, increased 43 percent, to $1.86 billion, or 31 cents per share. It was $1.30 billion, or 22 cents per share, in last year’s quarter.

Analysts had forecast revenue of $9.6 billion and profit of 30 cents per share. On Sept. 11, Intel, of Santa Clara, Calif., raised its outlook for revenue to between $9.4 billion and $9.8 billion, from between $9 billion and $9.6 billion.

For investors, however, perhaps the best news came in gross margins, which improved to 52.4 percent after declining to a dismal 46.9 percent in the second quarter.
363 2007-10-16 TOKYO, Oct. 15 (AP) — Nomura Holdings, Japan’s largest securities firm by revenue, said Monday that it would shut its American residential mortgage-backed securities business, the latest casualty of the subprime mortgage crisis.

Nomura said in a statement that it would book a 73 billion yen ($621 million) loss in its residential mortgage-backed securities business, and that it expected a group pretax loss of 40 billion to 60 billion yen ($340 million to $510 million) for the July-September quarter.

The company also said it would cut more than 400 jobs in the United States, about 30 percent of its work force there, by March 2008, mostly in its broker-dealer operations and back offices.

The Japanese group has already written off about $620 million related to its American subprime mortgage-related business.

Nomura’s woes follow a string of losses at major American and European banks from exposure to risky loans made to individuals with poor credit histories.

Mortgage-backed securities are created by bundling together these home loans and repackaging them as securities that can be bought and sold.
364 2007-10-16 Three Coastal Carolina players were dismissed from the team yesterday, one day after they were arrested on drugs and weapons charges. Mario Tynes, Eric Brown Jr. and Ricky Johnson, all freshmen, were arrested Sunday after the police stopped the car they were in and found two guns, three pounds of marijuana and $1,345 in cash, authorities said.
365 2007-10-16 The Treasury’s move coincided with a gloomy assessment of both the mortgage and housing markets by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve. “Despite a few encouraging signs, conditions in mortgage markets remain difficult,” Mr. Bernanke told the New York Economic Club in a speech in Midtown Manhattan Monday evening.

Mr. Bernanke said the overall economy is still growing, suggesting that the Fed is not likely to cut interest rates at its policy meeting at the end of this month unless conditions worsen markedly in the next couple of weeks. But he predicted that the housing market has yet to hit bottom and that it was likely to be a “significant drag” on growth through early next year. A weak economy, he added, could reinforce problems in the credit markets.

Mr. Paulson’s effort to hammer out a plan with major banks to support mortgage-backed securities was headed by two of his top deputies, Robert Steel and Anthony Ryan, both Wall Street veterans. The two men herded rival bank executives into meetings and conference calls over the past month, and helped devise a plan aimed at jump-starting the frozen mortgage market.

Mr. Paulson is becoming more active on other fronts as well. In his speech on Tuesday, he is expected to call for new nationwide rules for mortgage lenders, changes in the practices of credit-rating agencies and tougher scrutiny by federal banking regulators.

Mr. Paulson also plans to step up pressure on mortgage lenders and mortgage-servicing companies to renegotiate terms for people in danger of defaulting on expensive subprime loans.

“We have an immediate need to see results,” Mr. Paulson is expected to say, according to the advance text of his speech. “The current process is not working well. This is not about finger-pointing, it is about putting an aggressive plan together and moving forward.”

In an interview on Monday, Mr. Paulson said the credit markets appeared to be slowly recovering from the panic of early August. But he sounded more worried than before about the wave of families that may face foreclosure as initial teaser rates expire on their subprime mortgages.

“I’m increasingly concerned there are some homeowners out there being harmed by the complexity of the system,” he said. “I want to see more results. I don’t want to see foreclosures taking place where 50 percent of the people haven’t talked to anybody.”

All of this entails a delicate balancing act between two very different goals. On the one hand, administration officials want to avert a crisis of confidence in financial markets and reduce an expected torrent of foreclosures among people whose loans are set to jump to much higher interest rates over the next year or so.

On the other hand, the Bush administration remains staunchly opposed to government intervention in financial markets and doubtful about imposing restrictions that might be aimed at protecting home buyers but could restrict the kinds of mortgage loans companies can offer.

Indeed, the bank deal announced on Monday suggests a cautious form of government pressure that often comes closer to jawboning and moral persuasion than to orchestrating bailouts or issuing edicts.

“This was developed by banks and by investors,” said one senior administration official, who spoke on condition that he not be identified. “The secretary identified this as an area of the marketplace that was improving a little less slowly.”

Treasury officials and at least some of the major banks had differing reasons for wanting to reach the same goal. The banks were worried about being caught with tens of billions of dollars worth of mortgage-backed securities they might not be able to sell except at fire-sale prices worth only a small fraction of their face value.

Treasury officials, meanwhile, wanted to restore confidence in the market for mortgage-backed securities. They were worried that continued fear and paralysis in that area would aggravate the downturn in housing and damage the broader economy.

Mr. Paulson initiated a meeting in Washington with top executives from Citigroup and other major banks on Sept. 16, according to administration officials. At the time, the immediate distress in credit markets, which erupted in early August, had begun to ebb slightly. But Treasury officials saw continued problems for asset-backed commercial paper, the short-term securities that financial institutions had been issuing to pay for big bundles of mortgage loans.

In calling together executives from top banks, Mr. Paulson said he was looking for ways to revive investor confidence in mortgage-backed securities that seemed to be fundamentally healthy and quite different from those backed by subprime mortgages and “no document” loans that require little or no verification of a borrower’s income.

The idea of the new pool is to fill it only with securities that have top credit ratings and have been scrutinized by a committee that includes potential buyers of those securities. The hope is that the new fund will be good enough to revive interest and rekindle the market for other mortgages.

Both Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, expressed their frustration with the complex mortgage securities that are inscrutable to many investors.

“I’d like to know what those damn things are worth,” Mr. Bernanke said in response to a question after his speech. Until investors “are confident in their evaluations,” he added, “they are not going to be willing to fund these vehicles.”

And though he is not specific about his plans, Mr. Paulson plans to put more pressure on mortgage servicing companies to negotiate new terms with subprime borrowers whose monthly payments are set to jump sharply over the next year. “You’re going to see us quite active there,” he said, “working with the private sector for an integrated approach.”
366 2007-10-16 Two laptop computers with detailed personal information about commercial drivers who transport hazardous materials are missing and considered stolen. The laptops belong to a contractor working for the Transportation Security Administration and contain the names, addresses, birthdays, commercial driver’s license numbers and, in some cases, Social Security numbers of 3,930 people, according to a letter from the agency to lawmakers. A spokesman for the agency said there was no evidence that information on the computers had been misused.
367 2007-10-16 More than 50 emergency responders and volunteers searched for an autistic hiker who strayed from his parents in the Dolly Sods Wilderness area. Jacob Allen, 18, of Morgantown, was hiking with his parents, Jim and Karen Allen, on Sunday when he got ahead of them and did not answer when they called out his name, said Chris Stadelman, public information officer at the command post. While Jacob Allen is described by his mother as severely autistic, he is in good physical shape and likes to hike. He was not carrying food or water.
368 2007-10-16 Two women found dead six months after vanishing on a shopping trip most likely missed their highway exit in northern Kentucky and then got stuck after going down an embankment, the authorities said. A hunter discovered the women’s car in a creek bed and, nearby, the remains of Mary Ellen Walters, 68, and Ada Wasson, 80, about 40 miles northeast of Louisville, Ky., said Maj. John Newsom of the Warren County Sheriff’s Office in Ohio. The women lived at an Ohio retirement home. Ms. Walters’s remains were next to the vehicle, and those of Ms. Wasson were about 600 feet away, within sight of the Interstate, Major Newsom said.
369 2007-10-16 Before the Rutgers women’s basketball team stepped on the pink carpet last night at the Women’s Sports Foundation gala at the Waldorf Astoria, the players posed for an informal photograph with the former United States soccer star Julie Foudy.

Foudy, a midfielder who played in four World Cups and three Olympics, was eager to meet the women who responded with grace and dignity to disparaging remarks by the radio host Don Imus.

Imus referred to the women as “nappy-headed hos” while discussing Rutgers’s 13-point defeat to Tennessee in the women’s national championship game. He was fired from his job with WFAN, but soon will return to the airwaves on ABC Radio.

“I told them, ‘What you guys did, the way you handled it, you started this ongoing conversation,’ ” Foudy, a part-time soccer analyst, said during the cocktail reception before the annual dinner in Manhattan. “I said I feel terrible for what they had to go through, but what I think is it’s a healthy conversation and it needs to be discussed.”

The Rutgers women, dressed in black gowns, posed for photographs with their coach, C. Vivian Stringer, before they received the Wilma Rudolph courage award. Following them onto the carpet was Anucha Browne Sanders, the former Knicks executive who this month won a sexual harassment lawsuit against Knicks Coach Isiah Thomas and Madison Square Garden.
370 2007-10-16 No financial institution has escaped damage from the turmoil that rocked the credit markets in July and August as problems in the subprime mortgage market widened. But Citigroup has been particularly hard hit.

Net income fell to $2.38 billion, or 47 cents a share, compared with $5.51 billion, or $1.10 a share, a year earlier. Revenue of $22.7 billion was up 6 percent, buoyed by a $729 million pretax gain from a stake in Redecard, a Brazilian operation that acquires merchants for MasterCard . Excluding that one-time gain as well as revenue from acquisitions, analysts estimated that revenue fell 3 percent.

The weak performance across virtually all of the company has raised doubts about Citigroup’s diversified banking strategy. And the problems could get worse.

In September, Citigroup had a spike in late payments on consumer mortgages and home equity loans, causing the bank to set aside more money to cover expected losses.

“There is likely going to be deterioration that continues into the fourth quarter,” the chief financial officer, Gary L. Crittenden, said in an interview.

Citigroup’s investment banking operations are also likely to be hurt. Mr. Crittenden said that volume in its securities packaging operation was down, and many analysts say it could take years to recover. Meanwhile, he said the pipeline of buyout deals, which have fueled a steady stream of advisory fees, is drying up.

Analysts also have concerns about the deterioration of structured investment vehicles, where Citigroup has exposure of roughly $100 billion. Its capital position could be challenged if the bank must bring the assets held by such off-balance-sheet funds back onto its balance sheet.

In sharp contrast to the statements made when the bank issued a profit warning two weeks ago, executives stopped short of suggesting that fourth-quarter earnings would stabilize.

The news sent Citigroup stock tumbling. The shares fell $1.63, to $46.24, slightly lower than where it was trading when Mr. Prince took over four years ago. And it has led to another round of calls for Mr. Prince to lose his job.

Under pressure from investors, Mr. Prince has made significant changes. On Thursday, he announced an overhaul of the structure and leadership of the investment bank, bringing the alternative investment unit into the division and installing Vikram S. Pandit as its leader.

Despite the recent turbulence, Mr. Prince still has the backing of Citigroup’s board and its biggest shareholders. And yesterday, he argued that his plans show signs of progress in spite of the poor results. “If you look at the strategic plan we are executing on, any fair-minded person would say that strategic plan is working,” he said.

Mr. Prince also vowed to improve the bank’s risk management practices. Besides reshuffling the management of the fixed-income trading business, the bank is also changing the way it looks at risk.

Citigroup had been a big player in the collateralized debt obligation business, but executives said that they did not manage the credit risk of the securities they held as closely as they did in their consumer mortgage operations.

“We had a market-risk lens looking at those products, not the credit-risk lens looking at those products,” Mr. Crittenden said. “When it in fact was a credit event,” the bank was caught off guard. Next time, it hopes to take a more integrated approach, he said.

Like other banks, Citigroup is tightening lending conditions on the products it sells, from consumer mortgages to big buyout loans. It also said that moves to expand into commodities and prime brokerage, where it lags many of its peers, will make it less dependent on its big fixed-income business.

It is paying close attention, meanwhile, to consumer loans and bolstering its reserves. Citigroup’s North American operations, for example, had net credit losses of $278 million in the third quarter and reserved $1.3 billion to cover future losses.
371 2007-10-16 Mr. Kimmelman said that using phone records for ad delivery would be especially sensitive. “There is a cultural expectation of complete privacy with the telephone,” he said. “Consumers are not thinking about it yet as a broad multimedia mechanism.”

Mr. Ashby said the information collected would be shared only among Verizon’s landline, wireless and Internet subsidiaries, along with the Vodafone Group of Britain, which owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless. “The point of this notice is to share information in the corporate family,” he said.

Verizon Wireless’s more than 60 million customers can opt out of sharing their information by calling a toll-free number, 800-333-9956. But if they do not do so within 30 days of receiving the letter, Verizon said it would assume they want their information shared.

According to the customer mailing, Verizon plans to share what is known in the industry as consumer proprietary network information, or C.P.N.I, which includes how many calls a customer makes, the geographical destination of the calls and what services the customer has purchased. That information cannot be shared without permission under federal and state laws.

Verizon said the information would not include a customer’s name, address or phone number, and would be aggregated so that specific records could not be traced back to an individual.

Roger Entner, a senior vice president for communications at IAG Research, said mobile ad targeting could have its benefits.

“If you take the Big Brother fear out of the picture, it helps in making ads more relevant,” Mr. Entner said. “If you are always making calls to L.A., they might send an ad to your cellphone for cheap airline flights to L.A.”

But Mr. Ashby said the information collected would not be used for third-party advertising purposes.

In a separate service agreement accompanying the notice sent to Verizon customers, Verizon said it was authorized to share information with “affiliates, vendors or third parties” for services purchased by consumers. “By using the services you expressly authorize us to use your information,” the agreement said.

After defining consumer network information, the agreement goes on to say that the company “may include our own or third-party advertising in the services you’ve purchased from us, and we may share information about you with affiliates, vendors and third parties” to “deliver relevant advertising to you while using the services.”

But Mr. Ashby said the two issues were separate, and that the “opt out" provision referenced in the mailing was not related to mobile advertising at all. “We do not use C.P.N.I. currently for mobile advertising,” said Mr. Ashby.
372 2007-10-16 Prosecutors say Mr. DeVecchio accepted cash, wine, the services of a prostitute and jewelry stolen from bank safe deposit boxes. They say he billed the federal government for more than $66,000 in payments to Mr. Scarpa, then kept the money himself.

But his greatest rewards were the least tangible, prosecutors say: Through years of handling his prized mole, Mr. DeVecchio grew his legend in the annals of law enforcement.

After helping supervise the famed Commission Case in the 1980s, when top leaders of the city’s five crime families were jailed, Mr. DeVecchio was honored by the Police Department and called to lecture at training academies.

So to Mr. DeVecchio’s lawyers and supporters, among them five agents who signed for his $1 million bail, the charges unfairly smear an exemplary career. Motivated by political gain, they say, state prosecutors have built a flawed case on the word of Mr. Scarpa’s common-law wife, Linda Schiro, a woman intent on selling her story to publishers.

Yesterday, there was a lot of history in the room, all the way up. The judge overseeing the case, Gustin L. Reichbach, was investigated by the F.B.I. in the 1960s when he was a student at Columbia University.

Despite a warning and a reminder that he could have a jury hear the case, Mr. DeVecchio waived his right to a jury trial and left his fate to a man that his F.B.I. colleagues had once described as a dangerous student protest organizer.

Absent an audience of jurors, an assistant district attorney, Joseph P. Alexis, opened his case with a stark, unemotional recounting of the charges. In a trial expected to last more than a month, he said Ms. Schiro would testify that Mr. DeVecchio had visited her home, taken cash payments and told Mr. Scarpa whom to kill.

The witness list includes several Mafia associates, including Mr. Scarpa’s namesake son, who is in prison for racketeering.

By the prosecutor’s account, Mr. DeVecchio identified informers. “Scarpa used this information,” Mr. Alexis said, “to devastating effect.”

Mr. Scarpa shot Mary Bari, the girlfriend of a Mafia figure who was suspected of crossing Mr. Scarpa, while his son held her down, Mr. Alexis said. Mr. DeVecchio eventually investigated possible informers on request.

“Shockingly, DeVecchio used his F.B.I. resources, looked into the matter and faithfully reported back,” he said.

A lawyer for Mr. DeVecchio, Douglas Grover, said Ms. Schiro’s testimony had been concocted to sell books. Several of the victims, he said, were killed before they ever had a chance to cooperate with the F.B.I.

Mr. Grover said Mr. DeVecchio’s relationship with Mr. Scarpa was proper, required to make big cases against secretive Mafia families. “Gregory Scarpa, as ugly and miserable a human being as he was, a made member of the Colombo crime family, was a top echelon F.B.I. source,” Mr. Grover said.

For Mr. DeVecchio, 67 and retired, the trial will render final judgment on a career marked as maverick from the start.

After joining the F.B.I. in 1965, Mr. DeVecchio worked in New York, a city traditionally unpopular among agents for its weather, cost of living, field office bureaucracy and large, ambitious Police Department. His Italian family background led to assignments investigating the Mafia, supporters say.

Mr. DeVecchio first came to prominence in the early 1980s. Posing undercover as a hit man, he helped convict a former intelligence agent of plotting to kill prosecutors and witnesses.

By then, in the parlance of the F.B.I., he had opened Mr. Scarpa, contracting him as a confidential informer to gather insight on Mafia doings and hierarchy.

Mr. Scarpa was something of a legend himself, a compact, muscular man of 5-foot-10 and 200 pounds. In the 1960s, the F.B.I. engaged him to travel south, meet Ku Klux Klan members and use his powers of persuasion to find the bodies of slain civil rights workers. Back home in Brooklyn he reputedly oversaw Colombo loan-sharking operations, hijackings, weapons sales and killings.

Much of Mr. Scarpa’s reputation derived from an uncanny ability to avoid prison through a series of indictments. In 1993, he finally pleaded guilty to murder and racketeering charges. The next year, at age 66, he died in a prison hospital of complications from AIDS, which he had contracted in a blood transfusion from a member of his crew.

The relationship between Mr. DeVecchio and Mr. Scarpa first drew scrutiny in 1994, when F.B.I. agents voiced their suspicions to supervisors, but an inquiry failed to find enough evidence. Taking the witness stand at a hearing in 1997, he strongly denied giving Mr. Scarpa investigative information.

Still, the accusations persisted, taking the form of defense motions, rumors, Mafia lore and, not least, book proposals. In 2005, state prosecutors got their break from Ms. Schiro, who had lived with Mr. Scarpa for years, bearing sons who followed their father into the Mafia.

By Ms. Schiro’s account, Mr. DeVecchio warned Mr. Scarpa of surveillance, impending arrests and other government informers. Prosecutors accused him of helping Mr. Scarpa kill a teenage murder witness, rivals for power and suspected informers, including a woman who had dated a family consigliere.

In his opening, Mr. Grover said the new charges reprised accusations long laid to rest, tacitly acknowledging the long, strange arc of Mr. DeVecchio’s career at the F.B.I. “Watch this one play out,” Mr. Grover told the judge. “It’s going to be quite interesting.”
373 2007-10-16 Google called the tests “promising” but would not say how effective the system was. Just last week, its chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, said that developing a system that could identify video clips with 100 percent accuracy was virtually impossible.

“The question is, Can we get to 80 or 90 percent?” Mr. Schmidt said in an interview with a group of reporters.

It is not known if the system has reached that level of accuracy. At least one of Google’s testing partners said that it was a work in progress.

“They still have a ways to go with the system before we could call it totally sufficient,” said Edward Adler, executive vice president for communications at Time Warner.

Google said that its video identification service, which was developed by its own engineers, required media companies to submit their digital video files to Google, which would then create what technologists call a digital “fingerprint” for each file. That fingerprint would then be uploaded to a large database. Once a user uploaded a new clip, the same technology would determine whether that clip’s fingerprint matched a fingerprint in the database.

Content owners could instruct Google to block clips whose fingerprints matched their copyrighted clips. Alternatively, they could ask Google to promote the clip and even place advertising around it, to share revenue from the ads.

“We really need the content community to work with us,” said David King, a YouTube product manager. “What really drives this whole thing is having access to the reference material.”

Clips that content owners want blocked may be posted on YouTube for a few minutes before they are taken down, but over time, the company hopes to speed up the identification mechanism so that unauthorized uploads can be prevented altogether.

YouTube representatives said the system was able to identify clips that were identical to those in its database, as well as those that had been slightly modified by users to escape detection. To demonstrate, they showed a positive identification of a clip that had been captured by a camera filming a television set as the clip was being shown.

Google has been using fingerprints to recognize audio files for some time. Others, like MySpace and Microsoft, also use audio fingerprints to identify, and sometimes block, uploads of certain videos.

Google introduced the video identification system as a group of media and technology companies, including Microsoft, Viacom, Disney and others, are set to unveil a framework for how the two sides should cooperate to stamp out copyright infringement online, said a senior executive at a media company.

The executive said the group would make public that framework later this week and that, along with Google’s announcement Monday, it represented a “potential recipe for working relationships between content companies and digital distributors of all kinds.”

But not all media companies agree that Google’s identification system is enough.

“I think this is a completely inadequate solution,” said Louis Solomon, a partner in Proskauer Rose, which represents the Football Association Premier League of England, a lead plaintiff in a class-action copyright suit against Google. “It is too late in coming; it offers too little protection; it gives YouTube and Google content that they don’t need and shouldn’t have.”

Some consumer groups, meanwhile, worry that Google’s new system could prevent uploads of video clips that were authorized under “fair use” provisions of copyright law.

For its part, Viacom said it was too early to say what impact Google’s new system would have on its suit.

“We obviously have suffered significant past damages, but beyond that it is premature to tell what the effect would be on the litigation,” Mr. Fricklas said.

Google has long insisted that YouTube has always operated in compliance with copyright law, in part because it takes down unauthorized copyrighted clips when asked to by content owners. The new system would help content owners by automating that process, the company said.
374 2007-10-16 Can a little pink swirl become as ubiquitous as a certain green mermaid logo?

The founders of Pinkberry, the company known for its sour frozen yogurt with esoteric toppings, apparently think so. The retailer that has inspired almost cultlike devotion will announce today that it has raised $27.5 million in its first round of venture capital.

Leading the financing is Maveron, a venture capital firm founded in 1998 by the Starbucks chairman Howard D. Schultz and Dan Levitan, a former investment banker. Among the firm’s previous investments were eBay, from which it wrung a nearly $148 million gain, and Shutterfly, the online photo-printing site.

The investment is the biggest achievement yet for a two-year-old company whose main offering is a sour — sorry, “tangy” — frozen yogurt that comes in two flavors, plain and green tea.

The store offers a wider variety of toppings, from fresh fruit to nuts to breakfast cereal.

Still, Pinkberry, which promotes itself as a purveyor of healthful snacks, has become a bicoastal urban phenomenon. Blocklong lines often snake outside its 32 stores in Los Angeles and New York, and a spate of competitors has cropped up.

“We’re helping make this scalable,” Mr. Levitan said in an interview yesterday. (He recommends the plain with blueberries and shaved almonds.)

Mr. Levitan said he began receiving phone calls about Pinkberry early last year, including one from Mr. Schultz’s wife, Sherri. He and Mr. Schultz finally met with the founders, Shelly Hwang and Young Lee, in November at a store in Los Angeles.

As part of its investment, Mr. Levitan and Mr. Schultz will sit on Pinkberry’s board.

The goal, Mr. Levitan said, is to lay the groundwork for expanding the franchise, while being mindful of the all-too-brief lifespan of the last frozen-yogurt trend in the late 1980s.
375 2007-10-16 When Mr. Murdoch first announced his plan to create a rival to CNBC, he said he wanted to offer viewers a more “business friendly” network. That was puzzling at the time, because no one has ever accused CNBC stars like Jim Cramer or Maria Bartiromo of being anticapitalist. But not even they could match the ebullient spirits of FBN’s on-air personalities.

Anchors described record oil prices with a lilt, they delighted in the fall of the dollar as a boon to American exports. The network even created its own stock market index, called the Fox 50, which tracks 50 companies with popular products, including Amazon.com, Home Depot and Yum Brands. (The Fox 50 finished the day down 7 points — not down as far as the Dow Jones or Nasdaq.)

Mr. Murdoch has said that the newspaper he is acquiring, The Wall Street Journal, caters to Wall Street while his business network intends to serve Main Street.

CNBC began its midday program, “Power Lunch,” with a standup inside the Four Seasons, a Manhattan restaurant patronized by the likes of Peter G. Peterson, chairman of the Blackstone Group, and Barry Diller. FBN at noon flipped to a live shot inside the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn.

Neil Cavuto of Fox News has his own show on the new business network, but it was Bill O’Reilly of “The O’Reilly Factor” who laid out FBN’s business model during a cameo appearance. “You want to basically have fun,” Mr. O’Reilly told the anchor Cheryl Casone. “Its so intense, the whole business world. The more fun you can have with it, I think the more people will watch.”

It was hard to muster a lot of fun explaining the $100 billion superfund that the country’s three largest banks have said they will create to shore up the market for mortgage securities.

Eric Bolling, a former financial news commentator who left CNBC for FBN, took quickly to the buoyant spirit of his new home. The superfund could have “a positive impact,” he assured Peter Barnes, a morning anchor. Mr. Bolling uttered the word “bail,” then corrected himself, saying that the superfund could “put a calming tone on the market” and have a “real upside.” When he said that the technical process was “complicated,” Mr. Barnes reminded him warningly, “no jargon.”

FBN makes a point of avoiding technical terms and Wall Street argot. The anchors on CNBC’s morning show “Squawk Box” sit across from each other in their shirt-sleeves to mimic the look of a trading desk, and anchors speak against an electronic backdrop of charts and stock prices.

The hosts of the FBN morning show sat aligned on a curved banquette. A conversation about business blogs on the Internet was set around a wooden tea table, with bookshelves of magazines and newspapers in the background.

Five o’clock is “Happy Hour.” To inaugurate that segment, the anchors Cody Willard and Rebecca Gomez sat in the bar of the Bull and Bear in the Waldorf-Astoria and chatted about business against a backdrop of vodka bottles and blondes. Yesterday, they congratulated Ivanka Trump on her new line of jewelry and sampled ice wines and cheese.

The stock market can close, but on Fox Business Network, the fun never stops.
376 2007-10-16 JERUSALEM, Oct. 15 — Israel and the Lebanese group Hezbollah on Monday swapped bodies and a prisoner in a limited but potentially significant exchange that was the first since the war in Lebanon in the summer of 2006.

Israel returned a prisoner captured in the war and the bodies of two Hezbollah militants. Hezbollah returned the body of an Israeli civilian who had drowned and whose body had been swept to the shores of Lebanon in 2005. The body was found by fishermen, who turned it over to Hezbollah, Reuters reported.

A statement released by the Israeli prime minister’s office described the exchange as “an additional step in the framework of the negotiations” for the return of two Israeli soldiers, Eldad Regev and Ehud Goldwasser. Their capture by Hezbollah in a cross-border raid in July 2006 set off the 34-day war.

The prime minister’s statement also said Hezbollah had transferred to Israel “information on another issue,” the veracity of which would be examined. Channel 2 news in Israel said the information pertained to the fate of a missing Israeli airman, Ron Arad, whose plane was shot down over Lebanon in 1986. Israeli government officials had no immediate comment on the report.

Although Mark Regev, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that the exchange had been in the works for several months, it had been shrouded in secrecy. Members of the family of the drowned Israeli, Gabriel Dwait, said that until Monday, they had known nothing of his fate since his disappearance.

The exchange took place in the late afternoon, at a border crossing between the Israeli town of Rosh Hanikra and the Lebanese town of Naqura.

The United Nations is serving as the intermediary between Israel and Hezbollah, Israeli officials said. Mr. Regev said: “We hope this is the beginning of a process that will lead to the release of the other two. This today has been a successful exchange. We hope it can serve as a model for what a future exchange could look like.”
377 2007-10-16 A federal judge ordered RMG Technologies yesterday to stop selling software that lets users flood the Ticketmaster Web site with requests and snap up tickets in bulk, beating the humans who log in manually to buy tickets.

“We will not allow others to illegally divert tickets away from fans,” Ticketmaster’s chief executive, Sean Moriarty, said in a statement. Ticketmaster is a leading seller of concert and sporting event tickets and a subsidiary of the Internet conglomerate IAC/InterActiveCorp.

RMG sells software to ticket brokers or their suppliers, who resell the tickets at higher prices. Ticketmaster has been battling competitors in the secondary ticketing market, like StubHub, which is growing rapidly. The success of resellers shows that primary ticket sale prices might not have been as high as they could have.

“We recognize and respect the necessity and reality of a vibrant resale market, but we will not tolerate those who seek an unfair advantage through the use of automated programs,” Mr. Moriarty said.
378 2007-10-16 Highlights of the contract, distributed at the meeting Monday at Cobo Center, showed that the future of Chrysler’s minivan plant outside St. Louis appears to be in doubt.

The plant survived Chrysler’s most recent plant closing announcements in February, but the union said the future of the plant was “tied to volume,” meaning minivan sales. The union will “continue to advocate for new product.” Chrysler also builds minivans in Windsor, Ontario.

Elsewhere, the highlights showed that the union had agreed that four Chrysler plants could be converted to a new lower wage and benefit standard.

Tom Littlejohn, president of Local 1268 in Belvidere, Ill., was among the union officials who opposed the contract. “I’m not going to recommend ratification,” he said.

But Bob Vorell, a committeeman at Local 573 in Cleveland, said the agreement “pretty much mirrors the deal at G.M. I don’t think it will have much problem being ratified.”

The union’s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said he was not concerned by the dissent. “We give people an opportunity to express themselves,” he said. “We’re a very democratic union.”

Mr. Gettelfinger said that the union did “the very best that we could in this set of negotiations” and that he was “prepared to go out into the field” to urge workers to vote for the contract. He said the union hoped to complete much of the voting by this weekend.

The developments on the Chrysler contract came as G.M. released details showing that the health care trust created in G.M.’s contract stands to become the company’s biggest shareholder.

The trust would hold about 16 percent of G.M. stock, because of a convertible note that the company is investing in order to establish the trust. That level would make it G.M.’s biggest institutional shareholder, surpassing the State Street Corporation, which has about 13 percent of G.M. stock.

G.M. and the U.A.W. reached agreement on their contract on Sept. 26, after a two-day strike. Workers approved the contract last week.

It established the trust, called a voluntary employee benefit association and known by its acronym VEBA, that would assume G.M.’s liability for health care benefits for G.M. workers, retirees and their families. A similar trust would be established at Chrysler under its new contract.

Today, G.M. said the liability for its U.A.W. members was about $46.7 billion.

G.M. agreed to spend $29.9 billion to finance the trust. The investment includes cash as well as a five-year, $4.37 billion convertible note, which will be placed in the trust on Jan. 1.

The note is equal to 109 million newly issued G.M. shares at $40 a share. G.M. can convert the note after three years, or if G.M.’s share price reaches $48. G.M. stock fell $1.53, to $41.11.

The trust would be run by an independent board that is expected to include union and company advisers, although G.M. said it might not take part if that affects the accounting for its liability.

The chief financial officer of G.M., Frederick A. Henderson, said the VEBA “will be a very large shareholder of General Motors.” He said he would expect trustees to “vote the stock in the same proportion as all shareholders.”
379 2007-10-16 If her business trips resemble vacations, the reverse is true as well. She always brings her laptop, cellphone and BlackBerry on vacation. “It’s really helped me to stay connected without having to be totally immersed in work,” she said about her BlackBerry.

The majority of adult American travelers (81 percent) have included a cultural or history-related activity while traveling, according to a 2007 report by the Travel Industry Association, while 62 percent regard learning about other cultures as important when they travel. Almost one in four of all trips in the United States in 2005 included a cultural or historical activity, the survey also found, and those travelers spent considerably more per trip on average, and stayed longer, than those who did not.

At home, a typical American adult attends an average of 1.9 cultural events a month, and for college graduates and adults earning at least $75,000 a year, the number is slightly higher: an average of 2.1 and 2.2 events a month, a survey by the Wallace Foundation found in 2004.

Tom Ingrassia, the owner of a talent agency in Holden, Mass., said he and his wife accompanied a client who is a classical organist on a three-day concert tour in Denmark and Sweden, and extended their stay for a three-week tour of both countries. Mr. Ingrassia said they toured the Hans Christian Andersen Museum, Tivoli Gardens Frederiksberg Palace and Viking burial grounds on an island in the Stockholm archipelago.

“It’s soul-satisfying for me, especially because my background is in history,” Mr. Ingrassia said. “Even if you’re on a very focused business trip, I feel you need to see a little bit of the places you’re visiting. It keeps me fresh and alive.”

As a business owner, he said he had control over his time and schedule, but even during his 25 years as a college administrator, he always tried to reserve personal time. “After umpteen hours a day sitting at student recruitment fairs and conferences, I knew I could look forward to seeing a museum afterward.”

Mary McDonald, a management consultant with her own practice based in Austin, Tex., has managed to combine Oktoberfest festivities in Munich with a business meeting in Stuttgart, three hours away, and a visit to the Louvre in Paris with a meeting in Montpellier, a five-hour drive away. She once added a week of sightseeing to a three-day business trip to Hong Kong for a telecommunications client.

When about to travel to a destination for the first time, Ms. McDonald said, “I try to make it more interesting, and consider what will appeal to me intellectually and emotionally.”

Once, after a three-day meeting in Las Vegas, she explored Zion National Park and the Grand Canyon with her husband and two children for 10 days.

Some even find time for their passions en route to the airport on business trips. Lisbeth Wiley Chapman, who owns a public relations firm on Cape Cod, Mass., has made stops at botanical gardens and museums.

She says she has squeezed in botanical gardens on her rides back to airports in Denver, Chicago and New York, storing her luggage at a garden’s reception office on occasion. Once, a client who learned of her plans to visit an art museum, asked if he could go along.

When Joachim de Posada, a motivational speaker and consultant with offices in San Juan, P.R., and Miami, was invited to Taiwan by the International Trade Institute to discuss his book, “Don’t Eat the Marshmallow ... Yet! The Secret to Sweet Success in Work and Life,” he asked that a guide meet him on his 6 a.m. arrival. After breakfast and visiting his host’s office, he was then given an early tour of Taipei, including a museum as it opened for the day.

A diligent student of delayed gratification, Mr. de Posada postponed the nap he ordinarily would have taken after he arrived early in the morning. “Instead of going to my hotel to rest for my speech at 4 p.m., I wanted to see the sights,” he said.
380 2007-10-16 In 1969 Francis Bacon gave a painting to the Royal College of Art in London in lieu of rent. On Sunday “Study From the Human Body, Man Turning on the Light,” above, was bought for $16.4 million by an anonymous bidder at Christie’s, The Associated Press reported. The college sold it to finance a new campus.
381 2007-10-16 The shift is not so much that American officials no longer mention human rights and democracy; it is more that they do not follow up to ensure results. Instead, there seems to be a tacit understanding whereby Washington criticizes Egypt’s human rights failings, Egypt takes umbrage at the “interference” in domestic affairs and little changes.

For example, last June, President Bush singled out a handful of political dissidents as “unjustly imprisoned,” including Ayman Nour, the onetime presidential candidate and opposition political leader here in Egypt, and greeted democracy advocates, including Saad Eddin Ibrahim, also Egyptian.

Yet Mr. Nour remains in prison, a year into a five-year sentence. Mr. Ibrahim has been living in self-imposed exile, fearful that if he returns to Egypt he will be put in prison, again, for his political activities.

With Mr. Nour in prison and Mr. Ibrahim on the run, with a human rights organization recently shut down, with journalists being imprisoned, with arrests of those out of step with the government, there is little evidence that Egypt — or any other nation in the region — is under any real American pressure for democratic reforms and human rights.

“I like to compare the U.S. to the European settlers of the past century,” said Sateh Noureddine, a columnist at As-Safir, a pro-Syrian newspaper in Lebanon. “The European settler said, ‘I am coming to liberate, to develop, to modernize.’ But after a while he stumbled upon realities and facts that he did not know before and that could not be ignored. This is what is happening to the U.S. today, hence the change in its policies, from an ideological agenda to a pragmatic one. They are looking to protect themselves and their interests.”

Critics of the United States acknowledge that Washington faces resentment no matter what it does. It gets criticized for helping, and for not helping. In a public letter to Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the United Nations, for example, an Iranian dissident journalist, Akbar Ganji, recently explained how Washington’s pro-democracy efforts — regardless of their intent — were not helping in Iran.

“The Bush administration, for its part, by approving a fund for democracy assistance in Iran, which has in fact been largely spent on official institutions and media affiliated with the U.S. government, has made it easy for the Iranian regime to describe its opponents as mercenaries of the U.S. and to crush them with impunity,” Mr. Ganji wrote.

In Egypt, there had been a quiet, and grudging acknowledgment that the marginal improvements in the political dynamics here were driven by pressure from Washington in the past few years. Some demonstrations were tolerated. The chanting of slogans against President Hosni Mubarak was also tolerated. In 2005 and part of 2006, even leaders in the Muslim Brotherhood said privately that Washington’s pressure was helping.

But that is over. In recent days the group Human Rights Watch has called on Egypt to free two men active in promoting the rights of the nation’s tiny Shiite Muslim minority. The organization said the arrests appeared to be part of a broad crackdown “on Egyptian rights activists, journalists, and other government critics.”

Four days before Human Rights Watch issued its news release, Egyptian officials quietly issued their own press release announcing that the United States had signed agreements to deliver $301 million in aid to Egypt to help improve the schools, drainage and sanitation, health care and economic reform.

The news release was issued by the state-run news agency, but unlike frequent headlines in the Egyptian press chastising Washington for trying to influence Cairo, this news was not reported in the Egyptian press.

In recent months, Congress has debated the $1.7 billion in aid — which includes the $301 million — that is given to Egypt each year, asking what the United States receives in return. The increased aid has not translated into increased influence on the domestic political process. It has become purely a matter of foreign policy.

“It is in the interest of the United States for Egypt to be a stable Arab country,” said Emad Ghad, an analyst with the government-financed Ahram Center of Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. “Egypt’s behavior is predictable and in line with U.S. interests. The regime, for better or worse, is beneficial to the U.S. administration.”
382 2007-10-16 LITTLE INVESTMENT, LITTLE RISK The biggest banks in the United States, with active encouragement from the Treasury Department, have announced a plan to keep the housing-related debt crisis from worsening -- taking little risk and not actually inve...
383 2007-10-17 More skirmishing among the Republican candidates....
384 2007-10-17 James Watson, the Nobel Prize-winning geneticist has sparked a new controversy with comments about race and intelligence....
385 2007-10-17 Weight loss surgery patients may be at a higher risk for suicide....
386 2007-10-17 Gov. Rick Perry signs up with Rudolph W. Giuliani while Mitt Romney gets Representative Connie Mack Jr. and Bob Jones III....
387 2007-10-17 Weight loss surgery patients may be at a higher risk for suicide....
388 2007-10-17 DreamBox Learning, which The Seattle Post-Intelligencer describes as a "superstealthy" children's education start-up, has raised $7.1 million from undisclosed angel investors. Executives at the 15-person company are apparently mum on the product d...
389 2007-10-17 After being pushed from the spotlight, Hong Kong's movie industry is back. New trade rules have given Hong Kong filmmakers access to mainland China's markets. Now, Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered are helping production companies finance movie...
390 2007-10-17 “It relates directly to the contracts,” Mr. Mizoguchi said, “because it relates to the pricing and costs under those contracts.” Public Warehousing, which is now called Agility Logistics, receives more than $1 billion a year to feed the troops in Iraq and Kuwait.

The investigation, which was reported today in The Wall Street Journal, is also focusing on Army officials who picked the food companies that are Public Warehousing’s suppliers.

Procurement specialists said that once vendors, like Public Warehousing, receive guidance from the Army Center of Excellence, Subsistence, at Fort Lee, Va., on what should be on the menu in chow halls across Iraq and Kuwait, the vendors would seek suppliers for that food. In some cases, the Army had designated specific companies to provide certain foods, like beef or chicken, which has drawn protests from rival firms.

For example, Tyson Foods, the nation’s largest meat company, has complained to the Pentagon’s logistics command that some food companies have hired former military procurement officials to use their contacts with Army food-service colleagues to help win lucrative government contracts.

Timothy L. Hale, a spokesman at Fort Lee, said the Army agency had not been notified that it was under investigation. He referred questions to the Justice Department.

In a statement, Public Warehousing said its service has been “timely, reliable and cost-effective.” The company’s position is that what investigators are looking at as improper payments are actually discounts received for paying its suppliers ahead of schedule, a widely accepted practice in the food industry.

In court papers, Public Warehousing cited an October 2006 e-mail message from a military contracting officer telling the company that the practice of keeping the discounts was appropriate.

Public Warehousing attributed its high prices partly to the costs associated with storing, handling and transporting supplies to multiple locations in a war zone. The company said more than 30 of its employees had been killed and 200 injured while working in the war zones.

Several food companies said they were cooperating with investigators. ConAgra Foods said it first received a request for information from the Pentagon in January.

“ConAgra Foods has been assured by the Department of Defense, which is leading the investigation of Public Warehousing Company, that its role in this investigation is limited to that of a witness,” the company said in a statement. ConAgra has provided “relevant records and testimony to the government investigators.” ConAgra officials denied that they had charged too much for their products.

Officials for Sara Lee said they had also received a subpoena in January and had been assured that the company is not a target of the probe but a witness.

Kenneth Trantowski, a spokesman for Quantum Foods, said the company received a subpoena during the summer from the federal prosecutors related to an investigation of “food industry practices as it relates to the military,” but said that the company was not a target of the investigation.

Quantum Foods, based in the Chicago suburbs, has been a supplier of meat, chicken and meals to the military since 2000, and has been shipping to Iraq since 2002.

Some major food companies say they are being excluded from the lucrative war-zone food service market. Tyson Foods, the nation’s largest meat company, sent a letter to the Defense Logistics Agency on April 3 outlining the company’s concerns about the way some food purchases by the military “appear to favor certain companies employing former military food service personnel,” said Gary Mickelson, a company spokesman, in an e-mail message.

In the letter, Jenna R. Johnston, Tyson’s senior counsel and assistant secretary, requested a meeting to discuss what the company believed were unfair procurement practices. Specifically, she complained that some elements of the military were negotiating sole-source, multiyear agreements with Tyson’s competitors worth hundreds of millions of dollars.

“We are not requesting anything more than a level playing field,” Ms. Johnston wrote.

She argued that it was inappropriate for the military to specify brand name merchandise for “commodity raw chicken pieces, French fries, ground beef, liquid eggs,” since they are typically served with no brand visible to consumers.
391 2007-10-17 Mr. Bush, asked by a reporter today about photos that showed a seemingly cordial meeting in Tehran of Mr. Putin and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, said he was reluctant to read too much into photographs and wanted to hear Mr. Putin’s own “readout” of the meeting.

Proposed new United Nation sanctions, pressed in particular by the United States and France, have so far been blocked by Russia, which holds a veto on the Security Council and favors continued dialogue with Tehran.

But Mr. Putin has gone further, questioning what evidence the Americans and French have for asserting that Iran intends to make nuclear weapons.

When President Nicholas Sarkozy of France visited Moscow early this month, Mr. Putin said: “We don’t have information showing that Iran is striving to produce nuclear weapons. That’s why we’re proceeding on the basis that Iran does not have such plans.”

Mr. Sarkozy said the two countries might “not have quite the same analysis of the situation.”

France has argued that aggressive moves toward multilateral sanctions against Iran are the best way to avoid military against Iran.

And while Mr. Putin says Russia is taking Iran’s descriptions of its program at their face value, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice recently asserted that Iran was lying to United Nations inspectors.

Mr. Bush, seeking to explain his relationship with a man he once said he viewed as a trusted ally against terrorism — but who since then has led his country in steadily more authoritarian directions — said he and Mr. Putin “don’t agree on a lot of issues.” Still, he said, it was vital to maintain an open and candid relationship that allowed each man to speak his mind.

The president nonetheless acknowledged American frustrations at trying to influence Russia. “In terms of whether or not it’s possible to reprogram the kind of basic Russian DNA, which is a centralized authority,” Mr. Bush said, “that’s hard to do.”

The best he could do, Mr. Bush said, was to try to make it clear that it is in Moscow’s interests to have good relations with the West, and an open and democratic government.

Mr. Bush also said that when he met with Mr. Putin in Sydney early last month, he had delicately questioned the Russian leader on his own future ambitions. This was before Mr. Putin made clear that he might seek to become prime minister of Russia when he steps down as president — an approach that Mr. Bush wryly said he might want to emulate.

“He was wily,” Bush said, “he wouldn’t tip his hand.”
392 2007-10-17 India’s markets have enjoyed unprecedented appreciation in recent weeks, becoming some of the best performing markets in Asia, after foreign investors piled in, some looking for refuge from America’s housing market problems. The Sensex traded above 19,000 for the first time on October 15, and is up nearly 40 percent from the beginning of the year. Some stocks have increased that much in the past two months.

The market run-up over the past three weeks has “taken everyone by surprise and overwhelmed policy makers,” said Rajeev Malik, an economist at JP Morgan Chase in Singapore.

In addition to inflating stock market values, foreign investment is being credited with a more than 12 percent increase in the rupee. “Exporters are hurting” and there are concerns about job losses in jewelry, textile, footwear and leather industries, Goldman Sachs said in a report today.

The SEBI proposal would ban any foreign investors who are not registered with the regulator from issuing “participatory notes,” an offshore derivative instrument that institutions use to anonymously buy Indian stock, for themselves or clients. About half of all foreign investment in India’s equity markets is made through participatory notes.

Foreign investors are drawn to these instruments because they allow them to skip the time-consuming registration process required to buy stock directly on India’s markets, and because they are cheaper.

Big banks and funds tend to register directly with SEBI, but banks also issue participatory notes for smaller institutions like hedge funds and investment funds. There were some $89.8 billion in so-called participatory notes outstanding in August of this year, up from $8.1 billion in March of 2004.

The proposal also bans foreign institutions from issuing any participatory notes backed by derivatives, and requires them to wind up any derivative positions over the next 18 months. JP Morgan estimates that could effect some $3.6 to $5.4 billion currently invested in India’s markets.

Government officials have been scrutinizing the “year on year increase in offshore derivative instruments,” the anonymity they provide and the “copious inflows into the country from foreign investors,” SEBI said in its statement.

SEBI has asked for market participants to comment on their proposal by October 20. The proposal has the backing of the Reserve Bank of India and the Ministry of Finance and is expected to pass, said several market participants.

Hedge funds and small investing groups have been attracted to India’s high growth in recent months, and some of these investors may leave the markets. “It will depend on the nature of the investor,” said JP Morgan Chase’s Mr. Malik. “If someone wants exposure to the Indian markets, they have no choice” but to go through the registration process.

The move will “take some of the wind out of the sails” of India’s markets in the short term, but is unlikely to have a long term effect, said Mark Monson, a senior fund manager with Raiffeisen Capital Management, a Vienna-based fund which has about 420 million euros invested in India.

“I’ve been involved with India for many many years,” he said, “and we’ll be involved with India for many many years,”

Many market participants said that while the SEBI proposal was a step in the right direction, they are not happy with how it was being carried out. Investors say the registration process can take three to six months, and is often delayed by layers of bureaucracy.

“You need to create alternative avenues” for investors, or speed up the process for direct registration, said Tushar Poddar, a vice president with Goldman Sachs.

Investors use participatory notes to avoid the trouble of registering with Indian regulators, said Hugh Young, managing director in Aberdeen Asset Management, which is a registered investor in India and does not rely on participatory notes. The biggest effect will be on investors who “just couldn’t be bloody well bothered to do the paperwork,” he said.
393 2007-10-17 Microsoft introduced two new programs yesterday that allow people to place calls from the Outlook e-mail program, but analysts say businesses would not throw away their reliable office phone systems until the software maker’s tools were just as good.

The new programs build on server and desktop software that Microsoft introduced in 2005 to weave both instant messaging and indicators of “presence” — when a user is online, busy or logged off — into other communications programs in the Office suite.

The latest versions of Office Communications Server 2007 and Office Communicator 2007 add voice calling and video conferencing. Computer users looking at an e-mail message in Outlook can see whether the sender and other recipients are online and available to talk. With one click, a user can invite the whole group to an IM chat, a call or a video conference.

Communicator, a desktop application, also shows users whether their contacts are online, much as an IM buddy list does. Users also can see their contacts’ presence on Windows smartphones and new desk and speakerphones that plug into Ethernet jacks or PCs.

The changes are “as profound as the shift from typewriters to word processing software,” said Bill Gates, Microsoft’s chairman, in San Francisco yesterday.

Until recently, corporate telephone networks were separate from networks connecting office PCs to the Internet.

But as vendors started using the same underlying technology, and software-based Internet calling programs like Skype gained traction, “traditional” phone system makers and software companies have begun converging. And both kinds of companies are working to mesh calling, conferencing, e-mail and instant messaging.
394 2007-10-17 A dog walker has been accused of stealing nearly $58,000 from an 84-year-old woman’s checking account and credit cards, prosecutors said yesterday. The dog walker, Daniel Natale, 34, who runs Luna Dog Service is charged with stealing $51,278 from the Upper West Side woman’s bank account and $6,686 by fraudulent use of her credit cards, according to Jennifer Kushner, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney’s office. Prosecutors say that Mr. Natale, who ran errands for the woman and picked up her mail and groceries, wrote checks to himself or to cash from the woman’s checkbook. Mr. Natale’s lawyer, Douglas Lyons, declined to comment yesterday.
395 2007-10-17 New York City, which counts on the electricity provided by the Indian Point nuclear power plants and could be vulnerable in an attack or accident, wants a say in whether the plants can stay open for 20 more years. Without taking a position, but stating that the decision “will affect the welfare of all New Yorkers,” the city has filed a request to intervene in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s relicensing process. Entergy Nuclear, which owns the two Westchester County plants, has applied for new licenses that would allow the plants to run until 2033 and 2035. Neil Sheehan, a spokesman for the commission, said the city’s request would be forwarded to the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, a quasi-judicial body. He said intervention is ordinarily granted only to those who take a position against relicensing, but a government agency “can be a party to proceeding without being an active participant.”
396 2007-10-17 The State Health Department overpaid roughly 2,000 medical providers about $600,000 for Medicare outpatient services like doctor visits and lab tests, according to an audit released yesterday by the state comptroller. The billings involved patients who qualified for both Medicare and Medicaid, state officials said. In a statement, the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, left, called for more internal controls in the system “to prevent questionable payments from ever being made.” The Health Department said it was taking corrective action, the comptroller’s office said.
397 2007-10-17 Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation testified against their former supervisor at his murder trial in State Supreme Court yesterday, describing his meetings with a high-ranking Mafia informer. The former supervisor, Roy Lindley DeVecchio, is accused of helping his prized informer, Gregory Scarpa Sr., commit four murders in the 1980s and early 1990s. Prosecutors say Mr. DeVecchio warned Mr. Scarpa of impending arrests and rivals who were cooperating with the authorities. One of the agents, Raymond Andjich, recounted accompanying Mr. DeVecchio to a meeting at Mr. Scarpa’s house. As Mr. Scarpa and Mr. DeVecchio spoke privately in the kitchen, Mr. Andjich said, he overheard the word “murder” or “hit.”
398 2007-10-17 An activist hedge fund yesterday urged CSX, the railroad operator, to overhaul its management structure in an attempt to rein in spending and improve its financial performance.

In a letter to CSX’s board, the Children’s Investment Fund demanded that the company split the roles of chairman and chief executive and add more independent directors with more railroad experience. It also demanded more accountability to shareholders.

CSX is the latest prominent target for the hedge fund, which is based in London and known informally as TCI. The fund took on ABN Amro earlier this year, demanding a breakup or a sale of the Dutch banking giant. ABN Amro agreed to sell itself this month to a consortium of banks for $101 billion.

CSX’s stock has risen 24 percent so far this year. But TCI contends that the company can do better, starting with a slowdown in its operational costs and improving its return on capital.

The fund also argues that Michael J. Ward, the CSX chairman and chief executive, has collected a larger paycheck than his peers while failing to improve the company’s performance. He earned $13.8 million last year.
399 2007-10-17 The United Nations Security Council renewed the peacekeeping force for another year but reconfigured it to strengthen Haiti’s borders against smuggling. A unanimously passed resolution noted “significant improvements” in security but said “international illicit trafficking of drugs and arms continues to affect the stability of Haiti.”
400 2007-10-17 SEATTLE, Oct. 16 (AP) — Less than a week after announcing a delay in its new 787, the Boeing Company said Tuesday that it was replacing Mike Bair, the program’s vice president and general manager for the last three years.

Pat Shanahan, who has headed up missile defense systems at Boeing’s Wichita-based military unit, will succeed Mr. Bair, who has led the 787 program since 2004, when the company won its first order for the midsize long-haul jet, Boeing said.

Mr. Bair has been named vice president for business strategy and marketing for the company’s commercial airplanes division in Seattle, Boeing said.

In a statement announcing the moves, Boeing did not mention its decision last week to delay its first delivery of the 787 by six months to November or December 2008 because of production problems.
401 2007-10-17 Since the American invasion of Iraq in 2003, oil exports from northern Iraq through Turkey have been sporadic at best because of frequent bombings of Iraq’s northern pipeline. But as oil producers worldwide are straining to meet demand, commodity investors are focused on anything that might hurt supplies.

Turkey is an important corridor for oil exports from Iraq and the Caspian Sea. The Turkish military has threatened in recent days to cross the Iraqi border to root out Kurdish separatists who have mounted attacks inside Turkey.

Oil prices have more than quadrupled since 2001 as strong demand for oil from Asia, the Middle East and the United States has outpaced the ability of producers to bring on new supplies. With little spare production capacity, the oil markets have become more volatile.

After adjusting for inflation, oil prices are getting closer to historic levels reached in the early 1980s, when an energy crisis, the Iranian revolution, and the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war sent prices spiraling to about $100 a barrel in today’s dollars.

Energy analysts generally believe the market is overreacting to a possible Turkish incursion into northern Iraq. Antoine Halff, an analyst at Fimat, an oil brokerage, said he expected prices to ease once the market realized supplies would not be affected.

“The rally seems bound to run out of steam,” he said.

In the meantime, though, higher crude will translate into more costly gasoline, according to AAA, the automobile club. Gasoline has declined in recent weeks after demand dropped with the end of the summer driving season. But that is likely to change as refiners begin passing on higher oil costs to consumers, according to AAA’s spokesman, Geoff Sundstrom.

Gasoline averaged $2.76 a gallon nationwide yesterday, according to AAA. Gasoline exceeded $3 a gallon this summer.

Reacting to the rally of the last week, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ruled out an emergency release of oil supplies. When it met in Vienna last month, the oil cartel agreed to a modest production increase of 500,000 barrels a day.

OPEC’s secretary general, Abdalla Salem El-Badri, said in a statement yesterday that OPEC was concerned with rising prices. But he pointedly added that “there has been no interruption in crude supplies.”

“While the organization does not favor oil prices at this level, it strongly believes that fundamentals are not supporting current high prices and that the market is very well supplied,” Mr. El-Badri said. “The rising oil prices which we are currently witnessing are, however, largely being driven by market speculators.”

Most analysts say the reasons behind the price increases are complex. They include refinery bottlenecks in the United States, a weak dollar, geopolitical threats in the Middle East, the war in Iraq, violence in oil-producing Nigeria, and resource nationalism in Venezuela and Russia that is driving away foreign oil investment.

They also include strong growth in demand from China and the Middle East, where fuel prices are kept artificially low through government subsidies.

The International Energy Agency, an energy adviser to industrialized countries, said last week that it expected global oil demand to jump by 2.4 percent next year, to 88 million barrels a day. Some traders cited that prediction as one cause of the rally, although several analysts said the figure was unrealistically high given the slowing global economy.

“There is a perception that fundamentals are more bullish than they actually are,” said Roger Diwan, an analyst at PFC Energy, an oil consulting firm.

Investors and hedge funds have also contributed to the run-up. Commodity investors seem to have shrugged off the risk of a recession in the United States after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates last month. As a result, they have returned to commodity markets in force recently, analysts said.

Some investors are buying oil to hedge against the decline in the value of the dollar. Since the beginning of the year, the dollar has declined nearly 8 percent against the euro.
402 2007-10-17 Intel’s revenue rose 15 percent, to $10.09 billion, from $8.74 billion in the year-ago period.

Analysts had forecast revenue of $9.6 billion and profit of 30 cents a share. On Sept. 11, Intel raised its outlook for revenue to a range of $9.4 billion to $9.8 billion, from $9 billion to $9.6 billion.

For investors, however, perhaps the best news came in gross margin, which improved to 52.4 percent after declining to 46.9 percent in the second quarter.

Intel attributed the improvement in gross margin to higher microprocessor sales, lower start-up costs related to Intel’s move to 45-nanometer manufacturing, and lower unit costs.

The company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., also provided an optimistic outlook for the fourth quarter, forecasting sales of $10.5 billion to $11.1 billion and gross margin of 57 percent.

Intel, the world’s largest maker of computer chips, is closely watched as an indicator of the overall health of the technology industry, and its improved outlook for the fourth quarter was taken as a sign of confidence.

“It’s much better than expected,” Cody Acree, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said of the quarter. Mr. Acree said Intel’s optimism came as good news to investors concerned about consumer spending during the holidays, in the face of high gas prices and uncertainties about the impact of the mortgage crisis. He added: “At least right now, there is confidence in the PC channel that there will be demand through the end of the year.”

Shares of Intel rose more than 5 percent in after-hours trading once the report was released. In the regular session, they had declined 27 cents, to close at $25.48.

“A combination of great products, strong and growing worldwide demand, and operational efficiency from our ongoing restructuring efforts led to record third-quarter revenue and a 64 percent year-over-year gain in operating income,” Intel’s president and chief executive, Paul S. Otellini, said in a statement. “Looking forward, we see each of these elements continuing to improve into the fourth quarter.”

Last year, Intel began a complete overhaul of its chip product lineup and announced a reorganization that led to significant cost cutting, including layoffs. Mr. Bryant said Tuesday that at the end of 2007 Intel would have roughly 86,000 employees, down from 94,000 at the end of 2006.

In recent quarters Intel has released a spate of new multicore processors, including its first quad-core chip, and many investors say they believe that the company is reclaiming its technological leadership from A.M.D.

A.M.D. executives said last month that they expected to have a strong second half, but the company was still expected to post a loss for the third quarter on Thursday, its fourth consecutive quarterly loss. With its revised outlook last month, Intel nearly upstaged A.M.D.’s announcement of a higher-performing version of its Opteron server chip.

Intel also announced on Tuesday the appointment of Stacy Smith as chief financial officer, succeeding Mr. Bryant, who after 13 years in the finance role will remain at Intel as chief administrative officer.
403 2007-10-17 Eritrea and Ethiopia seem well on their way to starting yet another destructive war. Tensions between the two Horn of Africa countries have hovered near a boiling point ever since Eritrea wrenched its independence from Ethiopia. In the late 1990s, the two fought a vicious battle over an inconsequential border town that left 100,000 dead.

The treaty that ended this last bloody war included a new border drawn by the United Nations. With a November deadline for the border about to go into effect, Ethiopia is balking at the deal after seven years of dragging its feet. Eritrea, also no innocent victim, has violated the treaty, sending troops into the demilitarized zone.

The Bush administration has been very cozy with Ethiopia since Ethiopian troops ousted a radical Islamist government in Somalia last year. And officials have had some success pushing Ethiopia to do the right thing, gaining the release of some political prisoners in July. Now the administration should be using its influence to press Ethiopia to recognize and demarcate the border and talk with Eritrea to lower tensions.

Washington has considerably less influence in Eritrea. At the moment President Isaias Afewerki — who makes most of the decisions — is refusing to talk to American diplomats. But instead of looking for other ways to reach out, the Bush administration has threatened to list Eritrea as a state sponsor of terror.

Eritrea has some very frightening friends. It has given safe haven to Islamists from Somalia and has shipped weapons there, fueling the civil war. The list of terror sponsors is a very blunt instrument (no state has yet been taken off it), and one that is unlikely to alter Eritrea’s behavior any time soon. There is, however, a very immediate danger that Ethiopia would see Washington’s decision to list Eritrea as a green light to attack its neighbor.

What the administration needs to do now is press Ethiopia to respect the treaty. If something isn’t done quickly, we fear many more Eritreans and Ethiopians will die for no reason. There is time to put Eritrea on the list of terror sponsors if it doesn’t clean up its act.
404 2007-10-17 One of the decals that officials showed off yesterday is on 42nd Street near Third Avenue, outside a passageway between a Starbucks and a Foot Locker store that leads to and from the subway. It got mostly good reviews from people who noticed it as they walked by.

“I know where to go, but that doesn’t mean I know which direction I’m facing,” said Kevin Boyle, a student at Borough of Manhattan Community College. “If you can put celebrities’ handprints in the ground, you can tell people where to go.”

City officials hope the decals will end a familiar pedestrian routine of squinting, walking, squinting and maybe turning around. On streets where subways empty out midblock and the street signs at the corner are not readable in the distance, the decals could save time for people like Saul Slotnick.

He walked out of Grand Central yesterday and headed along 42nd Street toward Madison Avenue. He stopped abruptly. He did an about-face and retreated toward Lexington Avenue even though his destination was Brooks Brothers, at 44th and Madison, in the direction he had been going.

“It takes a minute or two to get your bearings, no matter how long you’ve lived here,” he said.

Some pedestrians stepped carefully around the new decals yesterday and said the compass design would help. But Mr. Boyle said the decals were not large enough for people to notice. “It will be the same old thing, everyone rushing out, saying, ‘Where are we?’” he said.

David Garrett, who works in the Starbucks a few steps away, mentioned another concern. “Who’s going to look down during rush hour?” he asked.

The decals, some subway riders said, will make things easier on streets where there are no easily identifiable landmarks and where the drugstore, coffee shop and bank at one end of the block look much like the drugstore, coffee shop and bank at the other end.

“I can’t tell you how many times I come out of the subway wondering which way to go,” said Gene Foltzer, an information technology manager with Pfizer whose office is down the block from the 42nd Street decal. “Usually, I have to walk half a block to get my bearings, looking at the sky, looking for a landmark, looking for a street sign, and even then you don’t know which way to turn at the corner.”

That street-level confusion is particularly vexing outside the larger stations that have numerous exits. Joann Morales found herself confused when she emerged yesterday from the Times Square station at Broadway and 42nd Street. She was on her way to the big Toys “R” Us store, where she started working this week.

“The street signs are not really that accessible,” she said. “You can’t see them unless you walk down the block.”

Janette Sadik-Khan, the city’s transportation commissioner, said the idea for the compass came from an Upper East Side man who was among about 20 New Yorkers quoted in The New York Times in January 2006 in an article about practical ways to improve the city. The transportation agency approached the Grand Central Partnership about putting decals around subway stations in its area.

Alfred C. Cerullo III, the president and chief executive of the Grand Central Partnership, said the group had committed $15,000 to the project so far.

Ms. Sadik-Khan and Mr. Cerullo appeared yesterday at a news conference beside the decal on 42nd Street near Third with Elliot G. Sander, the executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Peter S. Kalikow, the board chairman of both the transportation authority and the Grand Central Partnership.

Mr. Sander said that he himself had “gotten lost” coming out of some of the subway stations “in the labyrinthine system.”

“I’m referring to myself as someone who takes the system every day,” he said. But he said the compass on 42nd Street could also guide tourists bound for Grand Central who take the No. 7 train and come out at that exit, which is closer to Third Avenue than it is to Grand Central.

The Grand Central Partnership is running a survey on its Web site (grandcentralpartnership.org) to sample reaction to the decals. The officials said that if the response was largely positive, they would consider a more permanent kind of directional marker, maybe something set into the sidewalk instead of just pasted on.

Four decals have been installed. Besides the one on 42nd Street near Third, decals have been placed on the west side of Lexington Avenue between 42nd Street and 43rd Street, adjacent to Grand Central; on the south side of 51st Street between Lexington Avenue and Park Avenue; and on the south side of 53rd Street between Madison Avenue and Park Avenue.

Not everyone who walked by the decal on 42nd Street yesterday was enthusiastic.

“Personally, I wouldn’t use it because I’m from New York and I know where I’m going,” said Anna Medina, a paralegal. “When you’re from New York, everyone knows where you’re going. But for tourists, it’s a good idea. New Yorkers always have someone stopping you, ‘Excuse me, ma’am, where’s Third Avenue?’”
405 2007-10-17 Ernest C. Withers, a photographer whose voluminous catalog of arresting black-and-white images illustrates a history of life in the segregated South in the 1950s and ’60s, from the civil rights movement to the Beale Street music scene, died on Monday in Memphis. He was 85.

The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son Joshua, of Los Angeles.

Mr. Withers worked as a freelance photographer at a time when events of the day were not just newsworthy but historic occasions. He photographed the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. resting at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis after the March Against Fear in 1966, and riding one of the first desegregated buses in Montgomery, Ala., in 1956, along with the Rev. Ralph David Abernathy.

He photographed a mass of men all holding placards reading “I Am a Man” at the Memphis sanitation workers’ strike, the last march led by Dr. King before his assassination in April 1968. He also covered Dr. King’s funeral.

Mr. Withers was the only photographer who covered the entire trial of those charged with killing Emmett Till, a black teenager who was said to have whistled at a white woman. He also photographed the funeral of Medgar Evers, the civil rights activist who was killed in 1963, and the nine black students who integrated Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957.

Mr. Withers had the largest catalog of any individual photographer covering the civil rights movement in the South, said Tony Decaneas, the owner of the Panopitcon Gallery in Boston. The galley is the exclusive agent for Mr. Withers.
406 2007-10-17 “Scripps was really viewed as a newspaper company, so it was trading in line with its newspaper peers,” said Alexia Quadrani, a media analyst at Bear Stearns. “In reality, the majority of cash flow was coming from higher growth cable and Internet businesses, but they weren’t getting any credit for that.”

Scripps is the second media company to announce a split this month. Two weeks ago, the Belo Corporation said it planned to spin off its newspaper entities into a separate company from its television stations, raising the question of whether Gannett, the largest publisher in the United States by circulation, might consider doing the same.

“I think the question is, will Gannett follow? They’re one of the few newspaper companies that still have broadcast assets,” Ms. Quadrani said.

The successful HGTV and Food Network cable channels, a result of the company’s aggressive diversification strategy, will anchor the new company, called Scripps Networks Interactive. It will also include three younger cable television brands and two Internet search businesses.

“These are very special assets that in some ways were underappreciated by the markets,” said Frederick Searby, an analyst at JPMorgan.

The separate E. W. Scripps Company will maintain the company’s traditional assets, including The Rocky Mountain News in Denver, The Commercial Appeal in Memphis and 17 other newspapers; 10 broadcast television stations; the United Media syndication outlet; and the Scripps Media Center news service.

The interactive lifestyle brands of the new company are expected to report $1.4 billion in combined annual revenue, significantly more than the legacy company’s $1.1 billion.

Richard A. Boehne, the chief operating officer, will become chief executive of E. W. Scripps, succeeding Kenneth W. Lowe, who will become president of Scripps Networks Interactive.

“Scripps believes strongly that local is a very specific media category that will continue to exist,” Mr. Boehne said. “Platforms may change over time, but local is a category that should provide enduring value.”

Scripps shares closed yesterday at $45.93, up 8.6 percent. McClatchy closed at $18.92, down 1.3 percent, and down from $43.03 at the beginning of the year.

Scripps and McClatchy had been hit particularly hard by the real estate downturn in Florida and California, where both companies own significant newspaper assets. On Tuesday, Gary Pruitt, McClatchy’s chief executive, said he could not foresee an end to the slump.

“It’s clear the economies of these two markets and perhaps the country as a whole are experiencing a greater slowdown than many had anticipated just a few months ago,” he said in a statement. “We do not know when this downturn will end.”
407 2007-10-17 SAN JOSE, Calif., Oct. 16 (AP) — Apple is lowering the prices of songs it sells online without copy protection to 99 cents from $1.29, a company spokeswoman said Tuesday.

The reduction, which started appearing on songs Tuesday, puts the company’s iTunes store closer in line with its rivals. Amazon, which opened its online music store in September, sells tracks without anticopying software locks for 89 cents to 99 cents.

Separately, Apple announced that its next-generation operating system, the Mac OS X Leopard, would be available Oct. 26 for $129, and Apple’s online store was taking orders.

An Apple spokeswoman, Natalie Kerris, said the price cut at iTunes was not in response to competition. “It’s been very popular with our customers, and we’re now making it available at an even more affordable price,” Ms. Kerris said.

Apple began selling some songs in May without copy protection. The primary benefit of such music is that it can be played on any music player, not just Apple iPods. Apple also charges 99 cents for copy-protected tracks.

Leopard, the new operating system, was originally due in June, but Apple said in April that it needed to divert resources so it could introduce the iPhone on time.
408 2007-10-17 Now Mr. Spitzer’s nominees — the largest glut of unconfirmed state appointments in recent history — face a range of hurdles, some Sisyphean and some almost silly, as they struggle with the responsibilities of jobs they may not technically have yet.

“People ask questions like, ‘It’s October and you’re still “acting” — what’s the problem?’” said Patrick Foye, a former United Way executive whom Mr. Spitzer nominated in March to be the chairman of the state’s Urban Development Corporation. Mr. Foye has spent months negotiating business deals on behalf of the state, but the conversations invariably begin, he said, with questions about his title.

“It’s a little perplexing to have to explain to them why we aren’t confirmed,” he said.

Mr. Spitzer is demanding that the Senate vote on his remaining nominees, but the Republicans who control the chamber are unsympathetic, noting that they have approved 133 of them. Many of those remaining, Senate officials say, are names that Mr. Spitzer did not submit until the hectic final days of the legislative session in June. And in some cases, they say, questions about the nominees’ backgrounds have not been answered.

“We are not going to simply rubber stamp, especially given the record of this governor and some of his requests,” the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said last week, referring to efforts by Mr. Spitzer’s aides to obtain State Police records of Mr. Bruno’s travels on state aircraft.

Other governors have run into problems with a handful of nominees, said Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science and a dean at the State University of New York at New Paltz. But the length and extent of the current delayed appointments — reaching into the ranks of even relatively minor jobs — appear to be unprecedented, he said. By the end of his first year in office, George E. Pataki, Mr. Spitzer’s predecessor, had only four nominations pending.

“It’s extremely problematic,” Mr. Benjamin said. “New York’s government is challenged enough to be effective without these kinds of problems.”

Some of the nominees whose appointments have been stalled have taken the delays in stride, boning up on their future responsibilities — and holding on to their day jobs — while awaiting a Senate vote.

“I’m not sitting here annoyed that I’ve not gone to the first meeting,” said Natalie Merchant, the musician and former lead singer of the rock band 10,000 Maniacs, whom Mr. Spitzer nominated to the State Council on the Arts. “There are other people who are waiting on more important positions,” said Ms. Merchant, a native of Jamestown, N.Y. “But it is odd that it is taking so long.”

Mr. Hemmerdinger said it would be “rude and presumptuous” to assume that he would get confirmed. “I get all the congratulations, but I don’t have to do the hard work,” he said.

Some nominees get the congratulations, the hard work — and the headaches.

Daniel Gundersen, whom Mr. Spitzer nominated in February to be the state’s economic development commissioner, has had to write in the word “acting” next to the word “commissioner” on every business card he hands out while traveling the state. Assistants must make the same change on all standard contracts, time sheets, grant award letters and other documents that come out of his office and carry his name.

“The quirky stuff is for every single document, they have to scan through where it says ‘commissioner’ and white it out or put in ‘acting,’” Mr. Gundersen said. “And there are a lot of contracts.”

Like Mr. Gundersen, some nominees — mostly those picked for paid, full-time jobs — are permitted by state law to work in an acting capacity until they are confirmed. For other positions, chiefly those involving unpaid, part-time positions on state boards, the law allows appointees whose formal terms have lapsed to continue serving until a replacement is confirmed.

Even in those cases, though, the delays can cause problems. The trustees of the State University of New York, for example, were meant to begin searching for a new chancellor after the previous one stepped down in June. The search was meant to be led by Carl T. Hayden, Mr. Spitzer’s pick to chair the board of trustees. But neither Mr. Hayden nor a second Spitzer nominee to the board, former State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, have been confirmed, though the Senate will hold a hearing on their nominations on Wednesday.

Similarly, the state’s Public Employment Relations Board normally has three members and requires a majority vote to issue final decisions on labor disputes involving state employees. But the Senate has confirmed only two of Mr. Spitzer’s nominees. And in five cases pending before the board, one or the other has had to recuse himself, making it impossible to render a decision.

The Council on the Arts barely avoided a similar quandary, said the council’s executive director, Heather A. Hitchens. Earlier this year, Mr. Spitzer picked replacements — Ms. Merchant among them — for five members of the council’s board, which doles out $49 million worth of grants each year to artists, writers and musicians. But none of the new members have been confirmed.

To approve the grants, Ms. Hitchens said, she had to call the members who had been passed over for reappointment and plead with them to temporarily return. “Fortunately, the outgoing council members have been kind enough to participate in the appropriate ways so that we can continue to do council business,” Ms. Hitchens said.
409 2007-10-17 JPMorgan Chase has been pulled deeper into the legal morass surrounding this year’s secret talks to buy out Dow Chemical.

In the latest twist, a former Dow executive has sued JPMorgan, contending that the bank deceived Dow, a longtime client, by not disclosing its role in the unauthorized buyout discussions — even as Dow hunted for the source of repeated speculation about the talks.

The complaint was filed Friday in a federal district court in Michigan by Romeo Kreinberg, a former executive vice president whom Dow fired in April after learning of his possible involvement in the negotiations.

Peppered with redacted sections, the suit describes JPMorgan as a “Judas” that after being discovered operating behind Dow’s back, agreed to implicate Mr. Kreinberg (whose relationship with Dow’s chief executive Andrew N. Liveris was rocky) in hopes of redeeming itself.

Dow, the largest chemical company in the United States, has already sued Mr. Kreinberg and its former adviser and director, J. Pedro Reinhard, for damages. Both were dismissed after JPMorgan’s chief executive, James Dimon, told Mr. Liveris that the two men took part in the unauthorized sales talks.
410 2007-10-17 Wall Street sank for a second consecutive day yesterday after the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the slumping housing market remained a “significant drag” on the economy.

Mr. Bernanke’s speech on Monday night in New York elevated concerns that the summer’s credit tightness might persist into the winter — a sobering thought for investors who are sifting through mixed third-quarter earnings and watching energy costs rise.

“First of all, the worry is we’re getting more bad news on housing. No. 2 is higher oil prices. That’s a pretty bad combination,” said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors.

Crude oil prices rose above $88 in intraday dealing before settling at $87.61, another record, and a National Association of Home Builders index that tracks expectations of future home sales fell for the eighth month, to the lowest point since January 1985.

The Dow Jones industrial average dropped by 71.86 points, or 0.51 percent, to 13,912.94. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index slid 10.18 points, or 0.66 percent, to 1,538.53, and the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index lost 16.14 points, or 0.58 percent, to 2,763.91. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks gave up 6.01 points, or 0.72 percent, ending the session at 823.35.
411 2007-10-17 But there is nothing inconsequential about the looming clash. Even as Amgen reels from recent safety questions about its anemia drugs, it is bracing for a possible assault by Roche on its franchise, worth $7 billion a year.

It is a war that will be waged not so much with medical studies as with marketing muscle and bare-knuckles pricing tactics intended to capitalize on the rules of Medicare. And because of quirks in those rules, the product with the higher price might have the competitive edge.

Roche says it expects the Food and Drug Administration to approve its drug, Mircera, by Nov. 14. If it reaches the market, Mircera will break the monopoly Amgen has had selling anemia treatments to American dialysis centers since the approval of its drug, Epogen, in 1989.

Since then, Amgen has sold more than $25 billion worth of Epogen, including $2.5 billion worth last year. Most of those billions came from Medicare, which pays to treat almost all the nation’s 350,000 dialysis patients. Almost everyone whose kidneys stop functioning develops anemia.

Mircera would also compete with Amgen’s newer anemia drug, Aranesp, which now has even bigger sales than Epogen, and with Procrit, a drug sold by Johnson & Johnson under a license from Amgen. Aranesp and Procrit are used primarily to treat patients with kidney disease who are not on dialysis, as well as patients receiving chemotherapy for cancer. Roche is seeking approval of Mircera only as a treatment for kidney disease, not for use in cancer therapy.

Amgen’s first line of defense is its patent-infringement lawsuit in Boston. Because the judge has already ruled that Mircera infringes one Amgen patent, Roche must convince the jury that the patent itself is invalid.

If Roche fails, Mircera might never reach the market. But if Roche prevails, the fight will move out of the courtroom and into the marketplace.

According to documents made public in the litigation, both companies have planned for years for their showdown, even conducting “war games” in which some executives acted as the competition to develop pricing strategy.

A crucial factor in the battle is that dialysis clinics can profit from drugs they administer on site, including the anemia drugs, which are usually infused intravenously during dialysis. The profits come from the difference between the clinics’ cost for the drugs and the often higher rates at which Medicare and private insurers reimburse them. Hospitals and doctors’ offices can also make money this way.

In the past, some drug companies have gamed this system by setting list prices far higher than actual prices, increasing profit for doctors as a way to win their loyalty. Pharmaceutical companies caught rigging the reimbursements in this way have been assessed big fines. Medicare has since changed its rules to greatly reduce the ability of drug companies to “market the spread,” as the tactic is known.

Medicare now reimburses doctors and clinics for medicines at 6 percent over the drugs’ actual average selling price, which is about $170 for an average weekly dose of Epogen. A small dialysis provider might make about $7 on that weekly treatment; a large chain, with bigger discounts from Amgen, could make much more.

But there is a six-month lag in calculating the average price. So for the first six months a new product is on the market, Medicare generally reimburses at 6 percent above the wholesale price set by the maker.

Documents unsealed as evidence in the litigation indicate that Roche planned to use that six-month period to essentially buy market share by setting a wholesale price that, although a bit lower than Aranesp’s official list price, would be about 38 percent higher than Aranesp’s current average selling price and 78 percent higher than Epogen’s.

Roche could then offer big discounts off the wholesale price to clinics, hospitals and kidney centers — potentially allowing them several times the profit they would get from using Amgen’s products.

If that happens, Economics 101 would be stood temporarily on its head. Rather than lowering prices, competition would end up raising Medicare’s costs, at least for the first six months.

Asked about the documents, George B. Abercrombie, the president of Roche’s North American pharmaceutical division, said the company had not made a final decision on Mircera’s pricing. In a brief filed in the litigation, Roche said it needed to offer discounts to establish itself in the market and bring about competition.

Mr. Abercrombie, declining to discuss the first six months, said, “We believe firmly that our availability will offer competition and will over time bring prices down in this market and save payers money.”

Herb B. Kuhn, the deputy administrator of Medicare, also said competition would kick in after six months. “New entrants have a profound effect on the downward push on prices,” he said, “and we don’t see that this would be any different.”

But Amgen, according to internal memos made public in the patent case, debated internally for years about how best to neutralize what it described as Roche’s “unfair pricing advantage.”

At one point, it even considered taking Epogen off the market for a year — forfeiting nearly $3 billion in sales — a period that under the rules would enable Amgen to resume Epogen sales using the same price tactic Roche has considered. Such a move, dialysis providers say, would have created severe medical and business disruptions for the patients and clinics.

An Amgen consultant also proposed having the company conduct clinical trials of its own drugs to “monopolize key trial sites” and impede Roche’s ability to perform the studies it needed for approval. “Every month we delay” Roche’s drug, the consulting firm, BAI, explained in a slide, is the equivalent of $100 million in extra sales for Amgen. It is not clear whether the idea was put into practice.

Amgen was especially worried that Roche would lure away two big dialysis chains, Fresenius and DaVita, which each account for about a third of the dialysis market. So it protected itself by making a pact in fall 2006 with Fresenius. The chain agreed to stay with Amgen exclusively for five years in exchange for additional Epogen discounts and rebates. And Roche was locked out of one-third of the dialysis market.

According to an internal Amgen slide, the contract “spends” $300 million to “buy insurance” against a potential loss of $2.5 billion in business from Fresenius.

Ronald Kuerbitz, the chief administrative officer of Fresenius Medical Care North America, said his company agreed to the deal because there was no evidence that Mircera, if it even reached the market, would be medically superior to Epogen.

There were “so many unknowns about CERA,” he said, using another name for Roche’s drug, “that the smart move was to take the money offered to us, rather than risk that and hope the CERA product would turn out to be a better decision.”

Another Amgen strategy was to offer hospitals bigger discounts on two other drugs for which it has a virtual monopoly — Neupogen and Neulasta, both used against the side effects of chemotherapy — if the hospitals bought most of their anemia drugs from Amgen.

Amgen, according to documents, also decided to emphasize to customers that it was confident it would win the patent case, to discourage the clients from switching to Mircera if the drug became available before the case was decided.

Roche’s antitrust counterclaims in the patent suit are scheduled to be heard in a separate trial starting in December.

In legal filings, Amgen argues that its actions were normal competitive practices and that its extra discounts to Fresenius and to some hospitals lowered prices. It also says that even though there are hundreds of dialysis providers, Roche could cite only Ms. Mooney’s case and one other instance in which Amgen was said to have threatened reprisals for switching to Mircera. In neither case, Amgen argues, did the supposed threats result in loyalty to Amgen.

Indeed, they may have had the opposite effect.

“It’s that kind of threatening demeanor of the company that makes me want to go to the competition,” Ms. Mooney said. Her chain has recently become a paid consultant to Roche, teaching its sales force about the dialysis business.
412 2007-10-17 ISTANBUL, Oct. 16 — Iraq dispatched one of its vice presidents to Ankara on Tuesday in a last-ditch effort to talk Turkey out of a military offensive into the Kurdish region of Iraq.

A spokesman for the Iraqi government, Ali al-Dabbagh, said the government wanted an “urgent” dialogue with Ankara to avoid fighting and to “find a diplomatic solution” to a worsening crisis along the Iraqi-Turkish border.

The Turkish Parliament is on the verge of approving a cross-border offensive to strike Kurdish rebels who carry out attacks in Turkey from northern Iraq. The rebels, members of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or P.K.K., have taken refuge in mountain redoubts on the Iraqi side of the border. They are separatists who want an autonomous Kurdish region in the far eastern part of Turkey.

The United States strongly opposes such action by Turkey, a NATO ally, because it would upset the Americans’ strongest allies in the war in Iraq — Iraqi Kurds.

One of Iraq’s two vice presidents, Tariq al-Hashimi, flew to Ankara for discussions with Turkish officials in an emergency effort to defuse the crisis.
413 2007-10-17 But being a French citizen means you’re not categorized as African French or Southeast Asian French or West Indian French; you’re just plain French. That’s the republican ideal, citizenship bestowing theoretical equality, belying the reality of racism. French schoolchildren are steeped in the concept of a single France. The law actually forbids taking a census according to ethnic or racial categories.

So when a wall text in the immigration museum refers to French histories, implying there is more than one French history, more than one version of a Frenchman, that simple statement, which can sound harmless to an American, raises eyebrows here.

Curiously, the building in which the French have chosen to house the museum used to be part of the International Colonial Exposition of 1931. A sculptured frieze on the facade, an Art Deco-era marvel by Alfred Janniot, shows French colonial laborers toiling for the glory of the empire. Across the street, a memorial from 1934 honors Jean-Baptiste Marchand, who helped spread French rule in Africa. Standing tall in crisp tropical-weight military wools, Marchand leads a troupe of half-naked African servants.

Via the building and the memorial, the locale implicitly acknowledges French colonialism’s ugly side and gives the new institution some historical context. There are a few photographs in the display documenting protesters against anti-immigration policies, and some anti-Semitic publications from the turn of the last century.

Otherwise, the museum makes do with magazine covers, yellowing newspapers and trivia extolling immigrant athletes like Raymond Kopa and Zinedine Zidane, the soccer players; or Rachid Taha, the singer of dual French and Algerian citizenship; or Chopin. At a touch-screen display, I came across a boy with his father — they seemed to be of Arabic descent and talked in French — who were trying to match foreign words with their origins.

Plasticized vitrines, chic but deeply impractical (very French), bore printed quotations from immigrants. The message: People emigrate from many places, for many reasons, with difficulty, often reluctantly, and they bring their cultures with them.

In case you didn’t know.

“The history of immigration is one thing, and the history of slavery and the history of colonization are other things,” Jacques Toubon, the museum’s president, told me, somewhat defensively I thought. France “is very late in confronting the truth about its colonial history,” he said, but the purpose of his museum “is to tell the story of immigration.” That sounded to an American like devising a museum for African-American or American Indian cultures but skipping gingerly over slavery, segregation and Manifest Destiny.

Mr. Toubon added, “We’re inside a building that is a memory place for colonization, but our message is the contrary: to show what all these people coming to France for two centuries have brought, which ends up being not just the history of immigration but the history of France.”

An old ally of Mr. Chirac, a lifelong government functionary and former culture minister, Mr. Toubon knows the ancient art of protecting himself while oh-so-delicately criticizing an opponent. To Mr. Sarkozy — the son of a Hungarian immigrant, as is often pointed out — the idea of atonement is political anathema. Lately his government has proposed the use of genetic testing to verify the bloodlines of would-be immigrants who want to join family members here. One of his own ministers called the idea “disgusting.”

Meanwhile, the police have been ordered to expel 25,000 immigrants “sans papiers,” without papers, before the year ends. Newspapers here have been publishing articles about immigrants like Chulan Liu, a 51-year-old divorced woman from North China, who died last month after leaping from her window when policemen knocked on her door; and Ivan Demsky, a 12-year-old son of Chechen asylum-seekers who slipped off a fourth-floor balcony in Amiens when he and his father tried to evade authorities. Opponents of the government have started forming what they’re calling the new Resistance.

But Mr. Sarkozy is the most popular president since de Gaulle. Two years ago, in a poll taken by the National Human Rights Commission, one-third of those surveyed acknowledged that they held racist views. That same year right-wingers in Parliament passed a resolution praising former French rule in the colonial and overseas territories. The resolution spoiled a plan by Mr. Chirac, who as a junior officer in Algeria knew firsthand something about what had gone on there, to forge a friendship treaty with Algeria, a step toward apologizing.

Mr. Sarkozy, campaigning in February in Toulon before a conservative crowd with “pieds-noirs,” French expatriates from Algeria and elsewhere, said France “should be proud of its past and stop this nonsense about repentance.”

Then came the awkward moment on May 10 when, as the incoming president, Mr. Sarkozy had to appear with Mr. Chirac at an event that Mr. Chirac devised to honor the memory of French slaves. After that, Mr. Chirac’s immigration museum was a kind of ticking time bomb for his successor.

It had long been part of the larger multicultural legacy Mr. Chirac devised for himself — his iteration of François Mitterrand’s Grands Projets or the Pompidou Center — which included the enormous Musée du Quai Branly. In a cavernous new building by the celebrity architect Jean Nouvel, it opened last year as a showcase for African, Oceanic and other non-Western art. With piped-in drums and a heart-of-darkness, junglelike interior, it seemed comically patronizing but, predictably, became an instant crowd-pleaser.

The new immigration museum is different. It’s more symbol than tourist attraction. Two other museums, in Marseilles and Perpignan, are slated to open in the next few years in response. They cater to the right wing, endorsing French colonial rule and honoring the so-called Harkis, Muslims who fought alongside the French during the war in Algeria.

It’s hard to say who will go to the National Center at the moment, save for bored schoolchildren on compulsory field trips, although the place has the potential to be a constructive troublemaker. Mr. Toubon promises, in time, a program of events to add meat to the bare-bones display, which he says will also change.

Clearly the place needs to do more than cheerlead, feign scholarly impartiality and make vague noises about past injustices to have any impact. It needs to try to steer a debate that is reshaping France and the rest of Europe.
414 2007-10-17 “I would rather dig my friend Ray Carver out of the ground,” he said. “I don’t understand what Tess’s interest in doing this is except to rewrite history. I am appalled by it.”

Carver, who died in 1988 at 50, had tried to set the record straight himself. He restored and republished five of the stories from “What We Talk About” in magazines or later collections. In “Where I’m Calling From,” a volume of new and selected stories that Mr. Fisketjon helped edit and that was published the year Carver died, three of the stories that had appeared in “What We Talk About” — “So Much Water So Close to Home,” “The Bath” (retitled “A Small, Good Thing”) and “Distance” — appeared in restored form. But Carver also included four other stories from “What We Talk About” in the versions edited by Mr. Lish.

“When we put together ‘Where I’m Calling From,’ these were the stories that he handpicked from his work to live in posterity in the versions that he wanted them to live in,” Mr. Fisketjon said. “If that is not the end of the story, I don’t know what that would be.”

Amanda Urban, the agent for Carver’s literary estate, said she had previously spoken with Knopf about publishing the restored stories. Knopf declined and wrote Ms. Urban and Ms. Gallagher, telling them that if they tried to publish with another house, Knopf would consider it an illegal, competitive edition. Since then Ms. Gallagher has hired the agent Andrew Wylie, who said he now represented Carver’s literary estate.

In a statement a Knopf spokesman, Paul Bogaards, said the publisher, Sonny Mehta, “has not made a decision” about whether now to publish “Beginners.” Mr. Bogaards added, “We have spoken to counsel and are considering all of our options.”

Some scholars have long questioned whether Carver’s published work was authentically his. For the past 25 years, William L. Stull, an English professor at the University of Hartford, and his wife, Maureen P. Carroll, adjunct professor of English and humanities at Hartford, have been working to reconstruct original versions of Carver’s stories.

After Mr. Lish sold his papers to the Lilly Library of Indiana University in 1991, Mr. Stull and Ms. Carroll began examining the manuscript of 17 stories that they say Carver delivered to Mr. Lish in 1980. Mr. Stull and Ms. Carroll said in a written statement that the manuscript “completes the restoration that Raymond Carver began — a restoration cut short by his too-early death.”

In 1998 an article published in The New York Times Magazine by D. T. Max, then a contributing editor at The Paris Review, investigated Mr. Lish’s longstanding claims that he had played a large role in creating Raymond Carver. Mr. Max reviewed Mr. Lish’s papers at the Lilly Library and found that he had made dramatic cuts, changed titles and rewritten endings of the stories in “What We Talk About.”

“For better or worse,” Mr. Max concluded, “Lish was in there.”

Also in the Lilly Library is a seven-page letter, dated July 8, 1980, which Carver wrote to Mr. Lish as he readied “What We Talk About” for the printing presses. In it Carver pleaded with Mr. Lish, “Please do the necessary things to stop production of the book.”

Carver acknowledged in the letter that Mr. Lish had “made so many of the stories in this collection better, far better than they were before.” But because several people — including Ms. Gallagher and the writers Richard Ford, Tobias Wolff, Geoffrey Wolff and Donald Hall — had already seen some of the stories in their earlier versions, Carver wondered, “How can I explain to these fellows when I see them, as I will see them, what happened to the story in the meantime, after its book publication?”

Carver, who had recently met Ms. Gallagher (he later divorced his first wife, Maryann Burk) and stopped drinking, wrote: “If the book were to be published as it is in its present edited form, I may never write another story, that’s how closely, God Forbid, some of those stories are to my sense of regaining my health and mental well-being.” He then detailed what he wanted restored.

Mr. Lish disregarded Carver’s plea and published the edited stories. Writing in The Washington Post, Doris Betts praised Carver’s “verbal skill, the distilled pungency, the laser focus of his implacable vision.” Michael Wood, writing in The Times Book Review, said “his writing is full of edges and silences, haunted by things not said, not even to be guessed at.”

Ms. Gallagher said the critics hadn’t read the real Carver. “Ray really resisted this whole thing of being dubbed a minimalist,” she said. She added that those who viewed Carver’s later stories as more expansive than his early work, simply never knew that he had always been expansive.

Reached by telephone, Mr. Lish said he was “very skeptical about anyone having what you describe as the original manuscripts,” he said, adding “The Carver matter is a dead letter with me.”

Mr. Wylie has already spoken with Max Rudin, publisher of the Library of America, a nonprofit publisher, about including the restored stories in what would be characterized as an authoritative edition of Carver’s collected works. Mr. Rudin said Library of America must get permission from Knopf to do so. He wants to print “the last authorially revised version” of each story, a few of which would come from “Beginners,” and publish the full text of “What We Talk About” as a “historical document.”

“There are always going to be readers who will feel that Gordon Lish did Raymond Carver a favor,” Mr. Rudin said, “or at least worked the kind of editorial magic that he was supposed to, and others who disagree, who will feel that Lish hijacked the stories, cutting and shaping them to serve his own, not Carver’s, vision.”

Mr. Wylie has also started talking to Carver’s original publishers in several countries, including France, Germany and Japan. “So far everybody I’ve spoken to wants to publish,” he said. At least one of those foreign publishers, Olivier Cohen, publisher of Éditions de l’Olivier in France, said he would reserve judgment until seeing the manuscript.

Unlike Mr. Fisketjon, Mr. Cohen said he was not opposed to publishing the originals. But, he said, “you have to think twice before publishing material which the writer has not validated.”

Ms. Gallagher said she simply wanted to restore Carver’s legacy. “I’m just looking forward to the time when some wonderful reader doesn’t rush up to me and say, ‘Did Gordon Lish write all of Raymond Carver’s stories?’ ” she said.
415 2007-10-17 Poor people live haunted by the knowledge that decent housing is a fragile condition. With housing costs far exceeding the affordability limit, they’ve long known the challenges of making difficult economic decisions: do we pay rent, buy necessary medications, keep the heat on, buy our kids schoolbooks?

In New York City, we’ve seen the devastating impact: nearly 9,000 families live in shelters, and countless more call the living room couch of a family member home.

So we applaud members of Congress for placing affordable housing on their policy agenda. And now it’s time for the Senate to act, ensuring that we can fully address our systemic housing needs.

Americans try very hard to keep a secure roof over the heads of their children; seniors saved for decades. As a nation, we simply cannot afford to continue down a path that focuses on market-rate and luxury housing.
416 2007-10-17 President Bush met with the Dalai Lama at the White House on Tuesday.

The meeting was clearly a matter of great sensitivity at the White House, which did not release a photograph of the Dalai Lama and the president, as it has in the past. “We in no way want to stir the pot and make China feel that we are poking a stick in their eye,” said Dana Perino, the chief White House spokeswoman. “We understand that the Chinese have very strong feelings about this.”

In fact, the Bush administration’s attempts to soothe Chinese feelings began more than a month ago in Sydney, when Mr. Bush accepted an invitation from President Hu Jintao to attend the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.

Mr. Bush told Mr. Hu at the time that he would attend the ceremony at which the Dalai Lama will receive a Congressional Gold Medal. And the White House emphasized Tuesday that Mr. Bush has always gone to the medal ceremonies, and that by protocol he will speak for about three minutes.

The visit comes as the United States has been either seeking or relying on Chinese cooperation on an array of difficult issues: the North Korean and Iranian nuclear programs, the mass killings in Darfur and the recent crackdown on protesters in Myanmar.

China has pressed the United States to cancel the award event for months. Foreign Ministry Spokesman Liu Jianchao said today that Beijing was “strong dissatisfied” and warned of an “extremely serious impact” if the events are held as scheduled. But he did not say what steps China planned to take.

This week, Beijing pulled out of a meeting at which leading world powers are to discuss Iran’s nuclear program. Chinese officials cited “technical reasons” for not participating, but they left the clear impression that they might downgrade support for international efforts to stop Iran’s nuclear program if foreign powers interfere in China’s internal affairs.

China also recently canceled its annual human rights dialogue with Germany to protest the September meeting between Chancellor Angela Merkel and the Dalai Lama.

But Beijing often uses strong language when warning other countries about interfering in its internal affairs without taking strong action. Giving an award to the Dalai Lama is highly unlikely to seriously disrupt relations with the United States, which has often sought to protect Chinese dissidents and has maintained close ties to Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province.

Both Washington and Beijing say relations between the two countries have been warm, especially after they worked together to bring about an agreement to end North Korea’s nuclear program.

In recent months, China has stepped up its attacks on the Dalai Lama even though Chinese officials and envoys from the Tibetan leader have engaged in a on-and-off dialogue over terms of reconciliation.

While Beijing says it is willing to allow the Dalai Lama to return to China if he promises to respect Chinese sovereignty over Tibet, the Chinese have dismissed his efforts to work for a “middle way” that gives Tibet a higher measure of autonomy under continued Chinese rule.

Tibet’s governor, Qiangba Puncog, said at the party congress that the dialogue with the Dalai Lama had gone poorly.

“He should resolutely abandon his Tibetan independence stance and activities,” Mr. Qiangba Puncog said. “But in my opinion, some of those activities are actually escalating and setting a lot of obstacles for further progress.”

Ethnic tensions have risen in Tibet in recent months, prompting tough police action.

Rights groups said a group of Tibetan boys were detained in the northwestern province of Gansu last month after they were accused of scribbling slogans on walls calling for the Dalai Lama’s return.

Four of the boys, all 15 years old, were still in detention. Police officers used electric prods on them and were demanding payment for their release, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch say.
417 2007-10-17 The United States has agreed to a ''debt for nature'' swap that will provide $26 million to protect some of Costa Rica's most threatened tropical forests. In a deal to be announced today, Costa Rica has promised to invest that amount in conserving...
418 2007-10-17 THE BUBBLE IS BACK?  Internet companies with funny names, little revenue and few customers are commanding high prices, reviving memories of the dot-com bubble. The trend is described as a return to madness (by skeptics) or a reasonable approach to...
419 2007-10-18 Parsing the senator’s position on Gov. Eliot Spitzer’s controversial proposal....
420 2007-10-18 New York City Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly read Dr. Seuss's "Green Eggs and Ham" at the Great Children's Read on Oct. 15 at Columbia University.
421 2007-10-18 Mark Bittman makes a hearty, pleasant and easy barley risotto that can be made with turkey leftovers.
422 2007-10-18 A federal judge has disqualified a defense lawyer for a former KPMG partner in the government's high-profile tax shelter case, a surprise twist on the eve of a trial that has now been postponed indefinitely. The judge in the case, Lewis A. Kaplan ...
423 2007-10-18 New York investment bankers sometimes refer to Bank of America as a "wannabe" investment bank, because its securities arm lacks the heft of its larger Wall Street rivals. On Thursday, Bank of America proved that its investment banking unit could m...
424 2007-10-18 This Thursday, hedge fund managers and other Wall Street professionals are going to shift from bid lists to play lists - that is, music play lists for an annual charity called Hedge Fund Rocktoberfest. "Rocktoberfest will allow us all to witness t...
425 2007-10-18 Over the years, as it became Exhibit A for critics of shareholders' class action lawsuits, the law firm of Milberg Weiss often enjoyed the support of Democrats who called the suits an invaluable weapon in the universal conflict between big busines...
426 2007-10-18 Inhaled insulin is “just not a practical way to treat this population,” Dr. Zonszein said.

In a statement, Pfizer said it would work with physicians to move all patients off Exubera within three months. The company said it has not yet decided what to do with plants in Germany and Indiana where it makes the drug.

“Despite our best efforts, Exubera has failed to gain the acceptance of patients and physicians,” Jeffrey Kindler, Pfizer’s chairman, said in a statement.

Pfizer made the announcement as part of its third-quarter earnings release, which was generally bleak. The company said that its pharmaceutical sales fell 4 percent worldwide, to $11 billion for the quarter. They would have been worse — sales in the United States fell 16 percent — except for the weakening dollar, which helped prop up international revenues.

Sales of another drug, Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering medicine that is Pfizer’s most important product, plunged 13 percent in the United States, as more patients were switched to generic simvastatin, a much cheaper competitor. Pfizer also said it had cut 11,000 jobs so far this year, reducing its workforce to 87,000.

Still, Pfizer said that excluding the costs of discontinuing Exubera and other one-time charges, it had earned $4 billion in the quarter, or 58 cents a share. Wall Street analysts had forecast earnings of 52 cents.

The stock price fell by a penny today, to close at $24.54.

Exubera’s sales were only $12 million during the first nine months of 2007, the company said. And despite heavy promotion this summer, the drug had less than 0.3 percent of the market for insulin, according to A.G. Edwards, a brokerage firm.

Pfizer declined to say how much money it had spent promoting the drug. But in a sign of just how badly it had misjudged demand, it said it would write off $661 million of Exubera inventory as part of the $2.8 billion charge.

When federal regulators approved Exubera in January 2006, analysts and Pfizer predicted that the drug would become a blockbuster, easily topping $1 billion in sales annually. Pfizer was so bullish on Exubera’s prospects that just a few days before the approval, the company paid $1.4 billion to Sanofi-Aventis, the French drug maker, to buy out Sanofi’s share of Exubera.

Even a few months ago, with Exubera’s sales lagging badly, Pfizer insisted that it still believed the drug could reach blockbuster status. And for much of this year, Pfizer has heavily promoted Exubera to physicians and patients.

But Exubera was not able to overcome questions about its safety, efficacy, convenience and cost.

Clinical trials showed that Exubera marginally decreased patients’ breathing ability, although Pfizer said the declines reversed if patients stopped taking the drug. Further, regulators required that patients take a lung function test before starting on Exubera, and another test after taking it for six months. The tests were an inconvenience for patients and for busy doctors.

Physicians also said that they worried about the possibility that patients would receive more — or less — insulin than they expected because of the natural day-to-day variability of lung function. Too little insulin can lead to uncontrolled high blood sugar, while too much can produce hypoglycemic shock.

In addition, the needles that are used to inject insulin have shrunk over the last two decades, making injections less painful. The size of the Exubera inhaler, variously described as looking like a tennis can or a bong, was also an obstacle.

Finally, insurance companies were reluctant to pay for Exubera, or the required lung function tests, since Exubera does not control blood sugar better than ordinary insulin. Exubera has cost about $5 a day, compared with $2 to $3 a day for injectable insulin.

Analysts said they were surprised that Pfizer had acted so quickly but that the company had probably made the right business decision.

“The product was underperforming, the company is challenged to begin with, and in that circumstance this type of program is at risk,” said Robert Hazlett of BMO Capital Markets.

Mr. Hazlett said that the cancellation would hurt Nektar Therapeutics, a small publicly traded company that helped develop Exubera and received royalties from Pfizer on Exubera sales. Nektar’s shares, which traded as high as $22 after Exubera received approval, were down more than 17 percent today, closing at $6.67.

Tony Butler, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said the abruptness with which Pfizer acted was a proof that Mr. Kindler knows drastic steps are needed to stem Pfizer’s decline.

“The Exubera decision illustrates how serious they are about looking at every part of their business,” Mr. Butler said. “They wanted you to know that they were swift with their action.”
427 2007-10-18 Margaret W. Miller, a coral specialist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, called the finding “a big step forward.” “It’s always been a mystery as to how these animals manage to synchronize themselves.” Ms. Miller said.

In recent years, the undersea love fests have become tourist attractions for divers in the Caribbean, in Australia on the Great Barrier Reef, and other coral havens. Al Giddings, a famous ocean photographer, made a PBS documentary that showed reefs around the Pacific islands of Palau exploding in blizzards of rising sperm and eggs.

Marine biologists say the photoreceptor finding is significant because it addresses the phenomenon’s central riddle.

“When I talk about thousands of reefs in the Caribbean releasing their spawn within minutes of each other during a specific phase of the moon, people marvel and ask, ‘How do they do it?’ ” remarked Alina M. Szmant, a coral expert at the University of North Carolina, Wilmington. “My answer is always, ‘It’s a mystery.’ ”

Now, she added, the discovery provides clues to the puzzle and opens up “a new direction to explore.”

Biologists say the finding sheds light on hidden aspects of not only coral reproduction but evolution, suggesting that light receptors arose surprisingly early in the development of animals. Corals debuted more than 500 million years ago, near the dawn of complex life.

“Our discovery,” the scientists write in Science, suggests that the basic mechanisms for responding to light “were in place at the origins of multicellularity in animals.”

People, of course, have known about the moon’s romantic possibilities for a long time. Shakespeare in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” relies on moonlight to set the mood. So, too, the 1987 movie, “Moonstruck,” which features a love story centered on “La Bella Luna.”

For centuries, scientists held that corals — for all their bright colors and bizarre shapes — were primitive creatures with no brain or eyes that knew nothing of moonlight or other environmental nuances and reproduced mainly by brooding offspring and bringing forth live young.

In 1981, that dogma began to collapse when graduate students at James Cook University in Australia followed a trail of clues to a nighttime mass spawn on the Great Barrier Reef. Their discovery made the cover of Science in 1984, and a chapter of the 1998 book, “The Enchanted Braid” (John Wiley), which called the startling find “a coup for a group of graduate students.”

Investigation showed that the swirling eggs and sperm would merge and float away, forming embryonic corals that would sink to the ocean floor and, if possible, found new colonies.

Scientists speculated that the moon’s phase was important in the ritual because it controlled the tides. But in some places the tides were low and in others high, and scientists now say the moon may simply act as a clock to choreograph sex among more than 100 species of corals.

The photoreceptor discovery is the brainchild of Oren Levy, a young Israeli scientist who traveled to Australia in 2004 to study in Dr. Hoegh-Guldberg’s laboratory at the University of Queensland.

Dr. Levy was fascinated by a class of photoreceptors known as cryptochromes. Originally found in plants, they had been tracked to insects and mammals, too. Dr. Levy wondered if corals might possess them.

In an interview, he said one clue was that cryptochromes respond to blue light. That frequency can easily penetrate seawater, so much so that reef areas are sometimes known as “blue deserts.”

Dr. Levy and his colleagues studied Acropora millepora, a coral that can grow a foot across or wider and contain thousands of individual polyps. They found two kinds of cryptochrome arrayed on the coral’s outer edges, one of which responded to the light and dark phases of the moon.

“This is the start of the story, not the end,” said Dr. Levy in an interview. “It will take five more years at least” to uncover the light sensor’s full story.

The paper’s other authors work at Stanford University, Tel Aviv University, the Australian National University and James Cook University.

Peter D. Vize, a coral specialist at the University of Calgary, called the team’s work “big in implications.” The discovery, he added, “is opening up a whole pile of questions.”
428 2007-10-18 Mr. Hu’s remarks were the latest sign of a more sophisticated Chinese policy of trying to reach past Mr. Chen’s hostility to appear nonthreatening to Taiwan’s voters. But Chinese officials remain vitriolic about Mr. Chen himself, irritated by his persistent advocacy of greater independence for Taiwan.

Through more than seven years in office Mr. Chen has inched closer and closer to a formal declaration of independence without actually changing the island’s constitution, flag or legal name, the Republic of China.

“Taiwan is an independent, sovereign country; Taiwan is not part of China, nor is Taiwan a local government of the People’s Republic of China,” Mr. Chen said during the interview, reiterating a formulation that he has been using lately to the irritation of Beijing officials.

In an interview last month, Wu Jianmin, a top Chinese diplomats for two decades and the president of the China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing, which is affiliated with the Foreign Ministry, said of Mr. Chen, “His problem is he loves to make trouble.” He added, “People don’t like tension, and he likes tension, and whenever he can he does what he can to increase tensions.”

It was Mr. Chen who chose to schedule an interview during the Communist Party Congress in Beijing, a politically delicate time when the Chinese government tries to avoid domestic and international disputes.

Mr. Chen made clear on Thursday that he had an equal dislike of Mr. Hu. “Hu is a formidable rival, sharp yet merciless,” Mr. Chen said. “He is like a smiling tiger, hiding a dagger in a smile, with honey in his mouth but a sword at his stomach.”

Ma Ying-jeou, the presidential candidate of the opposition Nationalist Party, or Kuomintang, and the front-runner in polls, was more receptive to Mr. Hu’s offer of peace talks. In a telephone interview later on Thursday he said, “In general, it is in conformity with our party’s platform.” Mr. Ma, said his party maintained its position that there is one China, but that Taiwan and the mainland had different interpretations of what this meant.

He also said that talks with the mainland should be about a peace agreement, not Taiwan’s future, which should be decided only by people in Taiwan. “The mainland side should remove the almost 1,000 missiles targeted against Taiwan, and they should do it before we start negotiations,” he added.

Mr. Chen’s Democratic Progressive Party has been deeply divided lately between those favoring legal steps toward formal independence from the mainland and moderates favoring closer economic ties to the mainland.

Frank Hsieh, the party’s candidate, who has not granted any interviews here to the foreign news media during his campaign, told local reporters on Tuesday that he could accept a peace agreement with the mainland provided that the people of Taiwan held the initiative in making decisions and provided that any agreement gave Taiwan a “dignified relationship” with the mainland. He provided no specifics.

He doesn’t want to burn any bridges to future possibilities of dialogue,” said Hsiao Bi-khim, the foreign affairs director of Mr. Hsieh’s campaign and a prominent Democratic Progressive Party lawmaker who shares his moderate stance toward Beijing.

Mr. Chen’s continuing criticisms of Beijing have made Mr. Hsieh appear more moderate. That has prompted questions here of whether Mr. Chen and Mr. Hsieh, who have worked together for two decades, are secretly coordinating a policy of seeming to take divergent policies toward the mainland to ensure Mr. Hsieh’s election.

“None of us opposes the idea of signing a peace treaty, but everybody has different preconditions and different conditions of accepting this proposal,” Mr. Chen said. “Hu has his version and Ma has his conditions. Hsieh has his conditions and I have my own insistence. So you can say that all of us like the idea of signing a peace treaty, but it doesn’t mean that we welcome this peace treaty without any conditions — so in that regard, Frank Hsieh and I are in total agreement.”
429 2007-10-18 At Yankee Stadium last week, Brian Cashman said he would recommend to ownership that the Yankees not chase Alex Rodriguez if he opts out of his contract and becomes a free agent. The comment seemed to hedge on his previous statements, putting the onus on George Steinbrenner to agree with Cashman’s stance.

Over two days of meetings in Tampa, Fla., Cashman made his point. Steinbrenner and his sons, Hank and Hal, agreed.

“Yes, I can reaffirm that,” said Cashman, the Yankees’ general manager, as he left Legends Field yesterday. “If Alex Rodriguez opts out of his contract, we will not participate in his free agency. That is accurate and that is definitive.”

The strategy is a gamble for the Yankees, who risk losing Rodriguez if they do not sign him before the opt-out date, 10 days after the end of the World Series. Rodriguez, who is likely to win his third Most Valuable Player award in five seasons, has financial incentive to explore the market.

“Both parties understand that they have rights,” Rodriguez’s agent, Scott Boras, said yesterday. “From the time they acquired Alex, the Yankees made clear that he had this right in his contract. Of course, what the team does and what the team chooses to offer the player, we leave that up to them. We have our rights, and they have theirs. Alex enjoys playing in New York, and we’ll leave it at that.”
430 2007-10-18 The government submitted a bill that would continue a naval refueling mission in the Indian Ocean as part of Japan’s assistance in the war in Afghanistan. It would streamline the mission to refueling and replace the current law, which also allows for search and rescue and is to expire on Nov. 1. The opposition Democratic Party said it was against the bill, ensuring at least a suspension of the mission.
431 2007-10-18 Hundreds of residents fed up with under-age drinking in El Alto, outside La Paz, stormed a district of bars and brothels, smashing windows and setting furniture on fire. According to local reports, up to 50 drinking establishments have been destroyed since the protests started Monday.
432 2007-10-18 The number of active users on eBay, 83 million, was unchanged from last quarter, and the number of auction listings was down 5 percent from last year, a trend that eBay is trying to reverse by making the site more fun to use and by being more responsive to problems.

“I think we have improved the product this year,” Ms. Whitman said. “We’ve done work in customer support, trust and safety and different pricing scenarios, which we continue to test.”

She added: “I don’t think there is a silver bullet, but we are doing all the right things.”

Despite the mixed message on auctions, investors increasingly have other things on their minds when evaluating eBay, which is based in San Jose, Calif. PayPal, the online payment company, reported $470 million in sales this quarter, a 35 percent increase from last year. PayPal accounts for a quarter of eBay’s revenue.

“This is the most interesting side of the story right now,” said Scott W. Devitt, managing director for Internet consumer services at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company.

Mr. Devitt pointed to PayPal’s initial successes in positioning itself as an alternative to credit cards outside the world of eBay, such as on the Web sites of major airlines. “The big opportunity here is to disrupt credit cards over time. These are huge opportunities that PayPal is pursuing,” he said.

Analysts like Mr. Devitt have urged eBay to consider selling PayPal shares to the public. Ms. Whitman said the company had no plans to do so.

This fall, investors have rallied behind eBay, propelling the stock up 18 percent since the beginning of September, in the belief that PayPal was growing quickly and that the company was finally stabilizing its core auctions business.

In after-hours trading eBay’s stock was up 15 cents, to $40.75.

The net loss for the quarter resulted from a decision, announced this month, to write off $1.43 billion in value for Skype, for which it has conceded it drastically overpaid. Part of that write-off canceled a further incentive-based payout, called an “earnout,” to Skype investors that the companies had negotiated during their original deal.

Ms. Whitman spoke about the Skype write-off for the first time. “It was disappointing, and we were sorry that it was necessary,” she said. “But I think we are in better shape. The earnout was definitely getting in the way of running Skype the way we wanted to run it. Now that the earnout is out of the way and we have taken the write-down, we have the opportunity to have a new day at Skype.”
433 2007-10-18 WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 — President Bush issued a stark warning on Iran on Wednesday, suggesting that if the country obtained nuclear arms, it could lead to “World War III.”

“We got a leader in Iran who has announced that he wants to destroy Israel,” Mr. Bush said at a White House news conference, referring to a remark by the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, that Israel “will disappear soon.” Mr. Bush said he had “told people that if you’re interested in avoiding World War III, it seems like you ought to be interested in preventing them from having the knowledge necessary to make a nuclear weapon.”

Mr. Bush has said in the past that he would never “tolerate” a nuclear-armed Iran. But the comment on Wednesday was another sign that he did not accept a view stated last month by Gen. John P. Abizaid, who retired this year as the top American commander in the Middle East. The general said that “there are ways to live with a nuclear Iran.”

Mr. Bush sought in the news conference to make clear that his pressure tactics, including economic sanctions, were aimed at persuading the Iranian people to find new leadership.

“The whole strategy is that, you know, at some point in time leaders or responsible folks inside of Iran may get tired of isolation and say, ‘This isn’t worth it,’ and to me it’s worth the effort to keep the pressure on this government,” Mr. Bush said.
434 2007-10-18 At his confirmation hearing for the post of attorney general, Michael Mukasey gave welcome answers to many questions. He seemed committed to the rule of law and to keeping politics out of the Justice Department. He also made good statements about Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and civil rights. Mr. Mukasey’s testimony was not entirely reassuring, however, in a few important areas.

Mr. Mukasey, a former federal judge from New York, spoke eloquently yesterday about why the rule of law is integral to this country’s definition of itself. He seemed convincing when he said that he intends to run a department guided by the law rather than politics.

Addressing the cloud hanging over the Justice Department, Mr. Mukasey said that he would sharply limit the number of people who could discuss pending matters with elected officials or their representatives, a troubling practice that came to light in the United States attorneys scandal. He said that he would set the bar high for bringing politically sensitive investigations and prosecutions just before an election, something the Bush administration has done repeatedly, apparently to help Republicans win close contests.

Mr. Mukasey spoke, in a way that Republicans rarely do these days, about the importance of civil rights and of the Justice Department’s civil rights division. He said that torture was illegal and not what America stands for, and that holding people seemingly without end is hurting America’s reputation.

There were, however, some troubling statements and gaps in his testimony. He said little about what he would do to determine whether the Justice Department had acted improperly in firing United States attorneys. Congress has been holding hearings, but getting to the bottom of what happened should be a core Justice Department concern. He also needs to be clearer about where he stands on executive privilege. Karl Rove, Harriet Miers and other officials have made outrageous claims of privilege that are nothing more than an attempt to stonewall important investigations.

Mr. Mukasey spoke of the importance of voting rights, but seemed unduly focused on the nonexistent problem of voter fraud and not focused enough on the real problem of eligible voters being prevented from casting ballots.

Mr. Mukasey’s discussion of torture was good as far as it went, but it was too general. The administration has said that it opposes torture, but what matters is how it defines torture. It is important for Mr. Mukasey to oppose not only the word torture, but acts that properly fall under the label.
435 2007-10-18 Allstate, the home insurer, said yesterday that net income fell more than 15 percent in the third quarter, hurt by higher catastrophic losses. Net earnings were $978 million, or $1.70 a share, down from $1.16 billion, or $1.83, a year earlier.

Allstate said that operating net income was $893 million, or $1.54 a share. That fell short of the expectation of analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates — $1.69 a share.

It was also down from $1.88 a share in the 2006 quarter.
436 2007-10-18 But even with reduced corporate tax rates, Mr. Heady said that worldwide corporate profits had risen so sharply since 2002 that the amount of money flowing into government coffers had increased.

He attributed most of the long-term rise in taxes to expanded social insurance programs, like universal health care and pensions.

Mr. Heady said two forces were at work in the rising proportion of taxes to economic activity.

One was an upturn in world economic activity since 2002, and especially a sharp rise in corporate profits. The second factor, he said, was that while many countries cut tax rates, the cuts were made in a way that subjected more individual income to tax at the highest, albeit reduced, rates.

C. Eugene Steuerle, an Urban Institute tax economist who served as a policy adviser in the Reagan administration, said that the rise in tax receipts as a share of economic activity was not likely to last if tax rates remained unchanged.

“Growing inequality of income has added to tax collection,” Dr. Steuerle said, “but it is unclear how much of that will continue, because it can’t.”

Dr. Steuerle said the surge of revenue had helped politicians around the world put off dealing with looming future government liabilities for government-financed pensions and health care.

The greatest increase in the share of economic output going to taxes since 1975 was in Turkey and Spain, the organization said.

In Turkey, taxes more than doubled, to 32.5 percent of gross domestic product, while in Spain they nearly doubled to 36.7 percent, the O.E.C.D. calculated.

Only in the Netherlands did the share of national income going to taxes decline, down by 1.7 percentage points, to 39.5 percent of the economy.

In Italy, taxes grew from 25.4 percent of gross domestic product in 1975 to 42.7 percent last year.

A trend away from consumption taxes is also under way, Mr. Heady said, despite evidence that such taxes tend to have less of a dampening effect on economic growth than income taxes and, especially, corporate income taxes.

“The results we have to date,” Mr. Heady added, indicate “countries grow faster, all else being equal, if they make greater use of consumption taxes.” But he pointed to the United States as a paradox, noting that it has had real economic growth for more than a quarter-century even though it relies very little on consumption taxes.

“There is some evidence that countries with higher tax-to-G.D.P. ratios grow somewhat slower and have lower G.D.P. per head, controlling for other factors, but this is not a very clear relationship,” he said.

As an example, he cited Sweden, which “has the highest tax-to-G.D.P. ratio in the O.E.C.D., just over 50 percent, and yet it is one of the O.E.C.D. countries with the strongest economic performance over the past 20 years or so.”

That example, he said, showed that “a lot depends on how this money is spent.”

“Governments can spend money for all sorts of different purposes — they can spend in ways that encourage economic growth, improve the infrastructure, but there are obviously ways of government spending that does not promote growth,” Mr. Heady said.

Taxes in the United States — from the federal income tax and Social Security tax to local property levies — rose to 28.2 percent in 2006, from 25.6 percent of gross domestic product in 1975, the O.E.C.D. said. It reported that American taxes peaked at 29.9 percent in 2000, slipped to 26 percent in 2004 and then began rising again, a finding consistent with recent statistical tables released by the Internal Revenue Service.
437 2007-10-18 Hopes that the Federal Reserve will again cut interest rates at the end of the month were further reduced yesterday after a report showed inflation holding steady in September. But a worsening housing slump and a mixed economic outlook could put the Fed in a difficult spot as it considers what steps to take in the months ahead.

Prices of consumer goods ticked up 0.3 percent in September, a slightly higher-than-expected increase that reversed a 0.1 percent decline in August. The Consumer Price Index’s core rate, a gauge of inflation that excludes relatively volatile food and energy prices, held at 0.2 percent, where it has been since June, the Labor Department said yesterday.

The report suggests that pricing pressures have remained in check. But the Fed, always wary of inflation risks, prefers a slower rate of 1 percent to 2 percent. Overall inflation was up 2.8 percent compared with September 2006, its highest 12-month growth rate since March. Higher prices for rent, gasoline and food, especially fruit and vegetables, led the increase as consumers began to feel the effects of surging oil prices and a weaker dollar.

The inflation picture, coupled with recent reports that have indicated a more resilient economy than analysts expected, makes it more likely the Fed will keep rates unchanged when it issues its decision on Oct. 31.

But upward pressure on prices may offer conflicting evidence for the Fed’s rate-setting committee, analysts said. The Fed has signaled that it is willing to make additional cuts to jump-start growth, especially if economic conditions worsen in the fourth quarter. But an increased risk of higher prices could give pause to the central bankers, who tend to be wary of igniting inflation through rate cuts.

“It is much more difficult to weed inflation out of the economy than it is to revive an economy that’s in trouble,” said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, a research firm in Princeton, N.J. “Labor costs have been growing, and that’s squeezing profit margins. Then we’ve got a falling dollar and record high oil prices. All of this tells us that inflation pressures are likely to build in the future.”
438 2007-10-18 Apple realized that “it’s time to stop this silly race to lock the iPhone because it’s a lost battle,” said Cyril Houri, the chief executive of Mexens Technology, maker of Navizon, a navigation system for mobile phones that, he said, 120,000 iPhone users had downloaded since Sept. 19.

The introduction of the developer’s kit “is a positive development,” Mr. Houri said.

In a letter posted on the Apple Web site, Mr. Jobs wrote that the company was seeking to balance the benefits of encouraging development of new software with protecting the phone from software bugs and malicious attacks.

“Some claim that viruses and malware are not a problem on mobile phones — this is simply not true,” he wrote. He added that given the advanced nature of the iPhone, “it will be a highly visible target.”

“We think a few months of patience now will be rewarded by many years of great third-party applications running on safe and reliable iPhones,” he wrote.

Michael McGuire, an analyst who follows Apple for Gartner, a market research firm, said that the developer kit came as little surprise and that Apple probably had planned one all along.

Mr. McGuire said the delay probably was wise, however, because it would have been difficult for Apple and AT&T, its exclusive telecommunications partner, to introduce the phone and control its quality while also managing relationships with independent software developers.

He also said the fact that software developers had been developing products without cooperation from Apple and AT&T made the two companies realize that preventing the creation of independent software “was impossible to stop.”

Apple’s effort to wall off the iPhone from developers, and to prevent its unlocking, has led to a cat-and-mouse game with developers and hackers. Advocates of unlocking the iPhone and creating programs for it assert that they paid for the device and it belongs to them, not to Apple.

“If Apple does something where they remove everything I did on it, I have a feeling that Apple is kindly lending me a phone to make phone calls,” said Mr. Houri, the executive from Mexens Technology.
439 2007-10-18 The Dow and the S.& P. both hit records last week, but Wall Street has since pulled back on anxiety about the slowing economy. Yesterday, the Federal Reserve said in its beige book that growth cooled in the third quarter. Investors are also jittery about accelerating inflation — which could prevent the Fed from lowering rates again — after oil prices momentarily touched a fresh high of $89 a barrel.

Oil gave up the gains, however, losing 22 cents to close at $87.29 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The lending landscape, meanwhile, continued to deteriorate. Standard & Poor’s cut the ratings on 1,713 classes of securities backed by mortgages issued in the first six months of this year. They were valued at $23.35 billion.

Bond prices rose sharply on the news that new-home construction in September slowed to the weakest pace in 14 years. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 23/32, to 101 17/32. The yield, which moves inversely to the price, fell to 4.55 percent, from 4.65 percent.

Investor expectations for the third quarter had been low, given the turmoil in the financial and credit markets during the summer. Some early profit reports — particularly in the financial sector — proved disappointing. Strong results from component companies of the Dow — including JPMorgan Chase and Intel — did not offset investor unease over results from two other components, I.B.M. and United Technologies.

United Technologies fell $2.85, or 3.6 percent, to $76.80, despite a 20 percent rise in profit. The company said it expected international growth to moderate and foresaw a continued slowdown in the American economy.

I.B.M. lost $3.82, or 3.2 percent, to $115.78. The company posted a 6 percent profit rise, but investors focused on the modest 3 percent rise in software revenue.

JPMorgan was up $1.26, or 2.8 percent, to $46.37 on the bank’s 2 percent rise in profit despite big write-downs related to soured mortgages and leveraged corporate debt.

Yahoo, which said late Tuesday that third-quarter profit fell less than analysts had expected, gained $2.13, or 8 percent, to $28.82.

Intel posted a 43 percent increase in third-quarter earnings, and its shares jumped $1.24, or 5 percent, to $26.72.
440 2007-10-18 “This part of Nebraska relates a lot to what happens on the Front Range — and now the enthusiasm is greater than ever,” said Dennis Brown, the co-owner and general manager of KCSR in Chadron. Mr. Brown said he drove down to a Rockies game this year and ran into 12 other people from Chadron, a town of about 5,200.

But there’s a flip side to a far-flung fan base. In Denver, where lots of people have moved from somewhere else for jobs or lifestyle, the dirty little secret of the Rockies’ home games is that often as not, a good chunk of the crowd has come to watch the other team. If the fans are dispersed beyond Colorado, the fan loyalties are dispersed here at home.

Jay Krause, a 33-year-old transplant from Kansas City, is among the Divided Ones. He makes no apologies for bringing his allegiance to the Kansas City Royals with him when he moved here in 1998.

“I would never really root for the other team — except for when the Royals came,” said Mr. Krause, a banker who came to Denver with his wife, Ashley, a lawyer, when she enrolled at the University of Denver’s law school. “But I usually came to see who the Rockies were playing, not the Rockies themselves.”

Mr. Krause said he liked to wear his Royals hat to Rockies games no matter who was on the field. But he said he felt a new fervor for Colorado late in this season when some people made comments, saying he should maybe think about getting a Rockies hat instead.

Figures from the Colorado State Demography Office say that more than two million people like the Krauses have moved to Colorado from elsewhere in the country since 1993 when the Rockies played their first game, with the heaviest migration from the rest of the West, especially California, followed by the Midwest. In the 2000 Census, about one in six Coloradans said they had lived in another state five years earlier — the fifth highest rate in the country.

Jack McGuire came in 2001 from Chicago, still full of fire for the Cubs. He said he came to love the Rockies before this season partly because they reminded him of the team he had left behind — full of hope and energy that usually went nowhere good by the season’s close.

“When I came here, the Rockies were struggling — but I grew up a Cubs fan, so I got a lot of training for that,” said Mr. McGuire, 49, an accountant who works downtown.

Ms. Wineteer of the Chadron Rockies fan contingent emphasized that she was not a newcomer either. She latched onto the Rockies when they were losers, too.

“I’ve been with them since their birth 15 years ago, and I will remain so,” said Ms. Wineteer, who works as an office assistant at Chadron State College and has been to only one game in Denver, about six or seven years ago.

Mr. Soderquist, who follows the Rockies from Rapid City, S.D., and has attended a few games each season in recent years, said he hoped to come down more often next year. He has greater motivation now than just baseball, he said. His son, David, 24, moved to Denver last May, just out of college, and works as a financial analyst.

David Soderquist said he grew up a New York Yankees fan. He is now for the Rockies all the way.
441 2007-10-18 Before sales were halted over the safety questions, 10,839 of the trailers were auctioned off by the General Services Administration and 819 more were sold directly to occupants by the emergency agency from July 2006 to July 2007, raising potential liability issues.

“It’s different now,” an agency spokeswoman, Mary Margaret Walker, said. “The idea of asking people to pay rent for units with health concerns doesn’t seem to make sense.” She said the change had not been announced.

This week, the agency announced a program of relocation subsidies, up to $4,000 a household, to encourage storm victims to return home to the Gulf states or seek permanent housing elsewhere.

But problems with the trailers have dealt further setbacks to self-sufficiency efforts: 4,110 people living in FEMA trailers have asked to be relocated because of health concerns, the agency said. Among these, 771 have been moved to alternative housing, 546 have been given rent subsidies to live elsewhere and 83 have been moved back into hotels and motels at government expense.

The mixed signals have confounded storm victims like Tom and Linda Pieri of Livingston, Tex., who have spent the last 21 months with their two dogs and, on occasion, their grown son, in a 12-by-32 foot Mallard trailer that the agency provided after their East Texas house was wrecked by Hurricane Rita in 2005.

Disabled and living on Social Security, the Pieris said they had made “a handshake deal” to buy their trailer for $300 in August, only to have FEMA withdraw the offer, leaving them facing ruinous rent charges — or so they feared.

The program that the emergency agency now says it has withdrawn would have charged the Pieris $50 a month in March, $100 in April and $50 more each month until the rent hit a ceiling of $600 a month. The charges would have varied according to the occupants’ means. But Mr. Pieri, 60, a former prison laundry manager injured in a work accident in 2001, said the rent would have been prohibitive on the couple’s combined Social Security payments of $1,700 a month.

“I just want to keep a roof over my head, and my wife’s head,” he said.

At the height of relief efforts after the 2005 storms, the emergency agency was providing 134,502 trailers of various sizes up to mobile homes.

The number of trailers still deployed was 55,785, Ms. Walker said. The agency paid about $10,000 each for the trailers, from eight manufacturers, she said.

Kathy Munson, a spokeswoman for one of the suppliers, Fleetwood Enterprises in Riverside, Calif., said dealers commonly aired out the trailers before selling them, which dissipated the formaldehyde. “FEMA ordered so many, they were at staging areas all sealed up and not aired out, and that causes fumes to get worse,” Ms. Munson said.

Charles Green, a C.D.C. spokesman, said that testing was expected to start at the end of this month or early November in at least 300 occupied trailers in Mississippi and 300 in Louisiana. Teams will spend about an hour in each trailer using a portable pump to take air samples. The occupants would also be asked questions about pets, smoking habits and the use of pesticides.

The Environmental Protection Agency lists formaldehyde as a colorless, pungent gas released by building materials and household items, including paint, draperies and pressed wood products. It can cause burning of the eyes, nausea and asthma attacks. It has been shown to cause cancer in animals and, the environmental agency said, “may cause cancer in humans.”

Formaldehyde has become a special concern in trailers, especially when they are new and unventilated, Mr. Paulison told the House oversight committee. The Department of Housing and Urban Development sets formaldehyde limits in manufactured housing, but not trailers.

The Pieris said formaldehyde was not of great concern. Both chain-smoke cigarettes despite asthma and pulmonary problems and, in Mrs. Pieri’s case, breast cancer and a mastectomy several years ago. “I know, we’re dumb,” Mr. Pieri said, adding that he had tried every possible anti-tobacco treatment.

In any case, he said, they were committed to keeping their trailer. Their house, which they bought for $27,000 in 2000 with $1,000 down and a mortgage of $301 a month, needed $32,000 in repairs, Mr. Pieri said, and the $5,300 FEMA had provided was barely enough to fix the roof.

FEMA offered them $411 a month to find housing elsewhere but the cheapest apartment in the area was $600, he said.

“Even if I can find another place,” he said, looking at his damaged house spilling moldy furniture and clothes, “everything we own is right there.”
442 2007-10-18 At the same time Mr. Lauder donates heavily to Jewish causes and champions restitution to Jewish heirs. He is president of the World Jewish Congress, for example, and once oversaw its art recovery commission.

“I find it strange because of who Lauder is and who he has claimed to be in terms of his concern for those who suffered at the hands of the Nazis,” said Ori Soltes, president of the Holocaust Art Restitution Project. “I would think he would bend over backwards to at least be a shining light of provenance propriety.”

Many American collectors consider their private collections to be just that: private. But some restitution experts suggest that Mr. Lauder’s prominent role requires complete transparency, at least when it comes to art that may have changed hands in Nazi-occupied Europe.

In a later interview at his office Mr. Lauder said that over the years he had turned over various items in response to claims or as a result of his staff’s provenance research.

“But those were pieces that had records to substantiate the owners’ claims,” he said. He mentioned “a beautiful Renaissance shield” and an artwork by the Russian artist Orest Adamovich Kiprenskii.

He said that he had about a dozen employees devoted to his collection, and that their responsibilities include thoroughly researching the provenance of any piece he acquires.

Asked by The New York Times for an inventory of his German and Austrian works and related provenance information, he declined to release such material. “It’s my private collection,” he said. “Would it be O.K. for people to see what dresses you have in your closet?”

“Every work of art — I would say almost without exception — in my collection has all been exhibited; all have long records,” he added. “I’m just as interested as anyone else to find the pieces that were stolen.”

Mr. Lauder said that by displaying his and Mr. Sabarsky’s Klimt paintings and drawings at the Neue Galerie — and arranging a show of their Egon Schiele works there in 2005 — he was essentially opening the door to public scrutiny.

“The museum is transparent,” he said. “When you put a piece of work on the wall of a museum and say, ‘This is it; it’s all there,’ I’m as open as I can be.”

Despite the new exhibition’s title, none of the catalog entries for the Klimts on view that are owned by Mr. Lauder bear his name; instead they say, “Private Collection, New York.” Mr. Sabarsky’s Klimts are listed as belonging to his estate.

Jane Kallir, owner of the Galerie St. Étienne in Manhattan, founded by her grandfather, Otto Kallir, who promoted Schiele in the United States, said that Mr. Lauder “has been really pretty forthcoming about what he has.”

“It’s not a question of some deep, dark secret people are hiding; there’s a dearth of conclusive information,” she added. “There are some things that aren’t known and perhaps will never be known.”

E. Randol Schoenberg, a Los Angeles lawyer who won restitution from the Austrian state of five Klimt paintings that belonged to the Viennese Bloch-Bauer family, recently suggested that Mr. Lauder’s brother, Leonard, might own a Klimt painting that was taken from a claimant’s grandmother. (Leonard Lauder has said that the grandmother never owned it, and that the claim is baseless.)

Of Ronald Lauder Mr. Schoenberg said: “He’s always been up front with me. I’ve never had any trouble with him.”

At the same time Mr. Schoenberg said that Ronald Lauder and Neue Galerie should provide more specific provenance information about their holdings. “Since he’s at the forefront of asking people to return that kind of property, it would make sense for him to do that,” Mr. Schoenberg said. “It would certainly set a good example if he were to make public his collection.”

Ray Dowd, a lawyer representing heirs of Fritz Grünbaum, a Viennese art collector, said he had demanded that Mr. Lauder hand over “I Love Antitheses,” a color drawing by Schiele, to the family and three Schiele works that had been displayed at the Neue Galerie. “We’ve not gotten a substantive response,” he said.

But through the Neue Galerie, Mr. Lauder said that the claim was without merit. “There was nothing to it,” he said. This year Mr. Dowd fought unsuccessfully in court to include Mr. Lauder and the Neue Galerie as defendants in a class-action suit related to the Grünbaum claims.

The Neue Galerie, the jewel box of a museum that Mr. Lauder founded in 2001 in a mansion at Fifth Avenue and 86th Street, has posted some provenance information about its collection on its Web site, neuegalerie.org. If an online visitor types in the search term “Schiele,” for example, links to five works pop up. Each entry lists previous owners of the work, but no acquisition dates.

Mr. Soltes of the Holocaust Art Restitution Project said the Neue Galerie should furnish whatever dates it has. “You list the list of owners, but do you list the years of ownership?” he said “And if there are holes in the years between 1925 and 1945, that’s already a red flag.”

Similarly, the 477-page catalog for the new Klimt exhibition lists provenances, but no indication of when any of the works changed hands, except for a mention of the 1938 Nazi Anschluss in the entry for a portrait that Austria returned to Maria Altmann, a Bloch-Bauer heir, last year. That was “Adele Bloch-Bauer I,” which Mr. Lauder then purchased from Ms. Altmann for $135 million.

Mr. Lauder said that “most of the time there were no dates,” particularly for drawings, which he said dealers often bought casually without keeping records. The Klimt show includes 8 paintings and 126 drawings.

Tina Walzer, a Vienna-based art historian who is a consultant in restitution cases, said, “If you want to be as open as possible, you have to give full provenances,” including any dates that are available.

Most American museums are bound by a commitment made by the American Association of Museums to the Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets to post pertinent provenances online. That agreement, which covers art acquired after 1933 and produced before 1946, is intended to enable people to research American museum collections without having to travel to them.

Museums have conformed in varying ways. The Museum of Modern Art lists titles and photographs for works in its collection that were sold or had a provenance gap in that period. The Metropolitan Museum of Art also provides a list of previous known owners and acquisition dates.

Although the Neue Galerie lists previous owners, until this week it was not among the participating museums in the Nazi-Era Provenance Internet Portal, a searchable online registry of objects in American museum collections that changed hands in Continental Europe during the Nazi era.

In response to a query from The Times, Renee Price, Director of the Neue Galerie, said in an e-mail message two weeks ago, “Now that the Neue Galerie has reached this stage, the museum can address the matter of participating in the Nazi-Era Provenance Internet Portal.”

Yesterday she said in an e-mail message, “Finally, the museum account with the Nazi-Era Provenance Internet Portal has been set up.”

It was through Mr. Sabarsky that Mr. Lauder was introduced to Schiele and acquired a drawing, his first purchase as a young collector. ( Mr. Lauder likes to recount that he bought it with his bar mitzvah money and ultimately sold it for a Schiele watercolor.)

Thus began a close relationship between the collectors that lasted 40 years. “We spoke every day,” Mr. Lauder said. “We discussed art. We discussed Austria and life.”

“We both had the same passion for collecting,” he continued. “Collecting is almost like a sickness. He and I both had the same addictions.”

Mr. Lauder’s devotion to his collection comes through vividly as he shows visitors around his Midtown office. Entire rooms there are devoted to large spiral notebooks tracking his holdings and to items he has recently acquired: a set of silverware, antique boxes, vintage drinking glasses.

A bare space on one wall is where one of his favorite Klimts hung until recently: “Lady With Feather Hat.” He lent it for the exhibition, and it will clearly be difficult for him to live without it for eight months. (The show is scheduled to close on June 30.)

“The whole Neue Galerie is personal,” he said. “What makes the gallery so personal is it was put together by two people who had a certain love.”

Were anyone to make a legitimate claim to any of the art he owns, Mr. Lauder said he would gladly return it. “Not only am I not trying to hide anything, it’s just the opposite,” he said. “It would be better for me if I had something stolen to give it back.”

“It’s something I desperately want to do.”
443 2007-10-18 The Ravinia music festival has commissioned the Tony Award-winning choreographer Bill T. Jones, below, to create a new work to serve as a centerpiece for “Mystic Chords of Memory,” its celebration of Abraham Lincoln’s bicentennial. The piece, currently titled “A Good Man,” is to have its premiere in September 2009 and is the third dance commission by Ravinia’s chief executive, Welz Kaufman. Mr. Jones, a socially conscious, provocative choreographer, has spent his career tackling complex, thorny subjects like race, terminal illness and sexuality. He has long been a polarizing figure in the dance world, and his portrayal of Lincoln is likely to scandalize as many people as it delights. Ravinia also plans to commission as many as 10 chamber music compositions, financed partly by a $70,000 grant from the Illinois Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. Related programs will examine composers from Lincoln’s era, Walt Whitman’s legacy and American musical traditions like jazz and gospel.
444 2007-10-18 The number of active users on eBay, 83 million, was unchanged from last quarter and the number of auction listings was down 5 percent from last year, a continued trend that eBay is trying to reverse by making the site more fun to use and by being more responsive to problems.

“I think we have improved the product this year. We’ve done work in customer support, trust and safety and different pricing scenarios which we continue to test,” Ms. Whitman said. “I don’t think there is a silver bullet but we are doing all the right things.”

Despite the mixed message on auctions, investors increasingly have other things on their minds when evaluating eBay. PayPal, the online payments company, notched $470 million in sales this quarter, a 35 percent increase from last year. PayPal now accounts for a quarter of eBay’s revenues.

“This is the most interesting side of the story right now,” said Scott Devitt, managing director for Internet consumer services at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company.

Mr. Devitt pointed to PayPal’s initial successes positioning itself as an alternative to credit cards outside the world of eBay, such as on the Web sites of major airlines. “The big opportunity here is to disrupt credit cards over time. These are huge opportunities that PayPal is pursuing,” he said.

Analysts like Mr. Devitt have urged eBay to consider selling PayPal shares to the public. Ms. Whitman said the company had no plans to do so.

This fall, investors have rallied behind eBay, propelling the stock up 18 percent since the beginning of September, in the belief that PayPal was growing quickly and that the company was finally stabilizing its core auctions business.

The net loss for the quarter resulted from a decision, announced earlier this month, to write off $1.43 billion in value for Skype, which it admitted it had drastically overpaid for. Part of that write-off canceled a further incentive-based payout, called an “earnout,” to Skype investors that the companies had negotiated during their original deal.

Ms. Whitman spoke about the Skype write-off for the first time. “It was disappointing and we were sorry that it was necessary,” she said. “But I think we are in better shape. The earnout was definitely getting in the way of running Skype the way we wanted to run it. Now that the earnout is out of the way and we have taken the writedown, we have the opportunity to have a new day at Skype. I still have enormous confidence in the business. We have lots of good C.E.O. candidates in the mix.”
445 2007-10-18 “Radiohead’s Warm Glow,” by Eduardo Porter (Editorial Observer, Oct. 14), searches for reasons consumers would pay for something they can get free of charge, but seems to overlook the obvious: I paid $2 this time so that I’ll be able to pay $2 next time.

If everyone chooses the $0.00 option that Mr. Porter chose, we’ll all be back for the next offering paying $14.99 at Best Buy.

I am baffled as to why anyone would pay Radiohead for an album that it is giving away. But only an economist could be baffled by the practice of tipping barbers or cabdrivers.

People who work in these jobs depend upon tips to make a living, and customers know that this is the case. When you get in a cab, you plan on giving the cabdriver more than the fare and budget accordingly. It’s a social custom and an unspoken contract that the customer has with the cabbie.

Try not tipping a good (or even mediocre) server when you’re out to dinner with your friends: I’m guessing that you’ll see the logic in tipping.

But I will never see the logic in paying Radiohead when I don’t have to.
446 2007-10-18 At the start of his recital at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Tuesday evening, the pianist Lars Vogt produced a quiet, controlled sound that at first seemed the picture of refinement but eventually grew unnerving. The work at hand was Mozart’s Sonata in A (K. 331), and the childlike simplicity of its opening theme invites the kind of light touch and fine balance that Mr. Vogt brought to it.

You also expect a touch of rambunctiousness in the six variations that make up this sonata’s first movement, and he seemed reluctant to let the music’s inner demon run free. Even the final variation, speedily played, was well short of explosive.

Mr. Vogt might have reasoned that there was plenty of time for fireworks and, as it turned out, the wait wasn’t long. After a Menuetto that was only slightly less reserved than the first movement, he played the closing Rondo Alla Turca at a breathless clip and with a breadth of dynamics that swept away any notion that his earlier restraint had been meant to evoke the relative delicacy of the fortepiano. This was modern pianism at full throttle, with Mozart in the headlights.

After that Mr. Vogt’s muscular side prevailed. The first and last of Schubert’s three Klavierstücke (D. 946) were painted in broad strokes, with the tensions of a Romantic imagination swirling through them. Still, Mr. Vogt kept sight of the lyricism at the music’s core, and where Schubert wove a graceful theme through the turbulence, Mr. Vogt helped it into the spotlight.

Much the same could be said of his account of the Brahms F minor Sonata (Op. 5), which closed the program. All the drama of the opening Allegro maestoso and the finale, and the impetuousness of the Scherzo, were intact, as were the juxtapositions of purely Brahmsian chord progressions and figuration rooted in Beethoven. Yet there was a hint of Schubert here as well, in singing lines that argued for an unexpected gentleness in this brawny music.

There were moments when Mr. Vogt’s exuberance in the Schubert and the Brahms took its toll, although it seemed not to be entirely his fault. The upper octaves of the hall’s piano sounded unusually glassy when landed on with the full weight of a fortissimo chord. And when the music demanded that, Mr. Vogt didn’t hold back.
447 2007-10-18 “We feel pretty good about the performance of the company in spite of the environment,” said the chief executive, James Dimon. But he was cautious about the next quarter or two. “Clearly, there are still a lot of issues out there that will take time to resolve, and there is a lot of risk on the balance sheet.”

Just as the results of the Wall Street investment houses varied widely, JPMorgan’s earnings suggested that there could be a similarly wide spectrum among the money center banks. While JPMorgan faced heavy blows to its investment banking and consumer operations, it weathered the credit and housing market downturn better than its crosstown rival Citigroup, where profit fell 57 percent.

Bank of America is scheduled to report earnings tomorrow. Despite similar problems with leveraged loans, analysts expect its results to be stronger than Citigroup’s and JPMorgan’s. Its huge consumer business has steered away from subprime borrowers and it has a smaller investment bank.

JPMorgan’s results follow a string of solid quarters as Mr. Dimon has pushed to reduce costs and improve operations after the merger with Bank One in 2004. There are signs of progress as the integration nears completion. But its retail businesses face a tough housing market and a slowing consumer economy that Mr. Dimon called “clearly weaker.”

Its investment bank which has overcome a string of inconsistent results to post several strong quarters in a row, must navigate the continuing turmoil.

Third-quarter profit in the investment bank unit fell 70 percent from the period a year earlier, to $296 million. Revenue from fixed-income markets dropped 72 percent, to $687 million, primarily from the decline in the value of leveraged loans and on collateralized debt obligations. It also suffered from weaker equities and credit trading performance and lower commodities trading results, compared with the third quarter a year ago when it scooped up the assets of the troubled hedge fund Amaranth Advisors.

“We feel in a challenging environment, we could have done a little bit better,” Mr. Dimon said, noting that JPMorgan did not have as much exposure as other rivals did to complex financial products like structured investment vehicles. “We wouldn’t put this quarter among the worst of all time. We did avoid some of the potholes of SIVs, subprime and C.D.O.’s.”

The bank drew upon its big balance sheet to make loans to private equity firms, fueling the buyout boom. Over all, advisory fees were $595 million, up 36 percent. But like others on Wall Street, it was stuck with billions of dollars in loans and few willing buyers after the market collapsed in July.

That caused JPMorgan to sell several debt offerings, including those to finance the purchase of Chrysler and Home Depot’s supply unit, at discounted prices. It wrote off $1.3 billion in leveraged loans, an average 4.9 percent markdown. The bank also signaled that leveraged loan problems would probably continue.

“We are still in business and still doing deals,” Mr. Dimon said. “The business may go down for a while, but it is not going away.”

Bank executives said that the deal pipeline was worth about $23 billion, and the bank was involved in several high-profile transactions. JPMorgan is the lead bank providing financing for the $45 billion T.X.U. deal

Profit at JPMorgan’s retail division fell 14 percent, to $639 million. Revenue increased 18 percent, to $4.2 billion, as it bolstered the amount of money it set aside in anticipation of future losses.

Bank executives said that they saw substantial deterioration across the home equity loan portfolio particularly in loans issued by outside brokers to borrowers in weak housing markets but that the problem had not spread significantly to home mortgages. That is a slight change since last quarter.

Mr. Dimon also said the bank was prudently continuing to originate subprime mortgages, an area where it can gain share as competitors falter. They are now being issued with more stringent underwriting standards and are being put on the bank’s balance sheet.

So far, auto and credit card loans have held up over all, but borrowers have been falling behind on payments in areas like Florida, where home prices have deteriorated.

JPMorgan’s asset management profits surged 51 percent, to $521 million, as the bank took in more assets. And executives said that Highbridge Capital, the hedge fund it owns, performed decently in spite of the turbulent markets.

Profits in JPMorgan’s credit card unit rose 11 percent, to $786 million. Treasury services net income rose 41 percent, to $360 million. Commercial banking earnings rose 12 percent, to $258 million.
448 2007-10-18 So it did not take long for Mr. Leahy to get annoyed when Mr. Schumer’s introduction of Mr. Mukasey seemed both overly positive and overly long. First, Mr. Leahy tapped his microphone, hoping to prod Mr. Schumer to finish up. Mr. Schumer said he would just be another minute, but it was clear that he had more to say.

“Senator Schumer, I don’t mean to cut you off,” Mr. Leahy interjected. “But we are going to have to have a break because of the Dalai Lama. Are you going to take much longer? Otherwise let’s finish up.” He was referring to a Capitol Hill ceremony at which President Bush presented a medal to the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibet.

Waiting to speak was Mr. Lieberman, an independent who is not a member of the Judiciary Committee but was a classmate of Mr. Mukasey’s at Yale Law School.

Mr. Schumer, however, was not done. “Thirty seconds, Mr. Chairman,” he promised. But when he was still talking more than 30 seconds later, Mr. Leahy had heard enough.

“Thank you, Senator Schumer,” he called out loudly. “Senator Lieberman.”

The introductions set the tone for a generally friendly hearing in which senators repeatedly compared him with the previous attorney general, Alberto R. Gonzales, to their evident relief.

Mr. Schumer’s support for his fellow New Yorker also drew attention to the absence of New York’s other senator, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Clinton is not on the Judiciary Committee but it is common for both of a nominee’s home-state senators to give introductions. Her office said she had a scheduling conflict with another hearing.

In this case, though, the nominee happened to be an extremely close friend of another New Yorker, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who could end up opposing Mrs. Clinton in the presidential election next year. The two men are so close, in fact, that Mr. Leahy felt compelled to ask Mr. Mukasey how he would handle any case involving the election.

“Can I assume,” Mr. Leahy asked, “it will be safe to say that you will totally recuse yourself from any involvement with Mr. Giuliani or any candidate for president?”

“It’s not only safe to say,” Mr. Mukasey replied. “I’m saying it, too.”

By the time the committee recessed for the Dalai Lama ceremony, Mr. Schumer was ready with a prediction. “He could get a unanimous vote out of this committee,” he said. “It’s not a done deal yet. But he could.”
449 2007-10-18 MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES  The head of the Federal Communications Commission has circulated an ambitious plan to relax the decades-old media ownership rules, including repealing a rule that forbids a company to own both a newspaper and a television or...
450 2007-10-18 ANIKEEFF--Nancy Brodie Wales Hotchkiss, Many generations New Yorker, died October 8, 2007 at 82 years of age, in Washington, DC; devoted wife of Nicholas Michael Anikeeff, Commander, US Navy and US Diplomatic Officer, member Junior League and Soci...
451 2007-10-19 A new campaign diary installment tours through several of the early nominating states with the Republican candidate's family and his candid entourage....
452 2007-10-19 The debates about how and why Joe Torre's successful managerial tenure with the Yankees ended the way it did will rage on. I just took a cab to the airport in Cleveland and the driver, who lived in New York for 20 years, told me he hoped Torre wou...
453 2007-10-19 The candidates share personal stories at the gathering of Christian conservative activists....
454 2007-10-19 Radar Networks is introducing Twine.com, a service that uses semantic Web technology, sometimes called Web 3.0, to improve sharing information with friends and co-workers....
455 2007-10-19 A consortium led by Iceland's Baugur is interested in making an offer for Saks, but the luxury retailer won't even consider a sale until after the holiday season, The New York Post reported. A move by the Icelandic investor, which owns British ret...
456 2007-10-19 Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer said on Thursday the company aims to pursue an independent path, focusing on up to 20 smaller acquisitions of $50 million to $1 billion each annually rather than mega-deals. Armed with a cash pile of $23 bil...
457 2007-10-19 A man that prosecutors say was paid about $2.6 million to be a professional plaintiff – and helped a prestigious New York law firm get lucrative class-action lawsuits – pleaded guilty Thursday to obstruction of justice and two other charges. A...
458 2007-10-19 Attorneys for Coca-Cola are trying to use the guilty plea of class action king William Lerach to derail a seven-year-old securities fraud case against the soft drink giant. In one of the few pleadings not sealed by U.S. District Senior Judge Willi...
459 2007-10-19 Shares in England soccer-wear manufacturer Umbro soared nearly 30 percent Thursday following speculation that the firm had received a takeover bid from sportswear giant Nike. Umbro yesterday admitted it had received a takeover approach from an uni...
460 2007-10-19 We need a comprehensive strategy to succeed in this struggle. For nearly three decades we watched the threat build and did little to contain it until it could be ignored no longer after the terrible events of September 11, 2001. Since that time we have joined the battle on multiple fronts. But we are at a crossroads in this global struggle, and we will need a President who has the credibility to lead, the experience to lead wisely, and the strength of will to take the right path, even if it means walking a lonely road. I have spoken elsewhere at length about the strategy I propose. We need a larger military, real intelligence reform, increased contributions from our civilian agencies, and a commitment to victory in Iraq. And we need a comprehensive legal and diplomatic strategy that allows us to battle effectively a modern threat without betraying our ideals. The world is watching, and we live in a time when the images we project cannot be easily erased.

Confronting the threat of Islamic extremists is a battle against external forces, but also involves a personal and social contest with our own fears. We will not surrender to the terrorists, and we must not surrender to our fear. We must resist at all costs the temptation to believe that we can protect America by sacrificing the values that make it worth protecting.

I am not naive. I know very well the tools some governments have resorted to when threatened: indefinite detention without trial, torture of prisoners, and a belief that anything is permissible in dark places where power is the only law. But these tools are not American tools, and the easy way is not the American way. We must remain true to our ideals not in spite of the threats we face, but because of them. In the decades to come our prosperity and security will depend in part on what people in distant corners of the globe see when they turn their eyes toward America. As President, I would do everything within my power to ensure that they continue to see what they have seen for over two hundred years: a nation that remains fully worthy of Abraham Lincoln's belief that Americans hold in our hands not only the destiny of a single nation but the "last, best hope of earth."

It's not easy to preserve our ideals in the midst of a difficult struggle with those who despise every value we stand for. It's not easy to see the humanity of our enemies, who refuse to acknowledge our humanity, and whose cruelty is so wanton and sickening. The Bible's call to do just that reminds me of the saying that Christianity has not been tried and found wanting, so much as it has been found difficult, and not tried. The consistent message of the Gospels calls us to recognize that all life is sacred because all human beings are created in the image of God, a truth recognized as central in the founding documents of our nation. We have gone to war to defend our security and our values, and that is an enterprise that always involves morally hazardous actions. It is a just war and like all wars it requires the sacrifice and taking of human life. But let us not abandon our humility in its prosecution. War is a terrible thing, not the worst thing, but a terrible thing nonetheless. And our humility, commanded by our faith in our ideals and in a just and loving God, gives us the strength to resist the unnecessary sacrifice of our faith in the necessary cause of defeating our enemies.

When I was a young man I thought glory was the highest ambition and all glory was self-glory. My parents and the Naval Academy tried to teach me otherwise but it wasn't until I had to rely on others to an extent I never thought would be necessary that I understood the lesson. I had to have faith in something greater than myself not only to survive but to survive with my self-respect intact: faith in my comrades; faith in my country; and faith in my God. That faith helped me not only to endure but to understand and respect the values it encompassed. And, thus, in a moment of unexpected compassion that God ordained, I could learn the most valuable lesson of all: how to forgive and to escape the bitterness that could have destroyed my life.

If America stands for anything, it stands for the freedom to follow our own hearts, to determine our own relationship with God. Our constitution did not establish a national religion but neither did it banish any worship. Religious freedom does not require Americans to hide their faith from public view or that communities must refrain from publicly acknowledging the importance to them of faith. We are only abjured from using the law to make those who do not wish to adhere to the creed that we embrace. Judges should not legislate from the bench and actually restrict religious freedom by banning its expression in the public square.

Wisdom is a virtue. Sometimes all wisdom asks of us is that we recognize common sense. Don't federalize issues not addressed in the constitution. Don't constitutionalize issues where federalism has a chance to work. But sometimes, wisdom, as do all other virtues, requires courage. Wisdom suggests we should be reluctant to change a definition of marriage that has existed for thousands of years, but it takes courage in this day and age to insist that a mother and a father have unique and complementary roles in the raising of children, and that marriage reinforces public support for those roles. Wisdom suggests that we should be willing to give an unborn child the same chance that our parents gave us, but it takes courage in this political climate to insist on the protection of unborn children who can't vote, have no voice, and can't reward you with support and donations. Wisdom suggests that when activist federal judges impose their social views on the citizens of every state, the result is going to distort our politics in terrible ways, but it takes courage to insist that the courts have to return to their proper role. I will appoint strict constructionist judges that won't legislate from the bench.

I have been pro-life my entire public career. I believe I am the only major candidate in either party who can make that claim. I am pro-life because I know what it is like to live without human rights, where human life is accorded no inherent value, and I know that I have a personal obligation to advocate human rights wherever they are denied: in Bosnia or Burma, in Cuba or the Middle East; and in our own country when we fail to respect the inherent dignity of all human life, born or unborn. That is a personal testament, which you need not take on faith. You need only examine my public record to know that I won't ever change my position to fit the politics of the day.

Humility is as important as wisdom in our public affairs. It not only assures our fidelity to a cause greater than ourselves -- the defense of our ideals -- but cautions us not to become so complacent in our strength and virtue that we become arrogant in power. This is something that Americans have long understood and must continue to understand. We must preserve room for economic freedom, but recognize the possibility of corruption. We must recognize that government is necessary, but power corrupts. Americans have lost trust in their government. We must restore that trust by doing what is right for the American people and not just for the special interests.

Ronald Reagan once said that "Freedom is the right to question and change the established way of doing things. It is the continuous revolution of the marketplace. It is the understanding that allows us to recognize shortcomings and seek solutions." He spoke these words to university students in Moscow in 1988. It was a message they needed to hear in Russia then, and it is a message that we need to heed in Washington now.

President Reagan possessed an unshakeable faith in America's spirit that was more durable than the prevailing political sentiments of his time, and he became President to prove it. His confidence was a tonic to men who had come home eager to put the Vietnam War behind us and for our country to do likewise. His was a faith that shouted to tyrants, "tear down this wall." And when walls were all I had for a world, his faith in our country gave me hope in a desolate place.

It was the faith he shared with my friend, Mike Christian, a humble and wise American, to whom I will always remain indebted.

My friends, we can achieve whatever task we set for our country. I honor Ronald Reagan's and Mike Christian's faith in America, the greatest nation and greatest force for good on earth. If we remember that then all will be well for the values we hold dear and for our country.

These are critical times for the security of our country, the strength of our economy, and the future of our courts. This is not the time to turn our back on the progress we've made on the issues that matter most. The voters who have offered their support to the Republican Party for decades deserve the chance to unify around a candidate who has demonstrated a consistent commitment to the values that are the reason for that support. I would like to be that candidate. I have a record that can be trusted. I have the experience to lead from day one, and I am committed to victory in the race ahead. Thank you for the support you've offered to me and to the Republican Party over the years, and for the opportunity today to earn that support one more time.

Thank you and God bless you.
461 2007-10-19 Mr. Affleck is already deep into the character right from the start, but neither he nor his director let on all they know about Patrick. There’s something about this guy that needles, that helps keep an already tense story on edge.

Despite its terrible question marks — who stole Amanda and why, is she alive and for how long — “Gone Baby Gone” pays closer heed to the enigmas of soul and heart than to clues and guesswork. There are false leads, dead ends, brandished guns and nightmarish discoveries, as well as shadows and controlled camerawork, but mostly there are human frailties and thrown-away, forgotten lives. The screenplay by Ben Affleck and Aaron Stockard whittles down but doesn’t reduce Mr. Lehane’s material, pulling out details and types that stick to the screen, including Amanda’s mother, Helene, played by a ferocious Amy Ryan. Talk about not wanting our love! Ugly in voice and deed, Helene is the underclass mother from hell, a hazard, a druggie, a villain in waiting.

Helene is a nightmare, or at least the embodiment of a certain familiar fear: the bad woman (welfare queen) periodically held up as a symptom of some grave social disorder. Working with her supportive, encouraging director, Ms. Ryan plays with this stereotype and our sympathies to the breaking point. Deploying her broad Boston accent like a weapon, she whines and retreats, testing Patrick’s sympathy with each one of her pathetic excuses. It’s a gutsy, sensational performance that adds layers to an already spiky, provocative creation. At first you hate the woman and love the actress, though because Ms. Ryan and Ben Affleck are wise to the ways of scapegoating, you learn why that hate is misplaced.

It isn’t all that surprising that Mr. Affleck is so good with his performers, or at least most of them. The film has been wonderfully populated with character actors like Titus Welliver, who plays Lionel, Helene’s straight-talking brother, and Michael K. Williams, one of the outstanding villains from the HBO drama “The Wire,” who shows up here as a friendly cop.

Just as memorable are two unfamiliar faces: the newcomer Jill Quigg, who has a few startling scenes as Helene’s comically, scarily belligerent friend Dottie; and the Boston rapper Slaine, whose cool, dead-eye performance as the drug dealer who leads Patrick right into the heart of darkness adds menace to one of the film’s strongest, most harrowing scenes.

Mr. Affleck trips up now and again, mostly with his older, famous peers Ed Harris and Morgan Freeman, who delivers one of the more unpersuasive performances of his career as the head of the police department’s missing-children division. The director does better with Mr. Harris, who plays a hotheaded detective in a distracting hairpiece, though again Mr. Affleck doesn’t control the performance as well as he does those of the other cast members. He also wavers when he lingers too long over the crumpled faces and bodies of what appear to be real South Boston natives.

Even so, one of the graces of “Gone Baby Gone” is its sensitivity to real struggle, to the lived-in spaces and worn-out consciences that can come when despair turns into nihilism. Mr. Affleck doesn’t live in these derelict realms, but, for the most part, he earns the right to visit.

“Gone Baby Gone” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). There are several scenes of intense and bloody violence, and a horrifying subplot involving a pedophile.
462 2007-10-19 The steep sell-off came on an ominous date: today marks the 20-year anniversary of the so-called Black Monday of 1987, when the Dow suffered its worst single-day decline ever.

While today’s losses were nowhere near those of Black Monday, when the Dow declined 22.6 percent, it still sends an unnerving sign to investors left shaken by a week of write-offs at major banks and the surging price of crude oil.

It was the fifth consecutive day of declines for the Dow, which has been buffeted by dismal earnings reports out of the financial sector.

Wachovia reported a 10 percent decline in third-quarter income after writing down $1.3 billion in loans and investments related to mortgage-backed securities.

Wachovia’s report came after Bank of America’s announcement on Thursday that its third-quarter earnings plunged 32 percent, including heavy losses in its consumer banking division, the largest among the big brokerage firms. Bank of America joined with Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase earlier this week in creating an ambitious fund intended to stave off further problems in beleaguered credit markets, though investors have appeared ambivalent on the idea.

Investor confidence, already reduced by the banks’ poor performance, was stung again by disappointing earnings reports from Caterpillar and Honeywell International, both blue-chip stocks. Caterpillar posted a 21 percent gain in quarterly profit but still fell short of analysts’ estimates. The company cut its full-year profit forecast, citing the continuing housing slump. Its stock was down 5.3 percent, to $73.57.

Net income at Honeywell, the New Jersey-based manufacturer, climbed 14 percent, and the company raised its yearly sales expectations. But the stock still fell nearly 4 percent, to $58.32.

Shares of 3M, another Dow component, plunged 8.6 percent, to $86.62, even after raising its profit forecast and posting a 7.4 percent increase in third-quarter profit. The company lowered revenue expectations and said it would be forced to cut prices.

This week’s economic data has presented a decidedly mixed outlook for the fourth quarter. The Fed’s beige book, which surveys business leaders across the country, said that companies expect a “modest” and “mixed” economy over the next few months, as prices start to rise and the labor sector weakens. Foreign investors pulled out of American companies and groundbreakings on new residential housing continues to plunge.

Today’s drop marks the 44th day in 2007 when the market has moved more than 1 percent, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard and Poor’s. In 2006, the market moved similarly only 29 times, Mr. Silverblatt said, suggesting increased jitters among investors.

“What the market hates more than anything else is uncertainty,” said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics. Yet Mr. Rhodes himself sounded rather uncertain. “Is this the beginning of a bear market?” he asked. “I have to say right now I don’t think it is. Ask me in another week and I might have a different opinion.”
463 2007-10-19 ZURICH, Oct. 18 (Reuters) — The Swiss health care company Galenica said Thursday that it had agreed to buy the Aspreva Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Canada for $915 million to expand its drug portfolio and distribution.

After Galenica said the deal would increase its profit in the first year, the share price gained more than 16 percent.

Aspreva, based in Victoria, British Columbia, had sales of $215 million in 2006. Its shareholders will decide whether to accept the offer at a special general meeting in mid-December.

The offer values Aspreva at $26 a share, a premium of about 20 percent to Aspreva’s previous closing price.

Aspreva researches and markets new therapeutic uses for drugs already registered and works with the Swiss drug maker Roche.

“The deal makes strategic sense, as Galenica has a nice pharma pipeline but no distribution force,” which Aspreva could provide, said Christoph Gubler, an analyst at Vontobel. “Financially, the deal also makes sense, as Galenica can digest the transaction,” he said in a note.
464 2007-10-19 LOS ANGELES, Oct. 18 (AP) — A man that prosecutors say was paid about $2.6 million to be a professional plaintiff — and helped a prestigious New York law firm get lucrative class-action lawsuits — pleaded guilty Thursday to obstruction of justice and two other charges.

After reaching a plea deal, Seymour Lazar, 80, of Palm Springs, appeared before Federal District Court Judge John Walter. Mr. Lazar also pleaded guilty to one count each of subscribing to a false tax return and making a false declaration to the court.

He agreed to forfeit $1.5 million and pay $600,000 in fines. He will be sentenced Jan. 28; prosecutors have recommended home detention because of his declining health and his age.

Mr. Lazar was the latest person to plead guilty in a seven-year federal investigation that accuses the firm, previously known as Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, of secretly paying $11.3 million in kickbacks to get people to take part in more than 225 class-action and shareholder lawsuits.

Prosecutors estimate the firm, now known as Milberg Weiss, made $250 million by filing lawsuits against some of the nation’s largest companies.
465 2007-10-19 On whether he had any new ideas that could help avoid a raise in fares: “I’m only on the outside. I can only read the paper.”

On the authority’s efforts to sell development rights to the Hudson Yards in West Midtown: “I don’t know anything about it beyond what I read in the paper.”

If Mr. Hemmerdinger, 62, a real estate developer who has helped raise money for Democratic political campaigns, is approved by the Senate, he will need a crash course in the authority’s finances.

The authority is considering a 6.5 percent increase in fares and tolls to avert looming deficits. The authority’s board is expected to vote on the increase in December.

“Anybody who is going to be chairman, the last thing you want to do is make one of your first actions to increase the fare,” Mr. Hemmerdinger told the senators. “But if that’s required to keep the system running and to keep it running efficiently, affordably and safely, I will do that, with great reluctance.”

The senators touched only lightly on more controversial questions. He was asked about his membership in the Harmonie Club, which Hakeem Jeffries, a Democratic assemblyman, recently described as an all-white organization in a complaint about the nominee.

Mr. Hemmerdinger said he had been the president of the club more than 20 years ago and that at the time there had been minority members. He said he was not aware if any minorities currently belonged to the group.

The committee chairman, Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Republican from Binghamton, asked Mr. Hemmerdinger if he would continue raising money for political campaigns if he were approved as chairman.

“On occasion, like we’ve done in the past,” Mr. Hemmerdinger said, referring to fund-raising he had done with his wife, Elizabeth. “I don’t see any reason to change our behavior.”

But in an interview after the hearing, Mr. Hemmerdinger said he was initially unaware of ethics rules, which prohibit the chairman from making contributions to the governor or the lieutenant governor.

“I didn’t realize that there were restrictions,” he said. “If I can’t give to the governor or the lieutenant governor, I won’t. I will behave by whatever the rules are.”
466 2007-10-19 WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 (Reuters) — The federal government should create a commission to promote the free flow of scientific knowledge and researchers from other countries while balancing the threat from enemies, an expert panel said Thursday.

The panel, appointed by the National Research Council, which provides advice to American policymakers, said colleges and research institutions must continue to bring in foreign science and engineering students. “The global scientific enterprise thrives on the movement of students and scholars across borders and among institutions,” it said in a report.

“For more than 50 years,” the report says, “U.S. research universities, the envy of the world, have welcomed and fostered the talents of both foreign-born and U.S. students in the service of national and economic security.”

With fewer American students choosing careers in science and engineering, the American research and development effort cannot be sustained without a significant and steady infusion of foreign participants, the committee said.

But the panel said safeguards are needed to ensure that important research does not fall into the wrong hands. It recommended creating a standing government commission “to address ongoing shared concerns of the security and academic research communities,” including export and visa policies and participation of foreigners in research.

The commission should be led by the president’s national security adviser and the director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and include representatives from academic research institutions and national security agencies, the panel recommended.
467 2007-10-19 The House resolution condemning the killings of Armenians as genocide is nonbinding and largely symbolic, but Turkey’s reaction has been swift and furious. It has recalled its ambassador from Washington and threatened to withdraw critical logistical support for the Iraq war.

For Patrick Mehr, a Lexington resident who spoke at the meeting Monday, the overriding priority is condemning the killings, regardless of Turkey’s response.

The next day at his home, Mr. Mehr, the son of a Holocaust survivor, voiced the anger many Jews and Armenians feel toward Abraham H. Foxman, the Anti-Defamation League’s national director. “Abe Foxman, like George W. Bush, is mumbling that it may not have been genocide,” Mr. Mehr said. “Foxman talks about commissions of scholars who should study this. That, to me, rang exactly like Ahmadinejad saying, ‘Let’s have a committee to study the Holocaust.’ Give me a break.”

Jewish leaders have long sought to focus attention on the killings of Armenians, starting with the American ambassador to Turkey in 1915, Henry Morgenthau Sr., who wrote in a cable that the Turkish violence against Armenians was “an effort to exterminate the race.” Several members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who voted for the resolution, including a key sponsor, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, are Jewish.

Several major Jewish groups, like the American Jewish Committee, oppose the resolution, arguing that it is not the best way to persuade the Turks to examine their past.

Mr. Foxman argues that Turkey is the only friend Israel has in the Muslim world, and it has been hospitable to Jews since giving them refuge after they were driven from Europe during the Inquisition.

“Israel’s relationship with Turkey is the second most important, after its relationship with the United States,” Mr. Foxman said. “All this in a world that isolates Israel, and all this can’t simply be waved away.”

Widespread attention to the Anti-Defamation League’s opposition to the resolution came in July, when David Boyajian, an Armenian-American resident of Newton, Mass., wrote to a local newspaper saying that the town’s anti-bigotry program, known as No Place for Hate, was tarnished because of its sponsorship by the Anti-Defamation League.

He wrote that the A.D.L. “has made the Holocaust and its denial key pieces” of the program, “while at the same time hypocritically working with Turkey to oppose recognition of the Armenian genocide of 1915-23.”

The news shocked most local Jews, many of whom have long been active in campaigns against killings in Bosnia, Rwanda and, most recently, Sudan. By mid-August, Watertown, Mass., had decided to end its affiliation with the Anti-Defamation League’s program. On Aug. 17, the board of the New England Anti-Defamation League passed a resolution calling for the national organization to recognize the Armenian genocide. Its regional director, Andrew Tarsy, was fired by the national group the next day.

The clampdown on the local chapter infuriated many Jews in the Boston area. Two members of the New England board resigned, although one has since returned, and many local leaders criticized Mr. Foxman. Newton, whose population is heavily Jewish, voted to sever ties with the Anti-Defamation League unless it changed its position on the resolution.

Mr. Foxman quickly rehired Mr. Tarsy and issued a statement intended to heal what he said were dangerous rifts in the Boston Jewish community at a time when Jewish unity was crucial. The statement did not support the House resolution. The killings of Armenians, Mr. Foxman wrote, were “tantamount to genocide.”

He added, “If the word genocide had existed then, they would have called it genocide.”

Some Jews praised Mr. Foxman, whose reappraisal, they said, was uncharacteristic. But other Jews and Armenians said he did not go far enough.

“It denies the intentionality of genocide,” said Joey Kurtzman, executive editor of the online magazine Jewcy.com. Janet Tassel, a congregant at Temple Isaiah in Lexington, said she did not like Mr. Foxman but could not understand how Jews could be fighting over the word genocide when Israeli and American interests are at stake.

“If this resolution goes through, it’s goodbye Charlie for Israel, for U.S. troops in Iraq,” Ms. Tassel said. “It will lead to more anti-Semitism. I’m conflicted about what’s right.”

Dr. Porter, the genocide scholar, said the differing views among Jews on the resolution stemmed in part from whether they saw Israel as particularly vulnerable. “I see Israel as a strong nation,” Dr. Porter said, after speaking for cutting ties to the Anti-Defamation League at the Lexington meeting. “Jews are strong. They don’t have to be intimidated by politics.”

The complex of considerations weighed heavily on Rabbi Howard L. Jaffe of Temple Isaiah, who after weeks of thought decided to back the genocide resolution. “It’s very hard for me to support a position that could be detrimental to Israel,” he said. “But for me as a Jew, I have to take seriously Jewish values, and they require us to do what is right and righteous.”

At the Lexington meeting, nearly everyone praised the No Place for Hate program, which has worked with hundreds of residents in the past seven years.

Some Jewish residents pointed out that the local Anti-Defamation League chapter took a stand for the resolution and should not be punished for the national leadership’s policy; but Vicki Blier, another member of Temple Isaiah, said in a phone interview that the Anti-Defamation League had to be held accountable for its views.

“If this were an organization that were denying the Holocaust, would they be allowed to do anything in town, even if what they are doing is the most beneficial of programs?” Ms. Blier said. “In my experience, Jews are at the forefront in the recognition of injustice. Jews have always stuck their neck out for others.”
468 2007-10-19 “The president is not putting somebody above the law; the president is putting somebody within the law,” said Mr. Mukasey, who seemed uncomfortable with the aggressive tone, occasionally stumbling in his responses. “The president doesn’t stand above the law. But the law emphatically includes the Constitution.”

The remarks about the eavesdropping program drew criticism from the committee’s chairman, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who told Mr. Mukasey that he was troubled by his answer, adding, “I see a loophole big enough to drive a truck through.”

The questioning by the Democrats was tougher still regarding Mr. Mukasey’s views on presidential authority to order harsh interrogation techniques on terrorist suspects, including waterboarding, which was used by the C.I.A. on some of those who were captured and held in the agency’s secret prisons after the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

“Is waterboarding constitutional?” Mr. Mukasey was asked by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, in one of the sharpest exchanges.

“I don’t know what is involved in the technique,” Mr. Mukasey replied. “If waterboarding is torture, torture is not constitutional.”

Mr. Whitehouse described Mr. Mukasey’s response as a “massive hedge” since the nominee refused to be drawn into a conversation about whether waterboarding amounted to torture; many lawmakers from both parties, as well as civil liberties and human rights groups, have said it is clearly a form of torture. The administration has suggested that it ended the practice after protests from Capitol Hill and elsewhere, although it has never said so explicitly.

“I mean, either it is or it isn’t,” Mr. Whitehouse continued.

Waterboarding, he said, “is the practice of putting somebody in a reclining position, strapping them down, putting cloth over their faces and pouring water over the cloth to simulate the feeling of drowning. Is that constitutional?”

Mr. Mukasey again demurred, saying, “If it amounts to torture, it is not constitutional.”

Mr. Whitehouse said he was “very disappointed in that answer; I think it is purely semantic.”

While Mr. Mukasey still seemed almost certain to win Senate confirmation, a vote in the Judiciary Committee could be delayed until he provides written answers to questions raised Thursday by Mr. Leahy. The senator said he did not intend to hold the vote until after the responses were received and reviewed.

The committee’s ranking Republican, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said that while he shared some of Democrats’ concerns about Mr. Mukasey’s views on the limits of presidential authority, “I think you are virtually certain to be confirmed, and we’re glad to see the appointment and glad to see somebody who is strong, with a strong record, take over this department.”

Other Republicans joined in the praise. “I’ve listened to your testimony here, and it seems to me that you are extraordinarily well-suited for this position, pretty much as well as anybody who hasn’t served in the position before could be,” said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona.

Among the Democrats, Mr. Leahy was especially critical of Mr. Mukasey, wondering aloud whether he had been pressured overnight by the White House to defend the administration’s view of its expanded powers in dealing with terrorist threats.

“In your answers yesterday, there was a very bright line on questions of torture and the ability of an executive, or inability of an executive, to ignore the law,” Mr. Leahy said. “That seems nowhere near as bright a line today, and maybe I just don’t understand.”

“I don’t know whether you received some criticism from anybody in the administration last night after your testimony,” he said, “but I sensed a difference, and a number of people here, Republican and Democratic alike, have sensed a difference.”

Mr. Mukasey insisted there had been no pressure from the White House on Wednesday, saying, “I received no criticism.”
469 2007-10-19 WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 (Reuters) — The Federal Communications Commission issued a citation on Thursday against a conservative commentator for promoting the Bush administration’s education plan without disclosing that he had been paid to do so.

The commentator, Armstrong Williams, whose firm was also cited, was not subject to any fines for a first violation of F.C.C. rules, because he and his company are not broadcasters.

But the agency said it had fined two broadcasting companies, including the Sinclair Broadcast Group, for putting on the air programs distributed by Mr. Williams and his company, the Graham Williams group, without properly disclosing who had sponsored them.

Mr. Williams could not immediately be reached for comment. He has denied any wrongdoing but has acknowledged that the Education Department’s outside media firm paid $240,000 to promote the No Child Left Behind policy on a television show on which he was the host.

Mr. Williams has said he was a strong backer of No Child Left Behind and was not influenced by outside parties.
470 2007-10-19 But several people yesterday chalked up such incidents as just another part of the city experience. Rarely, it seems, do the pedestrians in the city shift focus from their destinations to ponder the jackhammers, iron beams, cranes and other construction equipment being used high above them.

“I don’t worry about it more than anything else,” said Stacy Robin, 32, a consultant from Montclair, N.J., yesterday. She was in the area where the bucket had fallen on Wednesday, at 1111 Avenue of the Americas, at 42nd Street. “I think these are random events, and I’m more concerned about whose hand is in my bag.”

Fear may not pervade the thoughts of most Manhattan pedestrians. But some, like Novelette Bhorasingh, 55, who works in the financial district, said they avoided sidewalks below scaffolding.

“There’s a lot of construction,” she said. “I try not to think about it or else I’ll never go outside.”

One of the most prominent New Yorkers to admit avoiding sidewalks framed and covered by scaffolding was Patricia J. Lancaster, the commissioner of the Buildings Department, who said so in an interview with The Daily News this year.

Yesterday, the deputy commissioner, Robert LiMandri, stepped back from those comments.

Mr. LiMandri said there were currently 175 high-rise projects in the city. He said there had been 79 incidents of falling debris by this time last year. In all of 2006, there were 101 reports of objects falling from construction sites in the city, he said.

Those figures should suggest, he said, that such accidents are anything but endemic — though they should still be taken seriously.

“What you have to do is you have to put in additional precautions to mitigate risk,” Mr. LiMandri said.

The department has two primary regulations that safeguard against falling debris. One requires that netting be placed around all floors that are not enclosed with walls or windows. The other is the construction of sidewalk sheds to protect pedestrians from debris that might fall. The department said that it inspected every high-rise construction site in the city once or twice a week, and that each contractor was required to hire on-site safety coordinators licensed by the department.

Richard Kielar, a spokesman for Tishman, said yesterday that in response to the accident on Wednesday the company planned to tether all equipment used on the perimeter of the building, assign a site manager to specifically monitor the crane, and hire additional carpenters to repair all guardrails and netting on the building’s perimeter. Mr. Kielar added that these actions would be improvements to what he believed already was a safe system.

Louis Coletti, the chief executive of Building Trades Employers Association, which represents 1,500 contractors citywide, said falling debris was an issue that the industry had been discussing in depth for the last three months. A safety conference, where issues like the amount of netting around construction sites will be addressed, is scheduled for Nov. 20. “There’s just, unfortunately, inherent dangers in building high-rise constructions,” Mr. Coletti said. But, he added, “High-rise construction in New York City, we believe, is the safest in the world.”

Most people in the industry seem to agree, however, that there are no foolproof safeguards against falling debris.

In 1998, scaffolding at the Condé Nast building in Times Square buckled, sending part of a steel elevator tower across West 43rd Street and through the roof of a nearby hotel, killing a woman.

Last year, a three-foot-long pipe fell from The New York Times Company’s new building, at 620 Eighth Avenue, while it was still under construction, and landed on a vehicle. A family of three, including a 2-year-old boy, narrowly escaped serious injury.

Earlier this month, a piece of scaffolding fell from a high-rise on Madison Avenue at East 60th Street, damaging a United Parcel Service delivery truck.
471 2007-10-19 “There’s way more studying, just like school,” he said. “Instead of schoolwork, it’s film work. We’re here from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., which means we have two hours of football and the rest is study. It’s helped me to get where I’m at.”

Ross, 25, started learning football in high school in Tyler, Tex., and then at the University of Texas. Last year, he won the Jim Thorpe Award as the nation’s best collegiate defensive back. The Giants drafted him with the 20th overall pick.

Limited experience aside, he plays with a veteran’s confidence. “I like to take risks,” he said. “I’m a high-risk, high-reward player.”

That is dangerous for a cornerback because a mistake in coverage can result in an opponent’s touchdown. But Ross said: “I feel that’s what got me here. I did that in college, and it was O.K.”

And now? He knocked on the side of his wooden locker and said, “O.K. so far.”

He has three interceptions to lead the Giants. The first, against the Jets two weeks ago, was on a fade pass near the end zone, and the last was on a long pass to the end zone as halftime approached against the Falcons on Monday. His second interception, also against the Jets, was a more high-risk play. But the reward turned out to be a 43-yard return for a touchdown.

“It was an out cut,” he said. “We were playing a zone. I ran out and jumped it. It was a risk, but it worked out. Interceptions like that help your confidence, and that’s the most important thing in the N.F.L. — playing with confidence.”

Ross’s fiancée, Sanya Richards, is the top female 400-meter runner in the world. She is taking a six-week break from training and is spending the time here. “She isn’t running at all now, but in my off-season we train together,” Ross said. “They’re her workouts, crazy and hard.”

Ross is no slowpoke, but he knows his limits.

“We’ve never raced,” he said. “But I know I could beat her at 40 yards or 100 meters. The 200 would be close. At 400, she would kill me.”

Ross had made a positive impression on his defensive teammates, including the player he replaced in the starting lineup, Corey Webster. “He’s a good ball hawk,” Webster said. “He tries to create the best position for him on the field and he gets his hands on his man.”

“When he first came in here, he was a rookie searching,” Torbor said. “In practice, he looked a little lost, like we were moving too fast for him. But now you see that athletic talent when he’s breaking to the ball and making plays. He looks more comfortable.”

He added, “He’s doing fine, and he’s not even halfway through his rookie season.”

Trent Dilfer will start at quarterback for San Francisco on Sunday. Coach Mike Nolan made his decision Thursday that Dilfer would start in place of Alex Smith, who separated his right shoulder against Seattle on Sept. 30. (AP)
472 2007-10-19 “We see the impact digital media are making — and it’s being made not necessarily by large companies but by some very small and rapidly growing players,” said Richard Sarnoff, president of the Digital Media Investment group at Bertelsmann.

In establishing a venture arm, Mr. Sarnoff said, “we felt there was a need to make some investments so we could look around the corner and see what was happening.”

In a demonstration of the trend, Bertelsmann joined the new venture arm of NBC and Time Warner’s investment division in putting $30 million into Trion World Network Inc. in July. The company, based in Redwood City, Calif., makes multiplayer games played online.

What does large-scale multiplayer gaming have to do with traditional media? For one thing, gaming is poaching audience members.

“People are spending a shocking amount of time in the multiplayer gaming world. That time is coming out of the hide of other media,” Mr. Sarnoff said. “We have to not only understand this phenomenon but maybe be a participant in it.”

That thinking is driving other media companies. NBC and another division of General Electric announced a $250 million investment fund last spring. There are venture investments from the Warner Music Group, the Hearst Corporation, Reed Elsevier, Comcast, The New York Times Company, Universal Music, Reuters, ABC and Disney and Sports Illustrated. Bertelsmann announced last October that it would expand the venture program across its entire company and now has offices in New York, Beijing and a couple of cities in Germany.

“So many media companies are setting up venture arms,” said Alan Patricof, managing director of Greycroft Partners, a venture firm that has invested with the media companies in several start-ups. Now, he said, “they are really part of the venture community.”

But challenges abound, notably because venture profits in recent years have been as difficult as ever to achieve. Even seasoned venture capitalists have struggled; only a few consumer-oriented Internet companies have gone public, and many continue to languish on shoestring budgets, striving for a profitable exit.

In addition, media companies — and corporations in general — tend not to have the patient culture that venture capital demands, said Fred Wilson, managing director of Union Square Ventures in New York. Many media companies and other corporations had venture arms in the late 1990s, only to downsize or eliminate them when the going got tough.

“The biggest problem is — and I see this again and again and again — that strategic investors are not at all prepared to invest in multiple rounds of financing,” he said. “They make their investment and they’ve made it.”

“Media companies aren’t going to be as happy as minority investors as they would be buying and owning something.”

One media company that historically has had a back-and-forth relationship with venture capital is NBC. It had a venture division in the late ’90s that it dissolved with the dot-com crash.

But Elizabeth J. Comstock, president for integrated media at NBC Universal, said the company would have more patience this time, in part because it has learned from its mistakes. Now, she said, the investments are strategically related to NBC’s existing businesses.

Investments made by NBC’s new Peacock Equity Fund include Adify, a company that powers ad networks; IGA Worldwide, an in-game advertising network; and Healthline, a health-related Internet portal and search engine.

Ms. Comstock said that the search capabilities of Healthline had been integrated into another health-related site, iVillage, an NBC-owned Internet property. Traditional venture capitalists measure success exclusively by how much they sell the investment for, but NBC and most other media arms have a dual goal.

“We’re looking to get a return at some point, but these are properties we expect to grow with,” she said. “We want to get great access to early technology that might give us a competitive advantage.”

A minority of the media companies treat their seed capital divisions like traditional venture capitalists. In those cases, the sole measure of success is profit, even if it means making an investment that ruffles feathers inside the media company.

Such was the case a few years ago at Hearst, where the venture capital division invested in Sling Media, a company that allows people to shift television programming to their personal computers — even if the computer is in a distant location.

“Certain people inside our company were not fans of Sling and how it was changing the media landscape,” said Scott English, vice president for strategic investments for Hearst. In that case, the investment appears to have paid off when EchoStar said last month that it was buying Sling Media for $380 million.

More generally, Mr. English said that the strategic investment group, despite its name, does not make its first consideration whether investments are a strategic fit for the corporation. “It’s been very important for us to act like a V.C.,” he said. “We try to walk the walk.”
473 2007-10-19 Viacom, the Walt Disney Company, Microsoft and other media companies have agreed to a set of guidelines to protect copyrights online but Google, owner of the Web’s biggest video site, was notably absent from the pact.

The companies agreed to eliminate copyright-infringing content uploaded by Web users and to block any pirated material before it is publicly accessible.

“These principles offer a road map for unlocking the enormous potential of online video and user-generated content,” Disney’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said yesterday in a statement issued by the participating companies.

Interest in online video has boomed over the last two years, putting media content owners at odds with video-host Web sites when their users upload copyrighted material without permission.
474 2007-10-19 Inhaled insulin is “just not a practical way to treat this population,” Dr. Zonszein said.

In a statement, Pfizer said it would work with physicians to move all patients off Exubera within three months. The company said it had not yet decided what to do with plants in Germany and Indiana where it makes the drug.

“Despite our best efforts, Exubera has failed to gain the acceptance of patients and physicians,” Jeffrey B. Kindler, Pfizer’s chairman, said in a statement.

Pfizer made the announcement as part of its third-quarter earnings release, which was generally bleak. The company said that its pharmaceutical sales fell 4 percent worldwide, to $11 billion for the quarter. They would have been worse — sales in the United States fell 16 percent — except for the weakening dollar, which helped prop up international revenue.

Sales of another drug, Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering medicine that is Pfizer’s most important product, plunged 13 percent in the United States, as more patients were switched to generic simvastatin, a much cheaper competitor. Pfizer also said it had cut 11,000 jobs so far this year, reducing its work force to 87,000.

Still, Pfizer said that excluding the costs of discontinuing Exubera and other one-time charges, it earned $4 billion in the quarter, or 58 cents a share. Wall Street analysts had forecast earnings of 52 cents.

The stock price fell by a penny yesterday, to close at $24.54.

Exubera’s sales were only $12 million during the first nine months of 2007, the company said. And despite heavy promotion this summer, the drug had less than 0.3 percent of the market for insulin, according to the A.G. Edwards brokerage firm.

Pfizer declined to say how much money it spent promoting the drug. But in a sign of just how badly it had misjudged demand, it said it would write off $661 million of Exubera inventory as part of the $2.8 billion charge.

When federal regulators approved Exubera in January 2006, analysts and Pfizer predicted that the drug would become a blockbuster, easily topping $1 billion in sales annually. Pfizer was so bullish on Exubera’s prospects that just a few days before the approval, the company paid $1.4 billion to Sanofi-Aventis, the French drug maker, to buy out Sanofi’s share of Exubera.

Even a few months ago, with Exubera’s sales lagging badly, Pfizer insisted that it still believed that the drug could reach blockbuster status. And for much of this year, Pfizer has heavily promoted Exubera to physicians and patients.

But Exubera was not able to overcome questions about its safety, efficacy, convenience and cost.

Clinical trials showed that Exubera marginally decreased patients’ breathing ability, although Pfizer said the declines reversed if patients stopped taking the drug. Further, regulators required that patients take a lung function test before starting on Exubera, and another test after taking it for six months. The tests were an inconvenience for patients and for busy doctors.

Physicians also said that they worried about the possibility that patients would receive more — or less — insulin than they expected because of the natural day-to-day variability of lung function. Too little insulin can lead to uncontrolled high blood sugar, while too much can produce hypoglycemic shock.

In addition, the needles that are used to inject insulin have shrunk over the last two decades, making injections less painful. The size of the Exubera inhaler, variously described as looking like a tennis can or a bong for smoking marijuana, was also an obstacle.

Finally, insurance companies were reluctant to pay for Exubera, or the required lung function tests, since Exubera does not control blood sugar better than ordinary insulin. Exubera has cost about $5 a day, compared with $2 to $3 a day for injectable insulin.

Analysts said they were surprised that Pfizer had acted so quickly but that the company had probably made the right business decision.

“The product was underperforming, the company is challenged to begin with, and in that circumstance this type of program is at risk,” said Robert Hazlett of BMO Capital Markets.

Mr. Hazlett said that the cancellation would hurt Nektar Therapeutics, a small publicly traded company that helped develop Exubera and received royalties from Pfizer on Exubera sales. Nektar’s shares, which traded as high as $22 after Exubera received approval, were down more than 17 percent yesterday, closing at $6.67.

Tony Butler, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said the abruptness with which Pfizer acted was a proof that Mr. Kindler knew drastic steps were needed to stem Pfizer’s decline.
475 2007-10-19 Late yesterday, the board of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, a research institution in New York, issued a statement saying it was suspending the administrative responsibilities of Dr. Watson as chancellor “pending further deliberation.”

On Wednesday, Bruce Stillman, president of the laboratory, had issued a statement saying the laboratory’s trustees, administration and faculty “vehemently disagree” with the sentiments of Dr. Watson, who has served as director and president of the laboratory, whose school of biological sciences is named for him.

Scientists at Cold Spring Harbor study plant and animal genetics, cancer and other diseases. Dr. Stillman said they did not “engage in any research that could even form the basis of the statements attributed to Dr. Watson.”

Dr. Watson is in England to promote his new book, “Avoid Boring People: Lessons From a Life in Science” (Knopf). In a statement, Paul Bogaards, a spokesman for Knopf, said only that it was “understandable that his comments have caused upset throughout the world.”

There is wide agreement among researchers on intelligence that genetic inheritance influences mental acuity, but there is also wide agreement that life experiences, even in the womb, exert a powerful influence on brain structure. Further, there is wide disagreement about what intelligence consists of and how — or even if — it can be measured in the abstract.

For example, in “The Mismeasure of Man,” Stephen Jay Gould, the evolutionary biologist, dismissed “the I.Q. industry” as little more than an effort by men of European descent to maintain their prominence in the world.

Nevertheless, Dr. Watson, 79, is hardly the first eminent researcher to assert that inherited characteristics like skin color are correlated to intelligence and that people of African descent fall short. For example, William B. Shockley, a Nobel laureate for his work with transistors, in later life developed ideas of eugenics based on the supposed intellectual inferiority of blacks.

His ideas were greeted with scorn, and Dr. Watson is encountering a similar reaction. According to the BBC, the Science Museum of London canceled a speech Dr. Watson was to have given there today, saying that much as it supports robust discussion of controversial ideas, Dr. Watson’s assertions on race and intelligence are “beyond the point of acceptable debate.”

Henry Kelly, president of the Federation of American Scientists, a private group that works to bring science to policy making, said it was “tragic that one of the icons of modern science has cast such dishonor on the profession.”
476 2007-10-19 Lassie (above), Toto, the animated Gromit and Snowy (Tintin’s trusty companion) made the shortlist of six dogs to be chosen by public vote as the first inductees in the Dog Walk of Fame to be established in Battersea, south London, The Associated Press reported. The winners, to be announced on Nov. 5, will receive a plaque in Battersea Park, near the Battersea Dogs Home, Britain’s largest and best-known refuge for abandoned dogs. The walk of fame is sponsored by the Kennel Club and Sky Movies.
477 2007-10-19 While there are foundations that support existing music programs, Mr. Juritz said no other charities were dedicated to starting music education projects in poor areas. “The difficult thing is getting these programs off the ground,” he said. “After that they become relatively inexpensive to maintain.”

Musequality’s pilot project at the Tender Talents Magnet School in Kampala, Uganda, which cares for AIDS orphans, will offer its first music lessons next week, including piano, guitar, recorder and choral training. Mr. Juritz, who was born in South Africa, has been inspired by El Sistema, the Venezuelan program that provides disadvantaged children with instruments and instruction and has produced a number of fine musicians, among them the conductor Gustavo Dudamel.

At Columbus Circle Mr. Juritz attracted the attention of Jordan Kinzler, 28, who gives guided tours in Central Park and had heard Mr. Juritz interviewed on BBC Radio in June. “Nice to see he made it through the hard countries and is looking healthy and clean,” he said.

While the trip has often been “fantastic fun,” each day “is a complete scramble,” admitted Mr. Juritz, who says he has dodged unsympathetic security guards in Berlin and suspicious policemen in Asia.

“Busking is really time-consuming and it feels chaotic,” he said, adding, “You have days where you feel shattered.” During a brief stop in London at the end of June, after the European leg of his tour, he said, the prospect of going back out on the road for almost four months seemed “pretty grim.”

But Mr. Juritz said his wife, Jane Davies, a graphic designer, encouraged him not to give up and has been supportive since he told her in September 2006: “Look, Darling, I’ve had this really good idea. I’m going to busk my way round the world.”

Mr. Juritz has been struck by the generosity of unlikely donors, including a migrant worker in Singapore. He recalled trepidation as a gang of street children surrounded him in Montevideo, Uruguay. “I thought, ‘These are exactly the type of kids we want to help,’” he said. “One of them came over and dropped a few coins in my case. You feel it should be the other way round.”

When people walk down the street, “if they decide they’re not going to give you money, they have to blank you out,” he said. “It gave me fantastic insight for what life must be like for those street kids. People see them as being a problem and shut them out, and they’re saying, ‘Hey, just give me a chance.’”
478 2007-10-19 In the years that followed, many around Mr. McCain said, the South Carolina ghosts were not easily exorcised for Mr. McCain or the people close to him. Just a few months ago, at the onset of this campaign, Bridget, now 16, summoned Mr. McCain’s aides and asked them to explain in detail what had happened in South Carolina and to give assurances that it would not happen again.

Mrs. McCain was also unsure about another run. The ultimate decision was in her hands, she said, and she was deeply influenced by the feelings of Bridget, who only learned about the events of 2000 when she Googled herself last year.

“She was a very important part of the process in deciding if we were going to run,” Mrs. McCain said. “She wanted to know the whole history of it.”

On the campaign bus, Mrs. McCain spoke recently of the people from across South Carolina who had made a point of apologizing to her about the pain her family endured in 2000.

As the McCains traveled throughout the state that year, they began to feel, aides said, as if they were being pelted by hail from an underground whispering campaign of unknown origin — a telephone call from a push pollster here, a nasty anonymous flier there — that they could barely keep pace with each attack.

Mr. McCain, in a recent interview, said that after losing the South Carolina primary he felt sorry for himself and was angry.

“You know, How could this happen? Woe is me!” Mr. McCain said. “Then, after a couple of days, I thought, Look, I’m the senator from Arizona; the people of Arizona expect me to represent them in the Senate, not feel sorry for myself because of something that happened in a political campaign.”

In his efforts both to fight back here in 2000 and to reconcile his loss to George W. Bush, Mr. McCain saw his reputation as a reformer and an outsider — one he had solidified in his stunning victory in the New Hampshire primary just weeks before — lacerated.

The bruising episode left him rancorous toward Mr. Bush, yet schooled in what it takes to win. Mr. McCain fell into a “very dark place,” in the words of one acquaintance, re-emerging as a more pragmatic, traditional Republican who now regularly reaches out to many of Mr. Bush’s allies, speaks comfortably to religious conservatives and has all but abandoned the maverick story line of 2000.

“He regrouped, and he dug real deep to figure out how to make the best of that situation,” said the acquaintance, Ed McMullen, who heads a South Carolina public policy group.

Several top campaign aides cited a single moment that marked a turning point in the South Carolina campaign, and in Mr. McCain himself. In an effort to fight back, the McCain campaign had gone negative, broadcasting a television advertisement that accused Mr. Bush of twisting the truth “like Clinton,” a reference to President Bill Clinton.

At a town-hall-style meeting in Spartanburg after the advertisement ran, a woman stood up, her voice shaking. She recalled how her 13-year-old son had received a phone call from a push pollster calling Mr. McCain a liar and a cheat.

“‘A man got on the phone and talked about how dishonest you were,’” Mr. Weaver recalled her saying. “‘My son had admired you, and now he doesn’t know what to believe.’”

Afterward, on the bus, Mr. McCain, who was shaken by how negative a turn the primary had taken, instructed his staff to pull the negative advertisements and “stop trying to defend ourselves,” Mr. Weaver said.

“We tried to talk him out of this,” Mr. Weaver said. “But John was so impacted by that woman’s comments, we just did it.”

Nancy Snow, a volunteer on the McCain campaign, was at that meeting, too, and remembered seeing the life drain from Mr. McCain’s face.

Ms. Snow said of Mr. McCain’s expression: “He looked like he felt terrible, and terrible for that boy, because he knew he had so many young people supporting him before that. It was kind of like the air had gone out of the room.”

In the process, Mr. McCain changed from an underdog Republican seemingly determined to remake his party in his own image — one that would be divorced from religiousness and without dogmatic socially conservative notions — to a candidate who now claims that he prefers a Christian in the White House.

Right after his bitter loss in 2000, Mr. McCain stood before an audience in Virginia and said defiantly: “We are the party of Ronald Reagan, not Pat Robertson. We are the party of Theodore Roosevelt, not the party of special interests. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln, not Bob Jones.”

The latter was a reference to Bob Jones University, where Mr. Bush had kicked off his South Carolina campaign and which, at the time, did not permit interracial dating on its campus.

Last year, by contrast, Mr. McCain said he would consider speaking at Bob Jones University. Further, while Mr. McCain denounced Jerry Falwell in 2000 as one of the United States’ “agents of intolerance,” he eagerly accepted Mr. Falwell’s invitation last year to be the graduation speaker at Liberty University, which Mr. Falwell founded.

And Mr. McCain, who always seemed uncomfortable in 2000 making statements about his own religious beliefs, recently told a reporter he would prefer a Christian as president of the United States over someone of a different faith, saying the affiliation would be “an important part of our qualifications to lead.”

As the South Carolina primary loomed in February 2000, aides to both Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush were regrouping from the outcome of the contest on Feb. 1 in New Hampshire. Mr. McCain won by an astonishing 18 points.

The Bush team, stung by the New Hampshire blowout, knew that South Carolina could not be lost, and while the McCain campaign was celebrating, the Bush team was shifting into high gear.

Even as Mr. McCain’s plane was aloft over the state from New Hampshire, Bush supporters had taken to the airwaves, accusing Mr. McCain of having accomplished little as a senator and suggesting he was out of step with conservative South Carolina.

“I remember thinking,” said Roy Fletcher, who was Mr. McCain’s deputy campaign manager, “these people knew they were going to get their butts pounded and they already had this attack planned.”

Evidently unnerved, the McCain campaign stumbled. Addressing the issue of the use of the Confederate battle flag — a subject of passionate debate in South Carolina — Mr. McCain vacillated. He called the flag “offensive” and a “symbol of racism and slavery,” but later backed off those remarks, referring to it as “a symbol of heritage,” the same language flag supporters used in explaining why it flew over the statehouse.

“I feared that if I answered honestly, I could not win the South Carolina primary,” Mr. McCain later conceded. “So I chose to compromise my principles.”

Perhaps most significantly, though, an underground campaign was bubbling all around.

People in some areas of South Carolina began to receive phone calls in which self-described pollsters would ask, “Would you be more likely or less likely to vote for John McCain for president if you knew he had fathered an illegitimate black child?”

It was a reference to Bridget, who was adopted as a baby from an orphanage in Bangladesh and is darker skinned than the rest of the McCain family. Richard Hand, a professor at Bob Jones University, sent an e-mail message to “fellow South Carolinians” telling recipients that Mr. McCain had “chosen to sire children without marriage.”

Literature began to pepper the windshields of cars at political events suggesting that Mr. McCain had committed treason while a prisoner of war in North Vietnam, that he was mentally unstable after years in a P.O.W. camp, that he was the homosexual candidate and that Mrs. McCain, who had admitted to abusing prescription drugs years earlier, was an addict.

“You had a sense of besiegement daily,” said Mark Salter, a longtime aide to Mr. McCain.

The McCain team had trouble nailing down the origin of the dirt.

“One time in Hilton Head, we chased these punks down the block who were handing them out,” said State Representative James H. Merrill, the Republican state majority leader, “and when we got to them and asked them where they got them, they said some guy in a red pickup truck said, ‘Hey do you wanna make $100?’”

Karl Rove, Mr. Bush’s political adviser, and the entire Bush team strongly denied involvement, though it was clear Mr. Bush was the beneficiary of the campaign. When the McCain camp did fight back, it chose Mr. Bush as the target — and a method that backfired.

After promising a positive campaign, Mr. McCain’s campaign put together two negative advertisements, including the one accusing Mr. Bush of twisting the truth “like Clinton.” The advertisement offended many Republicans in the state, who considered a comparison to Mr. Clinton, then president and unpopular among Republicans here, beyond the pale.

“We pulled the pedestal right from under him,” recalled Dan Schnur, a spokesman for the campaign in 2000. “That negative ad turned him into just another career politician. Once we took that halo off of him, there was no way to get it back.”

Charlie Condon, a former South Carolina attorney general who supported Mr. Bush in 2000 and is now co-chairman of Mr. McCain’s South Carolina committee, said the downward spiral the contest took was not surprising.

“Our primaries have a way of doing that,” Mr. Condon said. “There is a tradition of it, it is accepted behavior, and frankly it works.”

He added: “There are no regrets about 2000. To this day I don’t have one. If someone did those things, shame on them. But I did see that there was a need for bringing up issues.”
479 2007-10-19 “I’ve kept nothing out,” Ms. Dandois said. “When my daughter decided she didn’t want to take over the business, I decided to sell everything.”

Ms. Dandois, 63, is tall and imposing, and so is most of her furniture, whose style cannot be pigeonholed. Most of it is overscaled, embellished with gilded griffins or sphinxes, adorned with specimen marbles and often bears a noble provenance. What it isn’t is “FFF,” fine French furniture of the 18th century.

“French furniture is full of rules, about proportions, architecture, finish,” Ms. Dandois said. “I like things that surprise me. It is difficult to have a surprise with a Weisweiler commode.” (Adam Weisweiler is considered one of the finest 18th-century cabinetmakers working in Paris and was a favorite of the court.)

Ms. Dandois was one of the first dealers to specialize in neoclassical furniture and decorative arts from Russia and the Baltics.

“When I started out, German, Austrian and Scandinavian things were much cheaper than French antiques,” she said. “I was also one of the first to specialize in Russian furniture, which I love because it is full of imagination.”

Lot 645, for example, is a Russian commode from 1780 that is a tour de force. Each side boasts architectural marquetry: pictures of European-style palaces and piazzas with obelisks and triumphal columns, like the Column of Trajan in Rome, all made of tiny slivers of different kinds of wood. Like many Danois pieces, it is one of a kind; the estimate is $200,000 to $300,000.

Some of the many Swedish Empire pieces in the sale are also quite whimsical. Lot 421 is a pair of 19th-century neoclassical mahogany armchairs from Sweden. The armrests are carved, gilded lion heads sprouting resplendent wings. The front legs of the chair are shaped like lion legs and painted dark green, probably to look like bronze. The feet are gilded lion paws. The faces of the lions look as if they are smiling. You want to pat them.

One Swedish settee is in the style called Retour d’Egypte, which was inspired by Napoleon’s Egyptian campaigns in the 1790s, and it is loaded with Egyptian motifs. The white-painted settee, which has five matching armchairs, is from the early 1800s. Here the armrests are carved heads of Egyptian gods, and the chair’s tiny feet look human. Odd but fun.

Two real standouts in the sale are Lots 461 and 462, two identical gray-painted English oak benches in the style of the designer William Kent, which were made about 1740. Each is exceptionally large — more than 11 feet long and 4 ½ feet tall — and painted in imitation of the stone in an entry hall. Their back panels are edged with a frieze of Vitruvian scrolls and a female mask. Above them is a large scallop shell.

From her research Ms. Dandois has determined that the benches’ “reputed provenance” was Rushbrooke Hall in Suffolk, England, which was demolished in the 1960s. She thinks that Jermyn Davers, who died in 1750, commissioned the benches, which are said to be “after a drawing by Kent” because he designed a number of similar hall settees. The estimate for each is $150,000 to $250,000.

Ms. Dandois is not known for English furniture, much less fine George II specimens.

“There are things in the sale I’ve never displayed in the gallery,” she said. “This sale may be the first and last time people will realize how eclectic my taste is. I’m a compulsive shopper.”

Alistair Clarke, Sotheby’s specialist in European furniture, said: “Ariane’s taste is not as classic as people think. There’s a surprising mix of things in the sale, all of them showing muscular, strong design. Ariane always focused on a high level of quality, originality in design and good condition.”

Ms. Dandois has long been considered the most glamorous dealer at the major international fairs, the quintessence of the chic Parisienne. But she matches her couture clothes and fancy friends with American know-how and drive and is fully aware of how much she stands out among the male dealers of Paris. Charming and intimidating, she couldn’t seem more French.

Still, “there is not a drop of French blood in me,” she said. “My father is Belgian, and my mother is half Russian and half Georgian.”

Perhaps that explains the secret of her taste. “You have to have an emotion when you look at something,” she said. “Everything should have a story.”
480 2007-10-19 It is hard to overstate the impact of Miss Kerr’s appearance in “From Here to Eternity” in 1953. Until then she had played what she called “goody, goody” roles; Laurence Olivier termed her “unreasonably chaste.” Miss Kerr, with Greer Garson and Jean Simmons, was the quintessential Englishwoman, with all the staidness that implied.

In “Eternity” Miss Kerr was suddenly something entirely different: a sexy, adulterous wife making torrid love to Burt Lancaster on a Hawaiian beach. Parts of the scene were so daring for the time that they were cut.

The role broadened her image. Moviegoers came to suspect that even in the more refined moments of her later roles, a raw sensuality lurked below Miss Kerr’s placid surface. This mix of niceness and sexiness prompted tag lines like “A Sweet Kerr Named Desire” and did not exactly hurt at the box office.

“I don’t think anyone knew I could act until I put on a bathing suit,” Miss Kerr said in an interview with Collier’s magazine.

A line Miss Kerr delivered in the 1956 movie “Tea and Sympathy” exemplified her seemingly new knowingness. As she’s about to sexually initiate an anguished student, she tells him, “Years from now, when you talk about this — and you will — be kind.”

Versatility was a hallmark of subsequent roles. Yul Brynner, who had played the King on Broadway in “The King and I,” chose Miss Kerr for the 1956 film version. She was nominated for a fifth Oscar for her role as a repressed spinster in “Separate Tables” (1958). Her sixth nomination was for “The Sundowners” (1960), in which she performed without makeup as a sheep farmer’s wife.

Stage roles were fewer but drew positive comment. When “Tea and Sympathy” opened on Broadway in 1953, with Miss Kerr in the role she later reprised in the film, Brooks Atkinson, writing in The New York Times, noted her “effortless style.”

Deborah Jane Kerr-Trimmer was born on Sept. 30, 1921, in Helensburgh, Scotland. From an early age, she staged dramatic presentations for her family. Her father, Arthur, was a naval architect who died when she was in her midteens.

She attended a drama school in Bristol, England, and ballet school in London. She abandoned her ambition to dance professionally partly because her 5-foot-7 height limited possible roles. She focused on acting and appeared in open-air Shakespeare plays in Regent’s Park. She also read children’s stories for the British Broadcasting Corporation.

Miss Kerr signed a film contract in 1939 with the producer and director Michael Powell. He described her as a “plump little dumpling who was obviously going places” and cast her as a hatcheck girl in “Contraband” (1940). Her part, with her two lines, was cut.

Then Gabriel Pascal, the producer and director, cast her as Jenny Hill in a film adaptation of Shaw’s “Major Barbara” (1941). Because of her inexperience, he enrolled her in Oxford Playhouse, where she appeared in several roles. At her own suggestion, she volunteered with the Salvation Army so she could gain insight into her character. Now less plump thanks to her assiduous work and wartime rations, she received positive notices in both Britain and the United States.

More roles in British films came quickly. A notable one was the female lead in “The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp” (1943). Miss Kerr played three different aspects of the ideal woman in three generations. Hollywood legend has it that Mr. Mayer of M-G-M saw this picture after its release in the United States in 1945 and said: “That girl’s a star. Get her.”

Miss Kerr’s last film in England was “Black Narcissus,” for which she won the New York Film Critics Award for best actress after its American release. (The award also recognized her critically acclaimed role as a young Irish woman in the 1946 film “I See a Dark Stranger.”)

Her first film for M-G-M was “The Hucksters” (1947). She played opposite Clark Gable under a contract that initially paid her $3,000 a week and guaranteed that she would be a co-star in all her productions. She was soon leading lady to Cary Grant, James Mason, Stewart Granger and Spencer Tracy.

Miss Kerr earned her first Oscar nomination for her third film for M-G-M, “Edward, My Son” (1949), in which she played the alcoholic wife of Mr. Tracy. But she soon grew uneasy about playing the foil for male stars in movies like “King Solomon’s Mines” (1950) with Mr. Granger.

“I wore a halo of decorum and was just about as exciting as an oyster,” she told American Weekly magazine in 1957.

So she got a new agent, Bert Allenberg. He had called her and declared: “Deborah, for years now you’ve been playing the insipid English virgin. I think I can get you the roles you ought to have,” Collier’s reported.

Harry Cohn, who was president of Columbia Pictures, originally wanted Joan Crawford or somebody like her, decidedly un-virginal. Mr. Allenberg argued the merits of a different sort of sexuality: a heroine “who looks like a lady but acts like a harlot.”

“The result is screen history — which keeps repeating itself in the form of love scenes almost identical to that which Deborah and Burt played,” American Weekly magazine said.

Miss Kerr’s first marriage, to Anthony Bartley, an Englishman who had been a decorated fighter pilot during World War II, ended in divorce. She is survived by her husband, Peter Viertel, an author and screenwriter; her daughters Melanie and Francesca; a stepdaughter, Christine Viertel; and three grandchildren.

It is likely that her role in “The King and I,” as Anna in her famous hoop skirt, tops many people’s list of favorite Kerr characters. In an interview with The Chicago Tribune in 1986, Miss Kerr suggested it might not have been hers.

“I’d rather drop dead in my tracks one day than end up in a wheelchair in some nursing home watching interminable replays of ‘The King and I,’” she said before hooting with laughter.
481 2007-10-19 The measure of a conference is always related to its depth. The lesson learned by the Bulls last night was that six straight victories didn’t make them champions of college football, the Big East or even the State of Florida. It’s a long, long season when your conference schedule has a roll call of hungry, newly endowed programs.

To that end, Rutgers perhaps had more to lose — any real chance at the Big East title and much of the momentum established last season — than South Florida. But Ray Rice had 181 yards in his legs last night, Rutgers Coach Greg Schiano threw caution to the wind and was rewarded with 10 points off punt and field goal fakes, and the Knights survived two muffed punts and a late fourth-quarter fumble that set Bulls quarterback Matt Grothe on the Rutgers 40-yard line.

Grothe is the elusive sophomore who beat nationally ranked Auburn of the big, bad Southeastern Conference on the road in September and later defended home turf against West Virginia. Suddenly, the Big East had another Florida power, which was believed possible only in the Mike Tranghese household after Miami defected to the Atlantic Coast Conference with Virginia Tech and Boston College in 2003.

“When we lost the three schools and had to find replacements, I really had to convince our people about South Florida,” Tranghese, the Big East commissioner, said. “But I told them that if you put this school in a league with some other good programs, with B.C.S. entry and with the geographic advantages they have, they will be good.”

Tranghese did his homework and now has an eight-team football conference, written off for dead four years ago, that is proving itself B.C.S. worthy but could certainly use another member or two, preferably one that would bring what is largely missing: a brand name with a long history and a national following.

Doesn’t that sound like Notre Dame? Tranghese said people shouldn’t hold their breath.

One of the first calls he received after the A.C.C. migration, in fact, was from Notre Dame, wanting to help. So Rutgers will show up on the Irish schedule by 2010, as will other Big East opponents. How unreasonable is it to ask that by then, who will be helping whom? What if Notre Dame’s drastic slide under Charlie Weis is the punctuation on the widespread belief that it is no longer prudent — or possible — for the Irish to be the crusading, independent Goliath?

Notre Dame’s much-celebrated network contract bolsters revenue, but does it attract premier recruits? Everyone is on television these days while playing in fierce conference showdowns, like last night’s.

“Our goal has never had anything to do with rankings,” Leavitt said after a sea of red-shirted Rutgers fans rushed the field, pulled down the goal posts and re-enacted the Louisville coming-out party victory of 2006. “Our goal is to win the Big East.”

When Michigan loses to Appalachian State and Oregon, it can still fight for a Big Ten title. When Notre Dame stumbles early and is out of the B.C.S. bowl picture, what then?

“I just think they really believe independent is the way for them to go, and I’ve never seen an iota of wavering on their part,” Tranghese said. “But if they want to come, all they have to do is pick up the phone.”

As last night again demonstrated, his league keeps getting better. Wouldn’t it be poetic justice if Notre Dame some day had to beg Rutgers and South Florida to let it come in and play?
482 2007-10-19 In the 19th century the valley, then known as Pierre’s Hole, was an annual gathering place for fur trappers. Later, it was settled by Mormon farmers and for decades was mainly an agricultural community full of conversation about potatoes, barley and ranching.

“It was hardscrabble here up until very recently,” said Larry Young, a county commissioner.

Then, about five years ago, as people priced out of nearby Jackson, Wyo., looked elsewhere to build their second homes, a resort building boom started that has transformed the valley.

“Now we’re working on the fifth gated golf course community,” said Reid Rogers, president of the Teton Valley Chamber of Commerce.

The valley has a full-time population of about 7,800, but by the Fourth of July weekend, when most second-home owners arrive, there are at least twice as many people living there, and the place is also a year-round outdoor destination. “If I see more than five trucks at a stoplight, that’s a traffic jam and I’m getting worried,” Mr. Vest said. “And I’m getting a little worried with all this growth.”

Driggs, the county seat and most populous town, is at the valley’s center. It’s there that Highway 33 intersects the road to Grand Targhee Resort, whose 2,000 acres of slopes served by lifts average about 500 inches of snow a year.

The small crossroads commercial strip consists of a few coffee shops, banks, outfitters, real estate offices and run-down car-repair shops. There is change afoot, however. You can now get biodegradable toilet paper at the Barrels and Bins organic grocery and a good Bordeaux at Alpine Wines.

“It’s kind of a funny little town, when you drive in and see a dilapidated trailer on one side and a million-dollar home on the other,” said Barbara Halmy Grundler, who, with her husband, Richard Grundler, spends most of the year in Driggs and the rest in Nantucket.

Most women don’t wear makeup, and residents joke that a clean T-shirt (with sleeves, of course) is considered formal wear. But don’t let the scarred and dusty boots fool you. They’re just as likely to belong to a BlackBerry-addicted investment banker as to a dawn-to-dusk farmer.

If you want night life, that means a trip to the Knotty Pine Supper Club, “the Knotty,” in Victor, where you can eat dinner and down a pint of Mighty Bison Brown Ale with the locals.

From Driggs, it’s just a 15-minute drive east to trailheads that lead into the wildflower-filled gorges of the Jedediah Smith Wilderness area. Head in the other direction, and you’ll find a network of single-track trails well-suited to mountain biking. And the Grand Teton and Yellowstone National Parks are just 45 and 90 minutes away.

Shopping is limited, as is medical care. To see a specialist means a one-hour drive to Idaho Falls, the nearest small city, or a trip across the Teton Pass to Jackson. During the long winters, cabin fever can set in if you aren’t out in the snow.

Politically, local groups like Valley Advocates for Responsible Development and the Teton Valley Alliance battle over the pace and manner of development. “There are a lot of divisions,” said Jeanne Anderson, who owns Dark Horse Books in Driggs. “Some about religion, some about how long you’ve been here, some about what you do.”

Residents like to say that the billionaires are forcing the millionaires out of Jackson and into Teton Valley.

The average sale price for a home has leapt from about $248,000 in 2004 to $326,000 last year, according to multiple listing service data compiled by Sotheby’s International Realty in Driggs.

“People are coming from everywhere to get their little part of the West,” said Tom Clinton, a partner in Potter Clinton Development, which is behind the 780-acre Teton Springs Resort near Victor and five other resort and housing projects throughout the valley. These range from a residential subdivision near Driggs to a resort with lots of up to 14 acres adjacent to a golf course designed by Greg Norman.

Typical second-home buyers are baby boomers involved in outdoor sports, generally professionals nearing retirement or already there.

Open land and building lots account for about half of all sales, as is evident at Potter Clinton’s Teton Springs, where lots are marked with red and white signs bearing the names of their buyers: “The Horns, Cedar Rapids, IA” or “The Riggs, Sharon, CT.”

In 1998, the assessed new construction for the year totaled $3 million, said Mr. Young, the county commissioner. That figure is expected to reach $300 million this year. Roads continue to finger into the foothills, ending in cul-de-sacs of modern log homes.

The weekly Teton Valley News keeps track of the number of new homes and subdivisions approved by the county. There were 4,500 approved lots in Teton County in 2004, Mr. Young said. If all pending building applications are approved, and Mr. Young expects they will be, there will be 16,000 lots by next year. “We grow subdivisions, not crops,” said Ms. Anderson, the bookstore owner.

POPULATION Teton County, which covers the valley, is home to 7,838 people, and Driggs, the county seat and largest settlement, has 1,253 people, according to 2006 estimates by the Census Bureau.

SIZE The county, with its three towns — Tetonia, Driggs and Victor — spread out along Route 33, is about 450 square miles.

WHO’S BUYING Active baby boomers from across the country.

GETTING THERE Commercial flights go to Idaho Falls Regional Airport, not much more than an hour’s drive to the west, or Jackson Hole Airport in Wyoming, 45 minutes east over the Teton Pass.

WHILE YOU’RE LOOKING The Pines Motel & Guest Haus (105 South Main Street, 208-354-2774) in downtown Driggs is a 100-year-old log cabin that has simple rooms for between $45 and $90 a night. For full pampering, there is the 4,000-acre Teton Ridge Ranch (200 Valley View Road, Tetonia; 208-456-2650; www.tetonridge.com), which emphasizes outdoor activity. In winter, double-occupancy rooms range from $545 a night to $2,500 a night for a five-room lodge.
483 2007-10-19 ANIKEEFF--Nancy Hotchkiss, originally of New York and late of McLean, VA, died on October 8, 2007. Devoted wife of Nicholas M. Anikeeff and loving mother of Anthony H. Anikeeff and A. Michele Mullins. She is also survived by her grandchildren, Ale...
484 2007-10-19 'IT'S A BIG MESS' Days after it was unveiled by three biggest banks in the United States, the roughly $75 billion fund created to shore up troubled securities is struggling to get off the ground.      WIDENING ITS LEAD Google said net income in th...
485 2007-10-20 “We’re like a bunch of adolescents right now,” Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds, said of investors. “Last week we got some good news, and we’re happy. Now we’re all sullen and down in the dumps.”

It was the worst one-day loss for the Dow since Aug. 9, when it lost 387.18 point, though the average remains up 8.5 percent for the year.

The Dow’s decline yesterday was mirrored in the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite.

Crude oil prices also retreated, falling from the record they reached Thursday. Oil closed down 87 cents, at $88.60. And the dollar hit record lows against the euro.

David Kelly, an economist at Putnam Investments, the mutual fund company in Boston, warned against seeing the market plunge as a bellwether. “What may seem like tough times on Wall Street isn’t so tough for the economy as a whole,” he said.

But a prominent figure in the hedge fund industry, Julian H. Robertson Jr., said yesterday that the economy was heading for a “doozy of a recession.”

“I think the credit situation is worse than anybody realizes,” he said on CNBC. “I don’t think any of the normal indicators you would look at in the economy are really very strong. As a matter of fact, they are weak, and not really getting any better.”

Yesterday’s steep sell-off was reminiscent of the Oct. 19, 1987, decline, though not nearly as harsh. That day brought the Dow’s worst single-session decline ever, a loss of 508 points, or 22.6 percent.

Still, yesterday’s losses were unnerving to investors shaken by a week of write-offs at major banks and the surging price of crude oil.

Wachovia’s report came after Bank of America’s announcement on Thursday that its third-quarter earnings plunged 32 percent, in part because of heavy losses in consumer banking.

“All these financial companies reporting on their earnings is contributing to the sourness of the mood,” Mr. Kelly said. “It’s putting a big focus on a big problem, and I think that’s scaring people on Wall Street who are close to all of these problems.”

Bank of America joined Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase this week in planning an ambitious fund to stave off further problems in the credit markets, though investors seem ambivalent about the safety net. The plan is intended to relieve the pricing pressure on mortgage-backed securities held by institutions and known as structured investment vehicles.

Two such entities in Europe —run by Cheyne Capital Management of London and IKB Deutsche Industriebank of Düsseldorf, Germany — defaulted yesterday on more than $7 billion of debt.

But in the United States, it was clear that investors’ concerns went beyond the financial sector. Earnings reports from Caterpillar and Honeywell International, both part of the Dow industrials, did not meet expectations, and that was seen as a sign that the credit troubles were clouding the broader economy.

Caterpillar posted a 21 percent gain in quarterly profit but fell short of analysts’ estimates. The company cut its full-year profit forecast, sending its stock down 5.3 percent, to $73.57.

Net income at Honeywell, the manufacturer based in New Jersey, climbed 14 percent, and the company raised its yearly sales expectations. But the stock still fell nearly 4 percent, to $58.32.

Shares of 3M, another Dow component, plunged 8.6 percent, to $86.62, even after the company raised its profit forecast and posted a 7.4 percent increase in third-quarter profit. 3M lowered revenue expectations and said it would be forced to cut prices.

The disappointing reports, coupled with a week of mixed economic data, underscore investors’ concerns over the fourth-quarter outlook.

The Fed’s beige book, a report based on surveys of business leaders across the country, said companies expected a “modest” and “mixed” economy in coming months, as prices start to rise and the labor sector weakens.

Yesterday was the 44th day in 2007 when the market moved more than 1 percent, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor’s. In 2006, the market had only 29 such days, he said, suggesting increased jitters among investors.

“What the market hates more than anything else is uncertainty,” said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics. Yet Mr. Rhodes himself sounded rather uncertain.

“Is this the beginning of a bear market?” he asked. “I have to say right now, I don’t think it is. Ask me in another week, and I might have a different opinion.”
486 2007-10-20 The World Bank is not the first to reach this conclusion. African governments, at a 2003 African Union summit, promised to more than double their own very low public spending on agriculture. In 2005, the United Nations Millennium Project, led by the Columbia University economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, advocated major investments to increase the productivity of poor farmers in Africa.

Last year, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation joined the Rockefeller Foundation to help bring a green revolution to Africa. The Gates Foundation, known for its work on global health, was motivated in part by an awareness that extreme poverty and malnutrition were underlying causes of much of the sickness and premature death plaguing Africa.

But the bank, the world’s leading development institution and financier of antipoverty programs, plays a unique role in advising poor countries, and its return to agriculture is likely to influence practical policies across sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, where hundreds of millions of farmers and landless laborers are still mired in poverty.

The 365-page report was conceived before the arrival of the bank’s new president, Robert B. Zoellick, but he embraced its themes yesterday in Washington, while acknowledging the recent critical evaluation of the bank’s own performance.

“To make this successful, we’re going to need to increase investment,” he said at a forum that was shown live on the Web.

Robert S. McNamara, an earlier World Bank president, initiated the last period of ambitious investment in African agriculture, in the 1970s. Internal evaluations found that many of those projects and subsequent ones failed for a variety of reasons. Often, they were complex, devised and run by professionals from outside the countries being helped and not adopted wholeheartedly by poor countries that had little capacity to carry them out independently and, sometimes, little commitment to poor farmers.

In the 1980s, in the era of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, the World Bank increasingly withdrew its support from agriculture and expected private markets to spur growth through competition. Bank officials even thought profit-seeking companies would build toll roads in remote parts of Africa.

But, as the recent internal evaluation found, private markets often failed to deliver a range of goods and services farmers needed, including improved seeds, fertilizer and credit.

In India’s green revolution, which began in the 1960s with the introduction of new high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat, the World Bank, the United States and the Rockefeller Foundation encouraged the Indian government to play a pivotal role in the provision of seeds, fertilizer and credit, said Uma Lele, an agricultural economist who worked at the bank for 35 years and evaluated many of its agricultural programs before retiring. The Indian state also set floor prices for wheat and rice to ensure farmers a return on their investments.

In the effort to bring an agrarian revolution to Africa, much of the debate from now on will focus on the role that African governments should play in spurring farm productivity. Economists who have read the World Development Report said there was clearly still a great deal of ferment and disagreement within the bank about many of the particulars. For example, should African governments give farmers subsidies to buy fertilizer, and under what conditions?

The report notes that agricultural subsidies have a way of becoming deeply entrenched politically long after their original purpose has been served.

The report found, for example, that if European countries, the United States and other wealthy nations removed all tariffs and subsidies for cotton, soybeans and other oilseeds — practices that reduce the world price of those commodities and make it harder for unsubsidized farmers in poor countries to compete — developing countries’ share of world trade in cotton and oilseeds would be more than 80 percent in 2015 instead of only about half.

Derek Byerlee, an agricultural economist with the bank who wrote the report with Professor de Janvry, said at a panel discussion yesterday that the United States’ subsidies to cotton growers were “directly and negatively impacting African farmers.”

Professor de Janvry said the report was not meant to settle the complicated and difficult policy questions, but “to change the conversation.”
487 2007-10-20 “I have been very lucky not to represent anyone crazy,” he told an interviewer for a Czech weekly news magazine in 2003. “Crazy artists are very difficult. My feeling is that one of the biggest problems of our time is that there are so many celebrities being made, but there are very few real stars, people who are truly extraordinarily talented. A celebrity is often not a true star.”

He consoled and cajoled his clients in person or on the telephone. Many became lifelong friends, and at times he attended their deaths. Like a family doctor who answered house calls, he turned a professional relationship into something deeper.

He learned early on that dealing with creative artists was not for the faint of heart. “Their private lives, their health, their nerves, these are all problems you must deal with, whether they are real or imagined,” he told The New York Times in 1998. “A bad haircut can be a catastrophe of biblical proportions.”

Born in Berlin on July 20, 1914, Mr. Lantz dreamed of being an author like his father, a screenwriter in the silent-movie era. He moved to London in 1935, after Hitler came to power, and worked as a story editor for American film companies. Following World War II he came to New York and began a new life representing creative artists: stars of the stage and screen, literary lions and, occasionally, public figures who thought they had a book in them.

Mr. Lantz was one of the last members of an old school: he did not use e-mail or computers. He took 10 percent of his authors’ earnings, not 15 percent, hewing to a tradition widely abandoned in the late 20th century. He made his deals with handshakes.

“I don’t believe authors and directors or other artists should be tied up by contracts,” he said in the 2003 interview.

“If someone doesn’t like me, I want him to be free to go,” he said. “I don’t want him to be unhappy. This is a Hollywood practice: trap artists into long-term contracts. But slavery was abolished. So blame Abraham Lincoln for my system.”

He showed an early talent for proximity to talent. At 7, he dined with Albert Einstein in Berlin; a colleague of his father had married Einstein’s stepdaughter. As he told the story, he announced that he was studying math at school. “Einstein stood up, opened his drawer, took out his book of mathematics and said: ‘Why don’t you use this book?’”

The next day in class, he raised his hand and said: “As Albert Einstein explained all this to me last night. ... ”
488 2007-10-20 Thank you to Ms. Collins for raising the issue of child care and the silence on the subject during this presidential campaign.

We are shortchanging the future of our society when we shortchange children today.

As one of the increasingly few people who have stayed in the field for 30 years, subsidizing the care of the children I served by working for substandard wages, I have firsthand knowledge of what happens when funds are insufficient. Staff, who need to support their own families, leave for better paying jobs. The turnover in the field is harmful to children and drains overworked and underpaid directors.

Substantial research points to the need for consistency of care for the healthy development of children. And yet, we as a society are willing to allow early formative years to be spent with a revolving door of caregivers.

We know that $1 invested in quality care reaps at least $7 in savings to society, as it prevents a host of costly societal ills.

It’s time for the United States to follow the lead of many European countries and support the healthy development of young children.

Gail Collins is right that candidates should address child care. But sometimes — at birth and in illness — kids need their parents and parents need time to care.

Paid sick days and income during family leave are essential job retention strategies. Right now only 30 percent of all workers and 11 percent of low-wage workers have paid sick days they can use to care for an ill child.
489 2007-10-20 Finally, I muted the television. But I would occasionally glance up at the TV and read the little headlines that were running under the interview. “Thinks Coca-Cola is a great business,” read one. “Newspaper industry has changed in the last 30 yrs,” read another. “Buying on margin is crazy.” To which the only appropriate response is: “Duh!”

I know, I know: it is unfair to judge a new cable channel by its first week. What was ESPN like its first week? Or CNN? Or, for that matter, CNBC? Start-ups are never pretty.

In its early years, let’s remember, CNBC was a business channel that lacked focus and identity. It had only one program, which ran all day, handed off from host to host. “It was called ‘Money Wheel,’” recalled the star reporter, David Faber. It wasn’t until the mid-1990s that CNBC began introducing programs with distinct identities, and began focusing maniacally on the stock market. That’s when it became a success. The irony, of course, is that the man in charge of CNBC when all that happened was Roger Ailes, who’s now running Fox Business.

“My core talent is that I’m a pretty good TV producer,” Mr. Ailes said the other day. He had made his name as a take-no-prisoners adman for a series of Republican presidents, including Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and the first George Bush. “Bob Wright called me because they were failing,” he continued, referring to the former NBC chief executive, Robert Wright. “I started ‘Squawk Box.’ I started ‘Power Lunch.’ Maria Bartiromo was a producer. I put her on the air.”

Mr. Ailes was speaking from his office on the second floor of the News Corporation skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan, where, after leaving CNBC in 1996, he first plotted the rise of Fox News, and is now doing the same with his new baby. Given what he did at Fox News, where he used a combination of vitriol and flag-waving to make Fox the No.1 all-news channel — while decimating the longtime leader CNN — no one takes Mr. Ailes lightly, least of all the folks at CNBC.

So far, though, the main thing Mr. Ailes has succeeded in doing is throw mud at his new competition. This is something he’s always been very good at it; he does start-ups like the political pro he used to be. On Monday, for instance, Bill Carter of The New York Times wrote an article in which Mr. Ailes mocked the infomercials that CNBC runs on weekends (for “nose tweezers and pimple squeezers,” he said), while accusing the channel’s management of copying Fox before it was even on the air by making moves like labeling itself “America’s Business Channel.”

When I spoke to him, he was no less inflammatory. “They’ve decided recently that America is not such a terrible place and capitalism isn’t so bad”—another reaction, he seemed to be saying, to the prospect of some new pro-America competition. “They used to get really excited if a C.E.O. was going to jail and they got depressed if a company announced a profit. They are offended by rich people unless it’s them.” He paused before delivering the punch line. “That’s because they all went to journalism school.”

Now, anyone who has spent more than five minutes watching CNBC knows these allegations are laughable; it would be hard to imagine a channel more pro profit than CNBC. But Mr. Ailes needs a way to differentiate his new network, and this was one of his tried-and-true tacks: accuse the other side of a lack of patriotism. “We don’t view capitalism, corporations or profits as the enemy,” he said. “If the guys at Enron did bad, they paid for it,” he added. “But there are 9,000 other companies whose executives go to church or synagogue, and make contributions, and want America to be a great country. And it is not treason to not treat them like bad guys.” Et cetera.

Earlier, I had interviewed Neil Cavuto, Fox Business’s star anchor and managing editor, who sought to differentiate his channel in another way. “We don’t use jargon, and we don’t use analysts,” he said. “We’re not afraid to defy what seems to be conventional wisdom. Let’s not buy lock, stock and barrel what everyone else says. Let’s not assume that all mortgages are melting down and all companies are crooked.”

The lack of jargon is one thing that is instantly noticeable on Fox Business — often for the good. For instance, the stock prices that run at the bottom of the screen spell out the name of the company rather than relying solely on the ticker symbol. They are also categorized by sector, which is a helpful touch. At one point during the week, both channels went to the commodities exchange. On CNBC, Rick Santelli spewed out incomprehensible acronyms and numbers in that rapid-fire style of his, while Fox tried to explain things more simply — including pointing out that commodity futures would eventually “translate into the price of your groceries.”

Sometimes, however, the reach for simplicity was not such a good thing. A new commentator named Eric Bolling — a trader who also defected from CNBC, which has taken him to court for violating the terms of his contract — was described as a “Wall Street guru,” thus giving his views a weight they don’t remotely deserve.

Always, there was an effort to connect the stories not so much to the price of a company’s stock, but to our daily lives. “Biotech stocks are risky,” read one Fox blurb — which of course is where CNBC would have stopped. The Fox blurb continued, “But the products save lives.”

And always there was that knee-jerk Fox impulse to see the glass as half full. All week long, it ran stories and segments about the housing decline — except that its stories tended to emphasize not how big a problem it was, but how many people out there were still buying homes, despite everything.

I got the sense, when I spoke to the brass at CNBC, that they’re a little baffled so far by the Fox Business approach. “We are focused on investors and the news that moves investments,” said CNBC’s president, Mark Hoffman. “Our audience is the 60 percent of the households in this country that own a stock or a bond or a mutual fund.” A result of that narrow focus has been record profits; most industry analysts expect CNBC to earn more than $300 million next year.

To be honest, I’m baffled, too. Clearly, Fox is aiming for a different, broader audience than CNBC — perhaps the same conservative audience that propelled Fox News. Mr. Ailes and Mr. Cavuto both seem more than a little contemptuous of the core CNBC audience — “I’m not going to be satisfied saying I wooed some day traders,” Mr. Cavuto said.

But business news is much harder than political news to transform into the blue state-red state divide that Fox News has always trafficked in. More to the point, perhaps, for the vast majority of people who are interested in business news, their initial point of entry is the stock market. And that is still what they mainly care about. What CNBC offers is information that the day trader — and Wall Street professional — can act on, while also giving the rest of us a mix of white noise and real news that allows us to at least feel as though we know what is going on in the market, where our retirement funds reside. Mr. Cavuto likes to say that the stock market is not always the most important business story on most days. He’s right — except if you’re running a business channel. For someone in his job, the stock market is always the most important story.

Which, I’m guessing, Mr. Ailes will eventually figure out, and which is also why it would be foolish to discount the Fox Business Network based on its first week. The real question is what will happen once Fox Business realizes that the stock market is the only road that makes sense, Mr. Cavuto’s sensibilities be damned. That’s when the battle will start.

“I think someone will win,” Mr. Ailes said. “I’m not saying there isn’t room for both CNBC and the Fox Business network. But one of them will do better, make more money and be the one that more people gravitate to.”

He smiled. “That will take a few more years,” he said.
490 2007-10-20 Re “Senators Clash With Nominee Over Torture and Limits of Law” (front page, Oct. 19):

Michael B. Mukasey, the nominee for attorney general, acknowledges that torture is illegal under national and international law. He will not say, however, what is or is not torture. This allows him to preserve the right to sanction torture by defining it as not torture.

But like pornography, torture doesn’t require a definition. The Mukasey nomination should be voted down. There must be one moral person in this country who qualifies for attorney general, and the Senate should hold out until this person is located and nominated by President Bush.

As an American citizen, I am tired of being disgusted with my government. We deserve better. Mitchell Turker

How can the United States hope to regain its position as a respected world leader on the great issues of human rights if its chief law enforcement officer cannot even bring himself to acknowledge the undeniable verity that waterboarding constitutes torture, applying any conceivable definition of that term? George I. Gordon

The writer served as an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of New York from 1958 to 1961 and was chief appellate attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for that district, 1960-61.
491 2007-10-20 Growth is driven by two factors, said Jeff Desich, vice president of Equity Trust. Americans increasingly want to manage their own investments, and they are becoming more comfortable investing outside of stock and bond markets.

“After the tech bubble burst, many Americans saw a large portion of their retirement savings evaporate,” he said. “Many of them are saying, ‘I don’t want to be in this kind of situation, I want to know what my account is being invested in.’”

And, by middle age, many have amassed enough money in their retirement accounts to permit some experimentation.

Most self-directed I.R.A.’s are invested in real estate, like apartment buildings or warehouses, officials at the trust companies say. The rest end up as equity or debt investments in private companies, or in off-beat ways of generating rental income, like Mr. Harris’s musical instruments. Custodians say clients have invested in such diverse properties as private jets that can be leased out, race horses that generate prize income and bulls that are in demand among cattle breeders.

In addition to giving investors more control over their retirement savings, self-directed I.R.A.’s also carry the usual tax advantages that come with government-authorized retirement plans: traditional I.R.A. holders can defer tax payments on their profits until retirement, while Roth I.R.A. holders do not owe any tax on gains. Mr. Harris, for example, who set up his Roth I.R.A. with post-tax dollars, is not taxed on his rental income or any profits he makes if he sells an instrument.

But self-directed I.R.A.’s also pose significant risks. Investing in a marimba requires much more savvy than signing up for a mutual fund and letting professional money managers do their job.

“This is best for people who know what they’re doing,” said Ed Slott, a tax adviser and author of several books on retirement. “If you know real estate and you can treat it as a business, then that’s fine.”

Some financial advisers warn that self-directed I.R.A.’s make it difficult for investors to diversify well, arguing that it is safer, for example, to invest in real estate through a real estate investment trust rather than by buying a single condominium.

Most people manage that risk by putting only a portion of their retirement savings into self-directed I.R.A.’s. Mr. Harris, for example, invests 25 percent of his nest egg in musical instruments.

The biggest risk, however, is breaking the law. No single set of rules governs I.R.A.’s, as the Internal Revenue Service publishes new guidelines whenever a contentious tax case comes up. Individual investors may find it difficult to sort through years of rulings, which makes it especially crucial to hire a specialized accountant or lawyer.

Generally speaking, I.R.A.’s may not be invested in collectibles and life insurance. In addition, accountholders may not personally benefit from their investment in any way other than making legal withdrawals after the age of 59 ½. This means that you may not live in a house you bought with your I.R.A., or put rental income anywhere but back into the I.R.A. Finally, any transactions with a lineal family — like children, parents and grandparents — are prohibited. This means a couple cannot invest in a start-up owned by their son.

When the I.R.S. spots a violation, it shows little mercy, disqualifying the entire I.R.A., taxing it retroactively and imposing a 10 percent withdrawal penalty on account holders under the age of 59 ½.

Hugh Bromma, the chief executive of Entrust, says one client allowed her daughter to live in a condominium owned through her I.R.A. The government forced the client to liquidate the entire $750,000 account and charged her over $1 million in taxes and fines.

Those who know what they are doing, however, can handsomely bolster their retirement savings.

Neil Paulson, a retired lawyer from Orlando, Fla., with a multimillion-dollar I.R.A., says he makes a 15 percent annual return by renting out homes and issuing mortgages to homeowners in his community. Mr. Paulson said he opened a self-directed I.R.A. account after the Internet bubble burst.

“I felt I had to start taking control of my own future,” he said.

Anyone interested in self-directed I.R.A.’s should be prepared to spend time actively managing the investment, because the trust companies that administer the accounts offer few services beyond educating their clients about the rules and then managing cash flow.

Setting up an account is fairly easy. Investors fill out standard forms, transfer funds from an existing I.R.A. account, and then direct the custodian to wire money into various investments. Recurring income, like dividends or rent, flows into the I.R.A. automatically. Annual fees typically are $100 to $2,000, depending on the size of the account and the number of transactions processed.
492 2007-10-21 LANDSDOWNE, Va. Oct. 21 — Vice President Dick Cheney, ratcheting up the administration’s warnings to Iran, today branded that country’s government “a growing obstacle to peace in the Middle East” and declared that United States and its allies “will not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon.”

The vice president’s remarks, coming just days after President Bush suggested that a nuclear-armed Iran could lead to “World War III,” amounted to a one-two punch from the administration. “The Iranian regime needs to know that if it stays on its present course, the international community is prepared to impose serious consequences,” Mr. Cheney said. He did not specify what those consequences might be, or whether they would include military action, but added, “We will not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon.”

Mr. Cheney made his remarks in a wide-ranging foreign policy speech during a conference on Middle East policy hosted by The Washington Institute, a research organization. During the 25-minute talk, he also took aim at Syria, accusing it of using “bribery and intimidation” to influence the upcoming elections in Lebanon, and made the case, as he has in the past, for the administration’s muscular approach in prosecuting terror suspects.

But his most serious comments were aimed squarely at Iran, which he accused of being “the world’s most active sponsor of state terrorism.” Experts at the conference said the vice president’s language, while stopping short of threatening military action, seemed designed to prepare Americans for what the administration might do if Iran did not cooperate. “The language on Iran is quite significant,” said Dennis Ross, who served as a Middle East envoy for both the first President Bush and in the Clinton administration, and is now a scholar at The Washington Institute. Referring to Mr. Cheney’s remark about “serious consequences,” Mr. Ross said, adding that it was a strong statement and that “does have implications.”
493 2007-10-21 H. Dale Hemmerdinger, Gov. Eliot Spitzer’s choice to be chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, has resigned from a private social club that has drawn criticism for its lack of diversity, after being questioned about it at his confirmation hearing.

Mr. Hemmerdinger quit the organization, the Harmonie Club, on Friday, one day after defending it to a Senate panel.

“It was becoming an issue in my confirmation, and I decided to take the issue off the table,” he said in an interview yesterday.

The governor’s spokeswoman, Christine Anderson, declined to comment yesterday on the resignation, other than to say that it was not at the governor’s urging.

Mr. Hemmerdinger’s resignation was reported in The Daily News. The club was founded in 1852 by German Jewish immigrants who were routinely denied admission to the established clubs of the time.
494 2007-10-21 The publicity circus surrounding big mob trials was already in full churn last week. Satellite trucks idled on Jay Street. Photographers ascended stepladders to gain some purchase over their rivals. A high school class visited the courtroom on a field trip. Mr. DeVecchio, free on $1 million bond, mingled with his supporters. And tabloid newspapers reflexively chronicled every twist under headlines such as “Weird Mafia Love Triangle” and “G-Man and G-Strings; Plied With Bimbos: DA.”

The basic accusations against Mr. DeVecchio date to the Bensonhurst war for control of the Colombo crime family in the early ’90s, when Mr. DeVecchio led an F.B.I. squad charged with crippling the Colombos. His informer was Gregory Scarpa Sr., proprietor of the Wimpy Boys Social Club and a capo in the family.

After the war ended, federal prosecutors admitted that Mr. DeVecchio had passed confidential information to Mr. Scarpa. Investigators for the Department of Justice failed to turn up evidence to support criminal charges or even disciplinary action, and Mr. DeVecchio soon retired.

In a way, his new trial can be considered the triumph of the hangers-on, the true believers and the Mafia aficionados.

The Brooklyn district attorney’s office has credited Angela Clemente, a single mother from New Jersey, amateur private eye (and victim of that unexplained choking) with research that helped revive the case. The office has also acknowledged the work of Peter Lance, a writer who attends the trial in pinstripe suits, telling anyone who will listen his theories linking the case to global terrorism.

But at center stage is the main prosecution witness, Linda Schiro, aspiring author of a book tentatively titled “Marriage, Mafia Style.” Supporting testimony is expected from Gregory Scarpa Jr., who is in prison for racketeering. Mr. Scarpa is a prolific informer who has at times claimed to have the goods on his own father and on Ramzi Yousef, orchestrator of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.

Mr. DeVecchio’s defense lawyers speak of a darker side to all this Mafia obsession. Over the years, they argue, Ms. Schiro has tried time and again to sell the story of her life as the common-law wife of the senior Mr. Scarpa, who died in prison in 1994.

With each new telling and each new potential co-author (including the love and dating coach, Sandra Harmon), she has sharpened her portrayal of Mr. DeVecchio. In her evolving accounts, defense lawyers argue, Mr. DeVecchio has gone from a man who met privately with her husband to a man she heard giving orders to kill.

“That’s pure fantasy,” said a defense lawyer, Douglas Grover, in his opening statement. “She’s making it up.”

Prosecutors built the groundwork for her credibility last week with testimony from a Mafia expert and from F.B.I. agents who had worked with Mr. DeVecchio.

The Mafia expert, Sgt. Fred Santoro of the Police Department, seemed well at ease. A product of Bensonhurst himself, he lent the trial an old-time touch by cracking wise on Mafia policies for drug-dealing (frowned upon) and murder (get permission first). The federal agents recounted their suspicions about Mr. DeVecchio’s relationship with his informer.

By the end of the week, a real live Mafia associate cried on the witness stand, to the evident delight of the gallery. The witness, Lawrence Mazza, told of hunting Colombo rivals, armed to the teeth in a frequently repainted station wagon.

The judge overseeing the case, Gustin L. Reichbach, interjected with his own questions. He knew a thing or two about the F.B.I.; its agents had once counted him among the most dangerous protest organizers at Columbia University. When the witness mentioned a newspaper account of one killing, Justice Reichbach offered a qualification.

“Just because it appears in the newspapers,” he said, “doesn’t make it so.”

The writers packed into the gallery laughed and laughed. The judge leaned back in his big leather chair. The scales of justice glowed over his shoulder, in neon, bright red and blue.
495 2007-10-21 Now that Joe Torre is finished as the Yankees’ manager, his coaching staff may begin to scatter. Larry Bowa, the third-base and infield coach for the last two seasons, said yesterday that he was considering an offer from the Seattle Mariners.

“I haven’t committed one way or the other,” he said in a telephone interview. “They’d like to have their staff finalized, but I can’t do that right now.”

Yet with the Yankees beginning their search for a new manager, Bowa may not be able to wait.

The Yankees have contacted Don Mattingly, Joe Girardi and Tony Peña about the vacancy, with Mattingly scheduled to meet with ownership in Tampa, Fla., early next week. But they do not expect to name a successor until after the World Series.

“My first choice is to stay with the Yankees, but you learn in this game that there’s a process they have to go through,” Bowa said. “I think Seattle has a team with a chance to win.”

Bowa would be the Mariners’ third-base coach, a position he held in 2000, when the Mariners’ current manager, John McLaren, was the bench coach.

With the Yankees, Bowa has been instrumental in mentoring second baseman Robinson Canó. A former manager for the San Diego Padres and the Philadelphia Phillies, Bowa has experience that could make him an ideal bench coach if Mattingly, who has no managing experience, gets the Yankees’ job.
496 2007-10-21 The world champion Rok Flander beat Daniel Biveson in the final of the season-opening parallel giant slalom on the Snowboard World Cup circuit yesterday in Sölden, Austria. Adam Smith came in third by defeating Benjamin Karl in the small final.
497 2007-10-21 “Every member of Congress wants to stand close to God, and this was a chance for them to do it,” said Ross Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University, whose book “Strangers on a Hill” examined the evolution of the law.

But back to Mr. Smith. When he was denied unemployment benefits, he sued. The case went to the United States Supreme Court, which issued a ruling in 1990 that rocked religious and civil liberties groups.

Not too surprisingly, it rejected the claim that the total ban on peyote use violated Mr. Smith’s free exercise of religion. Far more important, it discounted earlier rulings saying that states had to be able to prove “a compelling state interest” for any actions that infringed on religious practice.

Religious groups were outraged, saying the ruling stripped away crucial protections. In response, in 1993 Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. (Who could vote against a law with a name like that?) The Supreme Court ruled it unconstitutional in 1997. After a few false starts, Congress in 2000 passed a retooled version, commonly known as Rluipa (pronounced ar-LOO-pah), which said governments could not impose any land use regulations that placed a substantial burden on religious activity unless there was a “compelling governmental interest.”

The idea, at least in part, was to protect both Christian megachurches facing neighborhood opposition and smaller mosques or Orthodox synagogues.

In the Westchester case, the zoning board cited neighborhood concerns about traffic and the impact on a quiet neighborhood. But the school was consistently upheld on the facts of the case by the district court and the appeals court, which said the village’s decision was based only on “intense and unrelenting pressure” from politically connected nearby residents.

“I think the conduct of the zoning board exemplified to a ‘T’ why Rluipa is such an important statute,” said Stanley Bernstein, one of the lawyers for the school and its executive vice president. “If we could be harassed like this, imagine what could happen to other institutions that are newer, younger, not hidden away on 26 bucolic acres.”

But the law, while enacted as a shield to protect hallowed American rights of religious freedom, can also be a sword, critics say, wielded against the hallowed American rights of local control and homeownership. Consider, for example, the bitter dispute over a proposed rabbinical college that could bring some 4,500 people to an area now zoned for single-family homes in Pomona in Rockland County. As in dozens of other Rluipa disputes, the community not only faces an enormously high bar for rejecting the project, it has to pay all the legal costs if it loses.

“It’s an issue Congress never even thought about during its enactment,” said Marci Hamilton, one of the lawyers representing Pomona. “All the input was from religious groups. None of it was about its impact on homeowners, and homeowners are one of the largest constituencies in the country.”

Absent an unlikely radical tweaking by Congress, the law seems headed for the increasingly conservative Supreme Court, where justices will be pulled in two ways. Federalism will cast doubts about federal law trumping local land use regulations, and respect for religion will remind them why the law was passed in the first place.

That said, in American life it’s hard to bet against religion. “Chances are if you had any efforts to modify it, you’d have parades of monsignors, ministers and rabbis trooping up to Capitol Hill,” said Professor Baker. “Elected officials want to do what’s popular. No one wants to antagonize religious groups.”
498 2007-10-21 A resolution is expected before year’s end. Bennett has until March 1 to meet a league deadline to file for relocation for the next season.

Seattle appears likely to become the third city to lose an N.B.A. team this decade. Vancouver lost the Grizzlies to Memphis in 2001, a year before the Hornets went from Charlotte to New Orleans. Before that, the league had not had a relocation since the Kings fled Kansas City for Sacramento in 1985.

Stern said this summer that he believed Seattle would find a way to keep the team, which earned the city’s only major pro championship. Gus Williams, Dennis Johnson and Jack Sikma led the Sonics to the N.B.A. title in 1979.

But this month, Stern sounded pessimistic about the Sonics’ future in Seattle.

“There doesn’t seem to be a lot of movement on a new building,” he said. “We always hope that there will be,” he added, noting that the franchise had started litigation.

“Welcome, again, to N.B.A. 101, which is about lawyers,” Stern said. “I don’t want to knock lawyers, having been one myself, but it’s not at all pleasant. But hopefully good things will happen once we throw the ball up in the regular season, and it will take people’s minds off of some other sidebars.”

Some fans want to show 11th-hour love to keep the Sonics, though no viable arena proposal exists to secure the team’s future in the city. Most fans are apathetic, because two stadiums were recently built downtown with large public subsidies for the Seahawks and Mariners.

Others want to spurn the franchise to spite Bennett. Many believe he never intended to keep the Sonics in Seattle after he bought them 15 months ago.

Bennett said ticket sales climbed after Durant was drafted but have since dropped, foreshadowing a possible repeat of last season, when, the Sonics said, they lost $17 million while finishing 31-51. As of Thursday, season-ticket packages were available in all price ranges. And Durant’s Seattle debut has gotten a lukewarm response — tickets remain for the home opener Nov. 1 against Phoenix.

The club is giving away more seats than ever. Each season-ticket holder has been given eight free tickets for games in November and December. They received two last season.

“Never in a million years did I envision this would go this long or be this uphill,” said Brian Robinson, a real estate investor and Sonics season-ticket holder who co-founded Save Our Sonics, a fan organization of about 6,000.

“I want this to be around for my kids to enjoy,” said Robinson, who grew up going to Sonics games with his father. “I have a 7-year-old son that should be all into the team right now, and we have to worry about this.”

Bennett has bemoaned a lack of fervor among Seattle officials and residents to keep the franchise.

“I would implore them to engage in the basketball,” Bennett said. “Come have fun. Bring your friends, your family, your business associates.”

Forward Nick Collison said he loved Seattle and felt the fans’ frustrations, but he acknowledged that this would be a weird season.

“You don’t know what the future will hold, but come on out and watch basketball,” Collison said. “If we play well, then we’ll be fun to watch. And people will come out.”

The player with the closest ties to the region is the starting point guard, Luke Ridnour, who grew up in Washington and starred at Oregon.

Entering his fifth season, he is currently the longest-tenured Sonic. Whether he is at the gym, the grocery store or just with friends, the questions are the same.

“Yeah, every single day,” Ridnour said. “It’s not, ‘How’s practice going?’ It’s, ‘Are you guys leaving?’ This is a city that has had basketball here forever. It’s been a great basketball city. Me being from here, obviously it’s a great situation. And you definitely want to be around.”

Ridnour added: “I think we’re going to be here. I think there will always be Sonics basketball here.”

Collison was born in Iowa and starred at Kansas. He would seem to be amenable to a move to the Southwest.

“Nah, not really,” Collison said. “This is my home now. I love it out here. I’ve been here four years now. So I’m not looking forward to leaving. Hopefully, they’ll find a way to get it done here. That would be my preference.”

Robinson, the Save Our Sonics co-founder, remained hopeful that Stern would broker an arena deal that would require more cash from the Sonics and less than the $400 million in public money that Bennett proposed in April during a failed arena presentation to the State Legislature.

“Clay Bennett may own the title to the team,” Robinson said, “but this team is part of the fabric of the community. David Stern is not going to waste Kevin Durant’s first three years in a litigious situation.”
499 2007-10-21 Pheasant hunting season brings out the best in Tess, a 5-year-old German wirehaired pointer who became a national champion despite the loss of a leg.

“When you let her out of the truck, she’s hunting from the second she jumps off that tailgate; just like that,” said Tess’s owner, Keith Kemmer, snapping his fingers.

“She never quits. The other dogs, by the end of the day, they’ll come up and lay by the truck. Not her.”

It was Kemmer who accidentally ran over the dog’s right rear leg with his pickup about four years ago. He said he was devastated, not only for the dog’s suffering, but also because she had shown great promise as a pointer.

“I thought about it all night long: should I put her down?” Kemmer said. “Then I thought maybe I could make a pet out of her. A house pet.”
500 2007-10-21 But this time around, it may take much longer to repair the damage and restore confidence than it did a century ago. It’s not only that the sums are larger now: even adjusting for a century of inflation, losses from the San Francisco earthquake totaled only about $18 billion in today’s dollars, according to Marc Weidenmier, an associate professor of economics at Claremont McKenna College, compared with the likely loss of hundreds of billions dollars related to subprime mortgages.

It’s also that the breadth and complexity of today’s global markets create risks so great that no group of business leaders — or even a single country — can control them.

When it comes to the valuing of the mortgage-backed securities that are at the heart of the subprime meltdown, no less an expert that Benjamin S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, admits he’s at a loss. “I’d like to know what those damn things are worth,” Mr. Bernanke said during the question-and-answer period after a speech in New York Monday night.

So would many ordinary homeowners who normally don’t concern themselves with the inner workings of the Fed. Unlike past panics, or even the crash of 1987, the current credit turmoil has affected ordinary consumers who merely want to secure a mortgage or refinance a loan. Rates have spiked for even the best-qualified borrowers, and home buyers with less than stellar credit histories now find themselves locked out.

This phenomenon goes both ways. Not only are people without a dime in stocks affected by market gyrations, but in an era when United States mortgage defaults can move markets from London to Mumbai to Shanghai, it seems as if bad decisions by a lender in Cleveland or a borrower in Miami can have worldwide implications.

On a trip last week to New Zealand to meet with investors, Byron R. Wien, chief investment strategist of Pequot Capital and a 40-year Wall Street veteran, noted, “every place I go they ask about subprime and climate change — those are the two big issues.”

It wasn’t supposed to work this way. Interconnected global markets should make the world economy more stable, according to traditional economic theory, with risk spread more widely and strength in one region offsetting weakness in another.

“In practice, we’re not seeing that happening,” says Richard Bookstaber, a veteran hedge fund manager and author of a new book, “A Demon of Our Own Design: Markets, Hedge Funds and the Perils of Financial Innovation.”

Although international financial links are nothing new, as the Panic of 1907 shows, what’s different now is how closely international markets are correlated with one another. “Everybody tends to invest in the same assets and employ the same strategies,” Mr. Bookstaber says, noting how just as Citigroup and Merrill Lynch suffered billions in losses from subprime loans, so did banks in France, Germany and Britain.

Indeed, Northern Rock, a British bank, suffered a run by depositors last month before the Bank of England effectively bailed it out.

The trend extends into stock exchanges in Asia, where shares in India and China are experiencing a parabolic rise. “You have speculative American money invested in India, just as you have speculative Indian money invested in India,” he says. “As markets become more linked, diversification doesn’t work as well.”

As a result, Mr. Bookstaber argues that today’s global financial markets may actually be more risky than in the past. That’s because the same types of investors are taking on the risky bets and then simultaneously heading for the exits when trouble comes, even if they’re on opposite sides of the world.

“If they’re more speculatively oriented, at the very time you have a problem they’re going to dump because they have so much leverage,” he says.

Historically, adds Mr. Bookstaber, there are two characteristics that precipitate financial crises: complexity and leverage. And the current subprime mess, in which risky mortgages were bundled together by Wall Street and then sold to investors who borrowed heavily to buy them and who may not have understood exactly what they were getting, pretty much fits this pattern.

This, too, has implications for ordinary consumers as well as the Masters of the Universe. Homeowners having trouble coming up with their mortgage payment can no longer call their local bank to renegotiate because their mortgage is being held by an investor thousands of miles away.

At the same time, foreigners seem to be emulating the American appetite for risk-taking and speculation, rather than learning from its dangers.

“We’re still the big spenders, but there’s evidence that’s starting to change,” says Mr. Weidenmier, citing China as one example. Not only is consumer spending there booming, but local investors have bid up shares on the Shanghai Stock Exchange by 432 percent over the last two years — many going into debt to get a piece of the action.

Now, just as problems in the United States have caused ripples in Europe, there are fears that a bursting of the Asian bubble could soon be felt in New York. A brief sell-off in Shanghai prompted a 400-point decline in the Dow last February, but both markets quickly bounced back. A prolonged plunge now in Chinese stocks might not be so easy to shake off, especially given the turmoil in credit markets in the United States and Europe, says David Malpass, chief economist at Bear Stearns. Of course, taking risks, even speculative ones, has always been a driving force behind economic growth and the dynamism of the capitalist system. John Maynard Keynes called these urges “animal spirits,” and experts like Mr. Wien disagree with the notion that globalization has made things more risky.

He argues that the newly rich in places like the Middle East can actually smooth things out by having the money to buy when everyone else is selling. That’s one reason his next stop after leaving New Zealand was Dubai.

Regardless of who’s right, Mr. Weidenmier argues that financial crises ultimately make the entire system stronger. Indeed, the Panic of 1907 led to the creation of the Federal Reserve, which has set monetary policy for the United States ever since. “Sometimes financial crises are actually good,” he says, “because they cleanse the system.”
501 2007-10-21 There was good news about cancer last week, a report that death rates in the United States have begun falling by 2.1 percent a year, nearly twice the rate of previous declines.

But the same report, by the American Cancer Society and other groups, also said certain cancers seem to be becoming more common — not hugely so, but noticeable. Among those increasing in men and women are myeloma and cancers of the thyroid and kidney. In women, melanoma and cancers of the bladder have increased; in men so have cancers of the liver and esophagus.

Why? Experts point to a mixed bag of facts, theories and educated guesses. One overarching culprit may be America’s level of obesity, which has been linked to increased risk of several types of cancer, including tumors of the kidney, liver and esophagus.

But there are much stronger risk factors for liver cancer. The major ones are the viruses that cause hepatitis B and C. In some people, those infections turn chronic and gradually lead to tumors. A vaccine that can prevent hepatitis B is used routinely in the United States. But not every country uses it, and liver cancer here may be rising in part because of cases among immigrants.

Hepatitis C is more of a homegrown problem. There is no vaccine, and infections surged in the 1960s and 1970s among drug users who shared needles. The virus then spread into the blood supply and may have infected tens of thousands of transfusion recipients before a test was developed to screen donated blood. Liver cancer is still turning up in people infected decades ago.
502 2007-10-21 The Bond Yields chart on the DataBank pages from Aug. 12 through last Sunday transposed the four-week yield changes for Treasury notes and municipal bonds. And the Regional Indexes chart in the DataBank on Oct. 7 and last Sunday used an incorrect scale; it should have indicated changes of plus or minus 8 percent, not 4 percent. Today’s charts, on Page 12, show the correct changes for the last four weeks. A reader pointed out the Bond Yields error in an e-mail message last week.
503 2007-10-21 Jessica Eve Lissy and Jeffrey Samuel Trey are to be married today at the Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Rabbi Ethan Linden is to officiate.

The bride, 34, who will take her husband’s name, is a seventh- and eighth-grade teacher of Judaic studies at the Hannah Senesh Community Day School in Brooklyn. She graduated magna cum laude from Yale and received a master’s degree in Jewish education from Hebrew University in Jerusalem.

She is a daughter of Marjorie and David Lissy of White Plains. Her father works in Manhattan, where he is the executive director of the Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel. Her mother works in Westport, Conn., as the office manager for Nantucket Plantsman, which does landscaping on Nantucket Island.

The bridegroom, 38, is a senior vice president and tax lawyer in the corporate tax department of Citigroup in New York. He graduated from Vassar and received his law degree, a master’s in tax law and an M.B.A. from Boston University.

He is a son of Sonia Trey of Cambridge, Mass., and the late Dr. Charles Trey. His father, an expert on liver disease, was the chief of gastroenterology and the medical director of liver transplantation at New England Deaconess Hospital. The bridegroom’s mother manages the private medical practice of Dr. Gary Trey, the bridegroom’s brother, at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
504 2007-10-21 Lesley Renee Gurkin, a daughter of Adrienne E. Gurkin of New York and Dr. Steven C. Gurkin of Whittier, Calif., was married last evening to David Kenneth Schulhof, a son of Paola N. Schulhof and Michael P. Schulhof of New York. Rabbi David Lincoln officiated at the Metropolitan Club in New York.

Mrs. Schulhof, 28, is a senior analyst at Ortelius Capital, a New York asset management firm. She graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles.

Her father retired as a radiologist in Whittier. Her mother teaches English as a second language at the Manhattan Learning Center and at Public School 15.

Mr. Schulhof, 36, is a founder and a chief executive of Evergreen Copyrights, a music publisher in New York. He graduated from Georgetown and received a law degree from New York University.

His mother was the owner until July of Victory Garden Antiques in East Hampton, N.Y. His father is the founder of GTI Group, an investment firm in New York. From 1993 to 1996, he was the chief executive of Sony Corporation of America. He is also a vice chairman of the board of trustees of New York University Hospitals Center.
505 2007-10-21 Red Bull, the soft drink company, has held 35 races since 2000, said Heather Walsh, a company spokeswoman, and about 8,000 teams have participated around the world. The company’s first race in the United States was in St. Louis in 2006.

Simultaneously, interest in the traditional youth version is also up, according to the All-American Soap Box Derby, which runs hundreds of races each year. In 1992, 2,000 children and teenagers participated, and in 2007, there are expected to be 7,000, said Jim Huntsman, the group’s chief executive.

Children start with a kit, Mr. Huntsman said, so design options are few, often limited to colors of paint.

Not so with adults, who seem to sign up to showcase their creativity, as demonstrated in the hours before the first race here.

How else to explain a fiberglass lobster on wheels, with wispy antennas and banded claws? Or the sneaker, utensils tray and wrestling ring that seemed chosen more for their curb appeal than for aerodynamics? And there was a lot of word play on pop culture references in such team names as The Wrath of Kong, Tu-PAC Men and Star Truck.

Team Inept, Mr. Leary’s team, took a more straightforward approach, with a car designed to actually look like a car.

The mini-Dodge measured nine feet long and three and a half feet wide and was three and a half feet tall. Its body had aluminum sheets stretched tightly over a frame of hollow one- and two-inch-square bars.

A lawn mower provided the steering column, as well as the seat. The grille came from a 1980s Chevy, and the eight-track tape deck, which played Otis Redding’s “I Can’t Turn You Loose,” was bought online.

“But the biggest challenge for us was making the car look right,” said Kieran Murphy, 38, a team member and firefighter who lives in Bellport, N.Y., as he added duct tape to the inside of his “Blues Brothers” hat to keep it on his head.

“As long as we don’t flip it, I know we have a good chance,” said Stephen Napoli, 38, a construction manager from East Moriches and the team’s captain, who wore a fake brown mustache, a blond wig and what looked like a vinyl chemise. “But win or lose, tonight we’re going out for a couple of pints.”

Carousing is not new to this tight-knit team, which also included Jerry Coogan, 38, an environmental contractor from Selden, N.Y., and Ed Loper Jr., 38, an electrician from Orient, N.Y.

When they were younger, a house owned by Mr. Napoli’s father in Center Moriches served as party central, a bachelor pad with cars parked on the lawn and empty beer cans stacked tall on the porch, Mr. Leary said.

After they married, the friends remained close, but as family and work obligations intervened, it wasn’t uncommon for two months to pass between get-togethers, Mr. Napoli said.

That changed in March 2006, when Billy Moran, a friend and classmate, died in a motorcycle accident.

While mourning, the friends realized the race could be a good way to both honor Mr. Moran — the words “Carry On” were scrawled on the car’s frame — and rekindle their bonds.

“You’re not supposed to lose a buddy in your mid-30s, especially when you’ve grown up together,” Mr. Leary said. “We were trying to come out of being bummed about it.”

But don’t read them wrong; this bunch was hardly morose. In fact, the upbeat banter between them gives the impression that their happiest moments are with one another.

At least, that was how it seemed six weeks earlier, on a blue-sky September day, when four of Team Inept’s members and some of their wives and children attached tires to the chassis of the soapbox entry in Mr. Murphy’s garage.

Like a pit crew, they worked quickly and in close proximity on their own small tasks. Mr. Murphy, lying on his back, tightened an axle nut, while Mr. Loper drilled a hole for the outboard tire support.

After two practice runs, they decided that the car would turn more easily if the front tires were moved closer to the chassis. They also took apart the wheels to reset the ball bearings inside.

For the third try, the driver was Mr. Coogan, and after a push, he was whooping past lawns dotted with curious neighbors. He steered left, then right, then made a full about-face turn.

“It turns really nice,” Mr. Coogan said. “And it only gets better from here.”

On race day in Providence, each team must perform a 30-second skit based on the car’s theme before the run begins. Team Inept did a Blues Brothers impersonation around the car, with Mr. Leary inside, then launched him down the hill with a shove.

A sharp 90-degree turn just past the starting line caused him to jam the brake, kicking up a puff of smoke, and the car briefly wobbled. But then, Mr. Leary was around the corner and gone, visible only on a giant video screen, his face clenched in a grimace.

Fifty seconds later, Team Inept’s heat was finished, with a top speed of 23 m.p.h. That time, and points from the skit, earned the team 22nd place. (In first place was a team driving an oversized calculator.)

On Angell Street, with the rest of the team on the way to the finish line to greet Mr. Leary, Mr. Murphy ducked behind a brick wall and covertly mixed a few drinks.

Then, they met their wives, who were on a lawn near the course. As the group walked down the street in search of dinner, Mr. Leary knew what his friends were thinking.

“I can see the wheels turning in their heads,” Mr. Leary said. “I know we will do this again.”
506 2007-10-21 The writer is a Democratic committeeman in Monmouth County.

I strongly disagree with your pro-tax-and-spend position. Over the last 15 years, members of the New Jersey Legislature, both Democrats and Republicans, have been fiscally irresponsible. While New Jersey’s economy was growing, they saw fit to outspend that growth and failed to balance the budget.

I, for one, am fully supportive of any initiative that will bring the New Jersey government to its knees! Maybe by that time the Legislature will wake up and address New Jersey’s fiscal problems in a responsible manner.

Until that time, the crushing debt should keep our legislative members in line.

Peter A. Tirri, president of the Paterson teachers’ union, did not once talk in his Oct. 7 letter about the children of Paterson and their needs.

As a community leader, I am concerned that the power of the educational establishment appears to be trumping an effective commitment to improving the quality of education for our children.

For once, Paterson has a superintendent who represents the community and is committed to the welfare of our children. Dr. Michael E. Glascoe not only talks about our children and their future, he also diligently works to create the opportunities they need to succeed.

It is disturbing that we cannot seem to count on our political or union leadership to partner with us. Where we see children’s futures, they see contracts. Our children are being used as pawns.

If Paterson is to renew itself and its educational system, this must stop. That is why we are organizing, to speak truth to power.

The writer is president of St. Paul’s Community Development Corporation.

Where Is the Plan for Affordable Housing?

Building homes that workers can afford is key to reviving New Jersey’s economy. But Gov. Jon S. Corzine’s delivery has, so far, fallen short of his promise to build or preserve 100,000 homes affordable to lower-income residents over 10 years. We were told we’d see a plan to achieve that goal by the end of 2006. Now 2007 is nearly over, and there’s still no plan.

As we and other housing advocates have told the governor and his staff, there are numerous no-cost and low-cost actions they could take today to boost production and preservation of affordable housing.

We are hopeful the situation will improve now that Joseph V. Doria Jr. is the new commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs. But meeting the state’s affordable housing needs will also require the governor’s leadership to ensure it is a priority across all departments.

Diane Sterner

Executive Director, Housing and Community Development Network of New Jersey

Trenton
507 2007-10-21 Mayor Ernest Davis got the shock of his political life last month when he lost the Democratic primary. He had never had a formidable opponent before, but Clinton Young, who promised to take Mount Vernon in a new direction after 12 years of Mr. Davis, came within a few hundred votes of getting the chance to do so.

The outcome was a clear signal of voter frustration with Mr. Davis, an affable man with a loyal core of supporters. But even many of those have deserted him after a series of humiliations for City Hall, including a federal investigation into mismanagement at the city’s Section 8 housing program and Urban Renewal Agency. Earlier this month, in an unrelated inquiry, federal agents seized records of the city’s trash-hauling contracts.

Mr. Davis’s tenure has been marked by big plans for economic revival through a series of mostly unrealized development projects. Take the weariness over the mayor’s perennial promises and his frayed relations with the City Council, add in concern about the recent investigations and the chronic problem of violent crime in this compact, four-square-mile city, and it is easy to see why confidence in Mr. Davis has been shaken.

But it is also possible to accept some points in Mr. Davis’s defense — that change takes time, that development of commercial areas and affordable housing is slowly taking hold, and that he has helped to knit things together in a troubled city that could be a lot worse off than it is.

This has been a nasty election campaign, marred by reports of voter intimidation and harassment on both sides, particularly a deplorable outburst in which Mr. Young called Mr. Davis’s supporters “jackasses.” We wish Mr. Davis had a stronger opponent than Mr. Young, who had a long but undistinguished tenure in the Legislature, and who has not offered a truly convincing agenda for pulling Mount Vernon back up. Of the two, Mr. Davis would seem the better choice, provided he wakes up from his near-death experience and redoubles his efforts to run the city as competently and as energetically as he says he can.

Meanwhile, Janet Snyder, the Republican candidate, stands outside the fray — and largely outside the political life of Mount Vernon, where Democrats vastly outnumber Republicans, and even local G.O.P. stalwarts don’t know much about her. We wish her and Mr. Young well, but we endorse Mr. Davis.
508 2007-10-21 Mayor Philip Amicone has come a long way, as a leader and public servant, since he took office in 2004. Back then he was a political novice, toiling under the long and lumpy shadow of his predecessor, John Spencer, who left office after bequeathing to Mr. Amicone an underachieving city, a collection of bad governing habits and even a chief of staff: Mr. Spencer’s wife.

Mr. Amicone has since shucked off his ties to the Spencer era while weathering the usual bouts of Yonkers civic turbulence. He has endured chronic crises over school financing and a scandal involving a corrupt school superintendent, and survived to smoke a ceremonial cigar with the former head of the N.A.A.C.P.’s local chapter, celebrating the end of the city’s 27-year battle over housing segregation. He has made some effort to overturn a notorious municipal culture of nepotism and secrecy. He has tried, in his low-key way, to conduct city business with an openness befitting the passionate engagement of the residents who turn out so reliably at meetings and forums to defend the city they love.

After spending so much time in a defensive crouch, Mr. Amicone, a Republican, is looking up and out. He is overseeing an amazing surge in development, one that promises to restore vibrant life to Yonkers’s weather-beaten downtown and waterfront. He is seeking re-election at a time when Yonkers — good old troubled Yonkers — has prospects for an era of economic growth and racial calm and healing.

This page has differed with Mr. Amicone on many occasions. We have prodded him to increase the city’s share of school financing and to put the interests of ordinary residents over those of clamoring developers. We have warned that the looming building boom threatens to overwhelm the city’s waterfront and displace the working-class and the poor. We cringed when he and his City Council allies went to extreme lengths to smooth the way for bulldozers at Ridge Hill, and disagreed with his unwavering support of a huge slot-machine breeding ground for gambling addicts at Yonkers Raceway.

For all that, Mr. Amicone has shown an ability to grow and to respond to his constituents’ needs. His Democratic opponent, Dennis Robertson, is a City Council member who promises change but is too avid a practitioner of the combative, heat-but-no-light style of politics that Yonkers should outgrow. Judging from what Mr. Amicone has accomplished so far, he is clearly the better person to entrust with Yonkers’s hopes for a brighter future. We endorse him for mayor.
509 2007-10-21 Jessica Kathryn Stone, the daughter of Ellyn Luise Stone of Westport, Conn., and Jason Lewis Stone of Trumbull, Conn., was married on Friday to Olivier François Beauchemin, the son of Oliver Frank Beauchemin of Waterville, Vt., and the late Marguerite Jacqueline Beauchemin, who lived in Taunton, Mass. Rabbi Binyamin Biber officiated at the Woodend Sanctuary in Chevy Chase, Md.

Mrs. Beauchemin, 31, is a senior manager of health and research communications for Special Olympics International in Washington. She graduated from the University of Connecticut.

Mr. Beauchemin, 32, is the manager of the network operations center at the networked solutions unit of Presidio, a technology design, management and services company in Greenbelt, Md.

The bride and bridegroom are part-time students at the University of Maryland, where she is studying for an M.B.A. and he for a bachelor’s degree in history.
510 2007-10-21 WHO says you can’t fight City Hall?

On Monday night, a small but vocal group of residents here pressured village officials into postponing a vote on whether to add zinc orthophosphate to its drinking water. The chemical is widely used to control corrosion in pipes, lower lead levels and reduce instances of brown tap water.

But the proposal has caused a stir in a village that has refused to add even cavity-fighting fluoride to its water and that recently won a competition for the county’s best-tasting water.

The Gazette, Croton’s local newspaper, has run front-page stories on the tempest, and the local Web site, Crotonblog, has been abuzz with editorials accusing Mayor Greg Schmidt of rushing to take action.

“Speak now to stop questionable additives from being forced on you, or forever hold your nose as you drink Croton’s water,” one opponent wrote.

A few residents took that message to heart at Monday’s meeting. Angela Mlinko, who has two boys under age 5, told village officials: “As a mother, we have to be concerned about E. coli in our spinach, mercury in our fish and lead in our Thomas the Tank engines. We should be conservative with anything that we’re putting into our drinking water.”
511 2007-10-21 The Bonistalls will tell you about Lindsey’s gift for impersonations — how even at age 6, she could do a perfect Urkel, complete with hitched-up pants. They will describe Lindsey as always in flight — from the time she did gymnastics as a child, through her teenage years as a cheerleader (she was the “flier,” the one tossed up) and later as a diver.

The childhood room that once housed their high-energy daughter now serves as the headquarters for the foundation, “Peace Outside Campus,” that the Bonistalls hope will be her legacy. The mission is to promote the safety of college students who live off campus. Even the foundation’s name brings another Lindsey story — her parents say she liked to end conversations by putting a peace sign to her lips, blowing a kiss and saying, “Peace Out.”

Lindsey’s death was anything but peaceful, and the Bonistalls — who have an older daughter, Kristen — are determined that other families avoid the kind of pain that they continue to endure. Today, family, friends and supporters will gather in Elmsford for the third annual Lindsey Run, a 5K race that raises money for the foundation.

The foundation’s Web site, www.peaceoutsidecampus.org, offers Living Off-Campus 101, which has a checklist of what to look for in an off-campus apartment, as well as information on personal safety. Mr. Bonistall has also been working to set up a certification program for off-campus housing. This has proved challenging. Landlords are not always cooperative, and colleges have been reluctant to become involved in crime prevention outside their boundaries.

Several schools, including Pace University, have foundation chapters on campus that aim to raise awareness of the issue among college students. And in a new foundation effort, Teens in Transition, college students will talk to high school seniors about living safely off campus. The program, which is scheduled to begin next month in White Plains, will open with a home video of Lindsey at her high school graduation, followed by headlines about her murder.

The Bonistalls attended the entire trial, listening to all the horrific details. They went, Mrs. Bonistall said, “because it was the last physical thing we could do for our daughter.” Mr. Bonistall said there were times when he wanted to leap over the railing to stop Mr. Cooke from talking about Lindsey. He said he restrained himself by repeating a mantra that he and his wife used to get through the ordeal: “D.A.G.” — dignity and grace.

Every day is still hard for the Bonistalls. They attend a support group for survivors of homicide victims. It’s a club that no one wants to belong to, Mr. Bonistall said. On the other hand, he added, “It’s the one place where someone can say, ‘I know how you feel,’ and they really do.”
512 2007-10-21 Perhaps it’s today’s Babylonian climate — impending environmental catastrophe; an unending battle in Iraq; drug-addled, pole-dancing pop tarts — that has fashion designers and nabobs of the night looking back to another turbulent time: 1920s Berlin. From the ashes of World War I, which left Germany an economic and political mess, rose the Weimar Republic, in all its artistic, intellectual and debauched glory. It was a “decade when everything appeared to have become unhinged,” Ian Buruma writes in the catalog for “Glitter and Doom: German Portraits From the 1920s,” last winter’s exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Painters, intellectuals, prostitutes and gender-bucking entertainers led the show in this erotic metropolis. Life was a cabaret — a titillating theater of ideas, sex and song, all in a cigarette haze.

Fashion is its own theater, and cabaret took center stage on the fall runways. While L’Wren Scott raided Marlene Dietrich’s closet, showing sharp-tailored suits and slouchy men’s trousers — “a girl should always have a corset in her closet,” says the designer — Dolce & Gabbana added a little S-M, strapping models down with patent leather belts, their eyes hidden behind black masks. Otto Dix could have painted the louche ladies at John Galliano with their rouged cheeks, blood-red lips and smoky eyes. Not to mention the chorus line of feathers, hats and lacquered Sally Bowles-style pageboys that traipsed down the runway.

So where to take in the torch-song chanteuse, the chair-straddling ecdysiast, the ladies of the night dressed up in drag? Eighty years later, Berlin, which Netley Lucas described as “the most lurid” of cities in her 1927 book, “Ladies of the Underworld,” is at it again with the ever-popular KitKatClub, a vice-friendly spot where Kate Moss once showed up in her best fetish wear. In New York, the German diva Ute Lemper brings her sultry songbook of Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht to the Neue Galerie this November.

For more degenerate art and artifice, the Box on the Lower East Side serves up enough naughty fare — led by M.C. Raven O, a modern-day Joel Grey — to frighten the neighbors who have threatened to shutter it. “This place makes people feel liberated at a time when we are back to 1950s political correctness,” says the Box’s co-owner Simon Hammerstein, who takes a stand against the city’s current buttoned-up no-smoking, no-trans-fat mood. Political correctness hasn’t deterred Spiegelworld, either, a cabaret theater that is bringing its risqué show “Absinthe” to Miami this December. “It’s just sexy entertainment,” says one of the Spiegelworld performers, Julie Atlas Muz, who does a topless number in a very large bubble. “It’s a lot better than watching porn by yourself.”
513 2007-10-21 As Adam Smith first described clearly, individuals who pursue only their own narrow interests in a competitive system often inadvertently create widespread social gains. But not always. Unlike many of his modern disciples, Smith was keenly aware of the invisible hand’s limitations. Individual and social interests often diverge, he realized, and in such cases, greater competition makes matters worse. If a firm can cut costs by removing the filter from its smokestack, for example, it will feel greater pressure to do so when competition intensifies.

If our social ills are indeed rooted in increased competition, our only recourse, Reich argues, is to change the rules. Denouncing greed is simply wasted energy. If we want less inequality, we must make taxes more progressive. If we want cleaner air and water, we must adopt more stringent environmental laws.

Reich’s narrative begins with his account of the “not quite golden age” — roughly, the three decades following World War II — in which limited competition enabled large companies to earn high profits. High profits, in turn, enabled unions to bargain for high wages and benefits. Legislators, who were less influenced by corporate cash in those days, passed laws in the public interest.

Things changed when the Internet and other new communications and transportation technologies enabled the economy’s most able producers to extend their reach. Many established firms were swept away.

At about the same time, financial deregulation increased the influence of capital markets on corporate behavior. Wall Street’s message to chief executives was “Slash your payrolls or we’ll buy your company and hire someone who will.”

Reich notes that consumers and investors have profited handsomely from these developments. Wal-Mart may offer its employees low wages and benefits and squeeze its suppliers to do likewise. But it also offers extremely low prices. Investment managers may pressure corporations to lay workers off, but they also generate robust returns for their clients.

As citizens, however, we have fared less well. Competition has driven salaries of the best performers in every sector to unparalleled heights, while the incomes of all others have stagnated. Today’s more competitive environment has also made it harder for us to insulate ourselves from risks, especially those related to health and employment security. Some 47 million Americans now lack health insurance, up seven million since 2000.

Why hasn’t government stepped in? Again, Reich fingers greater competition as the culprit. Once some companies discovered they could gain an edge by influencing government decisions in their favor, rivals had little choice but to join the fray. And once some candidates began altering their votes to attract contributions, others faced strong pressure to follow suit. Reich documents in lurid detail the explosive growth of corporate lobbying expenditures and campaign contributions since the 1970s.

Can other institutions assume government’s abandoned role? Reich thinks not. Reliance on voluntary “corporate social responsibility,” he argues persuasively, is a pale substitute for effective laws against corporate misconduct. The only remedy, he concludes, is to purge corporate cash from the political system. This, of course, will be a tall order.

But because attempts to buy influence are often mutually offsetting, there is hope. Microsoft lobbies Congress to inhibit Google, only to prompt costly retaliation from Google. One legislator sells his vote, only to see rivals promise even greater favors. Because the process resembles a wasteful military arms race, astute political leaders ought to be able to persuade warring factions to sign an arms-control agreement.

Reich probably doesn’t expect any such agreement in the waning months of the Bush administration. But today’s presidential candidates should study his message carefully. “Keeping supercapitalism from spilling over into democracy,” he writes, “is the only constructive agenda for change.” All else is “frolic and detour.”

“Supercapitalism” is a grand debunking of the conventional wisdom in the style of John Kenneth Galbraith. Like Galbraith, Reich will draw fire from economists for some of the details of his argument. I think he misses the mark, for example, in saying that economies of scale are less important than in the 1950s. Now, as then, giving consumers more product variety means smaller production runs with higher unit costs. And because wealthier customers demand greater variety, production runs are indeed often smaller than before. But firms can still cut their unit costs by expanding their markets, just as in the 1950s, and heightened competition creates more pressure than ever to do so.

For present purposes, nothing of importance hinges on that point. Indeed, the main thrust of Reich’s argument is right on target. Those who seize their opportunities in highly competitive environments tend to survive and prosper. “To confuse greed with opportunity,” he writes, “is to confound desire with availability.”

It’s often useful to get angry when things aren’t going well. But moral outrage is counterproductive unless directed at the right targets. By focusing our attention on those who continue to block effective campaign finance reform, Reich shows that he can spot a worthy target when he sees one.
514 2007-10-21 Two weeks ago, Cincinnati was one of the most surprising teams in the nation, undefeated and thinking about championships. After a 24-17 loss at Pittsburgh yesterday, the No. 23 Bearcats are tied for last place in the Big East.

“What you saw out there was a poorly coached football team, and that stops and starts with me,” Brian Kelly, the Bearcats’ first-year coach, said after his team allowed two 100-yard rushers and was shut out in the second half.

LaRod Stephens-Howling rushed for 100 yards and scored the go-ahead touchdown with 5 minutes 3 seconds to play, and LeSean McCoy had 137 yards on 25 carries as Pittsburgh (3-4, 1-1 Big East) defeated a ranked team for the first time since 2004.

Cincinnati was coming off its first loss in 10 games, against Louisville. The Bearcats’ No. 15 ranking heading into that game was their highest in 53 years.

Pitt had lost 9 of its previous 10 games against teams from the Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A).
515 2007-10-21 THE bull market in stocks is more than five years old. Surprisingly, the bull market in gold has been running even longer.

A new study shows just how unusual it is for these two types of asset classes to perform this well together for this long. Entitled “Analysis of the Investment Potential and Inflation-Hedging Ability of Precious Metals,” the study has been circulating as an academic working paper since the summer. Its authors are James Ross McCown, an associate professor of economics at Oklahoma City University, and John R. Zimmerman, who recently received a bachelor’s degree in finance from that institution. A version is at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1002966.

The researchers examined the relationship between gold and the stock market from 1970 through the end of 2006. That starting point was chosen because it wasn’t until the late 1960s that gold’s price began to fluctuate freely, Professor McCown said in an interview. The study found that, on average, gold and stocks have moved in opposite directions since that point. In other words, what historically has been good for gold has not usually been good for stocks, and vice versa.

The researchers gained insight into the cause of this relationship by analyzing the role of inflation. They found that the price of gold tended to rise and fall with changes in investors’ collective expectations about inflation. In contrast, stocks tended to have just the opposite relationship to inflation, performing poorly when inflation expectations were rising. (They measured this expected inflation rate by comparing the yields on Treasury notes and bonds with those of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, of comparable maturities. Because TIPS weren’t created until 1997, this portion of the researchers’ analysis focused on just the years since their debut.)

These findings, of course, add to the mystery of the strong recent performances of both stocks and gold, since the correlations that emerged from the study were strongly significant, statistically speaking. Nevertheless, inflationary expectations have actually declined in recent years: Based on the yield difference between the 10-year Treasury note and the 10-year TIPS, expected inflation has declined from 2.56 percent a year at the beginning of 2005 to 2.35 percent now. Using the historical precedents, a forecaster in early 2005 would have expected such a decline in expected inflation to produce a rally for stocks and a decline for gold.
516 2007-10-21 The work will require five spacewalks and the extensive use of robotic arms. Moving the 17.5-ton solar array and truss alone, Dr. Parazynski said, is “perhaps one of the most audacious things that we’ve done in space.”

The cloud over the ambitious mission is, once again, safety. Engineers at the NASA Engineering and Safety Center have argued that the launching should be delayed until December so that at least three heat-resistant panels on the leading edge of the craft’s wings can be replaced.

Experts at the center, which was formed after the Columbia tragedy to act as a second opinion on safety issues, expressed concerns that the protective coating on the panels was showing a surprising amount of decay — more than the previously accepted methods for testing the panels would suggest. They now believe that they do not fully understand the process of deterioration.

Though there were no official dissents entered against the decision to launch, NASA’s chief engineer wrote his concerns into the record. The safety center, which does not have a vote in the matter, did not change its recommendation against launching.

Mr. Hale conceded that in the worst case, the decay could lead to a burned-through panel and the “catastrophic loss of vehicle,” but he insisted that the possibility was remote. Even if there is damage, it can be detected and repaired in orbit, he said.

The decision to launch has drawn criticism from some who say it mirrors schedule-driven decisions that doomed the crews of the Challenger in 1986 and the Columbia in 2003. The newspaper Florida Today published an editorial last Monday that criticized the agency for “rolling the dice” and argued that flying now was “a risk NASA should not take.”

The Harmony module is inextricably linked to the loss of the Columbia. The module was originally called Node 2, and NASA’s leaders exerted intense pressure to launch it by February 2004, a year after the Columbia was to launch.

The Columbia Accident Investigation Board report noted that before the accident, NASA was hard-pressed to prove it could meet schedules and budgets. If the launching deadline could not be met, it was believed, “NASA would risk losing support from the White House and Congress for subsequent space station growth,” the board said.

NASA headquarters even sent a computer screen saver to managers in the human spaceflight program that displayed a live countdown to Feb. 19, 2004 — the official date for the Node 2 launch — in days, hours, minutes and seconds. That pressure led managers to cut corners, the safety board found, especially in its consideration of the threats of insulating foam.

During the Columbia’s ascent, a 1.67-pound piece of foam broke from a ramp on the external fuel tank and smashed into the leading edge of the shuttle’s left wing. During re-entry two weeks later, superheated plasma entered the wing like a torch and destroyed the craft.

NASA officials and many workers say the space agency has changed since then. Derek Hassman, the lead station flight director for the coming mission, recalled at a press conference that in the old days, “Node 2 was held up as the be all and end all of the assembly sequence.” Now, he said, “I can say from my perspective, it’s night and day.”

At a press conference on Tuesday, officials said that all concerns had been taken seriously and that the space agency would continue to work on getting a better understanding of the panel issue. “I would love to be in a position of saying we understand all of our problems completely,” Mr. Hale said, but “the fact of the matter is that this is a very complicated vehicle — this is an old vehicle — and there are a lot of loose ends out there.”

Pamela A. Melroy, the mission’s commander and a retired Air Force colonel, said she and the crew were comfortable with the decision to launch. “With a 12-hour discussion, I feel very confident that everybody’s voice was heard,” she said in a press conference on the shuttle runway as the crew arrived at Kennedy Space Center on Friday.

In addition to Colonel Melroy, Colonel Zamka and Dr. Parazynski, the crew includes Paolo A. Nespoli, an Italian representing the European Space Agency; Col. Douglas H. Wheelock of the Army; and Stephanie D. Wilson. A seventh astronaut, Daniel M. Tani, will be on board to take his place aboard the space station with its commander, Peggy A. Whitson, and Col. Yuri I. Malenchenko, a Russian flight engineer.

The crew will bring back Clayton C. Anderson, who has served aboard the station since June. By coincidence, it will be the first time that there will be two female commanders in space.

John M. Logsdon, the director of the Institute of Space Policy at George Washington University and a member of the Columbia investigation board, acknowledged that the run-up to the mission “has some resemblance to the normalization of deviance,” using the term for the gradual playing down of safety concerns in the Challenger and Columbia disasters. “Clearly, there is some schedule pressure,” he said.

But Dr. Logsdon said he was loath to second-guess NASA’s current leadership, including Mr. Hale; William H. Gerstenmaier, the human spaceflight chief; and the agency’s administrator, Michael D. Griffin. He said they were “extremely competent engineers” who had “heard all the pros and cons” and operated under a bright spotlight.

“It’s a gutsy call,” Dr. Logsdon said. “It’s their job to make these tough judgments. I’m glad I’m not them.”
517 2007-10-21 Kyoto, Japan, is encouraging tourists to visit the city between Dec. 1 and March 31, when it will open normally restricted heritage sites, like the Chion-in Temple; celebrate the cold with various flower and light festivals; and, most important, offer hotel deals. Two hundred guests will receive free room upgrades at the following hotels: Kyoto Hotel Okura, the Westin Miyako Kyoto, Kyoto Brighton Hotel, Kyoto Royal Hotel & Spa, ANA Hotel Kyoto, Rihga Royal Hotel Kyoto, Grand Prince Hotel Kyoto, Kyoto Tokyu Hotel, Yachiyo Ryokan, and Hotel Nishiyama; 20 guests will receive free upgrades at Yoshida-sanso.

Also, the Hiiragiya Ryokan will give every guest a set of original lacquered chopsticks, and the Hyatt Regency Kyoto will offer a four-nights-for-the-price-of-three promotion. For more information, visit www.kyotowinterspecial.com.
518 2007-10-21 AKIYAMA--Emiko . Native New Yorker, graduate of Beaver College and Columbia University, retiree of Cornell University Medical College, recipient of the 4th order Imperial recognition awarded by the Japanese Government, tireless volunteer to numero...
519 2007-10-21 GULBRANDSEN--Natalie Webber , former Moderator of the Unitarian Universalist Association, of Newton, MA, formerly of Wellesley, MA, died at her home on October 17, 2007. Born July 7, 1919 in Beverly, MA, she was the oldest of five children born to...
520 2007-10-21 APPLEBAUM--Milton . Be loved husband of Pearl, loving father of Steven and Janet, Nancy and Bruce. Brother of Sherry Gordon. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. Service Monday 1:30pm at Riverside, 21 W. Broad St., Mt. Vernon....
521 2007-10-21 Red Bull Soapbox Race Providence is held in Providence, RI; soapbox derbies grow in popularity; photos (M)...
522 2007-10-22 An interesting tidbit from the Apple earnings call: Of the 1.4 million iPhones sold so far, perhaps 250,000 of them were sold to people who wanted to unlock them from the AT&T network....
523 2007-10-22 John McCain does better than anyone against Hillary Rodham Clinton in the hypothetical one-on-one match-ups....
524 2007-10-22 Bank of America said its head of structured products left the company on Friday, one day after it reported a 32 percent decline in third-quarter profits. The executive, Chris Hentemann, was succeeded by George Ellison, who had been Bank of America...
525 2007-10-22 Aired Friday night on CBS: Halloween is just around the corner. I'm all set for Halloween. This morning, I got up early and tested the electric fence. I mean, we're adults here - do you, as adults, do you dress up? Do you put on little costumes an...
526 2007-10-22 The Ryada Capital Investment Company, a Kuwaiti money manager, is prepping a $100 million Shariah-compliant hedge fund product, hoping to take advantage of the growing demand for investment products that comply with Islamic law. "There's huge liqu...
527 2007-10-22 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange, one of the nation's largest options markets, will be accepting bids next Tuesday from buyers interested in acquiring the exchange. And, it appears, there will be no shortage of potential buyers kicking the tires. A...
528 2007-10-22 Citic Securities, a top state-controlled investment bank in China, will invest $1 billion in Bear Stearns and form a joint venture with the firm in Asia, the two companies announced early Monday. The deal comes amid speculation that Bear Stearns m...
529 2007-10-22 Google's acquisition of Jaiku, a small Finnish start-up active in the obscure field of microblogging - a word most often associated with the better-known company Twitter - might not appear to be an earth-shaking event. But the deal, announced this...
530 2007-10-22 The Red Sox are winners -- they, and their fans, will just have to get used to it....
531 2007-10-22 SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 22 — Apple’s earnings report today leapt ahead of analysts’ already optimistic expectations. The company posted record Macintosh sales numbers for its fiscal fourth quarter, showing that the company is climbing into the league of the dominant personal computer makers, Hewlett-Packard and Dell.

The company reported quarterly profits of $904 million, or $1.01 a share, up from $542 million, or 62 cents, in the same quarter a year ago, an increase of 67 percent. Analysts had predicted profit of 85 cents a share.

Sales rose to $6.22 billion from $4.84 billion. Gross margin also surged, to 33.6 percent from 29.2 percent a year ago.

But it was the absolute number of Macintosh sales that caused the company’s stock to shoot up more than 6 percent in after-hours trading.

Apple said it sold 2.16 million Macintosh computers during the quarter. The market research firm Dataquest estimated last week that it had sold 1.3 million computers, and I.D.C. put the figure at 1.1 million. Dell sold 5 million computers and H.P. sold 4.3 million in the same period, according to the I.D.C. report.
532 2007-10-22 As part of its past efforts to settle its antitrust problems, Microsoft has reached costly agreements with competitors that were its most outspoken critics, including Sun Microsystems, I.B.M. and Novell. A complaint by Sun in 1998 began the European antitrust investigation.

The private settlements between Microsoft and competitors, analysts say, typically included cross-licensing and technology-sharing provisions.

What is clear is how much Microsoft’s legal room for maneuver was undermined by the ruling last month by the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The court reaffirmed that Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, had abused its market power and said the company must obey a 2004 European Commission order to share confidential computer code with competitors.

After the courtroom setback, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, wrote a conciliatory letter to Neelie Kroes, the European competition commissioner, according to a commission official who declined to be named. Mr. Ballmer later flew to the Netherlands, where Ms. Kroes lives, and they agreed on the terms of the deal.

The upper hand, legal experts say, was certainly held by Ms. Kroes. “She was really negotiating from a position of strength, which she did not have before the ruling by the Court of First Instance,” said Andrew I. Gavil, a law professor at Howard University.

The move by Microsoft, according to industry analysts, is a significant step that the company wants to remove the lingering cloud that the European antitrust has cast over the company’s business and its stock price.

“Financially, the antitrust issues have not had a material effect on Microsoft, and it’s not yet clear that this agreement will have much impact on the software market,” said Charles di Bona, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. “But it does help to remove the European cudgel that has been hanging over the company’s head. It removes an element of uncertainty, which shareholders hate.”

Microsoft has paid nearly 1 billion euros, or $1.43 billion, in fines since the commission’s initial ruling and could face up to 1.6 billion euros more, which began accumulating in December 2005 after Microsoft failed to provide the protocols. Ms. Kroes said she would decide before the end of the year whether Microsoft must pay the additional fines.

Ms. Kroes cast the agreement as a big win for Microsoft’s rivals, especially companies that rely on open-source software like the Linux operating system, an increasingly popular alternative to Microsoft. Linux has done particularly well on server computers, where its main competitor is Microsoft’s server software.

To thrive in the marketplace, open-source software must work well with Microsoft’s desktop programs, notably the Windows personal computer operating system. More than 90 percent of all PC’s run on Windows.

The European order mandates that Microsoft share its technology information on fair terms, so that competing software can work smoothly, or interoperate, with Windows desktop software. It was those terms of interoperability that will be much more favorable to Microsoft competitors, so that the company’s dominance in product cannot thwart competition in another, closely related software market.

“These changes in Microsoft’s business practices, in particular towards open-source developers, will profoundly affect the software industry,” Ms. Kroes said in a statement. “The repercussions of these changes will start now and will continue for years to come.”

Microsoft said it would not pursue a final appeal to the European Court of Justice, which could have drawn the case out another two to three years. Microsoft said it would make the server protocols available for purchase through its Web site, www.microsoft.com/protocols.

Under the agreement, software developers will only pay a one-time fee of 10,000 euros, or $14,300, to gain access to Microsoft’s communications protocols, which specify how to exchange data between Windows and rival products. These protocols are trade secrets, not patents. If competitors want to license Microsoft’s patents, they must pay a per-unit royalty of 0.4 percent of the value of the product sold. Microsoft had originally demanded 5.95 percent of sales as royalties.

“This is a huge breakthrough,” said Georg Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation-Europe, a group that had challenged Microsoft’s practice of using confidential server protocols. “Microsoft is finally doing what the commission ordered it to do. This will level the playing field.”
533 2007-10-22 Crude oil prices dropped more than a dollar, offering some respite to investors weary of spiking energy costs. Light, sweet crude flirted with the $90 mark last week and closed today at $87.56 a barrel. And the ailing dollar, another problem area for investors, improved slightly against the euro.

The day’s cheerful outcome did not seem very likely in the morning, when investors appeared to be facing another gray day. The Dow dropped over 100 points at the opening bell, reflecting similar declines in the Asian and European markets, but crawled back in morning trading and was in positive territory through most of the afternoon.

Foreign stock markets ended the day down as they absorbed the news that sent the Dow to a loss of 2.6 percent on Friday, the 20th anniversary of the 1987 “Black Monday” crash. Foreign investors worried that the housing slump and problems in the credit market would seriously slow fourth-quarter growth and crimp demand among American consumers for Asia’s exports.

In Europe, London’s FTSE index 100 fell about 1 percent. The German DAX stock market index was down 1.1 percent, and the Paris market fell by around 1.4 percent.

Hong Kong’s benchmark index of share prices fell by almost 3.3 percent, while in Japan the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped by more than 2.2 percent. South Korean stocks fell by 3.25 percent. Asia’s smaller markets were also hard hit: stocks in the Philippines slid by roughly 4 percent.

In Asia, the declines rekindled what analysts have been referring to as a “flight from risk,” a phenomenon that hit Asian and emerging markets after the subprime mortgage crisis erupted in late July.

“There’s going to be credit rationing and risk aversion,” said Alastair Newton, managing director and senior political analyst at Lehman Brothers. Investors, he said, “were hypnotized by returns and oblivious to risk.”

Along with a retreat from relatively risky Asian stocks, Asian currencies fell against the dollar, while the dollar dropped against major currencies such as the Japanese yen and the euro. Gold, which has been spiraling higher in recent weeks on fears of rising global inflation and a falling dollar, fell along with other commodities.

Concerns that a slowing American economy would crimp demand for bulk commodities such as copper sent other commodity prices down today. But analysts said the long-term demand remained robust thanks to strong economic growth and demand for building materials in China and India.

And in one sign that Monday was something of an unusual day for Wall Street, shares of Countrywide Financial, a mortgage-lender rocked by the summer’s subprime collapse, finished the day up nearly 3 percent, at $15.68 a share.
534 2007-10-22 SINGAPORE, Oct. 22 — Renewed concerns about the health of the American economy sent Asian stocks sharply lower today, and European stocks also registered declines in early trading.

Following a dramatic decline by stock prices in the United States on Friday — the 20th anniversary of the 1987 “Black Monday” stock market crash — investors in Asia sold off stocks on worries that the United States mortgage crisis would crimp demand among American consumers for Asia’s exports.

Hong Kong’s benchmark index of share prices fell by almost 3.3 percent, while in Japan the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped by more than 2.2 percent. South Korean stocks fell by 3.25 percent. Asia’s smaller markets were also hard hit: stocks in the Philippines slid by roughly 4 percent.

In Europe during early trading, London’s FTSE 100 was down 88 points, or 1.4 percent, but was trading off its lows. The German DAX stock market index was down 1.3 percent, and the Paris market had fallen by around 1.8 percent.

In Asia, the declines rekindled what analysts have been referring to as a “flight from risk,” a phenomenon that hit Asian and emerging markets after the subprime mortgage crisis erupted in late July.
535 2007-10-22 SINGAPORE, Oct. 22 — Renewed concerns about the health of the American economy sent Asian stocks sharply lower today.

Following a dramatic decline by stocks in the United States on Friday — the 20th anniversary of the 1987 “Black Monday” stock market crash — investors in Asia sold off stocks on concerns that the U.S. mortgage crisis would crimp demand among American consumers for Asia’s exports.

Hong Kong’s benchmark index of share prices fell by more than 2.5 percent, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped by almost 2.4 percent. Asia’s smaller markets were also hard hit: stocks in the Philippines slid by almost 4 percent.

The declines rekindled what analysts have been referring to as a “flight from risk” that hit Asian and emerging markets after the subprime mortgage crisis erupted in late July. “There’s going to be credit rationing and risk aversion,” said Alastair Newton, managing director and senior political analyst at Lehman Brothers. Investors, he said, “were hypnotized by returns and oblivious to risk.”

Along with a retreat from relatively risky Asian stocks, Asian currencies fell against the U.S. dollar, while the dollar dropped against major currencies such as the Japanese yen and the Euro. Gold, which has been spiraling higher in recent weeks on fears of rising global inflation and a falling dollar, fell along with other key commodities.

Financial shares such as Mizuho Financial Group led the declines after an announcement of lower profits by Wachovia heightened concerns that the fallout from the subprime problems in the United States were spreading. A rising yen also hit Japanese exporters such as Canon.

Gold’s decline along with the dollar was somewhat paradoxical considering its traditional role as a hedge against the currency’s depreciation. Analysts said that demand from fast-growing India, where the popularity of gold jewelry makes it one of the world’s largest consumers of the precious metal, had become a new force in the market. Any fears that India’s economy might slow or that demand for gold jewelry might suffer could also push down global prices for gold, despite a falling U.S. dollar.
536 2007-10-22 The Charlotte Bobcats reserve forward Adam Morrison will probably miss the season after a magnetic resonance imaging test revealed a torn ligament in his left knee. Morrison was injured Saturday in a preseason game against the Lakers while trying to defend Luke Walton on a drive to the basket.
537 2007-10-22 A.M.D. and its allies dispute that, maintaining that Intel’s pricing policies in the United States and abroad are designed to maintain a near-monopoly on the chip market and that they violate the Sherman Antitrust Act. Intel, which was founded by engineers who both developed the chip and made repeated innovations that made it smaller and more powerful, controls 80 to 90 percent of the microprocessor market. American antitrust law permits a company to hold a monopoly, but it forbids a company from leveraging its dominance to restrict competition.

A.M.D. has asserted that Intel offers rebates and discounts that, in effect, result in its chips being sold at below the cost of production, a practice that some courts in cases involving other companies have said can be a violation of antitrust law. Intel acknowledges that it offers discounts and rebates, but denies that its prices are below cost or at predatory levels.

F.T.C. officials said that at least two of the five commissioners have recommended that the chairwoman open a formal investigation. But Ms. Majoras has declined without elaboration to authorize a formal inquiry, the officials said.

Nancy N. Judy, the commission’s spokeswoman, said Ms. Majoras would not comment about the Intel matter. Because federal law and commission rules prohibit officials from disclosing details about an antitrust inquiry, officials would discuss it only on the condition of not being identified.

The officials said that the agency, which is headed by commissioners appointed by the White House but is supposed to be independent of the Bush administration, gives the chairman authority to direct the staff on when to open a formal inquiry. By law, no more than three of the commissioners can be of the same political party.

The Bush administration has been criticized by some antitrust experts as taking a less forceful posture on antitrust issues than other administrations. The F.T.C. has been somewhat more aggressive than the Justice Department in antitrust enforcement.

Ms. Majoras was a senior official in the antitrust division at the Justice Department earlier in the Bush administration. She played a central role in the settlement of the government’s long-running antitrust case against Microsoft. Though officials said they did not know why Ms. Majoras had not moved forward with a formal inquiry, they offered several possible explanations.

They said that she might be skeptical of the antitrust theory underlying the case, or that she might want to await the outcome of a different case brought by the F.T.C. that involves an interpretation of the same section of the Sherman Act. They also said she might be concerned that there was little American regulators could add to the proceedings already undertaken by foreign authorities.

A person familiar with the commission’s investigative process, speaking not about the Intel case specifically, said the agency’s staff sometimes preferred not to elevate a case to a formal inquiry — particularly when the subject is cooperating and fears the adverse publicity that comes with a formal inquiry — because it is far easier to obtain evidence. Once the inquiry is elevated, this person said, the commission may find itself in an adversarial relationship with the company.

Chuck Mulloy, a spokesman at Intel, said the company had been closely cooperating with the commission staff and provided it with a significant amount of information from the foreign inquiries and the lawsuit.

A.M.D. does not have the ability to make all microprocessors for any of the largest computer makers, and the company has said in court papers that because those makers have to rely in part on Intel products, Intel is able to threaten to cut off supply or offer substantial discounts in return for commitments not to do business with A.M.D. Among the accusations A.M.D. has made are that some computer makers that do business with it have been punished by Intel.

Three months ago, the European Commission issued a statement of objections, or an official charge sheet, against Intel, saying the company had engaged in anticompetitive conduct.

In 2005, Japanese regulators ruled that Intel had violated its antitrust law. Intel agreed to abide by the ruling but said it disagreed with its findings and antitrust analysis. And last month, Korean authorities said they had sent a statement of objections to Intel based on their preliminary conclusion that Intel abused its market power in South Korea.

Intel has said that its discounts and rebates are a legitimate reflection of competition in the marketplace and do not violate American or foreign laws. Company executives have also accused A.M.D. of resorting to regulatory and legal brawling as part of a public relations campaign to compensate for their shortcomings in the marketplace.

Supporters of A.M.D. have sharply criticized the failure of regulators in the United States to launch a formal investigation.

“When every other country finds wrongdoing, the Federal Trade Commission even refuses to do an investigation,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a senior member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Last August Mr. Schumer and another New York Democrat, Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, asked the agency for a formal inquiry after Mr. Schumer met with the head of A.M.D., which has pledged to open a $3 billion factory in upstate New York that will employ 1,200 people. Mr. Schumer said he wrote the letter both because A.M.D. was planning to become a major new constituent and as a matter of policy — he said he has long advocated more vigorous enforcement of the antitrust laws.
538 2007-10-22 GENEVA, Oct. 21 — After a campaign widely criticized as racist, Switzerland’s far-right Swiss People’s Party strengthened its position as the biggest single party in Parliament in a general election on Sunday, according to a projection after voting ended.

The party appeared set to win 29 percent of the vote and gain 7 parliamentary seats, for 62 seats in the 200-seat federal Parliament, after campaigning aggressively on an anti-immigrant ticket that featured posters showing white sheep kicking a black sheep away from a Swiss flag. “It’s the party’s best score since 1919,” said Yvan Perrin, a party member in Parliament.

The largest party on the left, the Social Democratic Party, was projected to win 19.1 percent of the vote and emerge with 43 seats, losing 9.

The projection was made by the state-owned SRG television and radio networks, which based the numbers on voting returns.

Analysts said the gains by the Swiss People’s Party portended more of the polarization that had accompanied the party’s ascendancy in the past four years, straining Switzerland’s tradition of consensus politics and leaving cracks in its carefully nurtured image abroad as a bastion of tolerance.

The party is likely to take the results as a popular endorsement of its policies, said Bianca Rousselot, a political scientist at Gfs.Bern, a research institute. “They will push for more conservative policies in foreign affairs as well as on issues like asylum and immigration,” she said.

The party’s costly campaign, spearheaded by Christoph Blocher, a billionaire industrialist and Switzerland’s justice minister, called for the deportation of foreign-born criminals once they had completed their sentences. Other party initiatives include a drive for a ban on the construction of minarets for mosques and cuts in social security benefits.
539 2007-10-22 Leaders across Europe were likely to be relieved at the ascension of Civic Platform, a pro-Europe party. Under the Kaczynskis, Poland has earned a reputation as a consensus-breaking troublemaker.

On the other hand, the Kaczynskis have been the staunchest of allies of the United States. Mr. Tusk said during the campaign that he would have driven a harder bargain over support of plans to place missile interceptors on Polish soil and that, if elected, he would try to bring home the 900 Polish troops in Iraq.

With 38 million residents, Poland is the largest former communist country in the European Union. Civic Platform stands for tax cuts and the continued liberalization of the economy through privatization.

Law and Justice appeared to be a formidable opponent, especially given the support of the influential Catholic radio station, Radio Maryja, which experts here said could alone deliver around 1.5 million votes for the party, just over half the 2.9 million that Civic Platform managed when it was narrowly defeated by Law and Justice in elections two years ago.

But turnout was abysmal in that election, barely 40 percent. A survey by the PBS public opinion institute put participation Sunday at 55.3 percent. “It’s much higher than we all expected,” said Lena Kolarska-Bobinska, director of the Institute of Public Affairs, an independent research organization in Warsaw, attributing the surge to surprisingly high youth participation. “This is a generation revolution.”

Paulina Gdula, out for a walk with her fiancé in Garwolin, a small town 40 miles east of Warsaw, after voting in her first election, said, “Young people should have some influence over what is happening in this country.”

On a bright cold autumn Sunday in Poland, three generations of the Rekawek family set out for their polling place in the village of Michalowka, just outside Garwolin.

“They wanted to do a lot for the country, but other parties didn’t let them,” said the mayor, Krystyna Rekawek, referring to the Kaczynskis. “They did not have enough time to do what they wanted,” she added, because elections were called two years early after the Kaczynskis’ governing coalition fell apart this summer.

A Law and Justice victory would have meant “no change, just quarreling and fighting all over again,” said her son, Tomasz Rekawek.

In Garwolin’s town square, an older man responded to questions about the election by raising a fist and shouting, “Ducks,” a local nickname for the twins.

“I prefer my ducks boiled in a pot,” said a friend sitting beside him.
540 2007-10-22 Songs will cost $1.99 each, or $7.49 for five per month. Users who download songs directly to their phones will automatically get an e-mail message allowing them to put a second copy on their computers. Customers who already have songs through Napster will be able to transfer them to their phones as well, Mr. Hyatt said.

The new arrangement with AT&T opens a huge United States customer base to Napster. It has smaller deals in the United States and overseas, including one with NTT DoCoMo of Japan. But Napster’s president, Brad Duea, said the new service allows Napster to compete more directly with iTunes.

AT&T plans to make more music available exclusively for mobile download through deals reached directly with artists.

To introduce the service, it will offer music from the new Matchbox Twenty album.

The band’s frontman, Rob Thomas, said mobile downloading is inevitable as users begin to treat their cellphones like entertainment hubs, as they do their computers.

“It’s easy to see where the trail is headed,” he said. “This is going to be the way that people are going to get all their media.”

He said relationships with wireless carriers like AT&T also potentially shift the way the music business is handled, noting that artists may now be able to find alternative ways to produce, distribute and publicize their work.

“When you look at the antiquated model that the record company is, it’s becoming more and more obsolete,” Mr. Thomas said.

Only a tiny portion of mobile users have taken advantage of over-the-air download capability so far, but some of the development has been stymied by network speeds, the limited catalog of music available and disputes over rights management.

Those issues are being addressed as companies roll out new offerings and upgrade networks, said Ross Rubin, an analyst for the NPD Group, a market researcher.

With the upgrades, “they can compete better with the PC experience,” he said.
541 2007-10-22 After three years of renovation and reconfiguration, the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s education center is to reopen tomorrow. The Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education consists of 25,000 square feet of public space, including a meeting hall, art study room, lecture hall, studio, classrooms, library and teacher resource center.
542 2007-10-22 Since its inaugural concert in 1977 the American Composers Orchestra has played an invaluable role in fostering the creation and promotion of contemporary American music. Recent seasons have suggested a quiet tug of war among the elements of its name. Some initiatives, for example, questioned the meaning of “American” by emphasizing music from Latin America or music by immigrant composers of disparate origin.

The greatest source of flux in the group’s profile lately has been a decreased emphasis on “Orchestra.” Last season only one event featured a full symphonic complement; this season none do. Meanwhile “Composers” has gained prominence through an initiative focusing on artists who both write and perform. Of the six works the ensemble played at Zankel Hall on Friday night, four were premieres in which the composers participated.

Audacity is admirable. But execution also counts, and in this the ensemble, conducted by Steven Sloane, fell short, right down to the awkward set changes and handling of multimedia components.

Scott Johnson, whose “Stalking Horse” opened the concert, is known for a small body of fascinating, precision-tooled works. Those qualities were missing here. The balance between Mr. Johnson’s animated electric-guitar playing and the amplified orchestra was patchy; brass and wind entries were tentative, sapping momentum.

The urge to approve of a worthy composer’s exposure is considerable. But the danger in a performance like this cannot be overstated. To the public an inept premiere is more likely to reflect badly on its composer than on performers acting under an authoritative name.

The playing was better in Susie Ibarra’s “Pintados Dream,” a simple, delicately scored modal reverie that provided a showcase for Ms. Ibarra’s sensitive, poetic drumming and watercolor daubs by the painter Makoto Fujimura. But a murky account of Steve Coleman’s “Illusion of Body” misrepresented its composer, a jazz saxophonist whose albums present a gripping alchemy of complex rhythms and globe-spanning mythologies. Mr. Coleman’s cosmos-pondering concept was reduced to primordial ooze, rendering analysis pointless.
543 2007-10-22 Mr. Jobs said that Leopard would anchor a schedule of product upgrades that could continue for as long as a decade.

“I’m quite pleased with the pace of new operating systems every 12 to 18 months for the foreseeable future,” he said. “We’ve put out major releases on the average of one a year, and it’s given us the ability to polish and polish and improve and improve.”

That pace suggests that Apple will continue to move more quickly than Microsoft, which took almost seven years between the release of its Windows XP and Windows Vista operating systems.

Vista has had mixed reviews, and corporate sales have been slow so far. Mr. Jobs declined to comment on Microsoft’s troubles with Vista, beyond noting that he thought Leopard was a better value. While there are multiple editions of Vista with different features at different prices, the top being the Ultimate edition, Apple has set a single price of $129 for Leopard.

With Leopard, Mr. Jobs joked, “everybody gets the Ultimate edition and it sells for 129 bucks, and if you go on Amazon and look at the Ultimate edition of Vista, it sells for 250 bucks.”

Microsoft has said that it will release an update, or service pack, for Vista in the first quarter of 2008. But it has also said that it intends to offer a service pack for Windows XP in the first half of the year. That, analysts said, could further delay adoption of Vista as computer users wait to see how XP will be improved.

Microsoft has also hinted that its next operating system, code-named Windows 7, would not arrive until 2010. At Apple’s current pace, it will have introduced two new versions of its operating system by then.

Apple has not been flawless in its execution. Early this year, it delayed the introduction of Leopard for four months. Mr. Jobs attributed this at the time to the company’s need to move programming development resources to an iPhone version of the OS X operating system.

Several analysts said they thought that Leopard would have only an indirect effect on Macintosh sales.

As for Vista, it has clearly not pushed up demand for new PCs as much as computer makers hoped. Last week, the research firm Gartner said PC shipments in the United States grew only 4.7 percent in the third quarter, below its projection of 6.7 percent.

That contrasted sharply with Apple’s projected results for the quarter. Gartner forecast that Apple would grow more than 37 percent based on expected shipments of 1.3 million computers, for an 8.1 percent share of the domestic market.

Apple has outpaced its rivals in the United States, particularly in the shift to portable computers. While this is the first year that laptops have made up more than 50 percent of computer sales in this country, Mr. Jobs said that two-thirds of Apple machines sold in the United States are now laptops.

Apple has also outperformed rivals in terms of market share by revenue, because its machines are generally more expensive.

According to Charles Wolf, who tracks the personal computer market in his industry newsletter Wolf Bytes, Apple’s share of home PC revenue in the United States has jumped in the last four quarters. In the second quarter, for example, the Macintosh captured a 15.8 percent share, almost double its share of the number of units sold.

He added that Apple had a significant opportunity now in terms of visitors to its stores. Apple is now reporting 100 million annual visitors, and Mr. Wolf estimated that 60 million to 70 million of them were Windows users drawn by the iPod or the iPhone, who could potentially shift to Macs.

Although Apple may be able to grow briskly by taking Windows customers from Microsoft, the two companies face a similar problem: the industry is maturing and there have been no obvious radical innovations to jump-start growth.

Indeed, many of the new features in the Leopard operating system version are incremental improvements. But Mr. Jobs said he was struck by the success of the multitouch interface that is at the heart of the iPhone version of the OS X. This allows a user to touch the screen at more than one point to zoom in on a portion of a photo, for example.

“People don’t understand that we’ve invented a new class of interface,” he said.

He contrasted it with stylus interfaces, like the approach Microsoft took with its tablet computer. That interface is not so different from what most computers have been using since the mid-1980s.

In contrast, Mr. Jobs said that multitouch drastically simplified the process of controlling a computer.

There are no “verbs” in the iPhone interface, he said, alluding to the way a standard mouse or stylus system works. In those systems, users select an object, like a photo, and then separately select an action, or “verb,” to do something to it.

The Apple development team worried constantly that the approach might fail during the years they were creating the iPhone, he said.

“We all had that Garry Trudeau cartoon that poked fun at the Newton in the back of our minds,” he said, citing Doonesbury comic strips that mocked an Apple handwriting-recognition system in 1993. “This thing had to work.”
544 2007-10-22 The furor over Chinese imports has also strained trade relations between China and the United States. China has responded to criticism of its products’ safety with high-profile crackdowns on illegal factories and processing plants, and by issuing new regulations. But authorities in Beijing have also banned some American food imports, like meat and wood products, as dangerous.

There have been other criticisms of Chinese trade policies. The Bush administration has filed several actions before the World Trade Organization against what it calls unfair practices, and has threatened to impose duties on some Chinese goods.

Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has also asserted that China is buying dollars to keep the value of its currency, the yuan, artificially low in order to make its exports cheaper and imports more expensive. Several measures in Congress, making the same claim, threaten to punish China with trade sanctions.

According to the Times/CBS News Poll, the public is divided on whether the United States should have normal trade relations with China. Forty-five percent said China should have the same trade benefits other friendly nations receive; 38 percent said it should not. Another 17 percent had no opinion.

The same question was asked by The Times and CBS News in 1991 and 2000, drawing nearly the same responses, suggesting that the recent publicity over Chinese imports has not had a major impact on the public’s view.

The survey showed that only 14 percent of Americans have stopped buying Chinese goods as a result of the recalls. Another 7 percent said they had stopped purchasing some Chinese goods, depending on the type of product, and 9 percent said they usually do not buy goods from China.

According the poll, 11 percent of Americans described the quality of Chinese goods as excellent or very good, and 30 percent said they believed Chinese products were good. But 36 percent said the quality of goods made in China was only fair, and 20 percent said it was poor. The same question was asked by Gallup in 1996, with similar results.

Although much of the bad publicity about Chinese imports to America focused on toys, the poll found that younger Americans were more inclined to view Chinese products favorably. Americans age 65 or older were more likely to judge Chinese products as harmful and to say they do not buy Chinese imports. Full results and the poll’s methodology are available at nytimes.com/polls.
545 2007-10-22 STOCKHOLM, Oct. 21 — Google’s acquisition of Jaiku, a small Finnish start-up active in the obscure field of microblogging — a word most often associated with the better-known company Twitter — might not appear to be an earth-shaking event.

But the deal, announced this month, has much of the tech-tracking blogosphere abuzz. Some claim it is the harbinger of a new, truly interconnected world, where a chunk of our existence will migrate online.

To begin with, the reasoning goes, Jaiku is not really about microblogging — those minimessages submitted by text or e-mail that made Twitter famous. Jaiku is “a mobile company in the business of creating smarter presence applications,” and therefore “a leader in a category most people haven’t fully grasped yet,” Tim O’Reilly, a technology conference promoter credited with the phrase Web 2.0, wrote in his blog.

Petteri Koponen, one of the two founders of Jaiku, described the service as a “holistic view of a person’s life,” rather than just short posts. “We extract a lot of information automatically, especially from mobile phones,” Mr. Koponen said from Mountain View, Calif., where the company is being integrated into Google. “This kind of information paints a picture of what a person is thinking or doing.”

In practical terms, Jaiku’s mobile application allows users to broadcast not only their whereabouts, but how the phone is being used, even what kind of music it is playing.
546 2007-10-22 CINCINNATI, Oct. 21 — The potential first interception of Darrelle Revis’s short N.F.L. career seemed to hang in the air forever. Revis jumped at precisely the right time, stretched his hands until they wrapped snugly around the football and even managed to hold on as he fell.

Only one problem remained. Bengals receiver Glenn Holt caught the football, too.

Before the fourth quarter Sunday, Revis had never so much as heard of something called a simultaneous catch. Under N.F.L. rules, this means Holt receives credit for the reception, even if, technically, each of them caught the football.

“I had the ball in my hands,” Revis said. “The ball was in my hands.”

The Bengals maintained possession, and later in the drive Kenny Watson had a 2-yard touchdown run to give Cincinnati a 31-23 lead with 6 minutes 9 seconds left in the game.

It was a day in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons for Revis, a rookie cornerback from Pitt whom the Jets traded up to draft 14th in the first round. He started at cornerback, made six tackles and broke up a pass. But he also committed two pass-interference penalties in the second half that contributed to Bengals touchdown drives. The first penalty came on third down late in the third quarter, when officials whistled Revis for interfering with Holt. The penalty led to a first down, and the Bengals scored four plays later to cut the Jets’ lead to 23-17.

“I don’t think it was a flag,” Revis said. “It was a great play. I didn’t touch the dude at all.”

The second penalty came on Cincinnati’s next possession early in the fourth quarter. Revis was whistled again on third down, and two plays later the Bengals scored to take a 24-23 lead.

Jets Coach Eric Mangini pulled Revis aside immediately after Holt’s 7-yard catch on the Bengals’ next drive, upset with how he turned his body away from the ball on the play. .
547 2007-10-22 CUTTING OFF CASH Cash payments from collateralized debt obligations, which hold bonds backed by thousands of subprime home loans, are starting to be shut off to certain investors as credit rating agencies downgrade the securities they own, accordi...
548 2007-10-23 Compiled by Andrew Das, Benjamin Hoffman, Naila-Jean Meyers, John Woods and Toni Monkovic. When the Patriots lost to the Colts in the American Football Conference championship game last season, their top three wide receivers were Reche Caldwell, J...
549 2007-10-23 Jerry Yang talks about opening up Yahoo to third party content and services...
550 2007-10-23 Trading on the gender vote seems like a way to capture the feminine dollar....
551 2007-10-23 With a market value of $162 billion, Apple is now the most valuable computer maker in the world, and it is the fourth most valuable technology company, after Microsoft, Google and Cisco. It will have to battle all of them to stay on top of the tec...
552 2007-10-23 Up Next in Style
553 2007-10-23 The news of Harman International's broken buyout agreement with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Goldman Sachs seemed to come and go Monday without much attention. That was probably a good thing for Harman - and perhaps part of its media strategy - bec...
554 2007-10-23 Twentieth Television and Reveille Productions are preparing to announce a half-hour syndicated show starring Donald Trump. The Hollywood Reporter describes it as a hybrid of "Dr. Phil" and "Judge Judy." - The California wildfires "are disrupting t...
555 2007-10-23 For a city - nay - a country that prides itself on getting a good deal as much as this one, Sunday flea markets are cherished events. Hand-made hats at Mauerpark Each of Berlin's central districts, from Charlottenburg in the west to Kreuzberg and ...
556 2007-10-23 MediaNews Groupsaid Monday that Hearst had bought a stake in the company for $317 million as part of a complex deal between the two privately held publishers involving several San Francisco-area newspapers. Under terms of the deal, announced last ...
557 2007-10-23 Nike agreed to buy Umbro for 285 million pounds ($580 million), gaining a contract to outfit the English soccer team and sell replica jerseys worldwide. Nike bid 193.06 pence in cash for each Umbro share, the company said. The price is 61 percent ...
558 2007-10-23 Delphi, which is negotiating terms of a recovery deal with several hedge funds, said it had pushed back its expected exit from Chapter 11 to next year. According to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Delphi, which makes auto parts, pushe...
559 2007-10-23 Unigold, a Canadian gold exploration and mining company, has become the first North American company to list on the Dubai International Financial Exchange. Unigold, which already is listed on the TSX Venture Exchange in Toronto, counts the Saudi A...
560 2007-10-23 “With continued foreign assistance,” Mr. Bush said, “Iran could develop an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the United States and all of Europe before 2015.” He said the time to act was now.

But linking the two messages were references by both men to an apparently cooperative new approach with Russia that might clear the way for the project.

American officials have spent months trying to cope diplomatically with bitter opposition to the missile defense plan from Moscow, which sees the American missile facilities as a potential threat. One Russian official even warned of aiming strategic missiles at European targets in response. Relations between the United States and Russia seemed headed for a post-Cold War low.

Following concerted American efforts to reassure Moscow, though, the Russians’ tone began to change over the summer. At the Group of Eight summit meeting in Germany in June, President Vladimir Putin proposed that the American system use Russian radar facilities in Azerbaijan to help track any Iranian missiles, an idea Mr. Bush did not reject out of hand. Mr. Bush then said he had invited Mr. Putin for a rare visit to the Bush family home in Maine.

This month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who speaks Russian, visited Moscow with Mr. Gates. They reportedly presented proposals that included an invitation for Russia to join with the United States and NATO in designing and operating an antimissile system meant to protect all of Europe, and suggested that Russian and American officers to be stationed as liaison officers at each other’s missile defense sites.

While the visitors seemed at first to meet a frosty reception — Mr. Putin made a snide reference to building missile defense sites “somewhere on the moon” — officials said the two cabinet secretaries were greeted more warmly behind closed doors. They said the proposal was presented as part of a larger package to include the future status of Kosovo and the question of whether Russia will carry out a threat to withdraw from the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.

In Prague, Mr. Gates said Washington and Moscow were still in touch about the issue. “We continue to encourage the Russians to partner with us in missile defense, and continue our efforts to reassure them that these facilities are not aimed at Russia and could benefit Russia.”

While saying that he expected American negotiations with Poland and the Czech Republic over the system to be concluded this year, Mr. Gates also proposed linking the activation of both sites to “definitive proof of the threat, in other words, Iranian missile testing and so on.”

Though Mr. Gates said this proposal was not yet “fully developed,” his comments confirmed a report on Saturday in the International Herald Tribune. The newspaper quoted Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the NATO secretary general, as saying: “The Americans have made a substantial and fundamental offer. I sincerely hope the Russians will pick it up.”

In his speech in Washington, Mr. Bush again underscored that the East European sites are not aimed at Russia, and in any case could quickly be overwhelmed by Russian forces.

“The Cold War is over,” he said. “Russia is not our enemy. We’re building a new security relationship whose foundation does not rest on the prospect of mutual annihilation.”

He said that while the United States intended to go ahead with its plans for 10 missile interceptors in Poland and what is called an X-band tracking radar in the Czech Republic, the radar facilities in Azerbaijan and southern Russia offered by Putin “could be included as part of a wider threat-monitoring system.”

Prime Minister Topolanek agreed with Mr. Gates that a Czech-American agreement on a new radar facility could be completed by year’s end, but the political situation in Poland is not quite as clear.

Donald Tusk, the politician expected to become the next Polish prime minister after elections this week, is said to have taken a tougher stand than the outgoing government on talks with the United States about a missile site.

Tentative American plans call for completing construction on both sites by 2013, at a cost of several billion dollars.

Mr. Bush’s remarks at the National Defense University were intended in part to prompt Congress to budget more money for the missile project.

Lawmakers opposed to the missile defense system have moved to cut $139 million from the funds proposed this year for the European sites, Mr. Bush said. He said this could “delay deployment for a year or more, and undermine our allies, who are working with us to deploy such a system on their soil.”

The president portrayed the threat from ballistic missiles as large and growing: The number of countries with such missiles had grown from 9 in 1972 to 27 today, not all of them friendly, he said.

He said a sound missile defense would both deter a missile attack and, — by clearly reducing the chances that a missile attack would succeed — — help dissuade countries from pursuing nuclear weapons.
561 2007-10-23 Ms. Peters told the airline representatives, “When publishing schedules that offer 61 departing flights between 8 and 9 a.m. — when the airport can handle only 44 departures — is not fair to fliers.” Bobby Sturgell, the acting administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, said, “What we want is for the passenger to have a reasonable expectation that the schedule means something.”

Federal controls on how many planes can use Kennedy ended on Jan. 1, and traffic jumped by 20 percent, according to the F.A.A., to 1,200 flights a day, from 1,000. In August, it was 1,300 flights a day.

According to the F.A.A., one result is that delays per 1,000 landings or take-offs are running at 77.4 so far this year. In contrast, they were 20.9 in 2003, 27.5 in 2004, 39.6 in 2005, 60.4 in 2006. The figures count delays only while a plane is in the air traffic control system . Delays because of mechanical problems or because a plane arrived late from its previous flight do not appear in the figures.

A negotiated settlement at O’Hare Airport in Chicago at the end of 2004 cut delays per 1,000 operations there from 97.1 in 2004 to 52.7 in 2005, but they rose again to 68.5 in 2006. They are running slightly lower this year.

The federal government is stepping in at Kennedy, as it did in O’Hare, not so much because of horrendous delays at one particular airport, officials say, but because planes arriving or leaving Kennedy late are then late for the balance of the day, so the delays ripple through the system.

At O’Hare the system is supposed to be temporary, until another runway is added. At Kennedy, small improvements are possible, but there is no talk of another runway.

One issue in the discussions is how many planes Kennedy can handle without unreasonable delays. Last Friday the F.A.A. said it was 80 or 81 an hour, and today officials said that was the number that were actually processed this summer. But on Monday the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which actually runs the airport, complained that this would “simply cut flights and limit travelers’ options to pre-1969 levels.”

“If this limitation were in place at J.F.K. last year, the airport would have turned away nearly 3.4 million passengers, or 10,000 per day,” the Port Authority said. The calculation apparently assumes, however, that there is no change in the average size of airplanes landing there.

The Port Authority called for technological improvements, In fact, the F.A.A. said it was working on those. One is redesigning airspace by simplifying air routes to increase traffic capacity, although some towns oppose that.

The Port Authority also said there should be more use of Stewart International Airport, which it recently acquired in Newburgh, N.Y.

The airlines have also complained that the F.A.A. target is too strict.

Another problem is that some of the traffic may migrate to Newark, which would add to delays there.

Discussions, which are supposed to continue on Wednesday, were centering on JetBlue and Delta, which each operate about 30 percent of the fights, and American, which operates about 15 percent
562 2007-10-23 Rutgers (5-2, 2-1) seems to have a chance in any game that the junior running back Ray Rice plays. But Teel is also a vital part of the offense, and he has been hampered since he hit his throwing hand on a helmet Oct. 6 in a 28-23 loss to Cincinnati.

Rice gained 181 yards on 39 carries Thursday against South Florida, but Teel completed only 11 of 29 passes. Coach Greg Schiano said he might have replaced Teel with the sophomore Jabu Lovelace had the Scarlet Knights needed to throw more than they did.

Schiano said Monday that Teel was still sore and was limited in what he could do at practice. Schiano said he thought Teel would let him know if his hand limited him to the point where he was not doing the team any good.

“I trust Mike,” Schiano said. “Mike will tell me the truth. All our kids will. He won’t try to be a hero.”

But Teel says he wants to keep playing if he can. As Tim Brown, the sophomore wide receiver, said Monday: “Mike loves the game. It’s hard to take him out of the game.”

Teel said he would try to play through the pain, if it meant it would prepare him to play the Mountaineers (6-1, 1-1), who are No. 7 in the Bowl Championship Series standings and who are the toughest team to move the ball against in the conference.

Teel said he was also aware that Rutgers has dropped 12 games in a row to the Mountaineers, including an 80-7 loss in 2001 and a 41-39 loss in three overtimes last season that cost the Scarlet Knights a chance at a conference title and a B.C.S. bowl bid.

Teel said, “You don’t want to let a lot of people down for something you want to push through.”

Lovelace, from Tenafly, N.J., has been Rutgers’s designated running quarterback this season. He has gained 138 yards and scored 2 touchdowns on 26 carries. But he has completed only 2 of 5 passes for 26 yards.

“I have the utmost confidence in Jabu,” Schiano said.

A quarterback needs to practice, Schiano said, to keep his timing with his receivers and to make the proper reads before throwing the ball. Complicating such preparation, he said, is that West Virginia has changed some of its coverages.

Asked if he could alter his throwing motion, Teel said he had thrown pretty much the same way since he first played football in sixth grade. “You can’t really change much of what you do,” he said. “You’ve just got to deal with it.”

Rice said he believed Teel was going to be ready to play, both physically and mentally, in time for Saturday’s game. Teel is determined, and he is the leader of the team, Rice said, and Teel will be there.

With four conference games left, Rutgers has a chance to earn a major bowl bid. It would be helpful if the starting quarterback would be able to play at full speed.

“It is wide open, and it is anybody’s game,” defensive tackle Eric Foster said of the conference race. “But none of that matters if we can’t focus on right now. We can’t look to the future. We’ve got to be the best team we can be today.”
563 2007-10-23 Microsoft is cutting the price of its Xbox 360 game console in Japan by about 13 percent as the price war among video game consoles heats up ahead of the year-end shopping season. The Xbox 360 console will sell in Japan for 34,800 yen ($304) beginning Nov. 1, down from 39,795 yen ($348), Microsoft’s Japanese unit said. A more basic version of the machine now selling for 29,800 yen ($261) will be sold for 27,800 yen ($243). Last week, Sony cut the price of its PlayStation 3 game console in the United States. It had already announced similar price cuts in Europe and Japan.
564 2007-10-23 Despite warnings of a possible accident, the space shuttle Discovery is poised to undertake the most challenging construction job yet attempted in space. It is another gutsy call by NASA administrators, who are determined to finish building the International Space Station by 2010, the date the aging shuttle fleet is scheduled to be retired.

This will be an extremely strenuous mission. The seven astronauts aboard Discovery, working with the three crew members aboard the partly finished space station, will attach a new “room” to the space station for the first time in six years. It is a small module, the size of a closet, that will allow laboratories from Europe and Japan to be attached to the space station on future flights.

The astronauts will also disconnect, move and reconnect a huge truss and solar arrays, and will test a pressurized caulking device that could be used to repair minor damage in space. It is an audacious agenda that will require five space walks and extensive use of robotic arms operating at their limits.

A nail-biting element was added when NASA’s independent safety engineers urged that the launch be delayed for two months so that three heat-resistant panels on the shuttle’s wings could be replaced or at least tested more thoroughly. The panels were showing signs of decay for reasons not fully understood, raising concerns that they might weaken enough to allow hot gases to penetrate and destroy the craft.

After vigorous debate at an all-day review, however, NASA’s top managers concluded that the risk was acceptable. Should the panels’ defects worsen during flight, the astronauts could attempt a repair in space or board the space station to await rescue by another shuttle. The astronauts, who were fully informed of the debate, endorsed the decision to launch.

We’ll keep our fingers crossed that these judgments prove right. Another shuttle catastrophe would not only cost the lives of astronauts, it would also probably end the shuttle program and greatly delay completion of the space station.
565 2007-10-23 Myanmar has given the green light for a visit by Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro, the United Nations special rapporteur, or investigator, on human rights in the country, after refusing him permission since 2003. Michèle Montas, the spokeswoman for Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, said the Foreign Ministry suggested that the visit take place before the meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations set to start on Nov. 17. Ibrahim Gambari, Mr. Ban’s special adviser on Myanmar, is currently on a six-nation visit of Asia intended to increase pressure on Myanmar’s ruling generals.
566 2007-10-23 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert confirmed that the Lebanese group Hezbollah had handed Israel a letter written by the long-missing Israeli airman Ron Arad as part of a prisoner-exchange deal last week. Mr. Arad’s plane went down over Lebanon in 1986. He was first held by the Shiite Amal militia, but there has been no trace of him since the late 1980s. The newspaper Yediot Aharonot reported that Israeli officials gave the letter, written in 1986, to the airman’s wife, Tami, who recognized the handwriting and pet names it contained. Mr. Olmert described the letter as “moving.” The newspaper said Hezbollah had also handed over a photograph of Mr. Arad, and excerpts of a report on the group’s so-far futile efforts to find out what happened to him.
567 2007-10-23 The market research firm Dataquest estimated last week that Apple sold 1.3 million computers in the United States, and IDC put the figure at 1.1 million. In the same period, Dell sold 5 million computers and H.P. sold 4.3 million in the United States, according to the IDC report.

Apple introduced a minor mystery during a conference call with analysts and reporters. In response to analysts’ questions, Timothy Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, acknowledged that as many as 250,000 iPhones had been purchased but then not activated for service with AT&T, Apple’s exclusive wireless partner in the United States. This is important because Apple receives payments based on each iPhone subscription with AT&T.

Mr. Cook said he thought the phones had had their digital locks broken, presumably so they could be used with another carrier, but he said he was not certain what had become of them. There have been reports of people buying iPhones and unlocking them for resale overseas.

Apple’s stock skyrocketed in after-hours trading, rising almost 7 percent, to $186.35. The company is in the midst of one of the strongest stretches of its three-decade history, with recently revamped iPods selling briskly and a new version of its operating system scheduled to appear Friday.

Moreover, the company said it expected its strong growth to continue into the holiday quarter.

“We’re looking forward to our best December quarter ever,” said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s chief financial officer.

Mr. Cook cited strong European growth but said Japan continued to be the company’s “most challenging” market. He also noted that the company had grown faster than the overall personal computer market for 11 of the past 12 quarters, and he pointed in particular to an extraordinary back-to-school market. Sales were so strong that Apple forecast relatively flat Macintosh sales for the holiday quarter.

“It’s becoming chronic,” said Charles Wolf, a financial analyst who publishes Wolf Bytes, an industry newsletter. “The beauty is that their market share is so low that they have a huge upside potential.”

For the coming quarter, Mr. Oppenheimer forecast revenue of $9.2 billion and earnings of $1.42 a share. The revenue amount is about $700 million above what Wall Street analysts have been projecting.

One of the company’s strongest indications that it will see continued growth is its report that more than 50 percent of those who purchased Macintosh computers in its chain of 197 stores during the quarter were first-time Mac buyers.

Analysts also noted that although Apple has been criticized in the past for not competing on price, it is now taking advantage of its brand recognition.

“They’ve been dinged for not playing in the sub-$1,000, sub-$500 price range,” said Michael McGuire, a consumer electronics industry analyst at Gartner Inc., a market research firm. “Looking at their margins and income, I can see why they don’t want to sell there.”

The company said that its sales partnership with Best Buy, which it is expanding to 270 from 230 stores, appeared to be successful. Apple said its retail channel inventory at the end of the quarter was below what it had expected.

Although it has been on the market for just one quarter, the iPhone is set to be a major product for Apple. The company said last month that it had reached the one-million-sold mark.

Apple’s stock shot up after a strong earnings report in July, but it then fell through the middle of August amid concerns that the iPhone might not maintain its early momentum.

On Sept. 14, the company cut the price of the iPhone by $200 and offered early purchasers a $100 rebate, indicating that concerns about slowing sales had been justified. Since then Apple’s stock has climbed steadily.

Apple has said previously that it expects to sell 10 million iPhones by the end of 2008. Some analysts say the company will easily surpass that figure. Mr. Wolf said he expected the company to sell 14 million phones in its first year and a half.
568 2007-10-23 As part of its past efforts to settle its antitrust problems, Microsoft has reached costly agreements with competitors that were the company’s most outspoken critics, including Sun Microsystems, I.B.M. and Novell.

In general, analysts said, the private settlements between Microsoft and competitors provided for cross-licensing and sharing technology.

What is clear is how much Microsoft’s room for legal maneuvering was limited by the ruling last month by the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The court reaffirmed that Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, had abused its market power and said the company must obey a 2004 European Commission order to share confidential computer code with competitors.

After the courtroom setback, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, wrote a conciliatory letter to Neelie Kroes, the European competition commissioner, according to a commission staff official. During the first week of October, Mr. Ballmer was on a scheduled trip to Europe and made an impromptu visit to the Netherlands, where Ms. Kroes lives. Over a long dinner, they met and agreed on the broad terms of the deal. To reach the final terms, Mr. Ballmer and Ms. Kroes spoke daily after the dinner meeting, according to a Microsoft executive.

The upper hand in these talks, legal experts say, certainly belonged to Ms. Kroes. “She was really negotiating from a position of strength, which she did not have before the ruling by the Court of First Instance,” said Andrew I. Gavil, a law professor at Howard University.

Ms. Kroes cast the agreement as a victory for Microsoft’s rivals, especially companies that rely on open-source software like the Linux operating system, an increasingly popular alternative to Microsoft’s products on servers.

To thrive in the marketplace, open-source software must work well with Microsoft’s desktop programs, notably the Windows personal computer operating systems. More than 90 percent of PCs run on Windows. Microsoft software also powers about 70 percent of the market for servers, so access to that technology will be crucial for competitors.

The European order mandates that Microsoft share its technology information on fair terms, so competing software can work smoothly, or interoperate, with Windows software. It is those terms to ease interoperability that will become more favorable to Microsoft competitors.

“These changes in Microsoft’s business practices, in particular towards open-source developers, will profoundly affect the software industry,” Ms. Kroes said in a statement. “The repercussions of these changes will start now and will continue for years to come.”

Under the agreement, Microsoft said it would not pursue a final appeal to the European Court of Justice, which could have drawn the case out two to three years more. Microsoft said it would make the server protocols available for purchase through its Web site, at www.microsoft.com/protocols.

Under the agreement, software developers must now pay only a one-time fee of 10,000 euros, or $14,300, to gain access to Microsoft’s communications protocols, which specify how to exchange data between Windows and rival products. These protocols are trade secrets, not patents. If competitors want more information than those trade secrets, they must license Microsoft’s patents, paying a royalty of 0.4 percent of the competing product’s sales. Microsoft had originally demanded 5.95 percent of sales as royalties.

“This is a huge breakthrough,” said Georg Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation Europe, which had challenged Microsoft’s practice of withholding technical information. “Microsoft is finally doing what the commission ordered it to do. This will level the playing field.”

American industry analysts were skeptical that Microsoft’s concession would have a big impact in the marketplace. “This is an important but incremental step,” said Dan Kohn, the chief operating officer of the Linux Foundation, a nonprofit consortium.

For years, Mr. Kohn noted, open-source engineers in a project called Samba have legally picked apart the Microsoft communications protocols and written code that mimics them. This reverse-engineered code, he said, is now included in Linux. “So we have generally good interoperability with Windows now,” he said.

But the hope, Mr. Kohn said, is that the new licensing terms will make it easier for competing software to work smoothly with Windows, without the need for reverse engineering.

He said, however, that he doubted that the agreement signaled a new spirit of openness on Microsoft’s part. He noted that the company was still pushing to make its Office document formats an international standard, a move seen by rivals as an effort to make it more difficult to develop competing personal computer software and Web-based applications. These formats are the digital frameworks that turn bits of data into formatted documents, spreadsheets and presentations.

A group of companies led by I.B.M. have complained to European regulators about Microsoft’s use of its Office formats.

“I think what we’re seeing today is a strategic retreat by Microsoft, a concession in one market and no more,” Mr. Kohn said.

Still, the move by Microsoft does show that the company is intent on removing the cloud that the European antitrust conflict has kept over the company’s business and stock price, analysts said.

“Financially, the antitrust issues have not had a material effect on Microsoft, and it’s not yet clear that this agreement will have much impact on the software market,” said Charles di Bona, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “But it does help to remove the European cudgel that has been hanging over the company’s head. It removes an element of uncertainty, which shareholders hate.”

Microsoft shares rose 1.13 percent yesterday in regular trading, to close at $30.51.

Microsoft has paid nearly 1 billion euros ($1.43 billion at current exchange rates) in fines since the commission’s initial ruling and could face fines of up to 1.6 billion euros more that began accumulating in December 2005 after Microsoft did not start sharing technical information as freely as the European Commission had demanded.

Ms. Kroes said she would decide before the end of the year whether Microsoft must pay the additional fines. But as of yesterday, she said, “The major issues concerning compliance have been resolved.”
569 2007-10-23 The president of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Jeffrey Gedmin, did not disclose the missing reporter’s name in a statement posted on the network’s Web site, but described her as a correspondent for Radio Free Iraq, an Arabic-language program. The reporter was on her way to an interview but never arrived, Mr. Gedmin said in the statement.

“We are working with the authorities in Baghdad and are in constant touch with friends and family,” Mr. Gedmin said. “We remain hopeful we will get her back safely.”

Nearly 100 Iraqi journalists have been killed since the beginning of the Iraq war in 2003, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. On Oct. 14, a Washington Post correspondent, Salih Saif Aldin, was shot in the forehead as he took photographs in a volatile neighborhood in southern Baghdad.

Two other Radio Free Iraq journalists have been killed this year. In late May, Nazar Abd al-Wahid al-Radhi was killed in the southern city of Amara; two months earlier, another reporter, Khamail Muhsin Khalaf, was abducted and later found dead in western Baghdad.

An alliance of Sunni tribes that has been working with American forces to fight insurgent groups in Anbar Province said Monday that a mass grave containing 25 bodies had been discovered in an area that until recently was controlled by insurgents.

In Hilla, south of Baghdad, an Iraqi contractor working for the American military was kidnapped while he was leaving the base, police officials said. A roadside bomb north of the city killed two brothers, they said.

In Baquba, northeast of Baghdad, the police discovered the bodies of three men who appeared to have been tortured and shot in the head, execution-style.

Separately, the Czech Republic said it planned to reduce its troops in Iraq to around 20 by the end of 2008 from roughly 100 now, according to Reuters.

CAIRO, Oct. 22 (AP) — Osama bin Laden called for Iraqi insurgents to unite and avoid divisive “extremism,” in an audiotape broadcast Monday on Al Jazeera.

The tape appeared to be a response to the move by some Sunni Arab tribes in Iraq to join American troops in fighting insurgents linked to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a homegrown militant organization that American intelligence sources say is foreign-led.

“Some of you have been lax in one duty, which is to unite your ranks,” Mr. bin Laden said. “Beware of division. Muslims are waiting for you to gather under a single banner to champion righteousness.”

American counterterrorism officials said they were studying the content and authenticity of the audiotape.
570 2007-10-23 Mr. McCain reported this month that his money on hand was only a small fraction of that held by his leading rivals. Of his total, $1.67 million can be spent on the primaries, a sum exceeded by the $1.73 million that the campaign owes.

Laboring once more against long odds, Mr. Davis has refocused the campaign on the early states and on letting Mr. McCain act as his own best resource in town-hall-style meetings and on Sunday morning talk shows. The campaign has put television advertisements on the air in its strategic linchpin, New Hampshire, a state it carried in 2000. And it just spent $100,000 on a mailing in Iowa (an investment some supporters think would have been better made in New Hampshire).

Still, as the candidates head into the hotly contested final stretch before the onset of the primaries, it appears increasingly likely that the McCain organization will have to accept federal matching funds. To do so would provide much-needed cash but would place limits on the amounts spent in the crucial early states.

But Mr. Davis, 50, a jacket-and-tie kind of guy with a runner’s build who stands out in the typically rumpled world of political operatives, has won upsets before. As deputy manager of Bob Dole’s 1996 campaign, for instance, he gained a come-from-behind victory at a Florida straw poll in part by staging an elaborate reception with Mr. Dole’s wife, Elizabeth.

“I bought, literally, thousands of dollars of Godiva chocolate,” he recalled.

Mr. Davis’s current challenge was undertaken in a charged atmosphere. While some supporters of the campaign have come to view him as its savior, others complain that given his former role as its chief executive, he shares blame for the implosion it is now trying to recover from.

When Mr. McCain’s first campaign manager, Terry Nelson, left this summer, he was followed out by John Weaver, the longtime chief strategist who had originally helped persuade the senator to run for president. Out of loyalty to those two men, other top aides resigned.

Taking over, Mr. Davis was painted by his rivals as an opportunist who had managed to wrest control of the organization in part by winning influence with Mr. McCain’s wife, Cindy.

Some of those rivals also accused him of self-dealing, since 3eDC, a company he partly owns, had been retained by the campaign to provide Web services. Aides questioned whether Mr. Davis’s role in the company had been fully disclosed and said Mr. Weaver, having learned of the arrangement, had tried to end it.

All told, 3eDC billed the campaign more than $1 million for Web services during the first half of the year. (The amount still owed the company accounts for about a third of the campaign’s debt.) News reports also noted that Davis Manafort, the business development and consulting practice from which Mr. Davis is on leave, had been giving campaign advice to the Ukrainian prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, a favorite of the Kremlin, whose power Mr. McCain often warns against.

Mr. Davis said in the interview that the 3eDC contract had been thoroughly vetted, with his role fully disclosed, and called any accusation that he had been trying to enrich himself “typical smear stuff.” He said he did not fight back against the accusation when it surfaced over the summer because he did not want the back-and-forth to distract from the campaign.

In the face of the turmoil then, some McCain supporters rallied around the candidate, who can command fierce loyalty. The campaign had its most successful fund-raising mailing to date, a slightly melancholy appeal, accompanied by a picture of Mr. McCain, that began, “I’m sitting here at 12:33 a.m. at my desk — all alone, writing you this letter.”

And when high-priced media consultants left the financially struggling campaign, a group of loyalists working for little or no money made a searing television commercial showing footage of Mr. McCain as a prisoner of war. The group that made the advertisement called itself Foxhole Productions.

Mr. Davis, meanwhile, had begun his new job with triage, cutting costs by eliminating jobs and lopping well-paid political consultants off the payroll. Outstanding bills from contractors were renegotiated.

Mr. McCain, who had been chartering his own jets because of ethical scruples about accepting discounted corporate flights, as his opponents did, agreed to begin accepting them after all. Even a central symbol of the McCain campaign, the Straight Talk Express bus, has become cheaper.

“We had a bus that was $10,000 a day,” Mr. Davis said. “Our new one is $10,000 a month. It’s not as nice a bus, and it just broke down with an alternator problem.”

Mr. Davis also held conference calls with supporters and sent memorandums to calm jangled nerves. One early memo urged McCain supporters to remember Ronald Reagan’s 1980 campaign, which lagged in fund-raising and endured a staff upheaval after the Iowa caucuses.

He also mapped out a “living off the land” strategy that called for Mr. McCain to address existing gatherings, instead of having the campaign rent halls and assemble crowds at great expense.

Now Mr. McCain has remained stubbornly in the mix. Ken Mehlman, former Republican national chairman, said recently: “I think that anybody that writes off John McCain, by definition, in my opinion, makes a mistake. He is someone whose biography and issue positions and the compelling nature of the case he makes make him a top-tier candidate.”

No one could have been sure three months ago that such an assessment would be possible.

Kevin Sheekey, who brought Mr. Davis on as a consultant for Michael R. Bloomberg’s New York mayoral campaign in 2001, said, “Rick is a guy who knows how to pull a rabbit out of a hat, and I suspect he still has the hat.”

Mark Salter, a top campaign aide who is close to Mr. Weaver, the departed chief strategist, said Mr. Davis deserved credit for keeping the operation afloat.

“He’s done a good job of holding together an organization with minimal expenses,” said Mr. Salter, one of a number of leading aides who agreed to volunteer their services to the campaign. “McCain just bulldogged his way through it, the way he always does, and now we’ve got a little bit of altitude.”
571 2007-10-23 American Express, the credit card and travel services company, said yesterday that third-quarter earnings rose 10 percent, helped by increased spending among its consumer and corporate clients.

American Express, based in New York, said third-quarter profit rose to $1.07 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $967 million, or 79 cents a share, a year earlier.

Income from continuing operations rose to $1.1 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $934 million, or 76 cents a share, in the quarter last year.

Discontinued operations include results from American Express Bank, which the company agreed in September to sell to Standard Chartered for $860 million.
572 2007-10-23 ROUND ROCK, Tex., Oct. 22 (AP) — Dell plans to sell computers and other electronics gear at 1,400 Staples stores, taking another step away from the direct-to-customer business model it pioneered.

Dell and Staples announced Monday that Staples would offer Dell desktop and notebook computers, monitors, printers, ink and toner starting Nov. 11. Dell products also will be available on the Staples Web site.

Initial Dell computer models to be sold at Staples include Inspiron 1721 and 1521 notebooks, and Inspiron 530 desktops.

Dell, based in Round Rock, Tex., was founded in the 1980s on a lower-cost direct-to-consumer business model that made the company the global leader in PC sales. But Hewlett-Packard overtook the top spot last year, and Dell started considering new ways to sell its products beyond the Internet and telephone sales.

In May, Dell struck a deal with Wal-Mart Stores to sell PCs in about 3,000 stores. Dell also has struck partnerships recently with Bic Camera in Japan, Carphone Warehouse in Britain, and Gome stores in China.

With the Staples deal, Dell products will be available in more than 10,000 stores, Dell said.

Staples, based in Framingham, Mass., already offers several other major computer brands, including Hewlett Packard, Acer and Toshiba.
573 2007-10-23 Fears of a continued stock market decline were eased yesterday as the major American indexes stabilized after an early morning skid and posted modest gains on the first trading day after Friday’s steep sell-off.

Investors were buoyed by an optimistic earnings report from Merck, the pharmaceutical giant, and a more favorable outlook in the technology sector.

Lingering worries over a tightening credit market, prompted by last week’s poor corporate profit reports, were somewhat eased after a Federal Reserve governor, Randall S. Kroszner, indicated that the central bank would “act as needed” to maintain growth. Investors betting on the Fed’s actions now expect an interest-rate cut at the Fed’s meeting next week.

The Dow Jones industrials closed up 44.95 points, or 0.3 percent, at 13,566.97, its first daily gain in over a week. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index finished at 1,506.33, up 0.4 percent, or 5.7 points, aided by technology stocks, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed up 1.1 percent, at 2,753.93.

“It doesn’t mean that we’re out of the woods yet, as far as this daily drip of bad news on the credit front,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford. “But today we were given a reprieve with some very, very good earnings.”
574 2007-10-23 FOR me, frequent flying is a way of life. My job with HomesAway takes me away from my own home quite often.

Flying has been part of my life for quite a while. I spent eight years as a jet pilot and a rescue pilot in the Canadian Air Force. I quickly learned that stressing about weather and terrain doesn’t help the mission at hand or the psyche. So I trained myself to relax before flights, allowing my mind to be completely open and stress-free.

Old habits die hard, because I still find that flying — even business travel — seems to relax me. I don’t fight the utter misery of civilian aviation today. Rather, I slip into a kind of Zen state that keeps me quite philosophical about lost luggage, late planes, canceled flights and security checks.

Since I’m so relaxed, I often engage in conversations with seatmates. What I have found is these conversations can quickly move from idle chatter to more serious chats about the complexities of world issues.

If you’re lucky, sometimes you make a new friend. And if you keep yourself calm, you can avoid the inevitable disagreements that you might have with a seatmate whose worldview is anathema to you.
575 2007-10-23 “Business casual really came about in the 1990s when many young people with long hair and khakis became Silicon Valley millionaires,” Mr. Blackman said. “Like it or not, the corporate world had to loosen its dress codes to work with them.”

Simon Kneen, vice president and creative design director at Brooks Brothers, the Ivy League icon, said that the term business casual “is an oxymoron.” But, he went on, “it tells employees there’s a way of loosening up without walking into a boardroom in embroidered shorts on casual Friday.”

For Friday fans who get too casual, the job finder CareerBuilder lists no-no’s that include workout gear, rumpled clothing, shorts, micro-miniskirts, underwear as outerwear, athletic socks with street shoes, extreme hair color, grungy beards, overly revealing attire, and bare midriffs. And nothing upsets corporate fashion police more than flip-flops.

“It’s mostly junior people who take advantage of casual Friday,” Mr. Kneen said.

Monster.com, the job search engine, offers a definition that seems the clearest. “In general, it means dressing professionally, looking relaxed, yet neat and pulled together.” Or, as Wikipedia, the Internet encyclopedia, put it, “business casual is a kind of middle ground between formal business wear and street wear.”

Many companies — I.B.M., for example — have abandoned dress codes, on the assumption that employees can look around an office to see what is acceptable dress.

Cisco, the computer-networking giant, says it does not have a formal dress code because of its “philosophy of employee empowerment.” But the company expects employees “to use good business judgment in choosing appropriate attire,” said Robyn Jenkins Blum, a spokeswoman. Engineers tend to wear more casual business attire, the company points out, while executives and other employees who “interface with external partners or customers tend to dress more formally,” she said.

But because business casual is such a vague directive, there is little conformity in corporate dress codes. Look no further than Apple’s chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, who swears by jeans. Yet Goldman Sachs frowns on employees in jeans or khakis in its offices.

The male executive uniform continues to be a suit with white or blue shirt and a patterned (often loud) tie. “Suits are an easy code to decipher,” said Mr. Blackman of the Fashion Institute of Technology. “They universally project an air of authority.”

To create that “look” with casual outfits takes a trained eye and an extra half-hour in the morning, said Alan Flusser, author of “Dressing the Man” (HarperCollins, 2002). Mr. Flusser is a designer and owner of a men’s clothing store (who dressed Michael Douglas as the power executive in the movie “Wall Street”). “Unfortunately,” he said, “trying to assemble outfits from unmatched separates requires dressing skills men never had to learn in an exclusively suit-oriented work environment.”

In any case, going upscale in dress and taking it easy are not mutually exclusive lifestyle targets these days.

“I’d say that dress codes these days are more occasion- than vocation-specific,” said Peter C. Yesawich, chief executive of YPB&R, an Orlando advertising agency. Having lunch with a major client, for example, may call for more dressiness than ordinary office garb.

Mr. Flusser traces the comfort factor as far back as the Duke of Windsor who took the starch — literally — out of stiff collars. “The history of fashion is notable for making clothing more and more comfortable,” he said.

Joanne Arbuckle, dean of the School of Arts and Design at the Fashion Institute of Technology, said. “You can be comfortable, yet dressy. Women are sick of dressing down. Take a navy blue suit, add a Diane von Furstenberg white cotton blouse and Kate Spade colored shoes or handbag, and your outfit goes from boring to one with some snap.”

Deborah Lloyd, a former Banana Republic executive who is joining Kate Spade, sees the same trend. “Women are wearing dresses to work a lot more,” she said. “Look at those naughty girls, the Hiltons. They’re even getting a little more serious about dressing.”

“The key for women is versatility,” she added. “Wear what fits at work with a change of shoes and addition of jewelry to carry you through the evening.”

Gordon Lambourne, a senior vice president, said: “People want some of the guesswork taken out of what to wear. If you’re meeting clients, business attire is recommended — the invitation may even say so. But I’ve seen speakers arrive at a function with a tie on and quickly stuff it in their pocket after sizing up the audience.”
576 2007-10-23 BAGHDAD, Oct. 22 — An Iraqi journalist working in Baghdad for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty was reported missing on Monday morning after police officers found the body of her driver, who had been shot and killed on a city street, the American-backed radio network said.

Also Monday, Iraqi government and American military officials agreed to form a joint committee to investigate the combat actions on Sunday that killed 49 people in Sadr City, a sprawling district of working-class Shiites in northeastern Baghdad. American military spokesmen have said that all 49 people killed were criminals who initiated attacks on American forces, and that none of the dead were civilians.

Members of an Sadr City citizens council and other Shiite groups have accused American forces of unleashing a fusillade that killed innocent bystanders, including children.

Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki expressed concern about the deaths during a regularly scheduled meeting on Monday with General David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, a military spokesman said.

Col. Steven A. Boylan, the spokesman, said the general explained that extremists “involved in kidnapping and death squads” had attacked American forces with rocket-propelled grenades and roadside bombs as they were leaving the area after a mission on Sunday, and that “attack helicopters had to be employed to engage those who attacked our soldiers.”
577 2007-10-23 Count me, too, among those who do not want the sacrifice of our soldiers. I want instead for our people — indeed for all people everywhere — to remain whole, at home, following as closely as possible their dreams of living rather than measuring the value of their dying.

I’m a banker on Wall Street making what statistically is considered an impressive bonus (although I am truly middle class), and I strongly disagree with Will Bardenwerper’s characterization that Americans like me have “changed the channel.” Americans have not changed the channel.

I, for one, voted for a Democratic Congress to end the war, have written letters to Congress demanding action and a draft, participated in protests and written media outlets demanding more war coverage. Time and again, I have been ignored by our representatives, including feckless Democrats, while the media cover the celebrity scandal du jour and presidential candidates’ fund-raising prowess rather than their positions.

While Mr. Bardenwerper’s comments about the draft are on target, the draft is a side issue. The real issue is the disparity between the vast majority of Americans who work for a living and the elite who are the primary beneficiaries of a leadership policy based on fear-mongering to justify gutting our Constitution, while giving away billions of taxpayer dollars to the well connected like Blackwater mercenaries.

The results are self-evident from the economic scandals like the current mortgage crisis to the torture and death of thousands of people in a useless war. If Mr. Bardenwerper was a true believer in the “war on terror,” he has no one to blame but himself. Andrew Clipper

Will Bardenwerper’s powerful arguments for considering a draft are appreciated. But he should be assured that his friends’ carelessness is not entirely representative of the American public.

Wall Streeters — not all of them, but historically and as a group — are driven by their individual profit motive rather than concern for others less advantaged than themselves. Those of us who have loved ones in the military are constantly concerned for their safety and the progress of the war.

And many of us who don’t are thinking foremost of the troops when we attend antiwar events and press politicians to call for withdrawal. Amanda Bell

I, too, wonder why the leadership in this country pays only lip service to the sacrifices of those like Will Bardenwerper and why so little has been asked of us. Really, though, the answer is obvious: had we actually been asked to sacrifice, this war would have never been allowed to happen in the first place.
578 2007-10-23 BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, Oct. 22 — President Kurmanbek Bakiyev disbanded Parliament on Monday and called for snap parliamentary elections after Kyrgyz election officials announced that voters had overwhelmingly adopted a new Constitution and election law in a weekend referendum.

But observers said they witnessed widespread ballot-stuffing and warned that this Central Asian state — home to a United States air base that provides critical support to the war effort in Afghanistan — was sliding into authoritarianism.

President Bakiyev announced the referendum and unveiled the document just a month ago. It was, he said, an effort to break once and for all the political impasse that has stymied the country ever since its previous leader, Askar Akayev, was driven from power in March 2005 by violent protests against falsified parliamentary elections.

Election officials said that close to 80 percent of Kyrgyzstan’s 2.7 million registered voters participated in the referendum, and that 85 percent of the voters approved the new Constitution and electoral code. However, independent Western election monitors reported “rampant” violations, in the words of one Western observer, and said that voter turnout had been significantly lower than the 50 percent needed to make the vote valid.

Mr. Bakiyev, who came to power on a mandate of eradicating the corruption and creeping authoritarianism of his predecessor, said the new Constitution and electoral code would strengthen Parliament and create a balance between the legislative and executive branches.

But many here saw the changes as nothing more than a way to assure a more compliant Legislature, which is still dominated by Akayev loyalists.

Under the new rules, for example, the president will be able to freely dismiss the government, and will control the lowest rungs of the bureaucracy, directly appointing judges and local administrators and even setting the salaries of government workers. The number of Parliament seats will also be raised to 90 from 75, and will be distributed entirely through party lists — thereby severing the deputies’ connection to their constituencies.
579 2007-10-23 Dr. Mignot, who has devoted his career to studying narcolepsy, has been “a real pioneer in this,” said Giulio Tononi, a sleep researcher at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Pivotal contributions also came independently from scientists in Dallas and Los Angeles.

The normal boundaries between wakefulness and slumber fray in narcolepsy, which plagues 135,000 Americans. Symptoms include overwhelming sleepiness during the day, insomnia at night and hallucinations or muscle paralysis while dozing off. Laughter or strong emotions like elation and anger can set off sudden muscle weakness. One good joke, and patients can find their knees buckling or heads sagging. But they remain awake.

In the early 1970s, a sleep scientist at Stanford, William C. Dement, diagnosed narcolepsy in a French poodle. He tracked down Doberman pinschers and Labrador retrievers with an inherited form of the disorder, establishing a breeding colony in 1976. The dogs shared a striking trait: collapsing in attacks of muscle weakness when excited by their favorite food.

Dr. Mignot began studying the colony in 1986. Born in Paris, he received his M.D. from the René Descartes School of Medicine in 1984, in tandem with doctorate pharmacology studies at Pierre and Marie Curie University. After a psychiatry residency, he faced a year of mandatory military training, or he could practice medicine for 16 months in Africa or Asia.

Dr. Mignot, who said he was “a nerd of the greatest dimension,” sought a different path. Intrigued by the enigma of sleep, he persuaded a French company to send him to Stanford to test its experimental narcolepsy drug on the dogs. Dr. Mignot arrived in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.

The medication, modafinil, reduced sleepiness but had no effect on paralysis attacks, Dr. Mignot found. In 1988, he became head of the Center for Narcolepsy and decided to hunt for the canine narcolepsy gene. “At that time,” he recalled, “there were no maps of the dog genome.”

It took 10 years and breeding nearly 200 Doberman and Labrador puppies to succeed, working with a psychiatry professor, Dr. Seiji Nishino, and others. (Animals were later put up for adoption.)

In August 1999, Dr. Mignot’s team announced the culprit: a flawed gene for a receptor protein that binds to hypocretin. In a surprise, Dr. Masashi Yanagisawa, a geneticist at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, reported that month that deleting the gene for hypocretin caused narcolepsy in mice.

Those genes are normal in most human narcoleptics but they still lack hypocretin, according to separate studies by Dr. Mignot’s group and a team led by Jerome Siegel, a neuroscientist at the University of California, Los Angeles. The reason is that patients have lost 90 percent of the brain cells that make hypocretin.

In a report in May, Dr. Siegel said that in late-stage Parkinson’s disease, as well, the hypocretin-producing cells were missing, 62 percent of them. Daytime drowsiness and poor night sleep are common in Parkinson’s patients. “Long before they’re diagnosed,” Dr. Siegel said, “these individuals are sleepy.”

Hypocretin was the first protein directly linked to a true sleep disorder, and many labs jumped into deciphering its role in normal sleep. “I think hypocretin is a key molecule that helps you stay awake when you start to be sleep deprived,” Dr. Mignot said.

Scientists know that a small set of hypothalamus neurons secrete hypocretin, activating brain circuits to promote wakefulness. Research also suggests that hypocretin is involved in regulating muscle tone, metabolism and feelings of pleasure.

Initial hopes for improved narcolepsy medicines that replace hypocretin have faded, because studies showed that the molecule did not readily cross the blood-brain barrier. It may be possible to find an oral hypocretinlike drug, Dr. Mignot said. Many patients rely on modafinil, approved in 1999, and other stimulants. To suppress paralysis, patients take antidepressants or sodium oxybate, found in the date-rape drug. None of the medicines influence the hypocretin system.

Dr. Mignot is now asking why hypocretin neurons die in narcoleptic people. The best hypothesis is that the immune system destroys the cells, but no one has direct evidence of that, Dr. Mignot said.

His group has been studying rodents, tinkering with genes in their hypocretin cells to see whether damage or symptoms result. But diagnosing narcolepsy in mice is tricky. “Sometimes,” he said, “they collapse, but you don’t really know why.”

He has turned to zebrafish, which possess hypocretin and hatch rapidly. Computer analyses of fish videos convinced him that the animals do sleep. Snoozing fish drift to the tank bottom and stop. “Their tail kind of droops,” he said.

In a study published last week in PLoS Biology, the researchers reported on an effort to breed a colony of narcoleptic zebrafish by obtaining mutant fish that lacked hypocretin receptors. “I was hoping that they would collapse, like the dogs,” Dr. Mignot said. But the fish did not flop over. They were no sleepier during the day, and they were evening insomniacs.

Their hypocretin cells, it turns out, are not wired like those in mammals. Dr. Siegel concluded that zebrafish would not open major insights into hypocretin's role in narcolepsy; the sleep system “is just very different.”

Although disappointed by the findings, Dr. Mignot mused that one could learn as much from negative results as from positive. He still plans to explore the cell biology of zebrafish hypocretin neurons.

By studying fish and other animals, Dr. Mignot said and Dr. Siegel agreed, researchers could reap knowledge about the evolution of sleep across species.

Dr. Mignot is optimistic about cracking the immune-system connection in narcolepsy soon. “I don’t care actually even if it’s going to take a long time,” he said. “I’m ready to cross deserts.”

Dr. Tononi said Dr. Mignot was ideally suited for that, adding: “This is what is good about Mignot. He is relentless.”
580 2007-10-23 A QUERY FOR CELLPHONE USERS There are many benefits to cellphones with advanced technology, but they do raise questions, such as: Do you want your friends or family to know where you are at any given time? And vice versa?      PORSCHE CLOSES IN ON...
581 2007-10-24 The governor outlines draft regulations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in New York State by 16 percent in 2019....
582 2007-10-24 In a previous post I forgot to mention a Google Mapplet version of the Election 2008 map we did a few months ago....
583 2007-10-24 Microsoft said it would invest $240 million in Facebook. The money will help Facebook challenge Google and by extension help Microsoft....
584 2007-10-24 Most travelers are well aware that England is hugely expensive: A report last week, to coincide with the publication of the 2008 Good Pub Guide, revealed that even an average meal in a pub now costs about 20 pounds per person. And this is not for ...
585 2007-10-24 Senator Barack Obama is trying to tamp down a growing uproar over his plans to include a controversial gospel singer at a campaign concert this weekend in South Carolina....
586 2007-10-24 Shaun Clancy, who owns Foley's on West 33rd Street in Manhattan, was born in Ireland, but he migrated to the United States and fell in love with baseball. Clancy can recount every player, manager, coach and sports reporter who has ever been inside...
587 2007-10-24 Microsoft has won a high-profile technology industry battle with Google and Yahoo to invest in the social networking upstart Facebook. Microsoft will invest $240 million for a 1.6 percent stake in the company, said Adam Sohn, a director in Microso...
588 2007-10-24 John McCain's campaign is putting his "tied up" remark to use in a television spot that it says is to begin running in New Hampshire....
589 2007-10-24 Shareholders shot down the Dolan family's $10.6 billion buyout of Cablevision on Wednesday - ostensibly on the theory that their bid undervalued the cable company - but they may have dealt themselves a blow too. Shares of Cablevision are not expec...
590 2007-10-24 Spending Billions While the Business Burns...
591 2007-10-24 Microsoft and Google are each vying to take a stake of between 5 percent and 10 percent in Facebook, with a deal expected to be announced in the next 24 to 48 hours, according to The New York Post. Facebook's investors, which include Accel Partner...
592 2007-10-24 XDx, a molecular diagnostics company whose investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Sprout Capital and an affiliate of the Texas Pacific Group, said it plans to raise as much as $86.25 million in an initial public offering on the Nasdaq...
593 2007-10-24 Investors put significantly less money into hedge funds in the United States in the third quarter, when credit market woes sparked heavy losses at many prominent portfolios. But demand did not dry up, as some analysts had predicted. Pension funds,...
594 2007-10-24 XTO Energy, a natural gas producer, said on Tuesday it had acquired natural-gas properties in the Barnett Shale formation of North Texas from multiple sellers for about $550 million. The purchases included 24,000 acres with proven reserves equival...
595 2007-10-24 NYSE Euronext will launch an international carbon trading market next year to position itself for an expected increase in emission credits trading as governments and industry step up efforts to cut pollution. The company revealed few details in a ...
596 2007-10-24 Verizon Wireless has agreed to settle an investigation into the marketing of its Internet plans and reimburse $1 million to customers for wrongful account termination, the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said yesterday.

The company, which is owned by Verizon Communications and the Vodafone Group, also agreed to pay $150,000 in penalties and costs to New York State and to revise marketing of its wireless Internet access plans, Mr. Cuomo’s office said.

A state inquiry found that Verizon Wireless had marketed its NationalAccess and BroadbandAccess plans as “unlimited,” without disclosing that actions like downloading movies and playing games online were prohibited, Mr. Cuomo’s office said.

The company also cut off customers who exceeded an undisclosed cap of Internet use each month, the state regulator said.

From 2004 until April of this year, Verizon Wireless terminated service to more than 13,000 consumers nationwide for “excessive” use of these plans, according to Mr. Cuomo’s office.

It said Verizon Wireless agreed to reimburse all consumers whose service had been terminated for the cost of wireless access cards or cellphones they bought to use the service.
597 2007-10-24 The Hungarian Guard, which is associated with the extreme-right Jobbik Party, says more than 5,000 people have applied for membership. Jobbik has never garnered enough votes to enter Parliament.

Gabor Vona, one of the Hungarian Guard’s founders, said at a rally here on Tuesday that the purpose of the group was “to safeguard Hungarian culture and traditions.” He said decades of Communism and now globalization threatened the Hungarian identity, and he rejected the paramilitary label. “The real strength is not in the arms of the guard, but that in its heart, it is Hungarian,” he said.

Oct. 23 is an important national holiday in Hungary, commemorating the revolution against the Soviets in 1956 and its bloody suppression. This year, the tradition was marred by the fact that it was also the first anniversary of the police force’s using rubber bullets and tear gas to scatter protesters angry at the government.

On Monday night, 19 people were injured as the police clashed with rioters, some hurling Molotov cocktails, near the opera house where the prime minister was delivering a speech. Tuesday’s protests were nonviolent.

In September 2006, radio stations played a leaked tape recording of Mr. Gyurcsany admitting that he had lied to the public about the real state of the economy before elections. The government remains unpopular because of strict economic reforms, including reductions in government jobs, tax increases and new fees for health care and university education.

“The government made the mistakes, and the people have to pay the price,” said Viktor Orban, chairman of the center-right Fidesz Party and a former prime minister. “And they find it is a kind of injustice.”

He distinguished, however, between “impatient but peaceful” opponents of the government, like the protesters at the event his party organized, and “groups who are not willing to wait” for constitutional means to challenge the government.

Janos Koka, the economy minister and chairman of the smaller party in the governing coalition, the Alliance of Free Democrats, stands by the reforms as necessary to bring down budget deficits that had grown to nearly 10 percent of Hungary’s total economic output last year. The deficit is projected to fall to around 6 percent this year.

But he admitted that it had not been easy for the people. “The feeling of discontent and dissatisfaction is evoking populism, and populism is evoking the appearance of extremism in Hungary,” he said.

The Hungarian Guard inducted its first 56 members at a ceremony in Buda Castle here in August that captivated the nation. It also aroused international condemnation from Jewish organizations for the uniforms similar to those of the fascists responsible for the murder or deportation of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews to death camps during World War II. Last weekend, the group inducted 600 more members at another ceremony.

“People are afraid,” said Krisztian Szabados, the director of Political Capital, an independent policy research center in Budapest. “They say why don’t the police step up against these groups.” But, Mr. Szabados said, the number of hard-core, right-wing extremists in Hungary stood at only around 2,000 people.

On Tuesday, the Hungarian Guard was invited to provide security at a church holding commemorative services. At a nearby table, a vendor sold the striped banners alongside copies of Hitler’s “Mein Kampf.”

When a reporter pointed at the books, they were quickly removed from the table. Asked about them, the vendor, who declined to give his name, replied with a rhetorical question, “Is it blacklisted?”

“It’s quite a chaotic situation, and we can’t control what everyone is doing,” said Mr. Vona, the Guard founder. He added that Jewish people had applied to be members of the group, but that “we are not asking people their affiliation.”

Other than their uniforms, many of the Guard members had a distinctly civilian bearing, some slouching a bit and one even smoking during one of ceremonies on Tuesday, where they provided security.

There were goatees and clean-shaven faces, men and women. Rank and file members were not allowed to speak to the news media. “I’m not a leader so I can’t talk to the press,” said a man with a wide, drooping mustache.

“The thing people do not have is this spirit of community,” said Mr. Vona, a 29-year-old former history teacher. “That’s what’s lacking.” He said that growing up he had to struggle to learn about Hungarian culture. “The problem is, we are not confident enough,” he said.
598 2007-10-24 Also talked about was the Sonnabend 1991 show of Jeff Koons’s “Made in Heaven” series of paintings and sculptures that showed the artist engaged in sexual acts with his wife, Ilona Staller.

Mrs. Sonnabend was variously described as “an iron marshmallow” and “a cross between Buddha and Machiavelli.” Short and plump, she was grandmotherly in appearance from a relatively early age due in part to an illness that necessitated a wig.

Her genteel, old Europe manner belied an often imperious yet bohemian and self-deprecating personality. Her soft, fluty voice often left a listener unprepared for the force of her comments, which she could deliver in at least five languages. On leaving a dance concert in the 1960s, she is said to have remarked to a companion, speaking of the choreographer, “I’m not coming back until someone tells me his I. Q. has gone up.”

Mrs. Sonnabend was perhaps the last in a line of important European-born American art dealers that included Kurt Valentine and Pierre Matisse as well as Mr. Castelli, who died in 1998 but whose Leo Castelli Gallery continues to operate.

She was born Ileana Schapira in Bucharest, Romania, on Oct. 28, 1914, the daughter of Mihail Schapira, a prominent Jewish industrialist. She grew up in luxury, attended by nannies and governesses. But she demonstrated an early independence and interest in art that she may have inherited from her Viennese mother, Marianne, who years later divorced her father and married the Russian-born American artist John Graham.

Mrs. Sonnabend met Mr. Castelli when she was 17 and married him a year later, asking for and receiving a painting by Matisse instead of an engagement ring. In 1935, the couple moved to Paris, where they became part of the Surrealist circle. In 1939, Mr. Castelli, backed by his father-in-law, opened his first gallery with an interior designer named René Drouin.

After World War II broke out, the Castellis and their daughter, Nina, fled to New York, where Mrs. Sonnabend’s parents had already established themselves, having purchased a town house at 4 East 77th Street in Manhattan. The Castellis reached New York on a Portuguese steamer out of Lisbon and moved into an apartment in the building. In 1957, after dealing privately for more than a decade, Mr. Castelli opened a gallery in the couple’s living room.

Mrs. Sonnabend did not begin her own career in earnest until after 1959, when she divorced Mr. Castelli. With her second husband, an amateur Dante scholar named Michael Sonnabend, whom she had met in the 1940s while attending classes at Columbia, she moved first to Rome and then to Paris. In 1962, they opened a small gallery on Quai des Grands-Augustins with a show of Mr. Johns’s work.

There, and in a larger gallery on Rue Mazarine, the Sonnabends established a European bulkhead for new American art, often to the vehement dismay of French art critics. They introduced Pop and Minimal artists like Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Jim Dine, James Rosenquist, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal, Donald Judd and Robert Morris.

Mr. Sonnabend was known for philosophical discussions while Mrs. Sonnabend sold work and arranged exhibitions. In the late 1960s, they hired as gallery director a slim, elegant Portuguese student named Antonio Homem, who bore a striking resemblance to Mr. Castelli as a young man and who became something of an alter ego to Mrs. Sonnabend. In the late 1980s, she and Mr. Sonnabend adopted Mr. Homem. Mr. Sonnabend died in 2001.

In addition to Mr. Homem and her daughter both of New York, Mrs. Sonnabend is survived by three grandchildren and two great-granddaughters.

While the Paris gallery remained open until 1980, Mrs. Sonnabend’s interest began to shift to New York a decade earlier, when she opened a gallery on Madison Avenue near 73rd Street, a few blocks from Mr. Castelli’s. She began exhibiting material that was relatively new to New York: early photography and French Art Deco.

In the fall of 1971, she and Mr. Castelli opened galleries one floor apart in a building at 420 West Broadway, heralding the arrival of the SoHo gallery scene. There, Mrs. Sonnabend continued to present a complex mixture of American and European and new and old.

Her sense of daring, many agreed, exceeded Mr. Castelli’s. She gave first or early New York shows to a range of American Post-Minimalists, including Mel Bochner, Barry Le Va, William Wegman, Vito Acconci and John Baldessari as well as European artists like Jannis Kounellis, Mario Merz, Gilberto Zorio, Boyd Webb and Bernd and Hilla Becher. One of her most notorious shows was Mr. Acconci’s “Seedbed,” a ramped floor beneath which the artist masturbated, his sounds projected over a loudspeaker.

She and Mr. Castelli consulted everyday and often lunched together. They sometimes teamed up for joint shows and established Castelli-Sonnabend Films and Tapes to accommodate artists interested in new media.

During the roaring ’80s, Mrs. Sonnabend gave New York debuts to the German painters A. R. Penck, Jörg Immendorf and Georg Baselitz, and she took on Neo-Geo artists like Ashley Bickerton, Peter Halley, and Mr. Koons as well as the painters Carroll Dunham and Terry Winters.

But many of her artists defected to other galleries in the early 1990s, and by then Mr. Castelli’s gallery had lost its prominence. Yet Mrs. Sonnabend persisted. To the surprise of many, she and Mr. Homem joined the wave of dealers leaving SoHo for Chelsea, opening a new gallery there in the spring of 2000.

The current exhibition there is in many ways a testament to Mrs. Sonnabend’s esthetic range and her own history, presenting a typical contrast of times and sensibilities: Robert Morris’s raw, Process Art “Blind Time” drawings of the 1970s and Candida Hofer’s new large color photographs of the often ornate interiors of palaces, theaters and libraries in Portugual, redolent of the old Europe with which Mrs. Sonnabend embodied an increasingly rare link.
599 2007-10-24 Roche, which is based in Switzerland, said in a statement that it was considering all its legal options, including an appeal.

The decision is a reprieve for Amgen, which is already facing declining sales of its anemia drugs because of safety concerns and a resulting cutback in reimbursement by Medicare. Shares of Amgen rose $1.58, or 3 percent, to close at $57.70.

“This wasn’t just a victory, it was a shutout,” said Mark Schoenebaum, the biotechnology analyst at Bear Stearns, referring to the verdict. He said it would be difficult for Roche to win on appeal. Mr. Schoenebaum said Amgen’s anemia business was still likely to decline sharply in the coming years because of the Medicare cutback. But he said that there were now probably no more “landmines” that could hurt the stock.

Amgen’s two anemia drugs, Epogen and Aranesp, had sales of $6.6 billion last year, nearly half the company’s total revenue.

Mircera would have broken a monopoly Amgen has had on selling this type of anemia drug to kidney dialysis centers since 1989, when Epogen was approved.

Since then, Amgen has sold more than $25 billion of Epogen, including $2.5 billion last year. Medicare, which pays for most dialysis treatments, spends more than $2 billion a year on Epogen.

Mircera would also have competed with Aranesp and with Procrit from Johnson & Johnson, which is sold under license from Amgen. Those drugs are used to treat anemia in kidney patients not undergoing dialysis and patients receiving cancer chemotherapy.

All the drugs are synthetic forms of erythropoietin, or Epo, a protein made by the kidneys that stimulates the body to produce more oxygen-carrying red blood cells. An Amgen scientist, Fu-Kuen Lin, isolated the human gene for Epo, allowing the protein to be produced in genetically engineered hamster cells.

The work was done in the early 1980s, and the first patent on that work expired late in 2004.

In Europe, where there was only one patent, competition is beginning. But in the United States, owing to quirks in patent law, Amgen received seven patents on the same work by Mr. Lin. Because some patents were not granted until years after Amgen applied, the patent protection could extend until 2015, longer than the 20 years contemplated by patent law.

“Amgen has had an extended monopoly for the last 20 years, not allowing for new therapeutic options to treat anemia to be introduced to patients in this country,” George B. Abercrombie, the president of Roche’s American pharmaceuticals operations, said in a statement yesterday.

But Amgen has successfully defended its patents twice before, also before Judge Young in Boston.

Roche has been expecting the Food and Drug Administration to approve Mircera by Nov. 14.

Amgen’s victory is likely to mean several more years before dialysis centers have another source of anemia treatments.

Dialysis center managers are dependent on Amgen for a vital drug and for other support, so they tend to be in its corner. At last month’s fall conference of a professional society, the National Renal Administrators Association, held in Huntington Beach, Calif., the tote bags said “Amgen,” the name badge holders said “Amgen” and the breakfast, lunch and refreshments were paid for by Amgen.

Still, some managers said privately at that meeting that they would welcome competition.

The next new competitor might be Affymax, a small California company that hopes by 2011 to win approval for an anemia drug that it says will not infringe Amgen’s patents.

The apparent elimination of Roche as a potential competitor helped lift Affymax’s stock, which rose $2.41 to $30.76 yesterday.
600 2007-10-24 The pre-9/11 cases brought in Manhattan, said Peter S. Margulies, a law professor at Roger Williams University in Rhode Island, “reflected U.S. attorneys and federal prosecutors at their best, using their discretion, bringing cases when they had strong cases and declining to bring them when they were weak.”

How successful the more recent prosecutions have been depends on what is being counted. In cases trying to prove material support for terrorism, the government’s success rate is “pretty reasonable,” said Robert M. Chesney, a law professor at Wake Forest University.

From the Sept. 11 attacks to last July, the government started 108 material-support prosecutions and completed 62, according to an article by Professor Chesney that is to appear in The Lewis & Clark Law Review. Juries convicted 9 defendants, 30 defendants pleaded guilty, and 11 pleaded guilty to other charges. There were eight acquittals and four dismissals.

“They do lose sometimes,” Professor Chesney said. “But they win more often than they lose. It’s not one loss after another.”

Material-support cases are just a small fraction of what the Justice Department counts as terrorism prosecutions, and in the larger picture the government is not doing nearly as well. According to the Center on Law and Security at the New York University School of Law, the government has a 29 percent conviction rate in terrorism prosecutions overall, compared with 92 percent for felonies generally.

In the trial that ended on Monday with a mix of acquittals and deadlocks, the Holy Land Foundation and several of its officials were charged with giving money to Hamas, the militant Palestinian organization designated a terrorist group by the United States in 1995. The Federal Bureau of Investigation started looking into Holy Land in 1993.

Legal experts said it could be hard to prosecute cases in which some of the evidence was quite old. Indeed, much of the evidence had been available to prosecutors in the Clinton Justice Department, and the material support law was enacted in 1996. But those prosecutors did not pursue the matter.

“There are some of these cases that we did not push — certainly aggressively, sometimes not at all — because we were in a different mindset before 9/11,” said Andrew C. McCarthy, who led the 1995 prosecution of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind cleric convicted of conspiring to wage war against the United States.

William Neal, a juror in the Holy Land case, complained that the government’s evidence “was pieced together over the course of a decade — a phone call this year, a message another year.”

Instead of trying to prove that the defendants knew they were supporting terrorists, Mr. Neal said, prosecutors “danced around the wire transfers by showing us videos of little kids in bomb belts and people singing about Hamas, things that didn’t directly relate to the case.”

Mr. McCarthy said he did not envy the Holy Land prosecutors. “It’s very hard,” he said, “even if your evidence is not ambiguous, to sell to a jury that they need to do something that you failed to do something about for years.”

The case was, moreover, about support for Hamas, which jurors are not likely to think poses the sort of direct threat to American security that groups like Al Qaeda do, Mr. McCarthy said.

Civil liberties groups said the Holy Land case was one in a line of misguided prosecutions. They pointed to the collapse of a case against men once accused of being part of a terrorism sleeper cell in Detroit, to the combination of acquittals and deadlocks in the trials of a Saudi student in Idaho and a Palestinian professor in Florida and to the convictions of two men on relatively minor charges in February after a three-month terrorism trial.

“You would think that juries would be eager to convict given the way these guys were painted,” said Jules Lobel, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh and an author, with David Cole, of “Less Safe, Less Free: Why America Is Losing the War on Terror.”

Juries “are demanding strict proof” these days, said Thomas M. Melsheimer, a former federal prosecutor.

The Holy Land case, which prosecutors have promised to retry, is a particularly curious one, as the government had long ago put the group out of business, said Matthew D. Orwig, a lawyer in Dallas who was until recently United States attorney for the Eastern District of Texas.

“I think the government won when it froze the assets and shut down the organization,” Mr. Orwig said. “Then it piled a loss on top of a win because it lost the prosecution, in an arguably superfluous action.”
601 2007-10-24 Quarterback Brian Griese, who took over as the starter after the Bears lost two of their first three games, has averaged more than 300 yards passing and thrown for eight touchdowns in the four games since.

The Bears are only 2-2 in those games, and Griese has thrown six interceptions. But for Bears fans weary of Rex Grossman, who had one touchdown pass and six interceptions in three games, it has been good enough. Most important, Griese’s play has kept Chicago’s playoff hopes alive.

Griese’s finest moments might have come Sunday, when he completed 7 of 9 passes for 97 yards in a last-minute touchdown drive to beat the Eagles. But contrary to reports, he did not call all the plays in the drive after a malfunctioning headset kept coaches from communicating with him. The headset was not working, but Griese said that many of the calls were part of “the normal course of a two-minute drill,” and that he had read the lips of the quarterbacks coach Pep Hamilton when the Bears were near midfield.

With Giants linebacker Antonio Pierce streaking down the sideline on an interception return Sunday, the last man standing between him and the end zone was Trent Dilfer, bottom right, the 49ers’ 35-year-old quarterback. Desperate to stop the bleeding on a terrible day for San Francisco, Dilfer charged into Pierce and stopped him at the 5.

Stats LLC has data available since 1994 for tackles by quarterbacks, and Dilfer is tied for fourth in the league with 12 — a statistic that is often the product of a high number of interceptions. Dilfer has 122 of those.

Leading the pack is Jake Plummer, who retired unexpectedly after last season. Along with his 161 interceptions, he had 22 tackles. That record may be one of the few that is out of the reach of Brett Favre, who has spent this season breaking quarterback marks. He sits in third place with 13 tackles, but the statistic was not tabulated in his first three seasons, when he threw 39 interceptions.

One of the early winners of this year’s N.F.L. draft is Trent Edwards, below, who yesterday displaced J. P. Losman as Buffalo’s No. 1 quarterback. Edwards was the sixth quarterback taken, at No. 92 over all, and has attempted 100 passes.

The quarterbacks taken ahead of him — the Raiders’ JaMarcus Russell (No. 1), the Browns’ Brady Quinn (No. 22), the Eagles’ Kevin Kolb (No. 36), the Dolphins’ John Beck (No. 40) and the Lions’ Drew Stanton (43) — have combined to attempt zero. The projected early losers of next year’s draft are ESPN’s Mel Kiper Jr. and Company, who will have less time to speak between selections because of a speedier draft announced by the league yesterday. Are the early projected winners the American people?

In Week 4, the Lions set a league record for the most points in the fourth quarter with 34. On Sunday, the Texans earned another fourth-quarter distinction: With a 29-point fourth quarter, they became the eighth team to score 24 or more points in the final period and still lose. Big fourth-quarter scores have been frequent this season. Seven teams have scored 20 or more points in the fourth quarter of a game, including three on Sunday.

Two Week 7 games, in particular, demonstrated the importance of turnovers. In a 21-19 loss in Washington, the Cardinals ran 73 plays to the Redskins’ 47; they outgained the Redskins, 364-160; they had the ball for 9 minutes 24 minutes more. But they had three turnovers to the Redskins’ one, and two of those turnovers led to Washington touchdowns.

Three of Arizona’s four losses have come by 3 points or less, and in each of those losses, a turnover led to points for the Cardinals’ opponent. The Cardinals are minus-7 in turnover margin, tied for 28th in the N.F.L.

In a 23-16 loss in Detroit, Tampa Bay outgained the Lions, 422-278; Jeff Garcia outpassed Jon Kitna, 316-147; the Buccaneers had the ball for 11 minutes 40 seconds more. But two Garcia fumbles led to two Lions touchdowns.

It seems doubtful that the National Football Conference can muster a worthy challenger in the Super Bowl to the Patriots or the Colts, although the season series between the A.F.C. and the N.F.C. is closer than what might be expected. Teams from the A.F.C. lead, 14-12.

The Redskins and the Bills have not thrown a touchdown pass to a wide receiver this season. ... Clinton Portis, who missed the preseason with injuries, has not rushed for more than 100 yards in 11 consecutive games. ... Rob Bironas, who kicked a league-record eight field goals Sunday, already has six game-winning kicks in two and a half seasons in the league. ... Steelers tight ends Heath Miller, Matt Spaeth and Jerame Tuman have combined to catch eight of quarterback Ben Roethlisberger’s 13 touchdown passes. ... The Lions, who are ranked seventh in passing offense, had more rushing yards than passing yards Sunday against the Buccaneers. It was the first time that happened since Mike Martz took over as offensive coordinator before the 2006 season.
602 2007-10-24 WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 — All 10 Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee pressed Michael B. Mukasey, President Bush’s nominee for attorney general, on Tuesday for a clear-cut statement that the interrogation technique known as waterboarding, which simulates drowning and has been used by the C.I.A. against terrorism suspects, is illegal.

In his confirmation hearings last week, Mr. Mukasey, a retired federal judge from New York, declined to say if waterboarding was torture or was otherwise illegal; he insisted he was not aware of how the technique was carried out.

In their letter to Mr. Mukasey on Tuesday, the committee’s chairman, Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, and the panel’s other nine Democrats said they found it “surprising that you are unfamiliar with waterboarding since it has been the subject of much public discussion” and asserted that “your unwillingness to state that waterboarding is illegal may place Americans at risk of being subject to this abusive technique.”

The letter continued, “Please respond to the following question: Is the use of waterboarding, or inducing the misperception of drowning, as an interrogation technique illegal under U.S. law, including treaty obligations?” The senators requested a “prompt response” since Mr. Mukasey’s nomination is still before the committee.

A White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, said Mr. Mukasey could not comment on details of interrogation techniques because “he has not been read into classified intelligence programs, and he won’t be read in until he is confirmed as attorney general.”

Mr. Leahy has said he would not schedule a vote on the nomination until Mr. Mukasey has responded to all written questions submitted to him since his confirmation hearings. Although Mr. Leahy and other Democrats were critical of Mr. Mukasey for several of his comments last week, including his expressions of support for the White House’s view of its expansive wartime powers, it is still widely expected that he will be confirmed to the Justice Department job.
603 2007-10-24 WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 (Dow Jones/AP) — Verizon Wireless on Tuesday abandoned its legal challenge of the Federal Communications Commission’s rules for its auction of radio spectrum, removing a potential obstacle to the much-anticipated sale.

The company, jointly owned by Verizon Communications and the Vodafone Group of Britain, filed a notice in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia that it was dropping its appeal.

The court earlier rejected an attempt by Verizon Wireless to have its appeal considered on an expedited schedule so it could conclude before the auction begins in January.

Legal experts had said that the challenge was unlikely to succeed because the courts generally defer to the F.C.C. in rule-making procedures.

The company sought to force the F.C.C. to abandon the open-access conditions it has attached to around a third of the spectrum being sold to the commercial wireless industry. The conditions are aimed at encouraging another provider of wireless broadband services to enter the American market, which a few companies dominate.
604 2007-10-24 Stocks rose yesterday after better-than-expected earnings from Apple and American Express eased concern that the housing slump has depressed consumer spending.

Apple climbed after the company reported record sales of Macintosh computers and growing demand for iPods and iPhones. American Express gained on higher credit-card charges by wealthy customers. Burlington Northern Santa Fe rallied on earnings that topped analysts’ forecasts.

Research in Motion’s alliance with Alcatel-Lucent to distribute the BlackBerry e-mail phone in China helped spur a late-day rally in technology stocks that pushed the Nasdaq composite index up 45.33 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,799.26. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index added 13.26 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,519.59. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 109.26 points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,676.23.

The Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for companies with a median market value of $652 million, rose 1 percent, to 818.53.

The yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 0.01 percentage point, to 4.40 percent. The price rose 2/32, to 102 23/32.
605 2007-10-24 At the meetings in Moscow, on Oct. 12 and 13, the Russians called for the United States to freeze the planned deployment of the missiles in Poland and a radar station in the Czech Republic. While Mr. Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ruled that out, the two countries did agree to share information about potential threats from Iran.

Mr. Bush would like to make missile defense a defining legacy of his presidency, though critics say the initial system, with a limited number of missile interceptors in Alaska and California, remains unproven. Missile defense has been a core of Republican ideology since Ronald Reagan proposed what came to be known as the “Star Wars” program in 1983, and it remains hugely popular among the Republican candidates vying to succeed Mr. Bush.

“We should move as quickly as we can to build missile defense,” Rudolph W. Giuliani said during the Republican candidates’ debate on Sunday night in Orlando, Fla. Senator John McCain said that the objections of President Vladimir V. Putin were not an obstacle to deploying a system, but rather a justification of it.

“This is a dangerous person, and he has to understand that there’s a cost to some of his actions,” Mr. McCain said. “And the first thing I would do is make sure that we have a missile defense system in place” in Poland and the Czech Republic.

The Democratic presidential candidates, by contrast, have rarely discussed it and, when they do, usually criticize it for soaking up resources that might be better spent on more pressing threats or domestic needs.

Mr. Bush suggested that missile defenses would be a deterrent the same way that an overwhelming capacity for nuclear retaliation once was with the Soviet Union.

“A terrorist regime that can strike America or our allies with a ballistic missile is likely to see this power as giving them free rein for acts of aggression and intimidation in their own neighborhoods,” he said. “But with missile defenses in place, the calculus of deterrence changes in our favor. If this same terrorist regime does not have confidence their missile attack would be successful, it is less likely to engage in acts of aggression in the first place.”

In speaking at the National Defense University, Mr. Bush was returning to the place where he first pledged to build a national missile defense more than six and a half years ago. But critics questioned the urgency of the threat, and even Mr. Bush said that intelligence agencies did not believe that Iran could build a ballistic missile capable of striking the United States before 2015 — and then only with foreign assistance.

“There are a lot of ifs, ands and buts,” Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association in Washington, said of Iran’s missile abilities.

The administration hopes to reach agreements by year’s end with Poland and the Czech Republic and to break ground on the missile sites before Mr. Bush leaves office.

Mr. Bush raised the issue again now, aides said, to fend off Congressional efforts to cut spending, which he said would delay the deployments in Europe “for a year or more.” Mr. Bush, who the day before asked Congress to approve $196 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and other programs, complained that Congress was proposing cutting $290 million from the $8.9 billion he proposed for missile defense in the current fiscal year.

Representative Ellen O. Tauscher of California, a Democrat, dismissed Mr. Bush’s criticism. She said there was bipartisan support for defenses focused on more immediate threats of shorter-range missiles that could strike American allies or forces in the Middle East and Europe.

“There’s no need for us to rush ahead to deal with an emerging threat,” she said, referring to Iran’s possible development of intercontinental missiles, “when we have such gaps now for the current threat.”
606 2007-10-24 AMSTERDAM, Oct. 23 (Dow Jones) — Akzo Nobel, the Dutch chemical, coatings and pharmaceutical company, reported Tuesday that its third-quarter profit fell 10 percent, in part because of gains reported last year.

It also said that its merger and acquisition plans, including the shedding of its health unit and the purchase of the British paint giant Imperial Chemicals Industries, were on track.

The company, based in Amsterdam, said third-quarter net profit was 281 million euros ($400 million), down from 313 million euros a year earlier, when Akzo Nobel reported a gain of 65 million euros and charges relating to restructuring and impairments.

Analysts had expected third-quarter net profit to fall 14 percent, to 269 million euros.

Since Akzo Nobel agreed to sell Organon BioSciences to Schering-Plough in March, it is reporting Organon BioSciences results as discontinued operations in the profit and loss account.

Akzo Nobel, the world’s biggest coatings company by market share, reported a 2 percent increase in third-quarter sales from continuing operations, to 2.6 billion euros ($3.7 billion), from 2.55 billion euros.

The company said that demand in the North American decorative and industrial paint market, which supplies the residential construction industry, had softened.

Demand has also softened in the Asian-export-driven business, which includes coatings for kitchen cabinets and other household furniture, the chief financial officer, Rob Frohn, said in a news conference.
607 2007-10-24 In a call to the astronauts from the ground, Col. Terry W. Virts of the Air Force, an astronaut who is “capsule communicator” with the crew, told Pamela A. Melroy, the commander of the 120th space shuttle mission, about “several events” involving debris.

But, Colonel Virts said, all of it appeared to have fallen off of the tank after the period early in ascent when aerodynamics and shuttle speed create the riskiest conditions.

“Looked like a pretty clean ascent,” he said.

It will be several days before NASA can say whether there was damage to the leading-edge panels of the shuttle wings, a subject of an internal dispute in the weeks before the launching.

Some NASA engineers argued that the mission should be delayed until December so that at least three heat-resistant panels found to have surprising deterioration to their protective coatings could be replaced.

Mission managers said that they ruled against the delay because there was no evidence that the condition might worsen and that any damage could be detected in the on-orbit inspection that is now part of every flight and could be repaired with newly developed techniques and materials.

Along with Ms. Melroy, who retired from the Air Force as a colonel, the crew includes the pilot, Col. George D. Zamka of the Marines, Scott E. Parazynski, Stephanie D. Wilson, Col. Douglas H. Wheelock of the Army and Paolo A. Nespoli, an Italian representing the European Space Agency.

A seventh astronaut, Daniel M. Tani, will trade places aboard the station with Clayton C. Anderson, who has been aboard the station since June.

The mission will pack a large number of construction tasks into its two weeks. Not only will the astronauts be transporting the new “room” for the station, the first addition to the living space in six years, but the combined crews of the shuttle and station will also pluck a 17.5-ton solar array and truss from its current position atop the station and move it to its permanent position at the farthest end of the port truss. That operation will require delicate handoffs between the robot and station arms.

“This one is almost like two missions in one,” said Sandra H. Magnus, an astronaut who flew on the shuttle Atlantis in 2002.

William H. Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for space operations, told reporters after the launching: “There’s nothing here that stands out as an individual task that is more complicated than what we’ve attempted before. But it’s the culmination of all these tasks coming together in one flight in a fairly compressed period of time.”

The mission is crucial to construction on the station, said Richard R. Arnold II, an astronaut who will ride the shuttle next fall to carry the final solar array to the station. Having the Harmony module in place will allow crews to take up and connect laboratories built by European and Japanese space agencies. “We’re going to be able to make this International Space Station truly international,” Mr. Arnold said.
608 2007-10-24 Desperate for a cure for fat, consumers have purchased more than two million starter packages of the new weight-loss product Alli since it was introduced four months ago.

Sales of the product, at $60 for each 90-pill package, met expectations of the maker GlaxoSmithKline, the company said yesterday. Alli, an over-the-counter version of the diet drug Xenical from Glaxo, is the first government-approved weight-loss drug available without a prescription. The company has predicted that five million to six million people a year will use Alli.

“The information we have about product satisfaction is very encouraging and very strong,” said Steven L. Burton, vice president, weight control products, for the consumer health care division of Glaxo. “About 70 percent of people reported losing weight.”

Experts estimate that roughly 31 percent of adults, or 60 million people in this country, are obese and a nearly equal number are at least overweight.

Strong sales of Alli were among the few bright spots in GlaxoSmithKline's third-quarter financial results. The company said today that its profit was down 6 percent and it planned an undisclosed number of layoffs as a result of generic competition and a decline in sales of its diabetes drug Avandia. Shares on the New York Stock Exchange were down 2 percent in morning trading at $51.04.

The Food and Drug Administration is reviewing the safety of Avandia, and some financial analysts predict it may soon place a “black box” warning — the agency’s most severe — on the drug’s label cautioning about the risks of heart attack.
609 2007-10-24 The paradox for BP, once the oil industry’s highflier, is that it has long promoted itself as an environmentally friendly company that takes its civic responsibilities seriously.

The industrial accidents and trading problems have tarnished that image and led to a management reshuffling and organizational shake-up at the highest levels, including the naming of a chief executive, Tony Hayward, last spring.

Mr. Hayward succeeded John Browne, a media-shrewd executive who resigned after losing a legal battle with a London tabloid. Mr. Browne acknowledged making an untruthful statement in court about the circumstances under which he had met a younger man with whom he had had a relationship.

In recent days, BP announced yet another series of executive appointments as it struggled to turn itself around and as Mr. Hayward sought to address morale problems and make a clean break from the past.

But the difficulties, particularly in the United States, have taken a toll. Despite the sharp spike in crude oil prices in recent months, BP said on Tuesday that its net income for the third quarter declined by 29 percent from the period last year. The company reported quarterly profit of $4.41 billion, or 23 cents a share, on revenue of $72.7 billion.

The results beat analysts’ expectations, which were lowered when Mr. Hayward wrote in a document leaked in September that operational performance in the third quarter was “dreadful.”

BP still faces huge expenses for the accident in Texas City. More than 1,000 civil lawsuits have been filed, and the company has set aside $1.6 billion for compensation claims. It also has committed to spending $1 billion to fix problems at the plant.

BP’s shares closed on Tuesday at $75.44, up $1.56.

The refinery case could be the latest in a string of victories by a small unit of the Justice Department, the environmental crimes and natural resources division.

Last month, a federal appeals court in California ruled in favor of the division when it reinstated criminal charges against W. R. Grace and seven executives over widespread asbestos contamination at a vermiculite ore mine near Libby, Mont. Before that, the division won convictions against executives of companies owned by the McWane Corporation of Birmingham, Ala.

This year, a federal safety panel found that the Texas refinery accident was caused by deficiencies “at all levels” of the company and was a result of aggressive cost-cutting. The panel, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, also concluded that company officials had ignored warning signs of a possible disaster.

At the time of the explosion, the plant in Texas City had a capacity of about 10 million gallons a day, or 2.5 percent of the gasoline sold daily in the nation. It employed 1,800 workers and 800 contractors on a 1,200-acre site about 30 miles southeast of Houston. Since the accident, the refinery has been producing at about half its capacity. That decline has played a role in the erosion in BP’s earnings.

The propane pricing settlement would resolve a complaint filed last year by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that accused BP of inflating heating and cooking costs in 2004 for millions of Americans by manipulating the price of propane gas.

Spokesmen at BP, the Justice Department and the futures trading commission declined to comment about the planned settlement announcements.

The Wall Street Journal reported on its Web site on Tuesday that the propane pricing settlement would involve a $303 million payment and changes to trading operations. As part of that settlement, and to defer criminal prosecution, BP is expected to put its energy trading operations under the supervision of a government-appointed compliance monitor.
610 2007-10-24 Shortly before his death in 2002, Ralph Shapey completed “2 for 5,” a clarinet quintet for the Juilliard String Quartet and Charles Neidich. Mr. Neidich and the Juilliard players gave the work its premiere on Monday evening at the Juilliard School, but as they were finishing the first of its two movements, a fire alarm rang, and the Peter Jay Sharp Theater was cleared.

Joseph W. Polisi, the school’s president, said he thought the alarm had been set off by a water pressure problem; in any case, the audience was back five minutes later.

Shapey, famously cantankerous, would probably have been irritated by the interruption, but he might have been amused as well: the first half of the piece was played twice, after all, and for a new work second hearings are crucial.

This piece turned out to be more immediately inviting than many Shapey scores. A clarinet trill, heard at the start, becomes a signpost throughout the first movement and returns near the end of the second. The clarinet holds the spotlight much of the time, the roughly egalitarian implications of Shapey’s subtitle, Concerto Grosso, notwithstanding.

The Shapey shared the first half of the program with Mozart’s Adagio and Fugue in C minor (K. 546) and Elliott Carter’s String Quartet No. 2 (1959). The Mozart sounded strangely large and heavy, as if Leopold Stokowski had touched up the string parts.

But the Carter, like the Shapey, was the picture of fleetness and energy. Mr. Carter explores the quartet’s palette with a striking efficiency: Each of the four lines is built on its own set of intervals and speaks in a distinct accent, and as the work unfolds, competing solo lines, all speaking at once, melt into dialogues and integrated ensembles, then go their separate ways in the finale. Transparent textures and assertive gestures are essential here, and that was what the Juilliard players provided.

After the intermission Mr. Neidich rejoined the ensemble for the Brahms Clarinet Quintet (Op. 115), playing a replica of a clarinet used by Richard Mühlfeld, for whom Brahms wrote the work. Compared with the smoothly homogenous tone of a modern instrument, Mr. Neidich’s reconstruction sounded brighter and more richly textured.
611 2007-10-24 THE metallic clanking was familiar, but the source seemed odd. While most Americans think nothing of hearing diesel engine noises emanating from large trucks, it is still a surprise to hear them coming from a fancy car.

Yet in Europe, diesel-powered cars, despite their noisiness, are popular for one reason: they get much better mileage than standard gasoline engines, often as much as 40 percent better. Driving on a British highway, nearly half the cars you pass are likely to be equipped with diesels. (About 41 percent of new-car registration in Britain is diesel. In France, it is 70 percent.)

A new generation of clean diesel engines coming to the United States next year seems like an obvious way to improve the nation’s average fuel economy, but despite the fact that carmakers ranging from BMW to Ford and General Motors to Volkswagen sell millions of diesel cars in Europe, those same companies are gun-shy about introducing new diesel cars in America, where buyers may be wary.

“There are still a lot of misconceptions about diesels being dirty or smelly,” said Filip Brabec, general manager for product planning at Audi of America. Mr. Brabec said that many Americans pictured the large, smoke-belching Mercedes-Benz sedans of the 1970s when they think of diesels.

To get a sense of how today’s diesel-engine cars stack up against their gasoline cousins, I drove an Audi A4 2.0 TDI last month in England, one of several diesel models the company sells in this country. Except for the right-side steering wheel and manual transmission, the car was a clone of the one I own in the United States.
612 2007-10-24 “Debates about appropriations bills are not riveting television,” Mr. Wehner said, “but wildfires can concentrate the mind and the imagination. There’s a natural disaster going on, people are in danger, property is being destroyed, a fire is raging out of control and something needs to be done.”

He continued, “That’s an unfolding drama, and the question is, Is the president going to be a part of that drama and meet the challenge?”

Mr. Bush has hinted recently that he is concerned about being pushed to the sidelines, at least on domestic affairs. Discussing his veto of a children’s health bill at a news conference last week, he said his veto power was “one way to ensure that I am relevant.” It was a striking reminder of a comment by his predecessor, Bill Clinton, who once drew ridicule when he declared, “The president is still relevant here.”

But the president is always relevant in a major disaster. Don Sipple, a Republican strategist who has worked for Mr. Bush and Mr. Schwarzeneggger, said that when Mr. Schwarzenegger was first elected, Mr. Bush offered pointers on handling a crisis.

“I think Bush gave him a tutorial on nothing more important than being there in times of disaster,” Mr. Sipple said. “I wish he had heeded his own advice during Katrina.”

Instead, Mr. Bush was photographed flying over the devastated city of New Orleans, an image that sticks with him to this day. Now, with more than 500,000 people ordered to leave their homes, Mr. Bush will go to California on Thursday to “witness firsthand what people are going through,” said Scott Stanzel, the deputy White House press secretary.

Mr. Stanzel said Mr. Bush and the governor, mindful that a presidential visit could drain police resources from a state already pushed to the limit, determined that Thursday would be the best day for Mr. Bush to go. But he began offering help as early as 4 p.m. Monday, calling Mr. Schwarzenegger rather than waiting for the governor to call him.

He told Mr. Schwarzenegger to call him back “if there were any additional needs,” Mr. Stanzel said, and about an hour later, the governor did, to ask for military assistance and alert Mr. Bush that a request for the president to declare a state of emergency would probably be forthcoming. Mr. Bush authorized the declaration before leaving the West Wing; it was announced later by the press office, presumably while the president slept.

“He’s trying to be proactive on something that he can be proactive on,” said James Thurber, director of the Center for the Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University. “He can’t be proactive on Social Security reform or Medicare funding, but this is one of the areas where he can. I think it’s part of a larger picture of how weak he is, especially domestically.”

Republican strategists say the all-out effort will help Mr. Bush but is not likely to be enough to restore his reputation — even in a state like California with a friendly Republican governor who is clearly coordinating his efforts with Mr. Bush.

But as Dan Schnur, a Republican strategist in California, said: “The worst possible situation for the White House would have been to have had even one state or local elected official complaining that they hadn’t heard back yet from the administration. This is still a very red state, so the accomplishment might be in terms of further damage avoided, rather than political capital gained.”
613 2007-10-24 Beyond the obvious savings from slimming and slowing down, the automakers could meet the targets by building on several technologies. There are diesel engines that can meet all current emissions standards and most of those proposed for the near future.

The Europeans are leading the way, with engines from the four-cylinder diesels used in many Volkswagen models to the Mercedes BlueTec diesel that uses urea to neutralize emissions. Audi is applying similar technology to its big Q7 crossover S.U.V., which will be coming to the United States with an advanced diesel engine next year.

The American consumer has never fully accepted the diesel despite its advantages in fuel savings and low-end torque, partly because the fuel is not as available as it is in Europe.

American car companies offer diesel engines in some light-duty trucks and plan to increase diesel availability. They are experimenting with alternative fuel combustion systems like homogeneous charge compression ignition, which changes how diesels burn fuel, helping mileage and cutting emissions.

There is another striking difference between the fleets in the United States and Europe, which currently imposes mileage standards as high if not higher than anything proposed in this country. Four-cylinder engines power more than 80 percent of cars sold in Europe, with only 14 percent packing six or eight cylinders. In the United States, 70 percent of autos have six or eight cylinders; only 28 percent of buyers choose four-cylinder engines.

But there are ways to provide the thrust that Americans expect. Horsepower and torque can be increased in four-cylinder engines using turbochargers, which capture exhaust gases and use them to force pressurized air into the engine’s compression chambers. Saab was an early proponent of small turbocharged engines; several other companies now produce them.

Another means of adding power in small engines is gasoline direct injection, which is similar to the fuel-delivery system used in a diesel engine. It provides a roughly 3.5 percent improvement in fuel economy at relatively low cost. Mitsubishi and Volkswagen use the technology in production cars, and virtually all other automakers are considering a version of it.

Some models, including Honda minivans, Chrysler sedans with Hemi engines and some V8-powered G.M. trucks, offer engines with cylinder deactivation, which shuts down a bank of cylinders when the engine is working lightly. It turns a V8 or V6 into a four- or three-cylinder engine.

A technology known to engineers as camless valve actuation is on the drawing boards but expected in production cars as early as 2010. This system eliminates the relatively heavy and inefficient camshaft, which controls the opening and closing of the engine valves, replacing it with electric devices known as solenoids. This allows infinitely variable valve control and promises huge improvements in engine function.

Air-conditioners also offer potential improvements. Automakers are considering switching from the current refrigerant, a hydrofluorocarbon compound called R-134a, to a less-carbon-intensive refrigerant, R-152a, which has much less environmental impact. Air-conditioners could also be made with compressors that operate at lower power when less cooling is needed.

Carmakers are taking advantage of transmission improvements that improve mileage, offering five- and six-speed automatics and units known as continuously variable transmissions, which do away with fixed gearing.

Vehicles could also benefit from more aerodynamic design, or drag reduction. Cars have become much more streamlined, with the average coefficient of drag falling from 0.48 to 0.31. Some say that streamlining cuts interior room or produces designs that most consumers reject. But the biggest Lexus luxury sedan, the LS 460, is one of the most aerodynamic cars on the road, and no one complains about its interior space.

The question, then, is not whether automakers can meet proposed standards. They can. But will they build them, and will people buy them?

“Can Detroit do it? There’s no reason it can’t,” said Ron Pinelli, president of Autodata, a marketing information company. “It all revolves around the product. If a manufacturer puts out something that really appeals in terms of pricing, value, economy — the entire package — people will buy it.”
614 2007-10-24 Although diesel engines cost more to make and buy, they can make sense for a car owner. For one, they use fewer gallons per trip than gasoline engines.

Besides regular diesel fuel from petroleum, there is biodiesel. Chemicals extracted from soy or other vegetables, or from beef tallow or other animal fats, burn well in a diesel engine. These substances become waxy at low temperatures, so they are usually blended in small quantities with petroleum diesel.

But like ethanol, producing biodiesel requires farmland, which could otherwise be used to raise food. Yet making biodiesel takes less natural gas and other fossil fuels than making ethanol. A gallon of diesel will power a car 20 to 40 percent more miles than a gallon of gasoline, though the energy gain and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions are not that large.

The reason is that diesel has more carbon than a gallon of gasoline. It also has more energy, about 138,000 B.T.U. versus about 118,000 for gasoline. That distinction may be lost on consumers, because motor fuel is sold by a unit of volume, the gallon, not a unit of energy.

Despite these issues, there is a real advantage to driving a diesel engine because it burns fuel at a higher temperature than a spark-ignited gasoline engine does, thus squeezing more work from the fuel.

Skeptics still abound. Lee Schipper, a former oil industry executive who leads a transportation and environmental study program at the World Resources Institute, said that what pushed European drivers to diesel was a tax policy that made the fuel cheaper, but buyers there tend to drive more, so they don’t save on total consumption.

“There are limits to diesel,” Dr. Schipper said. “Unless a diesel car is driven the same as a gasoline car, on 35 percent less fuel per kilometer, the CO2 benefit is marginal and may be negative.” Hybridization might be a better option, he suggested.

The United States consumes about 140 billion gallons of liquid transportation fuel a year, about 6 billion from ethanol. Half of all gasoline contains some ethanol, which ordinary cars can burn at a concentration of up to 10 percent. About six million cars can now use any mixture of ethanol and gasoline, up to 85 percent ethanol, known as E85. Domestic carmakers view ethanol as a way to cut gasoline consumption and to avoid making major changes in their production.

Ethanol has strong political support. “I’d rather be paying farmers than the people overseas for the energy that fuels this country,” President Bush told auto workers at a speech at a Ford plant in Claycomo, Mo., this year. From a driver’s viewpoint, ethanol may perform well in the engine.

But it contains only about two-thirds as much energy per gallon as gasoline. It has what Dr. Schipper calls “closet carbon,” meaning carbon dioxide is created when ethanol is manufactured, which may amount to slightly less or more than in gasoline.

President Bush said in 2003 that there was hope that a baby born that year would grow up to buy a hydrogen fuel-cell vehicle as a first car. That baby is now nearly in kindergarten, and the fuel cell still has far to go.

Fuel-cell cars require improving two fairly young technologies, fuel cells and making hydrogen for them. Honda recently announced progress on the fuel cell, which combines hydrogen fuel with oxygen from air to make electric current, a little heat and some pure water.

Fuel cells are bulky, however. Honda’s first effort, in 1999, produced 60 kilowatts, enough for a modest-size sedan, but a fuel cell weighed close to 450 pounds and filled a volume of 4.7 cubic feet. This year it has given testers a new version that is 100 kilowatts; at about 150 pounds it is one-third the size of the old one. Honda’s trick was to turn the fuel cell sideways, to improve the flow of chemicals.

But Honda will not say what the fuel cell costs; no manufacturer is open about that.

On the hydrogen aspect, environmentalists dream of ranks of windmills making electricity that will be used to split water into hydrogen. They also wouldn’t mind fields of solar cells to do the same. But such renewable power may be more useful to replace coal, which is far dirtier than gasoline. And the cheaper way to make hydrogen may be the general technique, by taking it out of the methane in natural gas.

H2Gen, a small company in Alexandria, Va., is selling a chemical processing plant that can be delivered on a truck and turns natural gas into hydrogen fast enough to support fueling several dozen cars, about right for a corner gasoline station.

So far, H2Gen’s customers have been industrial users.

A Shell station in Washington that opened a hydrogen pump in late 2004, to supply the demonstration vehicles that automakers traipse through the city, uses hydrogen produced cryogenically. At either an oil refinery in Ontario or in Louisiana, the hydrogen is chilled to an extremely low temperature, condensing into a liquid. The result is pure, though it takes a lot of energy to make. It is then put into a cylinder truck with a diesel-powered engine and hauled to Washington, which works well for a test program but hardly saves any energy.
615 2007-10-24 BP SEEKS TO SETTLE CHARGES  The British energy company BP, rocked by a string of costly legal problems that have tarnished its image, is preparing to settle charges that it was criminally indifferent to worker safety and that it manipulated energy...
616 2007-10-24 LABOUISSE--Eve      . The Board of Trustees and President of the American Farm School in Thessaloniki, Greece express deepest sorrow at the passing of Eve Curie Labouisse, daughter of Pierre and Marie Curie and wife of the late Ambassador Henry R....
617 2007-10-25 Blogtalk: A mob contract for Giuliani, importing trees, juiced-up horses and more links from the New York Region....
618 2007-10-25 Better-than-expected earnings, mainly from strong sales of Windows Vista, caused Microsoft shares to surge as much as 12 percent after hours, reaching a six-year high....
619 2007-10-25 Campaigns like to gussy up their talking points to look like the sort of internal data reporters tend to eat up....
620 2007-10-25 The news network prohibits candidates from using debate clips in their political advertisements....
621 2007-10-25 In today's Times, I reviewed Apple's latest operating system, Mac OS X 10.5 "Leopard." I noted that Apple claims to have added over 300 new features. Trouble is, if I tried to describe them all in my 1,280-word column, I'd have 4.3 words to descri...
622 2007-10-25 * Three-keystroke application launcher. Spotlight, the Mac's "instant-search" feature, has always been a good way to find and open programs entirely from the keyboard. Press Command-Space bar to open the Search box, type the first couple letters of the program's name, wait for the search results, and hit Command-Enter, which opens the first item listed, which is usually the program you want.

The trouble is the "wait for the search results" part. Spotlight is not instantaneous; if your drive is full, it can take five or six seconds for the results menu to finish building.

But Spotlight has been rejiggered in Leopard. Now it displays the names of matching *programs* instantaneously, before Spotlight has built the rest of the menu of results. And a simple Enter is all that's necessary to open the first listed result (not Command-Enter). In all, finding and opening a certain program takes under one second.

* Menu-bar calculator. The Spotlight menu (upper-right corner of the screen) is also a tiny pocket calculator now. Hit Command-Space, type or paste 38*48.2-7+55, and marvel at the first result in the Spotlight menu: 1879.6. You don't even have to fire up the Calculator.

* Dictionary lookups. The Spotlight menu also searches the Leopard dictionary now. If you type, for example, "schadenfreude" into the Spotlight box, the beginning of the actual definition appears right there in the menu. Click it to open Dictionary and read the full-blown entry. (In this example, that would be: "noun: pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune.")

* Bypass the fan. As I noted in the column, I'm not totally sold on the Stacks feature. That's where you click a folder icon on your Dock, and rather than a complete menu of the folder's contents, you get a fan or a grid that shows an array of the actual icons inside. Trouble is, if there are more than 24 items in that folder (depending on your screen size), you get only a partial list. To see the rest of the contents, you have to click the icon that says, "35 more in Finder," which opens that folder's actual desktop window.

There's no way to make the Dock show the complete list of folder contents anymore; nor can you stick your hard drive's icon in the Dock and have complete, drill-down, hierarchical access to your entire computer, as you could before.

But here's a small consolation: if you Command-click a folder on the Dock, you go directly to the Finder window that it represents, bypassing the fan or the grid altogether.

* Grid spacing. Hey, grid spacing is back! A new slider lets you control the tightness of the icon grid spacing in a window (or in all windows). (Actually, it's not *that* new; the old Mac OS 9 had it.)

* Telltale icons. A new option in Leopard lets every icon appear as a tiny preview of what's in it. You don't see just a generic blue Word icon with a little W in the corner; the icon is now a thumbnail of page 1 of the actual document.

Here's a typical Apple grace note: You can tell just by looking at a PDF file's icon whether it's longer than one page. The icon for a one-page PDF has a curled upper-right corner. But on a multi-page PDF, only the first page's corner curls down. And in the gap it reveals, you can see a tiny bit of the *actual* page 2 showing.

Coming in Mac OS X 10.6 "Ocelot:" You'll be able to turn the pages of that PDF and read the whole thing right on the icon.

* Three more Time Machines. In the column today, I wrote at length about Time Machine, a truly innovative (and successful) approach to automated backup. I didn't have room to mention, though, that three of Apple's basic programs also have Time Machine built in: iPhoto (for finding lost photos), Address Book (for accidentally deleted contacts), and Mail (recovering deleted e-mail).

In other words, if you want to recover certain photos, addresses or email messages that have been deleted, you start by opening iPhoto, Address Book, or Mail. Then click the Time Machine icon on the Dock. You enter the starry, animated, back-in-time recovery mode that I described.

But now, each time you click the Jump Back arrow, the window before you changes to reveal the way it looked the last time your photo library, address book file, or e-mail stash changed. You can also drag through the timeline on the right if you remember the date when things went wrong.

At this point, you can select individual photos (or photo albums), address book entries, or e-mail messages that you want to recover. When you click the Restore button, you return to the normal Mac OS X world, where those photos, addresses or messages are now reinstated.

* iChat. As I noted, iChat, the audio/video/typed chat program, has received an enormous upgrade in Leopard. Here's a little tweak that nobody ever mentions: the preference setting called "Watch for my name in incoming messages." It alerts you any time anyone, in any of the open chats, types your name, even if you're doing something else on the Mac. (As in, "David, are you there? David!? DAVID!!")
623 2007-10-25 Mitt Romney said today he would be willing to use a military blockade or "bombardment of some kind" to prevent Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon....
624 2007-10-25 To talk to BEA Systems about a takeover, be prepared to offer at least $21 a share. The enterprise software maker effectively named its own price on Thursday, issuing a statement that was the latest salvo in its battle with Oracle. Calling Oracle'...
625 2007-10-25 Sisu Capital, a hedge fund firm based in London, was disclosed as the mystery bidder trying to take over the Southampton soccer team. Southampton Leisure Holdings made the disclosure in a regulatory filing. Sisu, known for buying up debt-laden com...
626 2007-10-25 Bovespa Holding , owner of the Sao Paulo stock exchange, raised 6.63 billion reais ($3.69 billion) in Brazil's biggest initial public offering in at least three years. Bovespa will start trading Friday in Sao Paulo after the company sold 288.1 mil...
627 2007-10-25 Assicurazioni Generali, the biggest insurance company in Italy, rose to a six-year high in Milan trading after a hedge fund, Algebris Investments, urged the company to take steps to increase earnings. Shares in Generali, which has a market value o...
628 2007-10-25 Kirkland & Ellis, Lazard and Chanin Capital Partners agreed to reduce their fees in the bankruptcy of Collins & Aikman after a court-appointed examiner looked into how the case was handled. The examiner, Judy O'Neill of Foley & Lardner, concluded ...
629 2007-10-25 Arnaud Lagardere, chief executive of Lagardere, the French publishing company, denied allegations of insider trading in the company's sale of shares in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space, the parent of Airbus, two months before production delays...
630 2007-10-25 Taking a look at some businesses and blogs inspired by an experience with breast cancer....
631 2007-10-25 Del Frisco's Restaurant Group has filed for an initial public offering worth up to $100 million, providing liquidity for its current owner, Lone Star Funds of Dallas. The company operates the Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steak House and Sullivan's St...
632 2007-10-25 Aryx Therapeutics set terms for its initial public offering late Tuesday, disclosing that it plans to sell 5 million shares for between $14 and $16 apiece. The company is also offering its underwriters an overallotment option of 750,000 shares. Th...
633 2007-10-25 Representative Jason Altmire, a Pennsylvania Democrat, says he was just trying to help the small technology companies blossoming in his district, just north of Pittsburgh. So when two of his constituents argued that small businesses should be able...
634 2007-10-25 Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz called on the wireless industry to open their networks to independent developers. Carrier executives are unmoved....
635 2007-10-25 Apple’s Web site lists 300 new features in Leopard. They’re not all earth-shattering; they include a Braille font, a “Word of the Day” screen saver and a Danish spelling checker. (Settle down, folks.)

Fortunately, others really do make you slap your head and say, “Of course!”

The one Apple extols the most, with reason, is called Time Machine. It’s a backup program.

Of course, the world is full of backup programs. But almost nobody uses them. Chances are extremely good that you, at this moment, do not have an automated, regular backup of your entire computer.

Time Machine keeps multiple backups of everything — programs, settings, files, photos, even the operating system itself — on a second hard drive (or another Leopard Mac on the network). The need for a second drive is a drag, but it’s a necessary evil. Besides, hard drives are cheap; you can buy an internal 250-gigabyte one for $75.

When you connect the second drive, Leopard asks if you want to use it for Time Machine. If you click O.K., that’s it. One click — that’s got to be the shortest setup of any backup system in history.

Time Machine updates its mirror of your main drive every hour, although you can also trigger updates on demand. At day’s end, Time Machine replaces those hourly backups with a single daily backup; at the end of the month, those are replaced by a single month-end backup. (Apple assumes that it won’t take you a whole month to notice that your hard drive crashed.)

If disaster strikes — sunspots, clueless spouse, overtired self — you enter Time Machine’s recovery mode. The sleek, modern-looking Leopard desktop falls away like a curtain, revealing — startlingly — a deep-space starfield. The window that once contained your files remains floating before you, with dozens of iterations of itself, like file cards, receding into the background.

You can now scroll backward through time until the window looks as it did before the unfortunate event. (You can also use the Search box to find missing files.) When you find the files you want and click Restore, the regular desktop slides back up into view. The recovered icons are back in their original window.

Not everyone falls under the spell of that gorgeous animated starfield; critics call it unnecessary eye candy. But making Time Machine attractive — and prominent and effortless — is all part of the mission. The more people who can be persuaded to turn it on, the more will be spared the misery of losing their photos, music and e-mail.

That’s not the only routine-changing feature. Quick Look lets you tap the Space bar to view the contents of a document’s icon at full size, right at the desktop, without having to open the program that created it. It works with most common file types — Word, Excel, PowerPoint, PDF, HTML, Apple’s iWork suite, text files, photos, music, movies, fonts and so on — and it’s fantastic.

Another is called Spaces, which gives you up to 16 full-size virtual monitors. You can park the windows of a different program, activity or project on each one — e-mail and chat on Screen 1, Photoshop on Screen 2 — and switch among all these “external monitors” at will. An ingenious map view lets you drag these virtual screens around in space, and even drag open windows between screens.

Virtual-screen software isn’t new. But having it built in, and with so much polish, makes a huge difference.

Leopard’s parental controls play catch-up with Windows Vista’s. Now you can set time limits for your children’s computer use (different for weekdays and weekends), and even make the Mac lock itself at bedtime. A log tracks their activities, including e-mail and chat correspondents and Web sites visited.

The list of smaller goodies is long: A more polished Boot Camp lets you restart current Mac models in Windows. Screen sharing, over the network or the Internet, lets gurus assist newbies from afar. Web Clips lets you capture a rectangular region of any Web page and save it as a self-updating fixture on your desktop — great for best-seller lists, top headlines or most-watched video sections. The Dictionary program can now search Wikipedia.

The iChat text/voice/video chat program now lets you use a photo or a movie as a backdrop when you’re videoconferencing — like a blue-screen effect but without the blue screen. It also lets you display documents, presentations or movies to your videoconferencing buddies.

And invisibility mode lets you see who else is online, but they can’t see — or bother — you.

Now, not all of Leopard’s features are slam dunks. Take Stacks, for example. When you click the icon of a folder in the Dock (the row of quick-access icons at the bottom of the screen), you see its contents, arrayed as a fan or a grid of icons hovering in space.

That’s handy if you want to open or drag one. And since icons in Leopard are actual miniatures of the documents they represent, it’s nice to have a preview of what you’re about to open.

But if the folder is very full, the “stack” shows only some of its contents. (In previous Mac OS X versions, clicking a Dock folder produced a simple, but complete, menu of its contents.)

The most serious misstep in Leopard is its new see-through menus. When the menu commands — Save As, Page Preview, whatever — are superimposed on the text of whatever document is behind them, they’re much harder to read. Often, Apple’s snazzy graphics are justifiable because they make the Mac more fun to use. In this case, though, nothing is gained, and much is lost.

Otherwise, the only cause for pause is the usual minor set of 1.0 bugs, which Apple generally fixes with software updates after a major release. I pushed my system hard for a week using the final Leopard software, and encountered occasional glitches with Spaces, automated synching among Macs and switching programs. I also found a few programs and add-ons that will need updates to run in Leopard.

On the other hand, Leopard maintains all the goodies of previous Mac OS X versions. To the amazement of many Windows refugees, Mac OS X requires no serial number and no “activation”; it’s not copy-protected. It doesn’t clutter the desktop with crippled bits of free-trial software from other companies. There are no nagging balloons or come-ons.

Leopard does well with backward compatibility, too. Thanks to modest minimum requirements (512 megabytes of memory, 867 megahertz), Apple says Leopard runs on three-year-old Macs and even high-end six-year-old machines.

Leopard is powerful, polished and carefully conceived. Happy surprises, and very few disappointments, lie around every corner. This Leopard has more than 300 new spots — and most of them are bright ones.
636 2007-10-25 Microsoft reported net profit of $4.29 billion, a 23 percent rise compared with a year earlier. Its earnings per share were 45 cents for the quarter, while the analysts’ estimate was for 39 cents.

In an interview, Chris Liddell, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said the company “outperformed expectations pretty much across the board.” But it was led by robust performance of the company’s personal computer software products. Sales in the Windows group rose 25 percent to more than $4.14 billion, while its Office division reported a 20 percent increase in sales to $4.11 billion.

Mr. Liddell cited three factors for the exceptionally strong performance of the desktop products. The sales of personal computers worldwide grew 14 to 16 percent, he said, compared with an anticipated range of 10 to 12 percent. Growth was highest, he added, in international and consumer markets.

Microsoft also sold a higher mix of its premium-priced versions of Windows and Office than a year earlier. And Mr. Liddell said the company’s anti-piracy efforts were particularly successful, increasing desktop software sales by as much as 5 percent from a year earlier.

“It’s only one quarter, so we’re not getting carried away here,” Mr. Liddell said. “But the anti-piracy really helped.”

Microsoft got another solid quarter from its server software group, which in recent years has become the company’s the third big profitable business alongside Windows and Office. Server products are the back-end software in corporate data centers that run e-mail systems, data bases and corporate applications. Server software sales for the quarter rose 16 percent to $2.9 billion.

Microsoft’s sales also got a healthy lift in sales from its entertainment and devices unit, helped by the introduction of the hit video game Halo 3. Revenue from the entertainment and devices group rose 90 percent to $1.9 billion. And after years of investment, the unit reported a pretax profit of $165 million, compared with a loss of $142 million a year earlier.

The mainstay businesses are thriving but, analysts say, future growth will increasingly depend on how well Microsoft can do in selling online advertising and developing Internet services. This model of delivering software, information and entertainment over the Internet to devices from personal computers to cellphones, sent from huge data centers, is often called “cloud computing.” Google, the search giant, is the runaway early leader.

“Strategically, looking forward, the challenge for Microsoft is cloud computing and Google,” said David M. Smith, an analyst at Gartner.

Mr. Smith pointed to Microsoft’s $6 billion purchase in May of aQuantive Inc., an online ad agency, and the recent introduction of Web-based software offerings like Office Live Workspaces as evidence that the company is starting to make progress in Internet services and advertising.

The company clearly has ambitious plans for growth in the online market. Earlier this month, Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive, said at a conference in Europe that online advertising would become 25 percent of Microsoft’s revenue over the next several years.

Today’s report illustrates how far Microsoft has to go. Its online services unit grew 25 percent to $671 million, but its revenues amounted to less than 6 percent of Microsoft’s quarterly sales. And the quarterly loss from online services more than doubled to $264 million, compared with a loss of $102 million in the year-earlier quarter.
637 2007-10-25 Stock markets dipped during most of the day but recovered late, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index finishing down 0.10 percent, or 1.48 points, at 1,514.40. The Dow Jones industrials were down more than 100 points by 2 p.m., but climbed back to a virtually flat close at 13,671.92, a 3.33-point decline.

Reports on September home sales and purchases of long-lasting manufactured goods offered a snapshot of a gradually slowing economy, providing little guidance for investors ahead of the Fed’s meeting next week. And investors remain wary of further fallout from the credit crisis, with traders worried that additional poor corporate earnings reports are on the way.

While the escalation in oil prices could cloud the economic picture, some energy analysts questioned whether the run-up was sustainable. “I know that we are closer to an end here because this is like the fireworks,” Mr. Gheit said. “When you see the bigger noise and the biggest glare, then you better hit the exits because it’s going to be over soon.”

He said traders had no fundamentally new information to account for today’s rise. “But now the traders and the speculators, they don’t bother with facts,” he added. “They don’t let facts get in the way of a good story.”Larry Goldstein, a director at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, said continued nervousness over Turkey and Iran contributed to today’s price jump, but he dismissed the recent reports on reduced inventory levels.

“It’s a noisy statistic that can really be reversed by next week’s data, where imports could easily go back to over 10 million barrels of crude oil a day,” Mr. Goldstein said.

Relief on energy prices would help the domestic economic picture, where the latest indicators are mixed. Orders for durable goods — major consumer products like appliances, airplanes and machinery — declined, but a crucial measure of business spending rose.

New home sales reached an annual rate of 770,000 in September, an increase from the previous month only because the August figure was revised downward to 735,000, the Commerce Department said. The figure was still near the lowest level in a decade and a marked decline from a year ago, when September sales totaled 1,022,000.

Inventories continue to move higher last month, with home builders now saddled with 8.3 months’ worth of unsold supply. Prices rose, however, with the median cost at $238,000, up from $232,100 in August.

“This was on the whole another quite weak report, particularly given the aggressive price-cutting that home builders have been implementing in order to try to reduce inventory,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, in a research report.

On the manufacturing side, orders for military and transportation goods fell in September, with military spending declining 38.7 percent. Shipments of motor vehicles, semiconductors, and commercial aircraft all fell, though sales of those goods are considered relatively volatile.

Still, overall durable goods orders fell 1.7 percent in September, accelerating a 5.3 percent decline in August. Orders are down 8.4 percent in the last 12 months, the Commerce Department said.

But one crucial indicator, orders of non-military capital goods that exclude aircraft, products like appliances and home computers, rose 0.4 percent, suggesting stronger spending by consumers.

The report indicates that American businesses have been buoyed by a weak dollar and strong foreign sales, analyst said, but domestic purchasing may be slowing. Overall orders, excluding military-related goods, rose 0.7 percent in September, though they have fallen 4.9 percent since this time last year.

The Fed meets on Tuesday and Wednesday and is expected to consider an additional cut to its benchmark interest rate. Investors betting on the Fed’s action appear certain that the governors will cut rates, but some analysts say underlying strength in the economy could dampen chances for a cut. The reports are the final flurry of economic data before the meeting.

On the job front, fewer workers filed for unemployment last week, with the Labor Department reporting 331,000 claims for first-time benefits, down 2.4 percent from the previous week. But continuing claims ticked up 0.3 percent for the week ended Oct. 13, to a seasonally adjusted level of 2,530,000. Analysts said the reports, which tend to jump around from week to week, indicate a job market that is softening, though they still predict an overall gain in jobs for September.
638 2007-10-25 “I thought I’d be further along,” Collins said.

But Collins, who showed great promise in the final month of his rookie season, figures to be around a while. He has often been compared with a fellow Temple product, Aaron McKie, who made a 13-year N.B.A. career out of being versatile and smart — traits that endeared McKie to coaches.

Like McKie, the 6-foot-6 Collins is a sturdy defender and ball handler who can play both guard positions and small forward. Neither player was blessed with great athleticism.

“Me, I’m not lightning fast,” McKie, now a 76ers assistant, said with a chuckle. “But I know how to play angles and I know how to get to spots.”

Those are the lessons McKie has imparted each summer to Collins, who also played for the same Amateur Athletic Union and high school coaches as McKie. They have known each other since Collins was a high school junior.

“Mardy’s tough, man,” said McKie, a starter for the 76ers team that went to the 2001 finals. “There’s always room on the team for a versatile guard.”

Although Collins is not a natural point guard, he can play the position capably. With Stephon Marbury planning to leave when his contract expires in 2009, Collins could be competing with Robinson to be Marbury’s successor.

“That’s your first reaction when you hear stuff like that — two years, well, get ready,” Collins said. “Whatever he decides to do, I’m ready to step in and try to fill his shoes.”

McKie started only 287 of his 793 games as a professional and never averaged more than 12.2 points in a season. But he appeared in 75 playoff games and always seemed indispensable — a selfless player who did all the little things. Collins could do worse than to follow in his mentor’s footsteps.

“I just like his demeanor, his approach to the game,” McKie said. “He has a love and a passion for the game. There’s no doubt in my mind he’ll be able to stay in this league as long as he wants.”

Nate Robinson had a team-high 20 points. ... Zach Randolph had 16 points and 10 rebounds, his first double-double as a Knick. Eddy Curry finished with 6 points and 6 turnovers, including three offensive fouls. ... Quentin Richardson has a mild sprain in his left ankle and was held out of last night’s game. He was injured in Monday’s victory over Boston and played only four minutes in the second half. Jared Jeffries replaced Richardson at small forward. ... Renaldo Balkman, who has been sidelined all month because of a stress injury in his right ankle, began jogging again yesterday and has been cleared for noncontact drills. Balkman said he expected to be cleared for contact next week. He predicted he would be ready for the season opener Nov. 2 at Cleveland. ... A library named for Jamal Crawford will be unveiled this afternoon at P.S. 58 in the East Tremont section of the Bronx. Crawford donated $75,000 from his foundation to pay for renovations of the library.
639 2007-10-25 The FIFA president, Joseph S. Blatter, wants to end the continental rotation system for playing host to the World Cup. He said yesterday that he would urge the executive committee to adopt his proposal next week, paving the way for open bidding for the 2018 competition. Blatter cited England, the United States, Canada, China, Mexico and Australia as possible sites.
640 2007-10-25 “There were a lot of twists and turns, as there always are in these things,” said Owen Van Natta, chief revenue officer of Facebook.

The final negotiations were completed Wednesday morning in Facebook’s offices in Palo Alto.

As part of the deal, Microsoft will sell the graphical banner ads appearing on Facebook outside of the United States, splitting the revenue. Microsoft has an existing deal with Facebook to run banner ads on the site in the United States through 2011.

The astronomical value placed on Facebook is evidence that Microsoft executives believed they could not afford to lose out on the deal. Google appears to be building a dominant position in the race to serve advertisements online. Fearing it might lose control over the next generation of computer users, Microsoft has been trying to keep up with and in some cases block Google’s moves, even if that effort is costly.

“We are now stepping outside what is typically a business decision,” said Rob Enderle, the founder of the strategy concern Enderle Group. “This was almost personal. I wouldn’t want to be the executive that’s on the losing side at either firm.”

In a conference call with journalists and analysts, Kevin Johnson, president of the platforms and services division at Microsoft, described the deal as a “major advertising syndication win for Microsoft.”

“The equity stake that we are taking in Facebook is a strong statement of confidence in this partnership,” Mr. Johnson said. “It’s a statement of confidence in the fact that our advertising platform is going to get stronger and will help monetize Facebook.”

On the same call, Mr. Van Natta responded to a question about reports that both Yahoo and Google were bidding to invest in Facebook by saying, “We were very fortunate to have a lot of folks interested in a partnership with us around advertising.”

Mr. Van Natta said the investment would allow the company to more than double its work force to 700 employees by the end of next year. He also said it would help Facebook expand internationally and buy the technology to help keep up with its rapid growth. Facebook says it has 50 million active members and is adding 200,000 new ones each day.

MySpace, the site owned by the News Corporation that is Facebook’s main rival in social networking, has more than twice as many members but is growing more slowly.

The two companies left several questions unanswered. Facebook hinted that it had other investors alongside Microsoft, but declined to say who they were or how much money they had injected into the company. It was also unclear whether Facebook would involve Microsoft as it continued to develop its own advertising network to serve ads on portions of its site. Facebook has plans to introduce an advertising system at an event in New York City next month.

Speaking with reporters after a conference for analysts at Google headquarters, Eric E. Schmidt, Google’s chief executive, declined to comment about losing out to Microsoft, but suggested that Google would be open to collaborating with Facebook. Google already makes money on Facebook indirectly, by selling ads inside third-party applications that run on the site.

A person briefed on the discussions said Google had dropped out not because of the financial terms, but because the proposed deal did not give it enough say in the development of their joint advertising efforts.

Facebook’s $15 billion value also represents a belief that the company is creating an important new operating system that, unlike Microsoft’s Windows, exists on the Web instead of on personal computers. In May it began inviting other companies and outside developers to create tools for the site and share in the advertising revenues.

The move unleashed a flurry of activity around the social network. More than 5,000 applications, like games and music-sharing tools, have since been created for the site, a step that has in turn accelerated Facebook’s membership growth.

“Once a social operating system takes over a country, it’s like it becomes the native language of that country,” said Lee Lorenzen, a venture capitalist who has invested in companies making Facebook applications. Mr. Lorenzen noted that Google’s Orkut dominates Brazil, Friendster dominates the Philippines and Facebook is becoming the dominant forum in the United States, Canada and Western Europe.

Facebook boosters say social networking represents the future of online activity. Advertisers are attracted to these sites because they offer an opportunity to aim ads at particular users who are likely to be interested in their product or service.

Mr. Lorenzen and other investors are often dismissive of MySpace. “MySpace is not based on authentic identities,” he said. “Facebook is based on who you really are and who your friends really are. That is who marketers really want to reach, not the ‘fantasy you’ that lives on MySpace and uses a photo of a model.”

The News Corporation bought the parent company of MySpace in 2005 for $580 million. That amount seems small now, an indication of how fast the value of Web companies has risen in the current climate of optimism.
641 2007-10-25 In addition, the critics say they fear that the bill will clear the way for venture capital firms to use their investment to take a controlling stake, giving them the potential to masquerade as small firms and tap into billions of dollars in federal research grants and contracts.

That is an important and sensitive argument at a time when the government has been criticized for awarding contracts to large corporations operating under the guise of small businesses. Edsel M. Brown Jr., assistant director for S.B.A.’s office of technology, said the legislation was unnecessary because “a venture capital company already can invest more than 49 percent as long as it doesn’t have ownership and control.”

The White House also opposes the measure. “The provision would allow large businesses, not-for-profit organizations, and colleges and universities,” a White House statement said, “to own and control small businesses and benefit from programs designed for independent small businesses.”

Quite the contrary, Representative Altmire insists, saying that his bill “does not favor any small business over another, but it also does not automatically disqualify a small business either.”

He argues that the legislation is needed because many tech start-ups are “told by the Small Business Administration that they are ineligible for government money because they got venture capital money — and that doesn’t make any sense.”

Companies doing research in biomedical and military fields say they should receive government research funds on the basis of the quality of their work, not on how they are financed.

Biotechnology companies, for example, typically take years to generate revenues, which means they often have difficulty getting bank loans. So they turn to venture capital to survive, Scott Koenig, president and chief executive of MacroGenics, told the House Small Business Committee at a hearing in September on the measure.

The bill “would modernize the S.B.A.’s rules defining a small business so that small biotechnology firms are not prevented from accessing assistance and grants simply because venture capital is part of the business model,” Mr. Koenig said.

But Giovanni Coratolo, the small-business director at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the bill created “a loophole that would allow large businesses, colleges and universities to own an unlimited number of small businesses, but still fall under the definition of small business to access government resources and programs.”

Once a business passes S.B.A. muster as a small business, it can qualify for certain federal programs. For example, biotechnology firms are eligible for grants from the National Institutes of Health, which parcels out more than $22 billion annually to small and big businesses. Other government agencies also award research money, with the largest being the Defense Department, which has about $1 billion a year for small-business research.

Gerard J. McGarrity said his former firm, Intronn, in Gaithersburg, Md., now owned by the Virxsys Corporation, ended up shutting down promising cystic fibrosis research in 2003 when the federal government cut off funds because Intronn had accepted venture capital investment.

“The private money was needed to keep going,” he said, “but the cutoff of federal funds wiped out our research team.”

The biotechnology industry said N.I.H. statistics showed how the current classification system was squeezing research. Since 2004, there has been a 25 percent decline in the number of applications for its research funds, according to Congressional testimony by N.I.H. last June. And last year, only 26 percent of the applicants were new, the lowest percentage ever recorded for new research applications.

But the National Small Business Association, which opposes the legislation, maintained that small businesses financed with venture capital were faring well under government medical grants. An April 2006 report from the Government Accountability Office found that the percentage of N.I.H. research dollars awarded to these companies had risen to 21 percent in 2004 from 14 percent in 2001, the association said.

The American Small Business League and other foes have also questioned how the legislation would affect eligibility for government contracts. By law, about 23 percent of government contracts are supposed to go to small businesses.

“Our concern is that changing the definition of a small business would offset the progress the agency has made,” said Charles E. Rowe, the S.B.A.’s assistant administrator for Congressional affairs.
642 2007-10-25 “We’re going to be the advocate for people ‘togetherizing,’” said Lori Senecal, New York general manager at McCann Erickson, using a made-up word to describe the campaign.

Teasers for the campaign began running Oct. 9 with a full-page ad in USA Today that told readers of a search for a new “spokesapple.” The ad directed people to applebees.com/auditions, where they could watch video clips of fanciful screen tests for the contenders.

The clips, also available on YouTube, showed various apples — some green, some red, one with a Brooklyn accent — trying out for the part, often poorly. This week, another clip was added revealing the Wanda Sykes apple as the winner.

On Sunday, the 15- and 30-second spots featuring Ms. Sykes will run on programs like “Desperate Housewives,” “Extreme Makeover: Home Edition” and Game 4 of the World Series. An online component will focus on Web sites where people can connect with one another — like Classmates.com, Evite.com, Reunion.com and AmericanGreetings.com — where site-specific flash banners will encourage people to plan their next reunion or get-together at Applebee’s.

The makeover includes a new menu, which is meant to “retake ownership of grill and bar classics” while still providing customers with “great value,” said George Williams, chief marketing officer at Applebee’s, which is based in Overland Park, Kan.

Applebee’s logo and employee uniforms have been redesigned to look more modern, and a renovation of all of the nearly 2,000 locations is also under way.

The casual dining segment has grown crowded, and the decision to use an apple as the company “spokesapple” was made as a way to create advertising that could not be mistaken with pitches from the competition, Mr. Williams said.

“No one will confuse this with Friday’s,” he added.

Applebee’s, which recently agreed to be acquired by the IHOP Corporation in a deal to close this year, spends about $180 million a year on advertising. Mr. Williams would not discuss a budget for the campaign, but said that the company plans to put “its full resources” behind the effort.

The revitalization effort comes in the midst of difficult times for casual dining restaurants. According to the Knapp-Track research service, which follows the restaurant industry, comparable sales in 2006 fell 0.1 percent compared with 2005, and comparable guest traffic dropped 2.8 percent in the same period. Through August, comparable sales were down 0.6 percent.

Larry Miller, a restaurant analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said the woes in the casual dining sector could be attributed to middle-class consumers having less discretionary cash because of higher gasoline prices and the depressed housing market. Another problem for chains like Applebee’s, he said, is the resurgence of fast-food chains.

“Fast food has become what we are calling ‘fast casual,’” Mr. Miller said. “They’ve stretched the top end of their check average with better, healthier products and better environments, and it’s really eating into the casual-dining lunch period.”

Applebee’s net income fell to $80.9 million in 2006, from $101.8 million in 2005 and $110.9 million in 2004.

As often happens when companies are under pressure, casual dining chains have responded with a rash of agency changes. Applebee’s tapped McCann Erickson in July after parting ways with Draft FCB in March; both agencies are part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Sizzler, Chili’s Grill and Bar, IHOP and Outback Steakhouse have also either hired new agencies in the last six months or are looking to do so.

Chili’s, which in April left GSD&M’s Idea City, part of the Omnicom Group, recently introduced a revamped campaign from its new creative agency, Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, also owned by Interpublic. That effort has a new theme, “Pepper in some fun,” and encourages consumers to break out of their dining routines with one of the new Chili’s lunch specials.

Mr. Williams of Applebee’s acknowledged the increased competition from fast-food chains, as well as a lack of differentiation in his own category.

“There hasn’t been an increase in visits in the category in years, yet all the competition, including us, continues to add more restaurants,” he said. “So it’s clearly a market-share war for the category.”
643 2007-10-25 Boeing said yesterday that its third-quarter profit had risen more than expected, helped by higher deliveries of commercial aircraft, but the company scaled back its revenue forecast for next year because of delays involving its 787 Dreamliner and slowing growth at its military unit.

The company, which is based in Chicago, said this month that its hot-selling 787 would be at least six months late as it wrestles with the plane’s software, uncompleted work from suppliers and an acute shortage of bolts.

Boeing is aiming for the first test flight of the Dreamliner around the end of March next year and expects the first delivery in late November or December 2008.

“I would characterize it as an aggressive plan with normal margins in it,” Boeing’s chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., said in a conference call, seeking to allay fears of more delays. “The likelihood of a surprise is not high.”

Boeing shares rose initially but later fell. They were down 69 cents at $94.26 on the New York Stock Exchange.
644 2007-10-25 WASHINGTON, Oct. 24 — The ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee joined Democrats on Wednesday in questioning the basis for the assertion by Michael B. Mukasey, President Bush’s nominee for attorney general, that the president “can act outside the law” on national security issues.

In a letter to Mr. Mukasey, the Republican senator, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, posed a series of questions about Mr. Mukasey’s suggestion in his confirmation hearings last week that the president’s authority as commander in chief can supersede laws passed by Congress, a view shared by White House officials.

“How do you deal with the public concern that the rule of law is supreme and the president at times appears to put himself above the law?” Mr. Specter asked Mr. Mukasey, a retired federal judge from New York. “If you believe the president can act outside the law, how do you square that belief with your statement at the hearing that ‘the president doesn’t stand above the law’?”

The White House has said that Mr. Mukasey will withhold additional public comment on the questions raised by Mr. Specter and other lawmakers until he has had the chance to reply to their letters.

On Tuesday, the committee’s 10 Democrats sent a separate letter to Mr. Mukasey that pressed him to make a clear-cut statement that the interrogation technique known as waterboarding, which simulates drowning and has been used by the Central Intelligence Agency against terrorist suspects, is illegal. Mr. Mukasey would not make such a statement at his confirmation hearings.

Mr. Specter asked Mr. Mukasey to respond with his views “on the legality and propriety of waterboarding and the appropriate scope of interrogation under U.S. law and the Geneva Convention.”
645 2007-10-25 The Goldman Sachs Group has promoted a record 299 people to managing director, the company’s second-highest rank after partner.

The promotions take effect on Dec. 1, Goldman said yesterday. Fifty-seven percent of the new managing directors work outside the Americas, and 19 percent are women.

Managing directors are appointed annually, while partners are named every other year. Last year, Goldman named 262 new managing directors and 115 partners.

Including the new promotions, Goldman now has 1,384 managing directors and 383 partners. The largest portion of the new managing directors work in investment banking, said Andrea Rachman, a spokeswoman for the firm. She declined to provide specific figures.

Goldman set aside $16.9 billion to pay salaries, benefits and bonuses in the first nine months of the year.
646 2007-10-25 In wide demand as a lecturer after “Madame Curie” was published, Mrs. Labouisse was also known for her staunch public advocacy of the Free French cause after the Nazis occupied France in 1940. After the war, she was a publisher of the French newspaper Paris-Press, and in the early 1950s was a special adviser to the secretary general of NATO.

Her other books include “Journey Among Warriors” (Doubleday, Doran, 1943), a best-selling account of her 40,000-mile trip across a series of wartime fronts: North Africa, Iraq, Iran, Russia, India, Burma and China.

Throughout her life, Mrs. Labouisse appeared to have taken her famous family in stride. “You are not mixing me up with my sister by any chance?” she asked an interviewer in 1972. “You see, I am the only one of the family not to have won a Nobel Prize.” (In 1935, Mrs. Labouisse’s older sister, Irène Joliot-Curie, and her husband, Frédéric Joliot, won the Nobel Prize in chemistry for their synthesis of new radioactive elements.)

But Mrs. Labouisse had abundant talents of her own. Originally trained as a concert pianist, she performed throughout France and Belgium as a young woman and later wrote music criticism for several French periodicals. She was also considered to have been one of the most beautiful women in Paris in the 1920s and ’30s.

Eve Denise Curie was born in Paris on Dec. 6, 1904. She scarcely knew her father: in April 1906, while crossing a rain-slicked street, Pierre Curie slipped under the wheels of a passing horse-drawn wagon and was killed. Madame Curie, her daughter later said, could not bear to speak of him and plunged herself even more deeply into her work.

Mrs. Labouisse would later say that as a child she saw little of her mother, becoming close to her only as a teenager and afterward, as she nursed her through her final illness. Marie Curie died in 1934, at 66, of leukemia, which was believed to have been caused by her prolonged exposure to radioactive material.

In 1940, after France fell, Eve Curie went to England to work for the Free French. She later served in Europe with the women’s division of Gen. Charles de Gaulle’s Fighting French. In May 1941, the Vichy government revoked her French citizenship; she eventually settled in the United States.

In 1954, Eve Curie married Henry Richardson Labouisse, who was later the United States ambassador to Greece. From 1965 to 1979, Mr. Labouisse was the executive director of Unicef, and it was he who accepted the Nobel Peace Prize when it was awarded to Unicef in 1965.

Mr. Labouisse died in 1987. Besides her stepdaughter, Ms. Peretz, of Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Labouisse is survived by four stepgrandchildren and 11 stepgreat-grandchildren. Her only sibling, Irène Joliot-Curie, died in 1956, at 58, of leukemia, which was believed to have been caused by her prolonged exposure to radioactive material.

To the end of her life, her stepdaughter said, Mrs. Labouisse felt enormous guilt that she alone among the women in her family had escaped a life of radiation and its consequences.
647 2007-10-25 “Lawbreaker in Chief,” by Jed Rubenfeld (Op-Ed, Oct. 23), hit a bull’s-eye. If Michael B. Mukasey’s stated position on executive power were to prevail, we would all be living in a different country. If the president could ignore enacted laws, whether involving national security or otherwise, he could fill the vacuum by executive order.

In effect, the country would be governed by the president’s decree, not by laws enacted by our elected representatives. Such a change would move the country from democratic republic to executive dictatorship. Even senators who support Judge Mukasey’s nomination as attorney general, like Charles E. Schumer, must be chagrined by his position.

It is time for the Senate to stand up for the core of our democracy and reject this appointment. No amount of explanation, fudging or obfuscation can undo the risk Judge Mukasey’s views pose to a government of the people.
648 2007-10-25 “We are now stepping outside what is typically a business decision,” said Rob Enderle, the founder of the strategy concern Enderle Group. “This was almost personal. I wouldn’t want to be the executive that’s on the losing side at either firm.”

A Google spokesman said the company had no comment. Facebook is planning to comment on the deal later today.

Representatives of Facebook say the investment will allow it to add employees, expand overseas and aggressively develop its own advertising system that will tailor ads to the personal preferences users make public on their Facebook pages. Facebook is expected to introduce such an ad network at an event in New York next month.

The Microsoft investment throws the value of the holdings of Facebook investors into the stratosphere. Mark Zuckerberg, the 23-year-old Facebook founder who dropped out of Harvard to build the company, owns a 20 percent share which is now valued at $3 billion. Accel Partners, the venture capital firm that invested $12.7 million in May 2005 and owns 11 percent of Facebook, now holds stock worth $1.65 billion.

The high valuation also represents a belief that Facebook is creating an important new operating system — one that exists on the Web instead of on personal computers. In May, it opened its platform, inviting other companies and third party developers to create tools for the site and share in the advertising revenues.

The move unleashed a flurry of activity around the social network. More than 4,000 applications, like games and music-sharing tools, have since been created for the site, which in turn has accelerated Facebook’s membership growth. The company says it now has more than 42 million members and will exceed 60 million members by the end of the year.

“Once a social operating system takes over a country it’s like it becomes the native language of that country,” said Lee Lorenzen, a venture capitalist who is bullish on Facebook and notes that Google’s Orkut dominates Brazil, Friendster dominates the Philippines and Facebook is becoming the dominant forum in the United States, Canada and Western Europe.

Facebook boosters say that social networking represents the future of online activity.. Advertisers are attracted to these properties because they offer an opportunity to aim ads to particular users interested in their product or service.

Mr. Lorenzen and other Silicon Valley investors are often dismissive of MySpace, Facebook’s larger rival, which has more than 110 million active users and is owned by the News Corporation. “MySpace is not based on authentic identities. Facebook is based on who you really are and who your friends really are. That is who marketers really want to reach, not the fantasy you that lives on MySpace and uses a photo of a model,” he said.
649 2007-10-25 MOSCOW, Oct. 24 — Seeking to tame galloping food prices ahead of parliamentary elections in early December, the Russian government on Wednesday signed an agreement with major food producers instituting temporary price controls on basic products.

A tersely worded statement posted on the Web site of the Agriculture Ministry said the producers had signed the agreement “at their own initiative.”

“Producers and retail organizations, understanding the social responsibility of business in the balanced and stable development of the consumer market in Russia, will take necessary measures over the course of the agreement to ensure that the most vulnerable strata of the population can purchase products at acceptably stable prices,” the statement read.

Prices for products like cheese and vegetable oil have jumped and even doubled in some regions in the past two months.

The price stabilization affects milk, bread, sugar and vegetable oil. The agreement will last through the end of January, the Web site of RBK, a Russian business publication, reported.

The newly instituted price controls have reminded some of the Soviet era. Ekho Moskvy, a radio station often sharply critical of the government, titled a Wednesday talk show, “The restoration of Socialism: until election day or for years ahead?”

In an interview published Wednesday by RIA Novosti, an official news agency, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Aleksei Kudrin, a liberal economic reformer, said temporary price stabilization was acceptable but warned against freezing prices.
650 2007-10-25 The nation’s largest gay rights organization criticized Senator Barack Obama of Illinois yesterday for scheduling a gospel concert on Sunday with a singer who has made controversial statements about homosexuality.

Joe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, the gay rights organization, urged Mr. Obama in a phone call yesterday to cancel the appearance of the singer, Donnie McClurkin, who is to sing Sunday night in a gospel concert in Columbia, S.C.

Critics say that Mr. McClurkin counsels that homosexuality is a curse that can be cured through prayer, although in an interview with The Chicago Tribune, Mr. McClurkin said that his words had been misconstrued and that he had not crusaded against gay men and lesbians.

Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, has not canceled Mr. McClurkin’s appearance but has scheduled an openly gay minister, the Rev. Andy Sidden, to speak on the concert program. But that did not appear to tamp down criticism from some gay activists or increasingly hostile bloggers.

The controversy reflects the competing interests of two important constituencies of the Democratic Party, with gay activists complaining that Mr. Obama is seeking the support of black evangelicals at their expense. The gospel tour, which begins Friday with other singers, is part of a broader effort by the Obama campaign to win over black evangelicals.

Mr. Obama is in a fierce struggle in South Carolina with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York for the support of black voters, who make up half the electorate in the Democratic primary. The state’s primary, scheduled for mid-January, could be crucial, coming after New Hampshire and Iowa and before several big states vote on Feb. 5.

Mr. Solmonese said in a statement that he appreciated the campaign’s invitation to Mr. Sidden, but added: “There is no gospel in Donnie McClurkin’s message for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people and their allies. That’s a message that certainly doesn’t belong on any presidential candidate’s stage.”
651 2007-10-25 This advertisement for Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, is to begin running as early as tonight in New Hampshire. Mr. McCain’s campaign spent roughly $100,000 to show the commercial statewide.

THE SCRIPT Mr. McCain says: “A few days ago, Senator Clinton tried to spend $1 million on the Woodstock concert museum. Now, my friends, I wasn’t there. I’m sure it was a cultural and pharmaceutical event. I was tied up at the time. No one can be president of the United States that supports projects such as these. I’m John McCain, and I approve this message.”

ON THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with a kaleidoscopic, psychedelic backdrop superimposed with a quotation from a recent article in The Washington Post about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton’s support for an earmark providing $1 million to a museum commemorating the Woodstock concert of 1969. It then flashes a series of images: Mr. McCain speaking at the debate sponsored by Fox News last Sunday; the crowds at Woodstock; a young woman dancing, trance-like, at the concert; Mr. McCain at the debate; Rudolph W. Giuliani at the debate, laughing appreciatively at what Mr. McCain is saying; Mr. McCain as a young P.O.W. laying on his back while smoking a cigarette; and the crowd in the debate hall giving Mr. McCain a standing ovation.

ACCURACY Mrs. Clinton, along with her fellow Democratic senator from New York, Charles E. Schumer, did push recently for an earmark providing $1 million for the Woodstock museum, the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts. The Woodstock concert, held in Bethel, N.Y., has been solidly established in history as both a cultural and a pharmaceutical event. Mr. McCain was tied up at the time, in a Vietnamese prison, as a prisoner of war.

SCORECARD The advertisement makes the most of a shining moment for Mr. McCain at last Sunday’s debate, one that has helped his campaign as it tries to regain momentum after a difficult summer. The “tied up” line seemed clearly scripted, but it was well received in the debate hall nonetheless, including from Mr.Giuliani, who is leading the Republican pack in national polls. Mr. Giuliani’s laughter is artfully used in this commercial to help validate Mr. McCain. The advertisement uses the grainy, black-and-white imagery of Mr. McCain during his incarceration to arresting effect. And no Republican candidate trying to appeal to the more conservative activists who so reliably vote in primaries can go wrong going after Mrs. Clinton. In sum, it is the sort of attention-grabbing commercial Mr. McCain needs at a time when his bank accounts are bare — and when some conservatives have seemed extremely reluctant to embrace him as one of their own. JIM RUTENBERG
652 2007-10-25 MEASURING A MELTDOWN  Economists say the meltdown in the American mortgage market could, all told, cost financial firms and investors more than the savings and loan crisis of the early 1990's. But the loss in total real estate wealth is expected t...
653 2007-10-25 LABOUISSE--Eve Curie, passed away peacefully at her home in Manhattan on October 22, 2007, in her 103rd year. Formerly a resident of Wainscott, Long Island. Beloved wife of the late Ambassador Henry R. Labouisse and devoted daughter of the late Pi...
654 2007-10-26 Good child care is hard to find, they said, and one reason is that the city’s rules for opening and operating a day care center are more stringent than for most types of businesses....
655 2007-10-26 Hopeful singers contend for a coveted spot in the Mormon Tabernacle Choir....
656 2007-10-26 The notices were sent out after the network was criticized for singling out John McCain....
657 2007-10-26 Corporate responsibility is a focus for the candidate...
658 2007-10-26 Tex-Mex in Paris....
659 2007-10-26 As a result we are on a course to become a nation of retired poor. At least 35 percent of baby boomers in their mid-50s to early 60s are not expected to be able to maintain their standard of living in retirement, and the percentage worsens for those who are younger, says Jim McCarthy, managing director of Retirement Plan Services at Morgan Stanley, who testified recently on Capitol Hill. Simply put, we aren't saving enough.

Congress, of course, has been well aware of the problem. Over the years, it has taken a number of important steps to make it easier for small businesses to offer savings plans. But significant barriers still remain, according to testimony at the House Small Business Committee hearing. Among those barriers, cost and complexity top the list.

Right off the bat, business owners must budget for startup costs to establish a plan and be ready to make contributions on behalf of employees. In most cases, business owners must also hire a consultant, financial adviser, and accountant to navigate the process. Often, that is not a "good value proposition," says McCarthy.

Once a plan is established, business owners must follow complex IRS regulations such as top-heavy and antidiscrimination rules, and a jumble of other red tape. And owners, in most cases, must assume fiduciary responsibility for the plan, which means they can be sued if anything goes wrong.

To deal with the problem, over the last several years Congress has developed the SIMPLE Individual Retirement Account (IRA) and the related SEP IRA. "Unfortunately, the very structure which makes the SIMPLE desirable also makes it less effective for ensuring retirement income security for retired small business employees," according to Paula A. Calimafde, who testified on behalf of the Small Business Council of America (SBCA).

With a SIMPLE plan, a small business simply goes to a bank or brokerage and sets up separate IRAs for eligible employees. The company makes contributions into IRAs without assuming any fiduciary responsibility. SIMPLE plans, however, contain restrictions that make them less attractive as a savings vehicle compared with 401(k) plans. For one, contribution limits are lower and penalties are higher for early withdrawals.

Calimafde says SIMPLE plans should be considered "starter plans." As such, she says, the SBCA opposes any effort to make them more competitive with 401(k) plans by enhancing their features or raising contribution limits. "In the long run, true retirement security for employees is better served by strengthening qualified retirement plans," she says.

The Bush Administration, meanwhile, continues to push for Employer Retirement Savings Accounts (ERSAs), which it first proposed as part of its FY 2004 budget, and has included again in its FY 2008 proposal. The accounts would be a stripped-down version of a qualified retirement plan. ERSAs would replace 401(k) plans, related plans for nonprofits (403b), government employees (457b), and all SIMPLE plans.

Small business owners are already facing a dizzying alphabet soup of plans, so any effort at simplification would be welcomed. The administration's ERSAs, however, have never been able to muster support in Congress. So the crisis continues. Today, people simply aren't saving enough for retirement. The most effective way for them to save has proved to be through employer-sponsored plans that allow for automatic deductions from paychecks.

Thus, the Department of Labor's decision to allow automatic 401(k) enrollment is significant. But it doesn't address the bigger problem. Only Congress can do that. It needs to make retirement saving a top priority. The time bomb is only ticking louder with each passing day.
660 2007-10-26 Elizabeth McCracken (Keller & Keller) Elizabeth McCracken is the author of a book of stories, "Here's Your Hat What's Your Hurry," and two novels, "The Giant's House" and "Niagara Falls All Over Again." 1) What are you working on? I've just finish...
661 2007-10-26 Hillary Clinton rings in 60 years on the same day that John McCain acknowledges 40 years since being captured as a P.O.W. in Vietnam....
662 2007-10-26 SAP's acquisition of Business Objects has ignited speculation about what enterprise software maker could be next. Now, according to the 451 Group, the most likely takeover target is Cognos, another maker of business-intelligence software. Among th...
663 2007-10-26 For $21 a share, BEA Systems says it is ready to sell. Oracle quickly rejected the $8.2 billion price-tag as "impossibly high." BEA's announcement came just days after Oracle, based in Redwood Shores, Calif., threatened to abandon its all-cash off...
664 2007-10-26 Germany's cabinet has approved a bill that would force hedge funds to disclose details of the financing and timing of their takeover bids for public companies. Though parliament still needs to pass the measure, the new bill aims to rein in foreign...
665 2007-10-26 Absolute Capital Management Holdings, the hedge-fund manager that suspended withdrawals after its investment chief, Florian Homm, quit, said clients can start trading its German fund, the first of seven to reopen. Absolute Capital will resume calc...
666 2007-10-26 Indian regulators are finding that slowing a runaway stock market is seldom quick, easy or painless. On Thursday evening, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, completed rules governing foreign participation in this fast-growing mar...
667 2007-10-26 In the last year, amid a flurry of deals among stock exchanges to merge or take strategic stakes in one another, the Hong Kong exchange has deliberately sat on the sidelines. Ronald J. Arculli, the chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, whi...
668 2007-10-26 Can Facebook lure the hottest talent with the prospective of becoming millionaires with stock options? Some people suggest the $15 billion valuation of the company will make it harder to get rich, really rich, there....
669 2007-10-26 “A number of issues need clarification,” Senator Specter said in a telephone interview today. “I’m troubled by the depth of his assertion of executive powers.” He said he was worried specifically about whether Mr. Mukasey would give advice to President Bush to disregard acts of Congress, including a proposed law that would place new limits on the ability of the White House to conduct warrantless electronic eavesdropping.

“I don’t know that I would confirm a guy who is going to say that he’d advise the president that he has the constitutional authority to ignore a deal he has made with Congress on a specific provision,” he said, referring to the eavesdropping legislation. The White House has said that Mr. Mukasey would soon provide a detailed written response to the lawmakers’ questions. White House spokesmen have argued that Mr. Mukasey could not answer questions about interrogation techniques and other issues involving classified information since he cannot be briefed on them until after his confirmation.

President Bush complained on Friday that Democratic leaders in Congress were acting too slowly on several pieces of legislation, as well as on the nomination of Mr. Mukasey. He noted that they had failed to approve the nomination “even as members complain about the lack of leadership at the Department of Justice.”

On Tuesday, all 10 Democrats on the Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Mr. Mukasey asking him to make a clear-cut statement of opposition to waterboarding and to describe it as illegal.

On Thursday, the Senator Majority Leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, was asked by a reporter if Mr. Mukasey should be confirmed in light of his failure to make a statement of opposition to waterboarding.

“We’ll have to wait and see,” Senator Reid said, adding that he had been “troubled” by Mr. Mukasey’s testimony last week. “I think if he doesn’t change his direction in that regard, he could have at least one concern. And that’s me.”

The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, said that his vote on the nomination might depend on Mr. Mukasey’s written response to questions about waterboarding. “It’s fair to say that my vote would depend on him answering the question,” he told reporters.

Alex Swartsel, spokeswoman for Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, another Democrat on the committee, said Friday that Mr. Mukasey’s views on waterboarding were “the issue could cause the senator to vote against Mukasey.” She said Mr. Whitehouse “wants to see the judge’s answer before he makes that determination.”

Waterboarding is a technique that dates to the Spanish Inquisition and involves pouring water onto the face of an interrogation suspect whose mouth and nose are covered by cloth or some other material, creating the sensation of drowning. Intelligence officials have acknowledged that some senior Al Qaeda suspects received such treatment after the Sept. 11 terror attacks but that the practice was suspended in response to complaints from members of Congress that it amounted to torture.
670 2007-10-26 The price of oil continued its record run today, topping $92 in overnight trading as a weak dollar and a flare-up of tensions in the Middle East continue to attract investors.

Crude oil topped off at $92.22 a barrel before today’s opening bell, bolstered by bullish trading in the Asian and European markets. It closed up $1.40, or 1.5 percent, at $91.86 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Reports of dwindling supply levels have pushed up prices since Wednesday, with oil prices now up over 3 percent in the last week. Hostilities between Turkey and Iraqi Kurds also contributed to the sudden spike, along with a decision by the United States to impose sanctions against Iran.

Crude surged nearly 4 percent yesterday to finish at $90.46 a barrel, the highest nominal close on record, though still shy of the inflation-adjusted record price of $101.70 set in April 1980.

Some analysts said they see no end in sight.

“Have we seen the ultimate highs? I wouldn’t think so,” said Ric Navy, an energy analyst at BNP Paribas. “These hedge funds and these pools of money that are out there, they’d like to go with the trend.”

Also today, the dollar hit a low against the Euro, making oil more attractive to foreign investors. Investors also expect that the Federal Reserve will cut its benchmark interest rate next week, which could strengthen American economic growth and contribute to rising oil demand, analysts said. The euro traded at $1.4393, up from $1.4324.
671 2007-10-26 The Harris Fire, also in San Diego County, closer to the Mexican border, is reported in the latest tally to be 20 percent contained, also indicating that there may be days of uncertainty and unease still facing firefighters and residents.

In its running tally of the 23 fires that have so far consumed 490,000 acres of Southern California, the fire department, the state’s lead agency in the massive firefighting effort, has tried to bring order to a disaster that has followed no logic. The department is trying to bring precision to a phenomenon that has brought chaos, and fear, and loss to the people who live in the path of the infernos.

The numbers hardly mirror, also, the extent of work to be done yet in a wide swath of this state’s southern region, where firefighters continue to battle nine large blazes still threatening more than 22,000 structures.

The fires are believed to have claimed seven lives so far, authorities said. Border patrol agents on Thursday night found the charred remains of four immigrants who may have died after crossing the Mexican border. That was added to the bodies of two people found earlier in the day in their home in Poway by recovery crews who are moving from house to house in towns where the fires have passed.

On Sunday, a man was found dead in Potrero, not far from the border. The search for those who perished will continue, officials said.

“I imagine we will be finding bodies into next year,” said Sgt. Mike Radovich of the San Diego Sheriff’s Department.

The tally also doesn’t speak to the movement back and forth of people running for their lives when flames threatened all that they owned, and then weighing whether the danger had passed enough to return.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s office said today that 41 shelters are still open throughout the area, with a combined population of 4,512.

Evacuation orders began to lift in San Diego County, and Qualcomm Stadium, where thousands of evacuees have stayed, was set to close at noon today, Pacific time. In a sign of how the area is struggling for normalcy, the refugees will make way for the Chargers, who are scheduled to play at the stadium on Sunday after all.

Most of the those who had sought shelter at the stadium left as San Diego authorities lifted evacuation orders as they claimed the upper hand in their firefighting efforts throughout the county. The 350 people remaining in the stadium are to be transferred to another shelter.

Evacuation orders have not been lifted in San Bernardino County, where two blazes threaten thousands of homes.

On Thursday, President Bush toured Southern California as investigators got down to the work of determining how one sunny fall day last weekend erupted into a 16-fire storm now in its sixth day.

Mr. Bush, joined by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, also a Republican, visited the charred remains of neighborhoods, met distraught residents and exhausted fire crews and viewed fires that continue to burn throughout the region.

“We’re not going to forget you in Washington, D.C.,” the president told residents and weary firefighters in San Diego County.

With most of the fires no longer posing a significant threat, fire officials were stepping up efforts to determine how much of the blame for the devastation fell on nature and how much on arsonists.

In Orange County, where the authorities have already determined that a large fire north of Mission Viejo was intentionally set, investigators have begun to interview people about possible suspects. A $150,000 reward was offered for information leading to a conviction in the case. On Thursday authorities closed canyon roads and searched the rubble for clues.

The fire there, which is still burning, had consumed 27,000 acres and 14 houses by this morning. On Wednesday, F.B.I. agents descended on Santiago Canyon Road, near Irvine, to gather evidence, which was sent to a laboratory to be analyzed.

“We desperately want to catch the person or persons that did this,” said Chip Prather, the Orange County fire authority chief at a news conference in Irvine. The evidence at the scene, which he would not discuss further, suggested arson, Mr. Prather said.

A separate fire, to the east in Riverside County, was also found to be intentional. At least two people, in San Bernardino and Los Angeles Counties, have been arrested on suspicion of arson.

The scale and ferocity of the fires almost certainly stemmed from a trajectory familiar to firefighters, fire investigation experts said.

Typically, fires created by human error, lightning or a downed power line create large embers that can fly as far as a mile away with the force of the Santa Ana winds behind them, setting off new blazes. Early indications point to downed power lines as the culprit in a fire in Malibu and possibly two others.

Arsonists begin copying them, investigators said, aided by wind, miles of drought-created tinder and the steep hills that are prevalent throughout the state, which make for far better fire-spreading conditions than flat land.

“It’s not by accident that you get 17 or 18 fires going at the same time,” said Harold Schaitberger, general president of the International Association of Firefighters. “There is no question you then get serial artist copycats out to create the next and larger event.”
672 2007-10-26 GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Oct. 25 (AP) — The Dow Chemical Company said Thursday its profit fell 21.3 percent in the third quarter because of changes in German tax laws, higher domestic tax rates and charges for research and development.

The company, based in Midland, Mich., posted net income after paying preferred dividends of $403 million, or 42 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $512 million, or 53 cents a share.

The quarter was weighed down primarily by a provision for income taxes of $659 million, which was substantially higher than a tax provision of $137 million a year earlier. Excluding items, Dow reported profit of 84 cents a share for the three months that ended Sept. 30.

Sales rose 10 percent to $13.59 billion from $12.36 billion a year earlier, increased by a 19 percent jump in Dow’s agricultural sciences segment, a 12 percent increase in performance plastics and a 7 percent rise in performance chemicals.

The performance plastics segment makes materials used in automotive products and building and construction products. The performance chemicals unit produces ingredients used in the production of food, drug and paint products.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial, on average, expected earnings of 90 cents a share on revenue of $12.65 billion. Thomson estimates typically exclude one-time items.
673 2007-10-26 With internal cracks and dissension widening, Prime Minister Romano Prodi called for a declaration of support among the diverse partners in his fragile center-left government. “It’s time for the political forces in the ruling majority to say clearly whether they intend to continue supporting the government or if they intend instead to put their own interests above the country’s,” Mr. Prodi said on national television. He spoke amid rising concern that the year-old coalition, ranging from communists to centrist Catholics, might soon crumble over disagreement on his proposed budget and fighting among ministers. His predecessor, Silvio Berlusconi, now the opposition leader, is calling for new elections.
674 2007-10-26 Oil closed at its lowest point this year on Jan. 18, at $50.48 a barrel. Since then, it has risen 79 percent. Some analysts have projected in recent days that oil will soon top $100 a barrel on the basis of supply and demand. Others say only a political crisis, like a new war in the Middle East, could drive the price that high.

Mr. Gheit, for one, questioned whether the run-up was sustainable.

“I know that we are closer to an end here because this is like the fireworks,” Mr. Gheit said, noting that oil jumped nearly 4 percent in a single day yesterday. “When you see the bigger noise and the biggest glare, then you better hit the exits because it’s going to be over soon.”

Larry Goldstein, a director at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, said the tensions in Turkey and Iran were a big factor in yesterday’s jump. Unlike some analysts, he dismissed the recent reports of reduced inventories.

“It’s a noisy statistic that can really be reversed by next week’s data, where imports could easily go back to over 10 million barrels of crude oil a day,” Mr. Goldstein said.

High oil prices contributed to an erratic day on Wall Street, where stock markets were down most of the day but recovered late. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index finished down 0.1 percent, or 1.48 points, at 1,514.40. The Dow Jones industrials dropped more than 100 points by 2 p.m., but climbed back to a virtually flat close at 13,671.92, a 3.33-point decline. The Nasdaq composite index fell 0.9 percent, or 23.90 points, to close at 2,750.86.

Investors remained skittish yesterday about fallout from the credit crisis. Stocks fell after an analyst report speculated that the American International Group, the insurance giant, would be forced to write down the value of some assets linked to subprime mortgages. The company would not comment to Bloomberg News.

Economic data that came out yesterday on sales of new homes and of manufactured goods were consistent with the view of many analysts that the economy is gradually slowing.

Traders and investors are hoping for another cut in interest rates when the Federal Reserve meets next week, and a recent run of weak economic statistics has persuaded some of them that a cut is likely.

“The positive spin on weak economic data is, ‘Well, the Fed will cut more, and that will bail the market out,’” said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors. “That kind of ‘glass is half full’ attitude has kept the market from moving lower over the last couple of sessions.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of five-year notes:
675 2007-10-26 The United States flyweight Rau’shee Warren took another step toward returning to the Olympics yesterday by easily defeating the 2004 Olympian Tulashboy Doniyorov of Uzbekistan in a 20-8 decision at the World Boxing Championships in Chicago.Warren needs to win his next two fights to qualify for Beijing. He is attempting to become the first American boxer in more than 20 years to compete in two Olympics.Warren never trailed Doniyorov and took control in the second round, knocking him down.
676 2007-10-26 But a month ago, Mr. Rivera returned home. His hours at a Dallas window-screen factory were cut and rumors spread that he would inevitably have to produce a valid Social Security number. Now, he works odd jobs or tends cornfields. Mrs. Rivera’s shop is indefinitely delayed, a pile of bricks stacked on the grass.

Like Mr. Rivera, some of the men who went to work in the United States illegally have returned discouraged. And less work means less money to send home — particularly from the southern United States and other areas where Mexican migrants are a more recent presence.

“One out of three people in these new states who was sending a year ago is not sending it home today,” Mr. Terry of the Inter-American Development Bank said. “There are some 500,000 families who aren’t receiving this year.”

Until last year, the American housing trades absorbed hundreds of thousands of migrants, and the hardships of the trip north seemed to pale beside the near certainty of finding work.

Now, the construction slump — along with a year-old crackdown on illegal immigration at the border and in the workplace, and mounting anti-immigrant sentiment in places — has made it even harder for Mexican migrants to reach the United States and land well-paying jobs.

Many experts say it is too early to know if the negligible increase in remittances will continue. Some argue it was to be expected: much of the initial spike in money transfers had resulted from better accounting. In addition, earlier waves of migrants are returning to the houses they built, or they have managed to legalize their status in the United States and bring their families, sending less money back.

But the events of the last year in the United States, political and economic, have also clouded the prospects of many illegal Mexican workers. New walls, new guards and new equipment at the border have dissuaded many from trying to cross and raised the cost for those who try to as much as $2,800. Workplace raids and stories of summary deportations stoke fears among Mexicans on both sides of the border.

Referring to tougher measures in the United States, Primitivo Rodríguez, a Mexican immigration expert, said: “Psychologically, they lead you to save money in case of an emergency. You send less, you save more.”

The shakier economy in many states means that migrants have moved from well-paying steady jobs to work as day laborers.

“In our interviews with families, they say that migrants are now working two or three days when before they worked four or five days,” said David Skerritt, a historian at Veracruzana University.

Rodolfo García Zamora , an immigration expert at the University of Zacatecas, said money transfers to Zacatecas state fell by about 25 percent this year.

Here in Guanajuato state, remittances have created a peculiar economy in villages tucked among rolling corn and sorghum fields. There are few jobs, yet many houses have stereo systems, washing machines and three-piece living room sets.

Things are changing, though. Some of the men are back and need cash for seeds and fertilizer to plow long-neglected fields. At the microcredit association operated by a local nonprofit group, the Bajío Women’s Network, loans for agriculture, which barely existed last year, now account for 11 percent of all borrowing.

Women are finding it harder to save, said Evelyne Sinquin, the network coordinator. “The people who have come back can’t work, and the people in the United States are working fewer hours.”

Other than agriculture, the jobs here are in construction, building houses of absentee owners houses along the cobbled streets. Some are modest with a few brick rooms; others are ornate tributes to their absentee owners’ success: gold-painted balconies, the Virgin of Guadalupe etched in a window, Greek columns. Los Emigrantes carpentry shop in nearby La Cuevita sits on a traffic circle adorned with a monument showing several figures, one of them a migrant waving a fistful of dollars.

Not much else flourishes. Three months ago, Mónica Núñez closed her tortilla shop in the village of San Lucas. “Most people went to the United States and sales went down,” she said.

Her husband has been home from Houston for a year, but she has seven brothers and a sister in the United States who still send money. She is planning a new business, perhaps an Internet cafe so people can connect with relatives in the United States.

Less than an hour’s drive away, the city of Querétaro is prospering, turning out home appliances for the world market. But for most people in the villages, education ended after elementary school. An unskilled factory or construction job pays little more than $50 or $60 a week.

With those prospects, the next generation — some of them as young as 15 — seemed to have few doubts about heading to the United States.

Estrella Rivera’s brother Francisco left for the first time when he was 16. Now 21, he recently came home after a year and a half in Orlando, Fla., working in construction. He earned enough to add a floor to his parents’ house, but then he struggled.

“Either there was no work or they did not want to hire somebody without papers,” he said, perched on an old Ford pickup truck with Michigan tags beside his family’s sheep and cow pens.

But he expects to go back again. “To tell the truth, it really is worth the trouble,” he said, recounting a terrifying crossing getting lost in the Arizona desert.

Mrs. Rivera’s husband is not so sure. “It’s really tough to go back,” he said. “Now they lock you up. Before, they grabbed you and sent you back. The laws were never this tough.”
677 2007-10-26 His campaign says it is just the beginning: it has set fund-raising goals of $3 million in October, $4 million in November and $5 million in December, marks campaign managers say are within reach. In two days last week, Mr. Paul raised $438,000.

Mr. Paul places no restrictions on who can donate to his campaign, but most of his money comes through the Internet. His campaign said 78 percent of the $5 million in contributions from the third quarter was collected online.

“It’s time to spend it,” said Jesse Benton, a spokesman for Mr. Paul.

It is a decidedly traditional strategy for a campaign that has been run largely by an army of enthusiastic volunteers (Mr. Paul’s circle of paid staff members has been small, but will grow, he said), and fervent supporters on the Internet, who have promoted their candidate on blogs and other online forums.

Mr. Benton said the television campaign would be geared toward introducing Mr. Paul to a greater audience — not to attacking fellow Republicans.

In the first commercial, shot last week in New Hampshire, voters present some of the themes of Mr. Paul’s candidacy, including his opposition to the Iraq war and his past as a doctor in a small Texas town.

Mr. Paul, 72, may speak like an outsider but he has represented conservative Republican districts in Texas for 10 terms, and he was the Libertarian candidate for president in 1988. Still, in the Republican debates, he has stood out with his emphatic antiwar, low-tax, anti-immigration, small-government views — the kind of positions that could appeal to people in a state like New Hampshire, where independent voters make up 45 percent of the electorate. Dante J. Scala, an associate professor of political science at the University of New Hampshire, said that if the advertisement campaign was effective, it could convince more independents, libertarians and even moderate Republicans to vote for Mr. Paul. According to a recent Marist College poll, about 15 percent of likely Republican voters in the state were undecided.

A poll released Thursday by the New Hampshire Institute of Politics at St. Anselm College in Manchester, put Mr. Paul in fourth place in New Hampshire with 7 percent of the vote, behind Senator John McCain of Arizona (15 percent), Mr. Giuliani (22 percent) and Mitt Romney (32 percent), the former governor of Massachusetts.

“It’s striking to me that he’s at 7 percent without running a single TV ad in New Hampshire,” Mr. Scala said. “If he starts to attract significant support among independents, then he could start to hurt Giuliani or McCain.”

Mr. Paul’s Republican rivals may already be taking notice of his newfound purchasing power. During the Oct. 21 Republican debate in Florida, the other candidates treated him more gently than in previous debates, like the one in May when Mr. Giuliani admonished him for suggesting that the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, were spurred by American policies in the Middle East.

Nick Gillespie, the editor in chief of Reason, the monthly libertarian magazine, called Mr. Paul “a fly in the ointment” in the Republican race.

“Just by being out there and pushing a strict constitutional line, I think he’s making them sweat a lot,” Mr. Gillespie said. “He’s highlighting the fact that they will say anything to get elected. Or at least to get through the primary.”

But even as Mr. Paul tries to push into the mainstream, he brings with him an assortment of supporters — Libertarians, independents, socially conservative Democrats, and, less desirable for the campaign, white supremacists and 9/11 conspiracy theorists — who have their own ideas about what his message should be and how he should project it.

Many have been active on the Internet, voicing their thoughts about free markets, the war, taxes and which of those issues they want him to emphasize. Some of his supporters were banned this week by RedState.com, a popular Web site for conservative commentary, from posting comments about Mr. Paul, on the argument that they were liberals masquerading as conservatives.

In an interview as he drove from Washington to his home in Virginia last week — fresh from filming television advertisements that morning — Mr. Paul said his supporters were “making signs and meeting and writing and waving signs and doing all these things.”

“Sometimes we sit around and figure out, ‘I wonder how much value there is from that?’ ” Mr. Paul said.

“They’re totally out of our control,” he added.
678 2007-10-26 Microsoft reported revenue of $13.76 billion, an increase of 27 percent from a year earlier. The consensus revenue estimate of securities analysts, compiled by Thomson Financial, was just under $12.6 billion.

In an interview, Christopher P. Liddell, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said the company had “outperformed expectations pretty much across the board,” led by the performance of its personal computer software products. Sales in the Windows group rose 25 percent, to more than $4.14 billion, while the Office division reported a 20 percent increase in sales, to $4.11 billion.

Mr. Liddell cited three factors for the exceptionally strong performance of the desktop products. The sales of personal computers worldwide grew 14 to 16 percent, he said, compared with the company’s anticipated range of 10 to 12 percent. Growth was highest, he added, in consumer and international markets, especially in developing economies like China, India, Russia and Brazil.

Microsoft also sold more of its premium-priced versions of Windows and Office than a year earlier. Mr. Liddell also said the company’s efforts to combat piracy were particularly successful, increasing sales of some product lines by as much as 5 percent from a year earlier.

“It’s only one quarter, so we’re not getting carried away here,” Mr. Liddell said, “but the anti-piracy really helped.”

Microsoft got another solid quarter from its server software group, which in recent years has become the company’s third big, profitable business alongside Windows and Office. Server products are the back-end software in corporate data centers, used to run e-mail systems, databases and corporate applications. Server software sales for the quarter rose 16 percent, to $2.9 billion.

Microsoft’s sales also got a healthy lift from its entertainment and devices unit, helped by the introduction of the hit video game Halo 3. Revenue from the entertainment and devices group rose 90 percent, to $1.9 billion. And after years of losses, the unit reported a pretax profit of $165 million, in contrast to a loss of $142 million a year earlier.

The mainstay businesses are thriving, but, analysts say, future growth will increasingly depend on how well Microsoft can do in selling online advertising and developing Internet services. This model of delivering software, information and entertainment over the Internet to personal computers, cellphones and other devices, sent from huge data centers, is often called “cloud computing.” Google, the search giant, is the runaway early leader.

“Strategically, looking forward, the challenge for Microsoft is cloud computing and Google,” said David Mitchell Smith, an analyst at the research company Gartner.

Mr. Smith pointed to Microsoft’s $6 billion purchase of aQuantive, an online ad agency, completed in May, and Web-based software offerings like Office Live Workspace as evidence that the company is starting to make progress in Internet services and advertising.

Microsoft clearly has ambitious plans for growth in the online market. Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive, said at a recent conference in Europe that online advertising would grow to make up 25 percent of Microsoft’s revenue over the next several years.

Yesterday’s earnings report illustrates how far Microsoft has to go. Its online services unit grew 25 percent, to $671 million, but its revenue amounted to less than 6 percent of Microsoft’s quarterly sales. And the quarterly loss from online services more than doubled, to $264 million, from the loss of $102 million in the quarter a year earlier.

But yesterday’s financial results also underline the growth and profitability of Microsoft’s mainstay personal computer software businesses. That gives Microsoft the financial firepower — it had $21.5 billion cash at the end of the quarter — needed to pour money into new fields for the long term, making moves like its $240 million investment on Wednesday in the social networking start-up Facebook.
679 2007-10-26 NEWARK, Oct. 25 — It was nearly high noon on Thursday when Sharpe James strolled down the streets he had governed for two decades as mayor, wearing a dark suit and alligator shoes, smiling that familiar gap-toothed smile, and proving once again that he wears an indictment well.

But for all the bluster that he has shown since his departure from office in July 2006 and his federal indictment on corruption charges three months ago, Mr. James seemed to move delicately through what was a bittersweet day for him at the opening of the Prudential Center arena.

Mr. James served as mayor from 1985 to 2006, a stretch marked by lean economic times for this long-suffering city. It was a period during which Mr. James was Newark’s loudest cheerleader.

For years, he said that a linchpin for economic development here would be the construction of a professional sports arena. It was a wildly unpopular idea among most state officials, particularly after the New Jersey Nets decided to take their basketball team to Brooklyn, leaving the Devils hockey team as the only professional sports organization that would use the facility.

Many said the arena, which cost about $375 million to build, was too expensive; others questioned why a sport whose players and fans are overwhelmingly white would come to a city that is predominantly black and Hispanic. Still others insisted that Newark had too much crime for spectators to venture into for evening sporting events.
680 2007-10-26 One of the highest-ranking officers at the Metropolitan Detention Center, the large federal jail near Gowanus Bay in Brooklyn, was convicted yesterday of conspiracy in connection with the beating of an inmate in the jail’s high-security special housing unit.

The officer, Capt. Salvatore LoPresti, was also found guilty of covering up the assault. While the jury in his trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn found that he had conspired with other officers to plan and carry out the assault, it acquitted him of actually taking part in the beating itself.

According to the government, Captain LoPresti was making rounds of the special housing unit on Nov. 13, 2002, when he asked the inmate, Robert George, to remove a T-shirt wrapped around his head in violation of jail regulations. Mr. George refused, causing Captain LoPresti to feel “disrespected,” court papers in the case have said. He returned later with other guards to beat the man, according to the court papers.

Prosecutors originally contended that the assault was so violent that it left “clumps of the inmate’s dreadlocks” on the floor of his cell, although testimony at the trial suggested that the beating was not exceptionally brutal. Some of that testimony was provided by a beautician, who appeared on behalf of the defense and told the jury that dreadlocks tend to fall out much more easily than other sorts of stylized hair.

To cover up the beating, witnesses said, Captain LoPresti and at least two others, Lt. Kelly Tassio and Officer Scott Rosebery, took a sheet from Mr. George’s bed and draped it from the bars of his window.
681 2007-10-26 For $21 a share, BEA Systems says it is ready to sell.

BEA, a maker of software used by large companies to manage the other software running their payroll, supply chain or other corporate functions, said Thursday that it would agree to be acquired by Oracle for about $8.2 billion, two weeks after rejecting outright an unsolicited bid from Oracle for about $6.7 billion.

BEA’s announcement came just days after Oracle, based in Redwood Shores, Calif., threatened to abandon its all-cash offer of $17 a share unless its smaller rival accepted it by Sunday evening.

“Over the last several weeks, Oracle has repeatedly asked us for the price at which we would be willing to begin negotiations,” BEA’s board said in a statement. “And the board has concluded, after consultation with its financial adviser Goldman Sachs, that it is prepared to authorize negotiations with third parties, including Oracle, at a price of $21 per share.”

BEA’s board said it was prepared to close a deal quickly at that price.

Trip Chowdhry, an analyst with Global Equities Research, said he believed Oracle would most likely agree to pay $21 a share for BEA, in part to minimize customer confusion that can result from prolonged ordeal.

“It’s very important for Oracle to have BEA,” Mr. Chowdhry said. “There are a lot of synergies between the two companies, and it will open new markets for Oracle.”
682 2007-10-26 Mainland listings and relaxed rules on the amount Chinese regulators allow approved investors to place in foreign equities have been big contributors to a profit surge for the company: first-half profit more than doubled to 2.3 billion Hong Kong dollars ($291 million), compared with the period a year ago. Average daily turnover on the exchange was 59 billion Hong Kong dollars, 82 percent higher than last year.

In an annual policy address recently, the chief executive of Hong Kong, Donald Tsang, underscored the importance of integrating the region’s financial markets with the mainland. Mr. Tsang said that China’s growth and the gradual opening of its financial system offered opportunities not seen before.

But the development of China’s financial sector has caused some anxiety. Prices on the Shanghai Stock Exchange might look inflated, but the market’s value rivals that of Hong Kong.

“There is a sense among some people that Hong Kong can be cast aside as soon as the larger national system gets up to speed, which is why there are sentiments that Shanghai will take over Hong Kong’s role as the premier financial center one of these days,” a report by CLSA Asia Pacific Markets said.

The fear of being left behind is an incentive for Hong Kong to seek more mainland business and establish strong ties to mainland exchanges. The ultimate goal might be the creation of a single securities market. Already, there is frequent information-sharing and contact between the regulators in both markets and the exchanges themselves.

The relationships could evolve in many ways as China opens up its financial system. For the exchanges, it could lead to a formal alliance, cross-shareholdings or a merger.

“If a piece of Shenzhen or Shanghai came available today, the world of exchanges would kill themselves to get it,” Mr. Arculli said.

Presumably, that includes the Hong Kong exchange. Mr. Arculli added: “If you ask me to take a shot in the dark — and it’s only a shot in the dark — there might be easier synergy between us and Shenzhen. They are closer at least geographically.”

The Hong Kong government announced in early September that it had increased its holdings in the Hong Kong exchange to 5.9 percent, above a threshold that normally requires regulatory approval. The reason, the government said, was to support the exchange’s strategic development. That prompted speculation about the future of the exchange and the government’s motives.

Legislators argued that the government’s role as policy maker creates a conflict with its role as shareholder.

While some analysts doubt that there is any design behind the government’s enlarged stake in the exchange, the recent share price of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing suggests investors think otherwise.

Since the government purchase, the share price has risen 70.3 percent.

Building close ties to mainland exchanges is one thing. It will be much more challenging to create a single securities market.

China is opening the door to mainlanders to buy shares in Hong Kong through limited arrangements for institutional and individual investors.

To go further will require some fundamental changes. The CLSA report highlighted the need to resolve big differences in the regulatory regimes and China’s tight controls on the flow of capital before the markets could be aligned.

Given the obstacles and the time it will take for China to adopt full convertibility of the yuan, the report suggested that the “best solution for now is to improve information flow.”

Christine Loh, one of the report’s principal authors and chief executive of Civic Exchange, a local research organization, said the prospect of fierce competition for the status of China’s leading financial center had made Hong Kong officials jumpy and prone to look for quick fixes.

“How we move forward as China continues to liberalize is a very important issue,” said Ms. Loh, who is also an independent director of the Hong Kong exchange. “My worry is this nervousness among our top policy makers.”

David Webb, another independent member of the exchange board and a shareholder activist, said Hong Kong, with its strong judiciary and market supervision, had some distinct advantages over potential rivals.

He said that the priority for the government should be to improve Hong Kong’s competitive advantage through further reform, including class-action rights for shareholders and mandatory quarterly reporting.

“If we have a strong enough competitive position when the curtain goes up, we might be better to compete than combine with Shanghai,” he said.
683 2007-10-26 In essence, the move eliminates anonymous investors from the market, which could drive out short-term, speculative cash coming from hedge funds and banks. About half of all foreign investment in India’s stock markets is in the form of participatory notes. There was $89.8 billion in participatory notes outstanding in August, up from $8.1 billion in March 2004, SEBI reported on Oct. 16.

The board also said that entities that were not regulated in their home market could not use these notes, another potential blow to hedge funds, which often face little or no regulation. The regulator said investors using participatory notes based on derivatives would need to unwind their positions in 18 months. In addition, SEBI opened the markets slightly to possible long-term investors, saying that pension funds, endowments and university trusts could become registered foreign investors.

The rules go into effect Friday, Mr. Damodaran said.

Indian market regulators are facing what is becoming a common predicament in emerging markets: too much money. There is no perfect way to let the air out of a stock market bubble, say analysts and former regulators. Heavy-handed measures often drive too many investors away, while verbal warnings have little impact.

“There is no evidence I can think of where regulators have successfully intervened” to curb fast-growing stock markets, said Lynton Jones, a founder of Bourse Consult, a London-based adviser to stock exchanges.

“The trouble with markets that are emerging or have just emerged is that the government seems to feel that it can control everything,” Mr. Jones said. In the West, most participants think “markets are markets and they have to sort themselves out.”

Some economists think the impact from SEBI’s hard-line stance will be short term.

“Unless you make controls really draconian, they won’t have any lasting effect,” said Willem H. Buiter, a professor at the London School of Economics and an adviser to Goldman Sachs. “When people believe there is money to be made, they’ll find a way around them.”

When Thai regulators introduced new capital controls in December, the stock market plunged 15 percent the next day, its largest drop in about a decade. Regulators were hoping to cool appreciation of the baht and the stock market by forcing foreign investors to put 30 percent of all incoming investment cash into reserve accounts that earned no interest.

After the market drop, regulators quickly altered their rule, omitting stock market investments.

Chinese regulators have raised interest rates four times this year, hoping to slow appreciation in the country’s stock market, with little effect.

“Can you manage a market? Not really,” said Thomas Krantz, the secretary general of the World Federation of Exchanges, a trade group for financial markets based in Paris. “The market is a force in its own right. You can only do your best to make clear rules, say what you want and why you are doing it.”

Western regulators also have little success controlling markets. Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, was criticized for not doing more to stop the stock market bubble of the late 1990s, but he argued that rate increases would have put the economy in danger.

“The notion that a well-timed, incremental tightening could have been calibrated to prevent the late 1990s bubble is almost surely an illusion,” Mr. Greenspan said during a symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo., in 2002. Reducing the investors’ ability to buy stock with loans would have had little effect.

“Despite our suspicions, it was very difficult to definitively identify a bubble until after the fact — that is, when its bursting confirmed its existence,” he said.

India’s markets, volatile all year, have been particularly choppy since Oct. 16. On Monday, Mr. Damodaran clarified the regulator’s earlier proposal, telling foreign banks and brokers registered in India that they would be able to use participatory notes in their own trading and that they could apply for licenses for accounts based outside India. The Sensex index closed with a gain of nearly 5 percent the next day.

In addition to the risk of driving some investors away and igniting wild price swings, regulators often face political criticism when they try to slow markets. It took Indian regulators several years to agree to introduce curbs on foreign investment — their committee was formed to study participatory notes in 2003.

After plans to introduce some controls sent markets sharply down this month, India’s opposition political party, the B.J.P., quickly demanded a parliamentary investigation into regulators’ moves. A B.J.P. spokesman, Prakash Javdekar, called their actions “irresponsible.”
684 2007-10-26 In November 2006, after costs had risen and little construction progress had been made, the parks department voided its agreement with the developer, Ferry Point Partners. The Parks Department is now seeking a new developer.

The audit showed that before the department canceled the contract, it had paid Ferry Point Partners $5.98 million more than it should have in order to clean up toxic waste. It also said that the city had lost at least $3 million in licensing revenues that it would have received had the Parks Department worked more effectively to get the course completed on schedule.

“The parks department absolutely dropped the ball when it came to the Ferry Point Golf Course,” Mr. Thompson said in a statement.

“The parks department failed to not only ensure the timely completion of this project, but also failed to be vigilant of capital improvement costs at the golf course,” he added. “The parks department paid for work for which the city was not liable, and lost out on millions of dollars in revenue. More than seven years after the concession agreement was signed, the golf course is not nearly complete.”

A parks department spokesman, Warner Johnston, said Mr. Thompson had distorted the agency’s good work.

“The parks department disagrees with the findings of the audit and remains committed to developing the Ferry Point site,” Mr. Johnston said in a statement. “The comptroller has chosen to interpret the contract with Ferry Point Partners in an inaccurate way that distorts the environmentally sound and cost-effective decisions the city has made.”

The parks department response, which was included in the comptroller’s report, said the document “reflects numerous errors in both fact and law and a fundamental misunderstanding of a highly complex project.”

The parks department added that “the audit ignores many of the environmental complexities involved in attempting to construct a golf course on the site of a former municipal landfill in Ferry Point Park and criticizes Parks for taking the most environmentally sound and cost-effective approach in its efforts to create a golf course at this site.”

Ferry Point Partners, which did not return a call seeking comment yesterday, had billed the parks department $7.24 million for the cleanup work, but the audit found that the work performed had cost only $1.26 million. The rest of the money billed had gone toward work that should have been included as part of the developer’s agreement to build the course, the audit contended.

The audit said only 7 percent of the invoices for the toxic remediation work performed by contractors showed any notations indicating that the parks department had reviewed them.

“We prepared our own estimate because the department was unable to document the specific items of work — including the methane remediation work — for which it reimbursed the concessionaire, and could not reconcile the payments with the invoices submitted by the concessionaire,” it said.
685 2007-10-26 In this financial crisis, the one that started with subprime loans, we are learning the answer to that question. The risks that banks would have taken on under the old system — when banks made loans and profited only as they were paid back — had been transferred through a bewildering wilderness of options, swaps, swaptions, specialized investment vehicles, collateralized debt obligations, variable interest entities and who knows how many other instruments.

And when the whole daisy chain was through, a lot of the risk seems to have ended just where it used to end. With the banks.

There were differences, of course. For one, the banks are ending up taking losses from loans that others made.

A suit filed this week in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan sheds light on one way this happened. American Home Mortgage Holdings, a subprime lender that went broke in August, sued Bank of America, saying it reneged on a deal to bear losses if mortgages were sold for less than face value. The bank asserts that some of the loans shouldn’t have been made at all, but American Home says that is irrelevant.

Here’s how it worked, in a simplified explanation that does not come close to capturing all the complexities that the financial engineers inserted:

American made subprime loans and sold them to special purpose entities it set up. Those entities, in turn, financed themselves by borrowing, mostly through the short-term commercial paper market.

To reassure investors, the special purpose entities entered into swap agreements with Bank of America and other big banks, in which the banks promised to make up the difference if the entities could not retain financing and therefore had to sell loans for less than par value. The chances of such a sale presumably seemed slight when the deal was made in 2004, but lots of unexpected things are cropping up these days.

In late September, American auctioned off the loans. Note that these appear to be loans made in 2004 or earlier, before lending standards are supposed to have crumbled.

We now have a market value for such loans. Packages of mortgages that were classified as performing — meaning the homeowner is mailing in a check every month — sold for as little as 80 percent of face value, and none went for more than 92 percent. The nonperforming loans sold in a range of 54 to 59 percent.

American Home says it sent out bills to its swap partners, and all but Bank of America agreed to pay.

The amount in dispute is just $25 million, an insignificant amount for the bank. But its refusal to pay may indicate an effort to find ways to shed what now seem to be foolish risks. The man in charge of that area of the bank was pushed out this week in a reorganization. The bank would not comment on the lawsuit.

There are other ways that banks may come to lose a lot of money. Jonathan Weil of Bloomberg News points out that Citigroup has no legal obligation to make up losses in the specialized investment vehicles — SIVs — it set up, but some analysts think it will do so to avoid a hit to its reputation. If it does put up cash, that will call into question the accuracy of Citi’s financial statements. If not, some of Citi’s customers will be very upset.

Not all the losses will end up with banks. Some will go to mutual funds and hedge funds and pension funds. Some will go to those who insured the value of securities, like Ambac Financial, which surprised Wall Street by posting its first quarterly loss this week.

Still, it is remarkable that the financial engineers generated large commissions and fees by selling risk-transfer products that, in the end, moved a lot of the risk back to where it started.
686 2007-10-26 Dr. Allen S. Keller, the director of the Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture, said waterboarding involved tipping a person back, covering his mouth with a cloth and repeatedly pouring water over the cloth to make him gag and experience a drowning sensation. If it is done long enough, Dr. Keller said, there is a risk that the person may drown or have a heart attack.

With the exception of Mr. McCain, who believes that torture is ineffective because its victims will say anything to make it stop, several leading Republican presidential candidates have suggested that they would use aggressive or coercive interrogation techniques — they say they would stop short of torture — to prevent a terrorist attack.

Fred D. Thompson, the actor and former senator from Tennessee, said at a recent stop in Florida that he would not use waterboarding “as a matter of course” but that in certain circumstances officials had to “do what is necessary” to prevent attacks and save lives.

Mr. Giuliani’s remarks about waterboarding seemed to leave more leeway toward using the practice than remarks he made at a news conference in June. Then, he said that he favored aggressive interrogation techniques, but that “I think you can do it without something like waterboarding.” On Wednesday night, he made it clear that officials should have a wide array of options available to them to try to prevent a potential attack.

The Giuliani campaign responded to Mr. McCain’s comments with a statement from its senior military adviser, Adm. Robert J. Natter, retired, the former commander in chief of the Atlantic Fleet.

“The highly politicized nature of political campaigns makes that forum a poor arena in which to debate the distinctions between torture and different forms of interrogation,” Admiral Natter said. “Is waterboarding torture? I don’t know. I was waterboarded as part of my military training, and I would say that it falls into a gray area.”

Dr. Keller, an outspoken opponent of waterboarding and similar techniques, said of such trials that “context is everything,” because people who are waterboarded as an experiment or as part of their training know that they will not be hurt in the end.

In his remarks in Iowa, Mr. Giuliani also criticized Democrats who call sleep deprivation torture.

“They talk about sleep deprivation,” he said. “I mean, on that theory, I’m getting tortured running for president of the United States. That’s plain silly. That’s silly.”

Mr. Giuliani’s remarks were criticized by Human Rights Watch. Jennifer Daskal, who specialized in counterterrorism for the group, faulted him for suggesting that “sleep deprivation is a joke.”

“Perfected by the Soviets, sleep deprivation is one of the cruelest, most painful forms of torture,” Ms. Daskal said.

For his part, Dr. Keller said he was troubled by the distinctions being drawn between torture and enhanced investigation techniques.

“We should use a common-sense approach,” he said. “If it looks like torture, if it smells like torture, it probably is torture.”
687 2007-10-26 The A.C.L.U. and Mr. Jaffer are acting on behalf of Mr. Ramadan and the American Academy of Religion, the American Association of University Professors and the PEN American Center. The groups say their First Amendment rights have been violated because they cannot meet with Mr. Ramadan.

According to Mr. Jaffer, the State Department said during a news conference in August 2004 that the refusal to allow Mr. Ramadan to enter the country was on the basis of the “endorse or espouse” provision.

Mr. Ramadan had visited the United States 24 times before he was denied the visa. He lectured at Dartmouth, Harvard and Princeton — and the State Department.

In an article published in The New York Times in September 2004, a spokeswoman for the State Department said Mr. Ramadan’s visa had been revoked under a provision banning espionage agents, saboteurs and anyone the United States “knows, or has reasonable ground to believe, is engaged in or is likely to engage after entry in any terrorist activity.”

But in recent court papers, the government has said that Mr. Ramadan’s visa was not denied because of that provision. In a court affidavit, the government said that statements by the Department of Homeland Security attributing Mr. Ramadan’s exclusion to the “endorse and espouse” provision were wrong.

The government has said that Mr. Ramadan, who is currently teaching at Oxford University, was denied a visa because of donations he made to charities from 1998 to 2002. In 2003, the Treasury Department designated the organizations entities that supported terrorism.

Mr. Jaffer argued that Mr. Ramadan did not know of the charities’ connection to terrorism and that their later designation should not be retroactively applied to his contributions.

But David S. Jones, an assistant United States attorney, told Judge Crotty otherwise.

“Aliens abroad do not enter as a right, but as a matter of grace,” he said.

Mr. Jones said that Mr. Ramadan, a grandson of Hassan al-Banna, founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, a once-militant group, could receive a visa if he reapplied for one with “clear and convincing” evidence that his donations were not used to support terrorism.

Judge Crotty would not set a date for his decision.
688 2007-10-26 SCHLESSINGER--Karen Coronato Miele , died on October 24, 2007 at the age 65. She is survived by her husband Dr. Les Schlessinger, her father Sam John Coronato, sons J. Bradford Miele and J. Cabot Miele, daughters Alida Cella and Caia Schlessinger....
689 2007-10-26 HELP FOR KICKING A BAD HABIT In a growing example of private employers taking health care reform into their own hands, many businesses are seeking to curb medical bills by paying for programs to help employees stop smoking.      THE FLOW OF REMITT...
690 2007-10-26 NISS--Zelda , passed from us on October 24, 2007 in Crescent City, FL. Zelda was born in Brooklyn, NY on July 27, 1914. She married Herman Niss, who died on January 5, 1987. They had been married for 51 years and resided in Merrick, L.I. Zelda was...
691 2007-10-26 LABOUISSE--Eve Curie , passed away peacefully at her home in Manhattan on October 22, 2007, in her 103rd year. Formerly a resident of Wainscott, Long Island. Beloved wife of the late Ambassador Henry R. Labouisse and devoted daughter of the late P...
692 2007-10-27 SAN JOSE, Calif., Oct. 26 (AP) — Apple no longer accepts cash for iPhone purchases and now limits sales of the cellphone to two per person in a move to stop people from reselling them.

The new policy started Thursday, said Natalie Kerris, an Apple spokeswoman. Before then, there was no cash restriction and the purchase limit was five per person.

“Customer response to the iPhone has been off the charts, and limiting iPhone sales to two per customer helps us ensure that there are enough iPhones for people who are shopping for themselves or buying a gift,” Ms. Kerris said. “We’re requiring a credit or debit card for payment to discourage unauthorized resellers.”

More than 1.4 million units of the hybrid cellphone-iPod have been sold since it was introduced June 29, according to Apple. It is expected to be a popular gift for the holidays.

Apple says it thinks some people have already purchased multiple iPhones to resell, including those looking to modify, or unlock, the phones so they work on networks other than Apple’s carrier partner in the United States, AT&T.

Apple estimated that buyers of 250,000 of the iPhones sold so far intended to unlock them, Apple’s chief operating officer, Timothy D. Cook, said in a conference call with analysts this week.
693 2007-10-27 Merrill Lynch’s directors may be weighing E. Stanley O’Neal’s future, but one thing is already guaranteed: a payday of at least $159 million if he steps down.

Mr. O’Neal, the company’s chairman and chief executive, is entitled to $30 million in retirement benefits as well as $129 million in stock and option holdings, according to an analysis by James F. Reda & Associates using yesterday’s share price of $66.09. That would be on top of the $70 million he took home in his nearly five years on the job.

Under Mr. O’Neal, Merrill moved aggressively into lucrative businesses like the packaging of subprime mortgages and other complex debt securities. That led to a string of blow-out quarters — and blow-out paydays. Last year, Mr. O’Neal’s $46.4 million pay package made him Wall Street’s second-highest paid chief executive, behind Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, who was paid $54.3 million, according to Equilar research.

But those big bets appeared to go bust this week. Merrill announced an $8.4 billion write-down, raising questions about whether Mr. O’Neal will keep his job. One thing that he surely will hold onto, though, are the giant paychecks he has collected.

“I lay the blame at the foot of the board,” Frederick E. Rowe Jr., a money manager and president of Investors for Director Accountability. “He was paid a tremendous amount of money to create a loss that is mind-boggling, and he obviously took risks that should never have been taken.”
694 2007-10-27 A federal jury decided that a woman convicted of killing an expectant mother and cutting her fetus from her womb should receive the death penalty. Jurors in Kansas City deliberated more than five hours before recommending the sentence for Lisa Montgomery. Judge Gary Fenner will sentence Ms. Montgomery, but told jurors he was obligated to abide by their recommendation. Ms. Montgomery, 39, was convicted of kidnapping and killing Bobbie Jo Stinnett on Dec. 16, 2004, in the victim’s home in Skidmore. She was arrested the next day in Melvern, Kan., where she was showing off the newborn as her own.
695 2007-10-27 Takais Brown, who was Georgia’s leading scorer last season, was dismissed from the team for a violation of team policies, Coach Dennis Felton said. Brown led Georgia with 14.2 points a game last season. He and two other Georgia players were suspended earlier this month for violations of the university’s new class attendance policy for student-athletes.
696 2007-10-27 But Mr. Mukasey’s sometimes awkward responses at his confirmation hearings to a series of questions about his views on the administration’s antiterrorism policies and its expansive views of its wartime powers under the Constitution prompted the first significant expressions of concern about the nomination from some lawmakers.

“A number of issues need clarification,” Mr. Specter said in a telephone interview Friday. “I’m troubled by the depth of his assertion of executive powers.”

Mr. Specter said he was worried specifically about whether Mr. Mukasey would advise President Bush to disregard acts of Congress, including a proposed law that would limit the ability of the White House to conduct electronic eavesdropping.

“I don’t know that I would confirm a guy who is going to say that he’d advise the president that he has the constitutional authority to ignore a deal he has made with Congress on a specific provision” of a law, Mr. Specter said in reference to the eavesdropping legislation.

Mr. Specter said he hoped Mr. Mukasey would offer satisfactory responses, especially about his views on waterboarding.

“I think now that he has had a chance to know exactly what waterboarding is, my expectation would be that — like everyone else — he would condemn it,” the senator said. “But he’s got to speak for himself.”

Mr. Bush complained Friday that Democratic leaders in Congress were acting too slowly on Mr. Mukasey’s nomination, as well as on several pieces of legislation. He noted that the Senate had failed to approve the nomination “even as members complain about the lack of leadership at the Department of Justice.”

On Tuesday, all 10 Democrats on the Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Mr. Mukasey asking him to make a clear-cut statement of opposition to waterboarding and to describe it as illegal.

On Thursday, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, was asked by a reporter if Mr. Mukasey should be confirmed in light of his failure to make a statement of opposition to waterboarding.

“We’ll have to wait and see,” Mr. Reid said, adding that he was “troubled” by Mr. Mukasey’s testimony last week about waterboarding. “I think if he doesn’t change his direction in that regard, he could have at least one concern. And that’s me.”

The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, told reporters that his vote on Mr. Mukasey’s confirmation “would depend on him answering the question” about waterboarding.

Alex Swartsel, a spokeswoman for Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, another Democrat on the committee, said Friday of Mr. Mukasey’s views on waterboarding: “The issue could cause the senator to vote against Mukasey.”

Ms. Swartsel said Mr. Whitehouse “wants to see the judge’s answer before he makes that determination.”

Only Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent, has said he will vote against Mr. Mukasey.

Intelligence officials have acknowledged that senior members of Al Qaeda were waterboarded after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, but they have also said the practice was suspended in response to complaints from members of Congress and others.

In a letter to Mr. Mukasey that was also made public on Friday by the Judiciary Committee, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, posed a series of questions about specific interrogation techniques that have been used by the United States against terrorism suspects and whether Mr. Mukasey found them inhumane.

“Would you consider it inhumane to intentionally expose a detainee to cold or intentionally immerse a detainee in water until such time as a detainee begins shivering?” Mr. Levin asked. “Would you consider it inhumane to threaten to transfer a detainee to a third country with the knowledge that the detainee is reasonably likely to fear that country would subject him to torture or death? Would you consider it inhumane to force a detainee to remove his clothes or remain naked other than for security or medical reasons?”
697 2007-10-27 Re “Mr. Mayor, for Your Consideration” (editorial, Oct. 22), which suggests several ways to bring order to our streets:

Making New York less congested and more pedestrian-friendly will increase quality of life, improve our physical and mental well-being, and begin to address the health of the planet.

While I understand the calls for residential parking permits, I oppose the neighborhood-based system proposed by some residents and officials.

A taxpayer living in Queens or Staten Island has as much of a right to park in Brooklyn Heights as someone whose brownstone overlooks the Promenade.

We all contribute to road maintenance, and to the salaries of police officers and sanitation workers who oversee street safety and cleanliness.

Pitting residents of different communities against one another is not a solution. Jessica Schoengold
698 2007-10-27 Relations between the union and Russia have been marred by disputes over trade, over the future of Kosovo and over energy issues. The summit today yielded two minor agreements, over trade in steel and over policies to combat illegal drugs, but there were no breakthroughs on major issues.

Mr. Putin, who criticized American plans for additional sanctions against Iran on Thursday, spoke again today about Russia’s objections to an American antimissile system to be deployed near Russia’s borders in Poland and the Czech Republic.

“Analogous actions by the Soviet Union, when it deployed rockets on Cuba, provoked the Cuban missile crisis,” Mr. Putin said. “Thank God, we do not have any Cuban missile crisis now, and this is above all because of the fundamental way relations between Russia and the United States and Europe have changed.”

Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said in Washington: “There are some very clear historical differences between our plans to deploy a defensive missile system designed to protect against launch of missiles from rogue states such as Iran, and the offensive nuclear capability of the missiles that were being installed in Cuba back in the 1960s that were targeting the United States. I don’t think that they are historically analogous in any way, shape or form.”

Mr. McCormack added that the Bush administration and the Kremlin were discussing “a number of innovative proposals with respect to missile defense,” and that “we’ll see in the coming weeks and months whether or not Russia does truly want to cooperate on the issue.”

Given the uncertainty in Europe surrounding Mr. Putin’s political future in Russia after his term ends, both the host of the summit, Prime Minister José Socrates of Portugal, and the European Commission president, José Manuel Barroso, pointedly referred to the summit today as Mr. Putin’s last as Russian president.

There is considerable speculation that Mr. Putin, who is barred by the Russian constitution from seeking a third term in office, will instead strengthen the powers of the prime minister and then seek that post. But Mr. Putin brushed aside the idea today.

“If someone thinks that I intend to move, let’s say, into the government of the Russian Federation and transfer the fundamental powers there, that is not the case,” he said.

Mr. Socrates said Mr. Putin had agreed to permit the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to monitor next year’s Russian elections. Russia is a member of the organization.

Peter Mandelson, the European Commissioner for trade, said that during the summit meeting, Mr. Putin was “focused, factual and forthright, and also in a very even-tempered mood.”

Still, negotiations over a new partnership and cooperation deal between the union and Russia are at a standstill, blocked by Poland following a Russian ban on the import of Polish meat. Officials are hoping that the elections in Poland last Sunday, in which the nationalist Law and Justice Party was defeated, will help improve the climate once a new government establishes itself in Warsaw.

The union wants Moscow to lift tariffs imposed on timber exported from Russia, which make furniture and other goods made from the wood in Nordic countries more expensive. Another area of disagreement revolves around the cumbersome procedures at border crossings between Russia and union member nations, which tend to cause long delays in truck shipments.

But the greatest tensions arise over energy. The union, which is worried about Moscow using its vast natural resources as a political tool, has called on Russia to fulfill a pledge to open up its gas pipeline system to western companies.

Worried about the power of the state-run gas monopoly Gazprom, the European Commission wants to prevent companies based outside the union from owning a majority stake in European utilities unless the companies “unbundled” their operations, which in Gazprom’s case would mean choosing to be either a supplier or a distributor of gas and divesting the other business.

Marsha Lipman, political analyst for the Carnegie Moscow Center, said Russia and the union had reached a stalemate over energy.

“This is really the most important issue,” Ms. Lipman said. “I think that unless this is resolved, we cannot be talking about progress, because it makes it harder to resolve other issues such as Kosovo. Almost wherever you look, even if there are some areas of progress, there are disagreements between Russia and the E.U. Things are getting more difficult rather than easier.”

On Iran, Russia’s approach is colored by the fact that Moscow has agreed to build the nuclear power plant at the center of the dispute. Though Ms. Lipman said that there was evidence that Mr. Putin is privately concerned about Iran gaining nuclear arms capabilities, she said the country’s economic interest should not be disregarded.

“Russia is not in the mood to concede, and certainly not to concede in a way in which Russia loses economically while the United States gains politically,” she said.

Thomas Gomart, head of the Russia department at the French Institute of International Relations, said that Europe’s relations with Moscow are in limbo ahead of next year’s presidential elections.

“I don’t expect any real improvement in relations in the next few months,” Mr. Gomart said. “Everyone has in mind the next elections in Russia. Nothing significant will happen before March 2008.”

In the meantime, Europe has slipped down the list of Russia’s foreign policy priorities, Mr. Gomart said: “Putin started out prioritizing Europe. But he ends his term arguing instead that Russia, India, China and Brazil’s economic growth should be transferred into political influence.”

Mr. Gomart argued that the 1999 NATO bombardment of Serbia was a bigger blow to Russian prestige than the American-led invasion of Iraq. “Russia was then weak, and unable to oppose this situation, and its stance on Kosovo is part of its soft revenge,” Mr. Gomart said. “The clear message is: ‘We are back. We want to be involved in all international issues.’ ”
699 2007-10-27 TEHRAN, Oct. 26 — Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator on Friday dismissed the sweeping new sanctions announced by the Bush administration against an elite unit of the Revolutionary Guard in Iran as insignificant and said they would have no effect on the country’s nuclear policies, the news agency ISNA reported.

The United States on Thursday designated the Quds Force of the Revolutionary Guard and four state-owned Iranian banks as supporters of terrorism, and the Guard itself as an illegal exporter of ballistic missiles. The decision raised the temperature in America’s confrontation with Iran over terrorism and nuclear weapons.

“These sanctions are nothing new,” Saeed Jalili, who was appointed as Iran’s negotiator last week, said after returning to Tehran from Rome, ISNA reported. “Sanctions have been imposed on us for the past 28 years. The new sanctions, like those before, will have no effect on Iran’s policies.”

Also reacting to the announcement by the United States, the head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari, warned that it was ready to defend the country if it came under attack. ISNA quoted him as saying the Guard would respond to any attack “fiercely.”

Iran’s prior nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, who accompanied Mr. Jalili to talks in Rome with the European Union about Iran’s nuclear activities, said the negotiations were favorable. While Iran’s relations with the United States remain troubled, he said, Iran intends to continue its cooperation with the United Nations nuclear agency.

“Our views have become closer since two years ago when we started the talks and we had very different views,” he told reporters, ISNA said. “I am not saying that we had agreements, but we can reach a final conclusion if the talks continue this way.”
700 2007-10-27 So I thought Brooks had simply retired, disillusioned with the game. I figured he walked away and was living happily ever after with his wife and their daughter. Not exactly.

“First and foremost, I definitely want to play,” Brooks said Thursday night from his home in Richmond, Va. “I am not retired. I’m not hanging up my shoes up.”

If that’s the case, why isn’t he playing? With quarterbacks dropping right and left, and replacements like the 43-year-old Vinny Testaverde being taken out of the mothballs, I began to wonder why Brooks wasn’t on an N.F.L. roster. At 31, Brooks is still young by quarterback standards, and the handful of general managers I spoke with since Wednesday agreed that he was above average. So why?

Brooks’s friends and family ask the same question.

“They ask, ‘Why aren’t you playing?’” Brooks said. “They see all of these quarterbacks getting injured and want to know: ‘Why aren’t you getting calls? Why aren’t you in camp?’ I don’t know what to say, but yeah, it hits me from time to time.

“I don’t know. Is it something I said?” Could be.

Brooks may still be serving time for the comments he made in 2005 when the Saints, like New Orleans itself, were demoralized by unimaginable upheavals caused by Katrina.

The Saints split their home schedule between Baton Rouge, La., and San Antonio, where the team set up temporary headquarters. They worked out on a high school practice field, used a high school baseball locker room and lifted weights in a makeshift exercise room in a tent in a nearby parking lot. Then the team was displaced from its headquarters by an N.C.A.A. volleyball tournament.

Brooks had had enough. During an interview with CBS, he blasted the N.F.L. and the Saints’ owner, Tom Benson, pointing out that for someone who stands to make $600 million from the sale of the team, “I don’t think a couple million would hurt to make his team feel very comfortable every week.” Brooks added: “And for those who don’t understand, come down here to San Antonio and see what our conditions are like. It’s just bad.”

Brooks said he felt the league politicized the Saints’ “home opener” at Giants Stadium and was angry when he saw Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and officials from New Orleans and New York City on the field before that game. He felt Tagliabue should have visited the Saints’ players in the weeks after the hurricane.

In retrospect, Brooks’s criticisms in 2005 might have played a small part in the N.F.L.’s approach to the Southern California wildfires, if nothing else, by making the league conscious about putting players’ well-being first.

On the other hand, I have no doubt that Brooks’s stinging criticisms played a role in his difficulty in returning to the N.F.L. “I can’t really think about that,” Brooks said. “All I know is that I watch the tube every Sunday and I miss the hell out of the game.”

I’m not making the case that Brooks is the second coming of Johnny Unitas or Joe Montana; his career has been marked by high highs and bizarre lows. Brooks had better realize that if he wants back in, he’ll have to assume an unfamiliar mantle of humility and (gulp) gratitude.

On the other hand, the gate keepers and decision makers should forget Brooks’s public criticisms of an owner and of the commissioner. Everyone involved with Hurricane Katrina should be granted amnesty for anything said and done during the 2005 season.

Unprecedented circumstances deserve unprecedented levels of forgiveness and understanding. Aaron Brooks should be able to pull his career from the ashes as well.
701 2007-10-28 We interrupt this World Series for a brief message from Scott Boras: ARod has opted out of his contract. The Yankees have insisted that if Rodriguez opts out of his contract, they will not negotiate with him further. So if Rodriguez really is an e...
702 2007-10-28 Capping a tumultuous week that included a significant quarterly loss and write-down, the board of Merrill Lynch has reached a broad consensus that E. Stanley O’Neal, the chairman and chief executive of the company, will not remain in his position, according to people briefed on the discussions.

Details remain to be worked out, including who will take over and what the timing of Mr. O’Neal’s departure will be. But brewing unhappiness within the firm and expressions of discontent that have been conveyed to the board from Merrill Lynch employees suggest how serious the situation is and how quickly the board may feel the need to move.

Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief executive of BlackRock, was described as a leading candidate to replace Mr. O’Neal.

There is no sign than any formal approach has been made, according to people briefed on the negotiations. But people inside the firm and out of it see him as the favored candidate, noting his experience at building a successful asset management business. He has support among what is considered the old guard of what is often called “Mother Merrill.”

Mr. O’Neal has weathered a storm of criticism in recent weeks after a third-quarter loss of $2.3 billion and an $8.4 billion charge for failed credit and mortgage-related investments.
703 2007-10-28 “I think we should have gotten something started 10 games ago,” Devils center John Madden said.

The Devils outshot the Senators in the first period, 18-5, and received the first power play in the new arena 54 seconds into the second period, when Ottawa right wing Dany Heatley crosschecked right wing David Clarkson over the boards.

But the Devils could not mount a serious threat, and Meszaros scored the first goal in the arena by taking a healthy whack at a loose puck in the Devils’ zone.

Vishnevski jostled with Ottawa’s Christopher Neil in the low slot when Meszaros’s shot whistled past. Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur was screened and did not see the puck until it passed him.

The Devils tied the score when Brian Gionta attempted to flip a pass to Travis Zajac on a power-play rush. But the puck hit the right skate of Ottawa defenseman Anton Volchenkov and rolled past goalie Martin Gerber into the net.

The Devils did not score again. Sutter has installed an un-Devils-like system in which players are encouraged to pursue the puck no matter where it goes, but the Devils have only 22 goals in 10 games.

“You can be as aggressive as you want, but if you’re not going to produce, it’s going to be tough to win games,” defenseman Paul Martin said.

Donovan’s goal was particularly demoralizing, because he scored it simply by hanging around Brodeur as the Devils fumbled to clear their own zone. The puck bounced around until Donovan swept it in.

“That type of thing happens, but it’s a matter of how you respond to it,” Devils center Zach Parise said. “There was still a lot of game for us to rebound.”

Most of the red and black seats were filled when the opening-night ceremony began. But first, a “Let’s Go Devils” chant surged through the stands. The Devils were introduced, one at a time, and Brodeur received the biggest cheer.

Although they were unable to practice at the Prudential Center until Saturday morning, the Devils were clearly excited to play there. The playing conditions were good, they said. They appreciated the crowd’s support — at the beginning of the game, anyway. By the end, no one was hanging around for an encore.

“It’s not what the other teams are doing,” Brodeur said. “What we’re doing is the concern.” HURRICANES 8, ISLANDERS 3 Carolina scored six times on its first 13 shots, Rod Brind’Amour had his third career hat trick, and Ray Whitney and Justin Williams each scored twice as the Hurricanes beat the Islanders, who dropped to 3-2-0 at home.

Eric Staal also scored for Carolina, which got three power-play goals and another just as a power play ended.

Rick DiPietro started and stopped only seven shots before being relieved by Wade Dubielewicz, who made 11 more saves. The last time the Islanders gave up eight goals in a game was on Jan. 14 in an 8-1 home loss to Vancouver. (AP)

BRUINS’ BERGERON HAS CONCUSSION Boston center Patrice Bergeron lost consciousness and was taken from the ice on a stretcher during the first period of visiting Philadelphia’s 2-1 victory after he was hammered face-first into the boards by Flyers defenseman Randy Jones.

Bergeron was taken to the hospital, where the Bruins team physician Dr. Bertram Zarins diagnosed a concussion and a broken nose. Tests did not show any serious injuries. (AP)
704 2007-10-28 “It is not a happy anniversary, and it never will be, until the state of New Jersey fulfills that legal mandate and gives us the full equality of a marriage license,” she said.

Under state law, civil union couples are supposed to get the same legal rights as married couples. But Steven Goldstein, a member of the commission and chairman of Garden State Equality, a statewide gay advocacy organization, said that 364 couples had told his group they had been denied benefits that married couples get. Six couples have filed formal discrimination complaints with the state.

Even if New Jersey allowed same-sex couples to marry, companies whose benefit plans are covered by federal law would not have to extend coverage to same-sex spouses. But in Massachusetts, most of those companies have done so anyway, said Tom Barbera, a labor leader in Massachusetts for the past 30 years.

“Employers also understand that without the term ‘civil union’ or ‘domestic partner’ to hide behind, if they don’t give equal benefits to employees in same-sex marriages, these employers would have to come forth with the real excuse for discrimination,” he told the panel at its first hearing, in New Brunswick. “Employers would have to acknowledge that they are discriminating against their employees because they are lesbian or gay.”

In Vermont, which started allowing civil unions in 2000, couples are continuing to report legal problems and trouble obtaining benefits, said Beth Robinson, a lawyer there who has represented same-sex couples.

“We know in a civil union regime, the burden of inertia favors discrimination,” she said. “An employer who wants not to discriminate needs to amend itself. An employer that wants to keep on discriminating simply needs to do nothing.”

The 13-member commission, which includes representatives from the attorney general’s office, the Department of Human Services, advocacy groups and others, is expected to report the results of the hearings to Gov. Jon S. Corzine and the Legislature by the end of the year, Mr. Goldstein said.

Several people who have obtained civil unions, including a number who work for the state, said that they had had no problems getting benefits for their partners. But they called for a marriage law to erase the stigma of what they consider second-class status.

Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a Trenton Democrat, said he planned to reintroduce a marriage equality law soon. He said if the Legislature does not act, the State Supreme Court may need to consider whether civil unions have created full equality in the state.

“I think there has been more and more acceptance and understanding that gay persons should be able to share the same matrimonial happiness as any other traditional couple,” Mr. Gusciora said.

Mr. Corzine, through a spokeswoman, Lilo Stainton, said on Wednesday that he would sign a marriage equality law, but would like to take up the issue in 2009, to avoid a national spotlight for the state during the presidential election next year.

Asked if he felt civil unions were working, he said through Ms. Stainton: “The answer is, yes, they’re working out in the sense that people have rights that they did not have previously and are treated equally under the law. Whether there is a sense of full recognition of their connection with their partners is a fair question — but the bigger issue with regard to civil unions or marriage rights is a federal issue.”

Assemblyman Richard A. Merkt, a Morris County Republican who said he would oppose a bill on marriage for gay couples, criticized the commission for not including anyone skeptical about civil unions. “A lot of people who favor retaining the law as it is basically feel disenfranchised by the entire process,” he said. “I consider it to be a complete waste of time.”

Few critics spoke at the hearings. One, Len Deo, told the commission here that a poll commissioned by his organization, the New Jersey Family Policy Council, showed 61 percent of state residents believe that same-sex couples have the right to live as they choose but do not have the right to redefine marriage for the rest of society.

Some straight residents testified at the hearings as well.

“When there’s discrimination against any group of people, endorsed by the government, we are all diminished,” said Lucy O’Brien of Montclair, who has three sons, one of whom is gay.
705 2007-10-28 Dr. Kornberg was a passionate scientist who believed that an enzymologist, if persistent, could recreate in a test tube the kind of metabolic event that happens in a cell.

In choosing his field of study, he said, he had “responded to the lure of enzymes.” His ambition was to discover the enzymes that made RNA and DNA, which are polymers, or chains of nucleic acids. To accomplish his goal, he said, he first had to determine their building blocks — the letters of the genetic alphabet known as nucleotides. It was a feat that many scientists said could not be done in a laboratory.

The Journal of Biological Chemistry initially rejected Dr. Kornberg’s two classic papers. He said the journal told him that a peer, the noted scientist Erwin Chargaff, had written “an exceedingly sarcastic letter” in assessing his findings.

After a heated exchange with the journal, Dr. Kornberg decided to withdraw his papers. But just then, Dr. John Edsall, who was taking over as the new editor, saw the exchange and overruled the earlier decision. The papers were published immediately. That was in 1958, a year before Dr. Kornberg was awarded the Nobel Prize.

In 1967, Dr. Kornberg and his team became the first to produce the active inner core of a virus in a laboratory. President Lyndon B. Johnson hailed the report of the feat as “one of the most important stories you ever read” because it “opens a wide door to new discoveries in fighting disease and building healthier lives.”

The announcement led to headlines reporting “creation of life in a test tube.” But Dr. Kornberg disputed that characterization, saying he considered it part of a series of advances that had speeded up development of genetic engineering.

Over the last 15 years, Dr. Kornberg focused his research on an enzyme that produced polyphosphate, a substance found in every bacterial, plant and animal cell. Scientists had discarded it as a molecular fossil. But Dr. Kornberg and other scientists identified a number of significant functions for polyphosphate and believed it could be used to develop new drugs for a variety of dangerous infections.

He complained bitterly, however, that too few scientists studied polyphosphate, largely, he said, because of science’s proclivity to work “in a clannish way.” With more scientists struggling for grants in an era of tight budgets, he said, “nobody is going to propose doing anything that is bold or creative,” like working on polyphosphate.

Arthur Kornberg was born in Brooklyn on March 3, 1918. As a youth he helped out in his parents’ hardware store. He was only 15 when he entered the City College of New York.

Dr. Kornberg earned a medical degree from the University of Rochester in 1941 and interned at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He applied for research training grants but failed to receive any, he said, because of anti-Semitism.

His research career evolved from a paper he published in 1942 about the mild jaundice that he noted among fellow medical students. Dr. Rolla Dyer, then the director of the National Institutes of Health, read the paper and arranged Dr. Kornberg’s transfer from sea duty in the Navy to the institutes to do nutritional research involving vitamins and enzymes.

Dr. Kornberg worked at the institutes from 1942 to 1952, taking time to study at other centers. One stint was at New York University with Dr. Severo Ochoa, with whom Dr. Kornberg shared the Nobel Prize.

In 1953, Dr. Kornberg left the institutes to become chairman of the department of microbiology at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1959, he started a department of biochemistry at Stanford, where he remained as chairman until 1969. In the 1980s, he helped found a research company, DNAX, which is now part of Schering-Plough.

Besides his son Roger, of Atherton, Calif., Dr. Kornberg is survived by his third wife, Carolyn Frey Dixon; two other sons, Thomas B., of San Francisco and Kenneth A. of Portola Valley, Calif., and eight grandchildren. His first two wives, the former Sylvy Ruth Levy and the former Charlene Walsh Levering, predeceased him.
706 2007-10-28 On Wednesday, Microsoft bought a tiny share of the Web site Facebook that gave it an overall value of some $15 billion. Naturally, Microsoft regards its purchase as a victory over Google, which had been widely expected to win the bidding. It is a small victory, however, in a rapidly growing social universe and the world of online ad sales, which is dominated by Google.

Microsoft’s purchase does begin to answer an important question: Just how valuable is commercial access to a rapidly expanding, demographically pleasing community of people whose favorite hobby seems to be identifying themselves, their desires and their connections to other like-minded folk?

To its users, Facebook is a way to keep up with friends, promulgate a relatively nonfictional online identity, do research, and waste fantastic amounts of time. But to advertisers, it is a universe of self-created focus groups that link more or less virally to other groups.

Ever since the first commercial transaction on the Internet, we have been headed toward this kind of frictionless reciprocity. The more easily we can replicate ourselves online, the easier it is for advertisers to address us directly, to know who we are and what we are likely to buy and how much we can spend.

On Facebook, we love to pretend that we are more than consumers, that we are as diverse and individual and idealistic as we say we are. And that is the curious thing. The more sincere and honest we are about ourselves, the easier it is for advertisers to pin us down. You may find yourself looking at the cloud of friends that surrounds most Facebook users, but what’s even more interesting is the cloud of advertisers that surround them.
707 2007-10-28 The two also have opposite personalities. While Freeney is outgoing and a vocal leader, Peppers rarely speaks to reporters and has been urged by the Panthers’ owner, Jerry Richardson, to become more of a leader.

Peppers shunned reporters again last week, but he does speak to Freeney.

“I know him very well,” Freeney said. “We came out the same year and went through the college circuit together with all the awards and stuff like that.”

At 6 feet 1 inch and 268 pounds, Freeney is 6 inches shorter and 15 pounds lighter than Peppers. There were assumptions that he would be too small to play defensive end in the N.F.L. But Freeney immediately helped turn around the Colts’ defense, recording 13 sacks as a rookie.

He had a team-record 16 sacks in 2004 before dropping to five and a half last season, when the Colts won the Super Bowl. He was still rewarded in the off-season with the big contract.

“It was very important to me to be the first guy up and playing at this level to set a new standard,” Freeney said.

While the Colts let Freeney focus mostly on rushing the passer, the Panthers use Peppers in a variety of ways. A freakish athlete with tremendous speed despite his size, Peppers will occasionally drop into pass coverage and be counted on to stop the run. He even lined up as a receiver earlier in his career and blocked a field goal earlier this season.

Peppers was criticized for not getting a sack in the first five games. But he is coming off a strong game against Arizona in which he had one and a half sacks. Still, the Panthers have only four sacks in six games.

“This is a hard game,” Lewis said. “You can’t just expect him every year that after six games he’ll have eight sacks. It doesn’t happen that way. The sacks come in bunches.”

Despite their differences, Freeney and Peppers are the focus of offenses each week.

“Those guys are athletic and they have the knack of making the big play,” Colts Coach Tony Dungy said. “They create turnovers and they’re guys you’ve got to account for when you game plan.”

The last time the Colts and the Panthers met, in 2003, Freeney had two sacks and a forced fumble, and Peppers was held to one tackle. The Panthers won in overtime.

Peppers could also win the money game when he agrees to a new deal that could surpass the $12 million a year average Freeney got.

“His contract is going to be ridiculous,” Lewis said.

And maybe Peppers should give Freeney a cut.

“I was the first up; I had no one to negotiate against,” Freeney said. “It wasn’t like I could say, ‘Hey, Julius got this.’ ”
708 2007-10-28 The stock market rebounded last week, with Microsoft shares rising to their highest level in six years after the company’s profit exceeded Wall Street expectations by a wide margin.

Despite a $8.4 billion write-down from Merrill Lynch, as well as generally dismal reports from elsewhere in the financial sector, Countrywide Financial, the big mortgage company, predicted that it would return to profit in the fourth quarter and in all of 2008. Countrywide’s shares rose 32.3 percent on Friday, and 13.6 percent for the week.

Technology shares surged, led by Microsoft, which gained 16.1 percent for the week, the best among the Dow Jones industrials.

For the week, the Dow climbed 284.68 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 13,806.70. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 34.65 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 1,535.28. The Nasdaq composite index rose 79.03 points, or 2.9 percent, to close at 2,804.19.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.40 percent from 4.38 percent the previous week. Oil futures rose above $90 a barrel in New York.
709 2007-10-28 I am the woman quoted in the article who said she owned three dogs. At issue is the request by neighborhood dog owners to use 10 percent of the recreation area of Seravalli Playground for the creation of an enclosed dog run.

This would be alongside the Hudson Street perimeter of the playground, well separated by open space from the younger children’s fenced-in playground, which now occupies approximately 20 percent of the total space.

We are not suggesting that dogs be allowed to run free within the children’s areas, but rather a separate, fenced-in space for dogs.

If we work together, we can make Seravalli a beautiful place where lots of people play, and where we set an example for children in sharing and in how to live in harmony in an urban environment.

My first reaction is, “Can’t we all just get along?” But park area has not increased to meet the needs of overcrowded New York City. Fierce competition for space is inevitable. If we were poultry, we’d be debeaked and declawed.

While protesting parents want the park to be dog-free, dog owners merely want some park space. Wouldn’t it be an eye-opener for dog owners to protest as zealously for a child-free park?

This isn’t such an outlandish idea. Childless people accommodate, enduring stroller-mashed feet and wailing babies in movies and restaurants. We pay for schools and playgrounds. But when you attempt to exile a growing majority of city residents to suit your needs and try to ban our dogs, do not expect accommodation.

Look at Alternatives to Waste Disposal Plan

Re “Don’t Get Mad. Get to Work” (editorial, Oct. 21): Ten years ago I supported the creation of the Hudson River Park, but I had grave reservations that its governance by an authority would not adequately protect the park from commercial development and inappropriate uses.

At the time, you unfairly criticized me as saying I was “far too long an opponent of the much-needed Hudson River Park.” I find it ironic that you are now criticizing my staunch support for preserving this parkland.

You accuse me and my colleagues of holding up the plan to build a marine transfer station on Gansevoort pier without acknowledging that we have offered a superior alternative site within our Manhattan districts.

An independent study found that the alternative is cost effective, could be operating years sooner and would remove 200 more trucks per day from overburdened communities than Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s plan.

I believe that my insistence that the mayor explore this alternative before alienating parkland is responsible.

In “Deadly Deliveries” (Op-Ed, Oct. 14), Paul Ogburn Jr. says that one response to the increase in maternal mortality in New York should be “to encourage obstetricians to continue practicing in New York.”

New York State’s pool of doctors, including specialties like obstetrics and gynecology, has always been among the highest in the nation per capita. But as The New York Times reported in 2004, “Today’s medical residents, half of them women, are choosing specialties with what experts call a ‘controllable lifestyle.’ ” That means avoiding specialties, like surgery or obstetrics, that require doctors be on call 24 hours a day.

Another problem is underserved communities, both rural and inner city. This is a national issue long recognized by the American Medical Association. It could be solved if the government stepped up to provide incentives to encourage careers and opportunities in these areas.

One wrong solution is to take away the legal rights of women and children who are the victims of obstetrical malpractice, as medical and insurance lobbies advocate. Better regulation and oversight are the ways not only to bring down mortality rates, but also to reduce the intolerable amount of malpractice in New York.

As an African-American mother of two biracial children, I was stopped cold in “Spies Around the Sandbox” (Oct. 14) by the sentence, “As nannies are frequently several skin tones darker than their charges, it can be easy to identify them.”

I’ve grown accustomed to this kind of intellectual laziness and subtle racism on the playground, where some mothers assume, based purely on the color of my skin, that I am my children’s nanny. (Interestingly, no one ever assumes my Caucasian husband is our children’s “manny.”)

I was disappointed to find this kind of faulty, antiquated logic casually endorsed by your paper. Surely you can do better.

The Many Varieties of a Pastry Treat

“Welcome. But Don’t Call Them German” (Oct. 7), about Bohemian Hall in Astoria, Queens, mentions “kolace, a confection of fried dough, cheese, prunes and ground poppy seeds.”

I should point out that kolace come in different varieties: those made with cheese, or prunes, or poppy seeds (rather like blintzes).
710 2007-10-28 The credit crisis has played a part in keeping bank yields high. “It’s still cheaper to pay 5 percent on a C.D. than to go into the capital markets and issue debt with the tightness in the credit markets,” Mr. McBride said. Some of the best rates come from banks with large mortgage-lending operations. Countrywide Bank has been offering a 5.65 percent on a 12-month C.D. Indymac Bank offers 5.5 percent on a nine-month C.D..

But even C.D.’s issued by troubled lenders are safe, of course, thanks to broad protection from the federal government. “As long as you are protected by F.D.I.C. insurance, the additional return is pure gravy,” Mr. McBride said. F.D.I.C. insurance covers $100,000 in nonretirement accounts, and up to $250,000 in retirement accounts.

Money market funds, which generally track Fed moves, have also held up surprisingly well. “Many funds have only dropped half of what they’d be expected to drop,” said Peter Crane, president of Crane Data, which tracks money market investments.

But the respite may be temporary. The Fed is likely to cut rates again in coming months — perhaps as soon as this week — and even if it leaves rates unchanged, money market rates could fall another 10 or 20 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, according to Mr. Crane. Fidelity, Putnam and Vanguard all have funds currently yielding 4.9 percent or more.

Bonds offer a rich set of alternatives for the conservative investor who wants to shield capital from turbulent equity markets. Though generally less volatile than stocks, bond prices will fall if interest rates do an about-face and rise. But investors who hold bonds to maturity do not face the risk of principal loss from a market downturn.

One government bond option for the especially risk-averse is Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, which adjust principal for inflation. But with that safety net comes a lower yield: recently 2.1 percent on the 10-year TIPS, versus 4.4 percent on the 10-year Treasury.

Individual investors with less than $50,000 to put into bonds may find it less costly to participate through bond funds.

“It’s kind of expensive to put together a portfolio,” said Jim Peterson, head of investment manager research at the Schwab Center for Financial Research, citing commissions and wide bid-ask spreads. “It’s a dealer-oriented market; it’s difficult to get good prices,” he explained.

Hence the appeal of professionally managed bond funds, which invest in government, investment-grade, high-yield and tax-exempt debt offerings. Government bond funds offer the highest level of safety, but Treasuries have been snatched up as investors have sought safe sanctuary, deflating yields. Robert F. Millikan, a bond portfolio manager at the BB&T Asset Management in Raleigh, N.C., reckons that Treasuries are “about where they should be” and sees more opportunity in other sectors of the bond market — tax-exempt offerings and high-quality mortgages.

Diversified funds typically own a mix of government, corporate and mortgage securities of either short-, intermediate- or long-term maturities. They are riskier than government funds, but Scott Berry, senior analyst at Morningstar, says he believes that some have positioned themselves well by finding bargains as the credit crunch penalized the debt of good borrowers along with bad.

“We’re trying to find opportunistic bond funds that were able to scoop up bargains,” Mr. Berry said.

Most funds have not yet reported recent changes in their portfolios, so he has not completed his list of favored funds. But he has identified two — Metropolitan West Total Return and Pimco Total Return — as likely to benefit from credit market fears.

“They both have a history of opportunistic buying,” he explained. “Great managers love volatility.”

Mr. Peterson of Schwab likes Pimco Total Return and the Loomis Sayles Bond fund, which has international exposure, along with high-yield holdings intended to enhance performance.

Daniel J. Fuss, the Loomis fund manager, has excelled at finding the optimal mix of investment-grade and junk bond holdings, Mr. Peterson said. “Loomis is more of a credit analysis play,” he said. “They shift between investment grade and high-yield.”

Nervous credit markets have created buying opportunities that Mr. Fuss described as “not momentous, but good.” One example is debt of the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. GMAC has suffered from the triple-whammy of its identity as part of the overall financial sector, as a high-yield issuer and as an offshoot of the troubled General Motors. But Mr. Fuss has concluded that GMAC, now jointly owned by G.M. and a private equity group led by Cerberus Capital Management, can over time improve its credit rating, lower its borrowing costs and increase profitability. Mr. Fuss says he has been adding to the fund’s position in GMAC in recent months.

In all, his fund holds 22 percent in below-investment-grade holdings, along with roughly 17 percent in nondollar credits, chiefly in the Brazil real, the New Zealand dollar and the Mexican peso. These issues provide higher yield than dollar-denominated debt and would benefit from a continued decline in the dollar. This year through Thursday, the fund has produced a total return of 9.2 percent and has outperformed its multisector bond category average in each of the last five years.

MR. MILLIKAN, the BB&T fund manager, says he has found value in high-quality mortgage securities. And he favors tax-free bond funds for investors in high tax brackets. Over the next few years, he reasoned, “there’s a greater chance for a tax increase than for either a decrease or no change.”

He sees bonds as the best long-term protection against a stock market decline: “If we do end up in a recession or the stock market falls out of bed,” he said, “the Fed would cut and money market rates would decline.” Bonds, by contrast, typically benefit from a slowdown that brings lower rates. Conversely, though, bonds would not be the place to be if inflation reared its head, sending rates up again.

Safety may be at a premium these days, but even the most risk-averse investor may want to avoid parking substantial funds in bank savings accounts.. These currently dole out a pitiful average return of 0.5 percent, noted Mr. McBride at Bankrate.com.
711 2007-10-28 YOU really cannot imagine how beautiful and yet how empty it is at Lake Pend Oreille in North Idaho. When I take my hardy little Thompson motorboat out in front of my future home there — at a resort community called the Seasons, for avid boaters like me — the water goes on forever. There may be one or two other boats at most, and eagles are nesting next to where I moor my boat for lunch. Hard to believe: it’s real, perfect and uncrowded.

On the other hand, here are a few parcels of the daily drama of life that are easily real. When scientists discovered nucular power, as George Bush and I call it, they considered its uses virtually unlimited. Even now, we have not plumbed all of the atom’s utility. The same goes for hedge funds.

Supposedly, a number of wizard managers consistently earn more than 40 percent a year for their hedge funds. Yes, I know that this conflicts with every bit of investment and market theory — or almost every bit. I know that such a thing should be impossible. But, supposedly, magicians like Steven A. Cohen, founder of SAC Capital in Stamford, Conn., can regularly earn 40 percent a year — often more — on their capital.

But why waste our time on envy or disbelief? Let’s put Mr. Cohen to work for the greater good. Let’s have the federal government issue about $10 trillion in Steven A. Cohen National Debt Retirement Fund Bonds. After interest is paid on the bonds, if Mr. Cohen makes 40 percent on the money, the fund will return 36 percent a year. That means that in only two years, he will have made roughly $10 trillion for the taxpayers, with which he can pay off the entire United States federal debt.

Even if Mr. Cohen follows his usual pattern and charges the client — in this case, the government — 50 percent, thus lowering the effective yield to a “mere” 16 percent, his brilliance and skills will have paid off the entire national debt in less than five years. That’s unless, of course, Mr. Bush — or Hillary or Mitt or Rudy or Barack after him — add hugely to the national debt.
712 2007-10-28 “Along the way we’ll talk about some of the idiosyncrasies of heli-boarding,” Aucoin said, perhaps as a way to make us stop with the nervous questions. And with that he was gone, making turns so consistent and graceful that you could measure his rhythm on a metronome. I followed almost his exact trail, staying just off his track, and immediately felt better about my riding.

I hadn’t noticed before that I was making bigger, smoother turns on my heel side (to the left, where I’m more comfortable) until I forced myself to match his path, and with fluffy, ankle-deep powder underfoot, it was simple to follow.

It took just one run — no, more like a few hundred yards — of floating at ludicrous speed on snow the consistency of flour to realize that in all my years of sliding around on snow, I had experienced nothing remotely like this. How was I ever going to take a chairlift seriously again?

Aucoin paused at the top of a deep bowl; the drop from the lip required the sort of quick, sharp turns that are difficult to pull off on a snowboard. He reminded us to stay loose, to flex at the knees and waist. Most riders, myself included, tend to stiffen in steep terrain and make awkward turns, resulting in a rattling of the board known as “chatter.” Aucoin dropped in first and disappeared in a spray of powder. The first turn on a steep face is the worst — it always causes my stomach to knot up — but I bent my knees, relaxed and pointed downhill. Free of tension, I let the board do all the work.

At the bottom of the bowl, Aucoin asked how everyone was feeling. “Most times, we apologize for conditions like this,” he said. Earlier in the winter, apparently, it’s not uncommon for powder to be chest-deep. “I’d call this mediocre. But we’re spoiled. For most of you, this is probably the best skiing you’ve ever done.”

There is no sport with a learning curve quite like snowboarding’s. At first it’s horrific; for a day or two (or three, if you’re a really slow learner) the process is absolute misery. A new rider will fall again and again and again, sometimes with such unexpected violence that he’ll swear he has been picked off by a sniper. At the end of the day everything hurts; it’s a small victory just to be able to sit down. A good friend of mine fell so many times while learning that he developed a hematoma the size of a small couch pillow. It looked as if the creature from “Alien” had claimed residence in his hip. But a few days later, he was riding like a lifer.

The only real hindrance is confidence. Since taking up snowboarding two winters ago, I’ve not been back on skis once. By last season I was feeling good enough to ride most any terrain but had yet to push myself. Could I handle unpredictable conditions? A guided, instructional heli-trip would surely answer that.

C.M.H. has access to nearly 16,000 square kilometers of terrain — that’s roughly a third the size of Switzerland. Tours are led from December to May out of 12 bases. Our hotel, in the town of Revelstoke, British Columbia, was right next door to the Canadian Avalanche Association — not the first thing you want to see when you arrive for your introduction to heli-skiing.

My friends were, like me, nervous about the terrain, but what really freaked them out were the helicopter and avalanche safety briefings we got the first night. The instructor pointed out things not to touch (the tail rotor, for instance), as well as important features like the escape hatches. “In case of a crash, right?” the instructor said, and I saw my friend John wince. Avalanche beacon lessons and a mock rescue followed.

All of the lead-up is to prepare you for the potential danger of an uncontrolled environment, but what really happens once you get out there is almost impossible to describe without sounding like some sort of brainwashed proselytizer. I can only say that if you like to snowboard (or ski), it’s worth the cost. Nearly everyone I spoke with was a returning customer happy to dish out upwards of $1,000 a day, including 68-year-old Ed Schechter, who had come to complete his mission of skiing five million vertical feet. (“I’ve probably fallen a million of those,” he told me.)

Riding in the chopper the second morning, Ed asked me how it was going. I told him that I’d actually caught myself laughing during runs. It’s something that also happens on roller coasters — a reaction to the overpowering cocktail of nervousness and exhilaration that drowned my brain as I was slicing through canyons at speeds that would have scared the bejesus out of me at a ski resort. With each run, I grew more comfortable, and by mid-afternoon I was keeping up with my friend Tyler, a far better and more experienced rider. We had negotiated various depths and forms of powder, some corn snow, some sloppy sun-baked spots, even a few pitches I would never have considered ridable before the trip. I had never felt so confident — or stimulated.

Of course, covering up to 30,000 vertical feet a day at high altitude has its downside; it wreaks havoc on leg muscles. Late on that second afternoon we descended from soft powder into some soupy melting stuff, and I found myself getting lazy with my turns. And at the speeds we were carrying, a loss of rhythm can be perilous.

We paused to catch our breath and noticed that John wasn’t following. A skier from our helicopter stopped by to say that he had just seen our friend crash — hard. John appeared a few minutes later, covered in snow. He collapsed in a heap and said he was about ready to call it a day. “Dude,” Tyler said, “you have snow in your ear.”

Aucoin, naturally, had a cliché ready for the occasion. “We call that an egg beater,” he said, referring to a boarder tumbling at high speed, his board whipping around as he bounces down the hill. “Now you know what the yolk feels like.” .

Trips last three to seven days (roughly $2,500 to $10,000, including food and lodging; the seven-night Powder Introduction workshop starts at $6,000). There are two four-day snowboard camps, starting March 22 and March 27. canadianmountainholidays.com.

This operation works the relatively small range just outside Elko, Nev. Three-day packages are $3,800, including food and lodging. Sessions are limited to 16 guests, who are guaranteed at least 39,000 vertical feet of skiing (or snowboarding). helicopterskiing.com.

This 25-year-old Colorado company now offers same-day trips from Aspen and Vail — guests are flown into and out of Telluride — as well as first-time powder tours. The terrain (in the San Juan Mountains) varies from intermediate to advanced. From $1,095. helitrax.net.

A somewhat cheaper yet still impressive backcountry option. Sno-cats take groups from the lodge, three hours north of Spokane, Wash., into 36,000 remote acres. Around $2,100 for three days, including unlimited runs, food and lodging. baldface.net.

Backcountry boarding presents unique challenges, and requires some unique gear. three of the essential items:

1. Avalanche transceivers transmit and receive signals for search and rescues following snowslides. The Pulse Barryvox, from the Swiss company Mammut, also displays pulse and respiration data (in digital and analog modes). $450. mammut.com.

2. The key to riding in deep powder is to keep the snowboard’s nose from digging into the snow. Special tapered boards like Burton’s Fish have binding mounts way to the rear, so that the rider’s weight stays back, and the nose stays on top of the snow. $500. burton.com.

3. You’ll need a good pack. One of the best all-purpose models is the Black Diamond Covert, which includes ski/snowboard straps, a hydration system and an AvaLung, which extracts fresh air from the snowpack in case of an avalanche. $200. bdel.com.
713 2007-10-28 Emily Jill Manheim, a daughter of Lynn and Gene Manheim of Wilton, Conn., was married last evening to Mark Adams Whipple, a son of Gretchen and Lawrence Whipple of Westport, Mass. Rabbi Chava Bahle officiated at L’Escale, a restaurant in Greenwich, Conn.

Mrs. Whipple, 27, is a saleswoman at the Martin Group, a furniture and fabric showroom in Boston. She graduated from Syracuse University.

Her father is a managing director at Herbert Mines Associates, an executive search firm in New York. Her mother works in Stamford, Conn., as the director of the cooking school at Aux Délices, a specialty food shop and caterer, for which she was the executive chef until 2004.

Mr. Whipple, 30, is a vice president for institutional client relations at Goldman Sachs in Boston. He graduated from Boston College.

His mother retired last year as a kindergarten teacher at Tracey Elementary School in Norwalk, Conn. His father is a principal of Cornerstone Consultants, a management consulting firm for the construction industry in Old Saybrook, Conn.
714 2007-10-28 Emily Rachel Wilansky, a daughter of Barry Wilansky of Bellmore, N.Y., and the late Stephanie G. Wilansky, was married last evening to Christopher Marc D’Auria, the son of Mary Ann D’Auria of Merrick, N.Y., and the late Raymond A. D’Auria. Rabbi Richard A. Davis officiated at the Pine Hollow Country Club in East Norwich, N.Y.

Mrs. D’Auria, 31, is an associate in the New York office of the St. Louis law firm Bryan Cave. She graduated with distinction from the University of Michigan and received her law degree from Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.

Her father is the executive director of the Tempo Group, a counseling agency in Woodmere, N.Y., for drug and alcohol addiction. The bride is a stepdaughter of Judith A. Wilansky, the deputy superintendent of the Cold Spring Harbor Central School District in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

Mr. D’Auria, also 31, works in New York as a director and a senior member of the structured credit team, in the bond division, of Deutsche Bank. He graduated from Johns Hopkins.

His mother retired as a seventh- and eighth-grade mathematics teacher at the Merrick Avenue Middle School. His father was an interior designer for Girard-Emilia Custom Woodcarvers, a furniture manufacturer in New York.
715 2007-10-28 The Oct. 16 brawl came six months after more than 1,000 teenagers and young adults — most from outside the city — raged out of control after being turned away from New Roc City, a popular youth-oriented entertainment complex.

Kelly Johnson, executive director of the New Rochelle Youth Bureau, said he was reaching out to the youths involved in the Oct. 16 fight to try and resolve differences. He said the fight appeared to be between youths of Mexican descent from the west end of town and black teenagers who live in a housing development near Monroe College.

While street fights have been a rite of passage for many teenagers for decades, electronic devices allow for larger and faster crowds these days, Mr. Johnson said. “Kids can mobilize within minutes because of Sidekicks and cellphones,” he said. “They have embraced technology, and they are using it.”

Jim Killoran, director of Habitat for Humanity of Westchester, which is next door to Cohen’s, said he believed the melee highlighted two issues: the need to engage youngsters at all levels — racial, ethnic and socioeconomic — and the need for City Hall to focus on Main Street, which sits in the shadow of several large new apartment and condominium buildings.

Mayor Noam Bramson, a Democrat who has been in office since January 2006 and is running in next month’s election, said the melee should be kept in perspective. He noted that New Rochelle’s crime rate was near a 40-year low and that compared with 51 cities of similar size nationwide, it was the fourth lowest in the country. “We recognize the safety of our entire city, and particularly the central business district, is of paramount importance,” he said.

Louis Vaccaro, the co-owner of the Curtain Shop and General Store and co-chairman of the advisory committee of the Business Improvement District, said that he viewed the Oct. 16 fight as an isolated incident and that he felt “absolutely safe,” but he added that it highlighted many merchants’ sense that the city had neglected them.

“I don’t think violence is my biggest concern on Main Street,” he said. “But I do think not enough attention is given to Main Street.”

He noted that Mrs. Cohen had pushed for better parking signs, and merchants in general had been trying to have basic quality-of-life issues, like double parking and code violations, addressed.

“If you were looking for something positive that came out of this situation, it woke some people up,” Mr. Vaccaro said. “But it’s an election year. We’ll see if any of it sticks.”
716 2007-10-28 Some longtime residents interpret measures regulating undomesticated animals as threats to their way of life. To them, Southold Town is the final frontier.

“I remember when there was only one traffic light in Mattituck,” said Rocky DiVello, who has lived there on and off for nearly 50 years. “With more people come more situations, good and bad.”

Suburbs continue to spread over the remaining rural areas on Long Island. Where farmland once seemed endless, acres devoted to farmland are shrinking — by 72 percent in Suffolk County from 1950 to 2002, according to the county Planning Department. The roads — Route 25, for example — can be bumper to bumper with traffic, and new ranches and Colonial-style homes dot the landscape. Still, there are clear views of sunset, and the shoreline is never far away.

Scott A. Russell, the Southold town supervisor, said he proposed the animal legislation to address complaints he was receiving. He said one resident was not maintaining her property. “We’d send someone out, she’d clean up and a month later we’d be out there again,” he said.

That homeowner, Barbara Summers, said she had done everything she was supposed to. “We’re losing all our rights,” she said. Ms. Summers said she keeps 5 dachshunds, 3 horses and 25 birds, including 14 peacocks and peahens, on the acre of land where she has lived for 10 years.

Some neighbors see that as too many creatures.

Maria Kontoleon, who has lived across the street for 32 years, said she could hear the peacocks even if she could not see them. “It sounds like somebody’s screaming,” she said. “Animals are O.K., but this is overdoing it.”

More than two years ago East Hampton faced similar problems with noisy roosters. Legislation was discussed but never proposed. Officials said they solved the problem by asking for voluntary cooperation in keeping roosters cooped up overnight.

It seemed more complex in Southold. Mr. Russell said community members misunderstood his proposal, which he said was now a dead issue. The measure was published in a local newspaper along with existing ones, causing confusion.

“I think what the town was trying to do was give themselves a law to find and control what they considered to be a bad situation,” said Tom Lo Manto, president of the East End Livestock and Horsemen’s Association. He said Mr. Russell consulted his group on several drafts of the proposal, although not the final one.

Ron Chuvalas, vice president of the association, said that even though the proposal was dropped, the issue could be revisited again at any time. “There’s just as much opposition to this as there was 22 years ago,” he said.
717 2007-10-28 HALLOWEEN did not figure into the decision when my wife and I moved to Tarrytown, N.Y., in 1983. Still, because we were planning to start a family, and because you cannot raise children without making Halloween an important part of the educational process, the Hudson Valley’s leafy luster and Bram Bonesian aura may have already been lurking in the back of our minds.

As young adults, we used to attend Halloween parties in Brooklyn given by artist friends from the Pratt Institute. Immensely clever people would turn up, decked out as AWACs, Ben-Gay, a Long Island car salesman, Japan, lunch. It was great fun, but it was never really about Halloween; it was about them. Up north in the Hudson Valley, where tradition reigns and no one ever gets dressed up as an entire Asian nation, Halloween was a communal celebration, denuded of irony, stripped of any competitive element, and oriented toward its proper demographic audience: tykes.

Unlike holidays that have been commandeered by patriots or religious sects or people whose descendants came over on the Mayflower or Nascar enthusiasts, Halloween is not jingoistic or preachy or contrived, has no political subtext and is not rooted in greed. Long uncoupled from its pagan roots — all those marauding witches, wraiths, vampires and goblins are strictly nondenominational — this one-size-fits-all holiday is a truly festive occasion that unites people of all ages, creeds, ethnic groups. (Except, of course, those who view it as a form of devil worship.) A largely do-it-yourself event — a few candies and candles will suffice — it is an opportunity for adults to mark the passing of autumn, but primarily it is the time of year when little children stick fangs in their mouths and pretend to exist solely on a diet of blood and chocolate. Let the shrinks sort out what that means. Halloween is so much fun that even teenagers like it. Well, some teenagers.

After eight years in Murray Hill, in Manhattan, which never had much of a Halloweeny feel to it, it was nice to find ourselves in a heavily wooded region of the Northeast intimately associated with the exploits of the Headless Horseman. With all those white picket fences and gables and crinkling leaves and trees brooding with sinister maternity — to pilfer Eugene O’Neill’s phrase — Tarrytown in fall literally looked like the set for the film “Halloween”; the fact that half the children born in the 1980s were named Jason also helped foster a mood of wholesome autumnal depravity.

Over in the adjacent hamlet, rambunctious Yuppies got so carried away with Walpurgisnachtian euphoria a few years ago that they voted to rename the village Sleepy Hollow. This had the effect of culturally disenfranchising all the older people who had grown up in North Tarrytown — and still insist that their gravestones record this vital fact. In their minds, and mine, the switcheroo was like renaming Italy Hadley’s Paddocks or going to bed thinking you were living in Denmark and waking up in Montebello Close. The name change may have been motivated less by that appalling Yuppie obsession with bogus, bespoke heritage and more by a desire to make a gritty old General Motors town sound more colonial and twee: Neo-Knickerbockian, if you will. The only time of year the name Sleepy Hollow doesn’t sound daft and precious is Halloween.

My wife, Francesca, and I hadn’t been living on the banks of the Hudson long before we realized how central the holiday was to the twin Tarrytowns’ self-image. It wasn’t just a question of sticking a hollowed-out pumpkin on the front steps or adorning the windows with bat silhouettes or hanging a few lights in the window. It was about participating wholeheartedly, unabashedly in community theater. The first time we took our 2-year-old daughter around the corner to see the “witch” who always ensconced herself in a rocking chair, cackling away, we were blindsided by the woman’s husband, dressed entirely in black, who suddenly jerked right up inside the coffin perched on the front lawn and scared the hell out of everyone. These were people who took Halloween seriously. After that, so did my daughter.
718 2007-10-28 HEIRLOOM in Locust Valley looks much the same as it did a year ago, but it’s a different restaurant. A new owner, Linda Falco, took over in May, bringing a new chef, Peter Curcio, with her. Heirloom still serves New American food, but exotic offerings like wild boar, ostrich and buffalo have disappeared from the menu.

The restaurant is stunning to look at, with pale gold walls, dark wood floors and eye-catching hanging metal artwork. Large, old-fashioned mirrors are draped with swags of fabric. Flickering votive candles on the walls and on a fireplace mantel add a sense of warmth. The centerpiece is a century-old, carved oak bar with mirrors, marble columns and railings.

Service is a problem. Our waiter, though personable, was clueless, and we had many complaints: a salad requested without nuts arrived with them; a whole fish ordered on the bone was filleted; profiteroles were missing the warm chocolate sauce they were supposed to have. On another night there were fewer mistakes, but even then, water glasses were never refilled, nor did we receive seconds on rolls (they were dry and cottony anyway).

Restaurants receive a rating of Satisfactory for one of two reasons: either the food is generally mediocre or it is wildly uneven. Heirloom (which was rated Very Good in May of 2005 under its previous owner) falls into the latter category.

It is possible to have a superior meal here. One man at our table was all smiles. He began with airy dumplings of steamed shrimp and crab surrounding a warm vegetable salad, went on to a grilled, flaky branzino atop a summer vegetable sauté spiked with caper berries and finished with a flavorful pear poached in port wine and teamed with peach sorbet.
719 2007-10-28 The sound of the album “Shock Value: Live at Smoke” (MaxJazz), by the jazz trumpeter Jeremy Pelt and his band Wired, comes from early electric Miles Davis, late ’60s and early ’70s, when his bands were more concerned with melodic development and before they were building a kind of dense, percussive graffiti. The setup here is tolling electric piano, shredding electric guitar, bass, drums and Mr. Pelt’s trumpet run through a wah-wah pedal. One track even features the folkish singer Becca Stevens. For sure, a bit of it sounds like an exercise in style. But there’s art here too. The constant volume and droning resonance of the band drive the players to focus and intensify their work, to make it matter; everyone’s playing, especially Mr. Pelt’s, is wise and serious.

A jazz trio led by a trombonist equals hard work for the trombonist. That’s especially true when the group’s sound and strategies are up to date, such that everyone’s more or less soloing all the time. Joe Fiedler, a New York trombone player who is genuinely all over the map — you’re equally as likely to see him playing with salsa bands as in free-jazz festivals — has made an excellent new record, “The Crab” (Clean Feed), with the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Michael Sarin. Even with so much to play, Mr. Fiedler doesn’t flag. And yet you don’t get tired of his sound, which is big and gritty. You can hear salsa trombonists like Barry Rogers in his playing, as well as the jazz improvisers Albert Mangelsdorff and Roswell Rudd.

“A Life in Time: The Roy Haynes Story” (Dreyfus), a three-disc set plus DVD, is pretty unusual. Even great drummers usually don’t get the box-set treatment, with tracks licensed from all the other people’s records they played on. (There’s still no career box set for Max Roach or Elvin Jones, for example.) This is probably because drummers tend to work slowly toward becoming bandleaders. For good stretches of their lives they work when and where they can, “playing for the benefit of the band,” in the phrase of the New Orleans drummer Baby Dodds. Their sessions, put end to end, can make a very crooked road. Well, so what? Mr. Haynes’s story begins here in 1949, with a Lester Young recording called “Ding Dong,” and his commanding, hectic, smacking sound was identifiable even then. It threads through Parker, Rollins and Monk; Miles Davis and Sarah Vaughan; John and Alice Coltrane both; Stéphane Grappelli and Andrew Hill; Stan Getz and Chick Corea; and, after 1972, lots of his own groups. The presence of Mr. Haynes on a record has been a pretty good guarantor of quality, and it’s as nice to listen to him across 50 years as it is to marvel at all the things jazz has been.

And from the most kinetic, whirligig young jazz drummer of the newest generation, what kind of first album do we get? A minimalist meditation in which the drums are severely played down or barely touched. The drummer, Tyshawn Sorey, is a composer who doesn’t want to be limited by his chosen instrument. In his notes for the double disc “That/Not” (Firehouse 12) he writes that he has “no desire to prove anything.” This music “simply is,” he writes. “It does not want or need.” Much of the music here is written for a quartet with drums, bass, piano and trombone, and some tracks (like “Sacred and Profane”) use all of them at once, working in something like the post-’60s, jazz-vanguard tradition of small gestures, open space and European classical harmony. But there’s also “Permutation for Solo Piano,” right out of Morton Feldman’s world: 42 minutes of a slowly changing four-note chords and their overtones.

A rind of unsubstantiated myth has formed around the subject of the ’60s Texas band the 13th Floor Elevators and especially around its singer, Roky Erickson, who survives today as an emissary from a spectacularly messy age. Why did they make only two good records? What was with their lyrics, titles and visual symbols? Why Austin? What did the San Francisco hippies think of them? What was up with the guy in the band who played the electric jug? The writer Paul Drummond has a lot more answers than you think you need in “Eye Mind,” his book just published by Process. Mr. Drummond has talked to sisters and brothers and cousins, and cops who busted the band. He shows you how psychedelic drugs advanced on Austin — first a rumor off in the distance, then flooding the city in 1965. He shows you the band’s controlling philosopher king, Tommy Hall (the guy with the electric jug), and exactly what books he read. At a certain point the story becomes too depressing for words, flattening out into madness with daily LSD ministrations, trial transcripts, religious visitations. But it’s valuable cultural history; you inevitably become less interested in these guys as musicians than as Texans, or even Americans, from a certain time in history.
720 2007-10-28 That is a lot of nationalities to be throwing around in one paragraph, particularly on the day before another swarm of auslanders, the oversized marauders from the National Football League, do their mysterious thing at Wembley.

The traveling salesmen from the N.F.L., all smiles and shoulder pads, are only trying to get their foot in the door and perhaps leave a sample or an impression with the British. They arrive with the soccer season in full-tilt boogie.

The English game was always exciting on a high level, even when the tactics could be generalized into rudimentary dump-and-run, with mayhem in the terraces and streets. Now a lot of the old rough edges have been tamed in sedate seats, even no-drinking, no-cursing family sections, with roofs to keep out the drizzle, and, just as in America, wine-and-shrimp suites for those with little interest in the actual sport.

The owners are a big part of this revolution, making Mark Cuban of the Dallas Mavericks and the Steinbrenner politburo and the dysfunctional Dolans of Madison Square Garden seem modest by comparison.

Manchester City, existing in the shadow of Sir Alex Ferguson, the Beckham-busting dictator of Manchester United, has not won the league championship since 1967-68, when the Beatles were still together and England could believe that the miracle 1966 World Cup title would be replicated any time soon, which it never has.

The subservience began to change when Shinawatra was ousted as prime minister in a coup in September 2006 and rushed into exile one step ahead of corruption charges. He moved to England and spent $162 million, presumably from his previous telecommunications business, to buy the moribund Man City club.

“I have some money in my savings accounts,” Shinawatra told the author of a book about him. “But, by the way, I think I can manage it.”

That he has done, hiring Eriksson, who could not get the English national team past the quarterfinals of the World Cup but did find his way into lurid tabloid headlines, his private life far more interesting than his sonorous public persona. Handed an estimated $80 million for players in the off-season, Eriksson upgraded wisely in the open market created by the Bosman court decision of 1995, which eliminated quotas for foreign players and allowed players to share in free-agency booty.

Bosman led directly to the current flamboyant regime at Chelsea, where Abramovich has spent an estimated $1 billion on upgrading his personnel, the stadium at Stamford Bridge and the new training site in Surrey, which had the Giants envious on Friday.

Proactive in the soccer tradition of Silvio Berlusconi at A.C. Milan, Abramovich has an opinion about everything. The educated and independent Mourinho, who won two league titles in 2005 and 2006, took a walk when Chelsea got off to a slow start this season. The fans have been chanting Mourinho’s name at matches, but that should change after yesterday’s massacre.

Drogba had been making noise about wanting to move to France or Italy with Mourinho gone, but he has since backed off those statements. Yesterday he took over the space near the goal, allowing teammates to rush through the Man City defense “like a motorway,” a furious Eriksson said later.

Frank Lampard, who prospered under Eriksson on the English national team but who has been jeered recently, made two elegant assists to Michael Essien and Drogba early. Joe Cole of England, Salomon Kalou of Ivory Coast and Andrei Shevchenko of Ukraine, a late substitute, also scored.

“We were awful,” Eriksson, the Swedish coach of Manchester City, said.

Grant, the Israeli coach of Chelsea, was asked if the fans would stop chanting Mourinho’s name and start chanting for him.

“It’s not easy,” he said with a smile. “Try to sing my name.”

In this volatile new world of foreign money and foreign talent, everybody learns to sing new names.
721 2007-10-28 Paul Balme and Isabel Rubio decided it was time to move out of their apartment on the Lower East Side when it became increasingly crowded with their two teenage sons and her growing costume design business. They started looking last April in Brooklyn.

After a broker, Gigi Zimmerman of Brownstone Real Estate in Cobble Hill, showed them one house they considered unsuitable, she offered to show them another that fell within their relatively modest budget of $2 million, including renovations. But this house, a four-story brick row house in Carroll Gardens, had two rent-controlled apartments occupying the top two floors, Ms. Zimmerman explained.

“We liked the house immediately,” Mr. Balme said, and two days later, their $1.5 million offer was accepted.

The house was 20 feet wide and 45 feet deep with a full basement, 1,800 square feet of living space on the two lower floors (plus the opportunity for a 1,600-square-foot addition into the deep backyard).

They moved in at the end of September, and so far, the tenants and landlords seem to be getting along well. “We’re very friendly with them,” said Frank Lamattina, who has lived with his mother, Anna, in the third-floor apartment on and off for the last 33 years. “When they go away, we put out their garbage cans and take in the mail.”

Contrary to their broker’s assumption, the fact that the house had two essentially unremovable tenants paying a total of about $1,300 a month was, for Mr. Balme and Ms. Rubio, what made the transaction work. Without the tenants, the house would have fetched up to $1 million more, putting it way beyond their reach.

“Rent control allowed us to buy a house we otherwise could have never afforded,” Mr. Balme said. “We’re happy with the situation now, and whatever happens in the future is just gravy.”

Other buyers, too, have found that rent regulation can work to their advantage. A three-story town house with an English basement in Park Slope with one rent-stabilized tenant on the top floor recently sold for just over $500,000, about $100,000 less than what a similar building with no tenants would have brought.

“In this case, the rent-stabilized apartment was a minor inconvenience, still allowing the buyer plenty of options for the lower three floors,” said Michael Guerra, an executive vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman and the director of sales for its Brooklyn Heights office.

But prospective buyers apparently did not see such opportunities in a three-family, four-story brick town house on a prime Cobble Hill block that was listed by Brown Harris Stevens. Comparable town houses range in price from about $2.2 million to $2.5 million, but this building had a rent-controlled tenant in the lower duplex, which had exclusive use of the garden. The other two apartments were not rent-regulated, but they were occupied.

Even though the building was in good shape and the two upper apartments were newly renovated, the broker, Jill Seligson Braver, priced the house at $1.65 million because of the tenants. Still, it didn’t sell for two and a half months, and the owner decided to take it off the market in early October.

Not that the house didn’t arouse lots of interest. Ms. Braver said that she had fielded hundreds of phone calls about the listing. “There are no houses in that condition in Cobble Hill for that price,” she said.

But after she led each caller through the litany of details, most said they would consult a lawyer, and she never heard from them again.

“I told them, ‘Look, do you understand that the lower duplex is inhabited by a 82-year-old rent-controlled tenant in good health who pays $800 a month?’” she said. “I explained the difference between rent stabilization and rent control, because most people don’t understand it, and tried to dissuade as many people as I could. Otherwise, I would have just been spinning their wheels and mine, not to mention annoying the tenants with constant fruitless showings.”

There are about a million rent-regulated apartments in New York City, and about two-thirds of them are in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Neither the city nor the state keeps tabs on the number of regulated apartments — or the number of buildings with regulated apartments — that are sold each year.

But brokers in the areas with the largest numbers of small buildings with regulated apartments — brownstone Brooklyn, the Upper West Side, the Upper East Side, Harlem and Astoria, Queens — estimate that such sales make up only a small percentage of the total each year.

Brokers say that they have no precise formula for pricing buildings that have rent-regulated apartments, but they tend to begin the process by researching the sale prices of similar buildings.

Then they discount the price, taking into account how much rent the tenants pay and factors as varied as how pleasant the tenants are and who gets the use of the front hall.

Perhaps the most important distinction is whether the apartments are rent-controlled, which provides tenants greater protections, or rent-stabilized.

Because of the substantial distinctions between the two, brokers and real estate lawyers advise buyers to hire an experienced landlord-tenant lawyer at the outset of the purchase process.

The lawyer’s due-diligence search should determine the exact status of the building’s tenants (it’s not unheard of for the seller or the broker to misrepresent the true circumstances), to determine whether the legal rents are being charged and to uncover any outstanding violations that could result in unforeseen expenses, prevent rent increases or derail plans for getting the tenants to move.

Some landlords authorize their lawyers to investigate whether the tenants are the apartments’ legal occupants or whether they have violated their leases in any way. If the investigation reveals that a tenant is illegally subletting or is not using the apartment as his or her primary residence, this could be grounds for eviction proceedings.

Other potential buyers choose less aggressive approaches: attempting to negotiate a buyout with a tenant, for example. As long as there is no harassment involved, landlords or their lawyers may offer a tenant inducements to move or to relinquish their rights to certain areas of the building. The carrots can range from a cash settlement to what the law terms an “equivalent or superior living situation” in another building.

But brokers and lawyers strongly caution that buyers have all agreements drawn up by a lawyer and signed in his or her presence.

Zerline Goodman, a Brooklyn real estate lawyer, said that she had negotiated buyouts for as much as $800,000 (paid to the last tenant in a TriBeCa loft building) to as little as a few thousand dollars in moving expenses (paid to a tenant in a nine-family Brooklyn Heights brownstone).

Mr. Guerra of Prudential Douglas Elliman suggests approaching the subject of a buyout with extreme tact. “I’d say, ‘Blank, you know I just bought the building,’” Mr. Guerra said. “‘I have to ask, Would there be any terms that we could discuss that would make you consider ending the lease and moving somewhere else?’”

Many buyers who are going through or have been through the process of removing tenants, either by eviction or through negotiation, are hesitant to talk about their experiences.

“It’s very emotional,” said Frank Ricci, director of government affairs for the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents New York City landlords. “Often these landlords are already living in the building and involved in a battle with their neighbors, people they see every day. They don’t want to further inflame emotions or respark a controversy that’s over and done with.”

Mr. Ricci recounted a story about the owners of an Upper West Side building who wanted to take over two apartments for their parents, who had Alzheimer’s disease. The tenants refused to leave, and the owners spent years in court arguing one technicality after another — not an unusual course of events, Mr. Ricci said.

Advocates for tenants contend that the real estate industry is eroding rent protections with relentless persistence. “Rent regulation is the only program that provides affordable housing for close to two million middle-, moderate- and low-income tenants in New York City,” said Jenny Laurie, director of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a tenants’ rights group.

Still, building owners talk about negotiating with tenants before the closing only to have them announce that they’ve decided they don’t want to move after all.

For their part, tenants complain about being hounded by landlords if they don’t agree to move. Some report that they have signed off on settlements and found a new place to live only to have the landlord renege on the deal.

But in the end, brokers and lawyers agree, prospective buyers of buildings with rent-regulated tenants need to go into the process with the right frame of mind.

“If you’re buying something with a rent-controlled or rent-stabilized tenant, you just never assume” that the tenant can be persuaded to move, said Karen Heyman, a broker with Sotheby’s International Realty. “If you can afford the rest of the building with the rent the way it is, great. If not, it’s not for you.”
722 2007-10-28 LIBRESCO--Emile WWII navigator, business executive, educator, civic leader, and Democratic Party loyalist, died on August 30 at 85. He received a B.A. from City College and an Ed.D. from Columbia University. Dr. Libresco had multiple careers: as a...
723 2007-10-29 Landmarks Preservation Commission: A public hearing is scheduled Tuesday on the proposed Dumbo historic district, along with votes on Webster Hall, Lord & Taylor and other sites....
724 2007-10-29 A City Council bill would compel supermarkets to collect, transport and recycle plastic bags — and sell reusable bags....
725 2007-10-29 A gospel singer's views on gays causes a dustup in the Obama campaign....
726 2007-10-29 How do you wire up all the doctors and hospitals to communicate with each other? Misys is has made its medical software open source.Athena Health has a proprietary system that has Web-based software and a warehouse full of paperwork....
727 2007-10-29 "Among the big American media companies, NBC Universal was late to move into international markets," Eric Pfanner writes in Sunday's International Herald Tribune. Now, as the United States television business flattens, NBC Universal's internationa...
728 2007-10-29 Terra Firma is already trying to trim its equity stake in EMI amid a major strategic review of the music company's business that could result in big changes, including a possible sale of its physical distribution business, The New York Post report...
729 2007-10-29 A preliminary proxy filing for SAP's $5.7 billion acquisition of Business Objects, a French software firm, reveals that two other bidders had stepped forward. And according to The Deal.com, those suitors were Oracle, which is currently trying to t...
730 2007-10-29 Oil prices rose 1.8 percent today, adding to the 3.7 percent increase last week and raising the specter of inflation one day before the Federal Reserve governors meet to consider whether to adjust interest rates.

Crude oil futures rose above the $93 mark in overnight trading and were up to $93.53 a barrel at the close of exchange trading today, up $1.67 from Friday.

The price is a record in actual dollar terms and some analysts said the commodity is on a steady march toward toppling the inflation-adjusted high of $101.70 it set in April 1980.

“It’s an incredible run,” said Antoine Halff, head of energy research at Fimat in New York. “At this stage you’re kind of grappling for the signal that would start a reversal and it’s just not out there in the market.”

A flare-up in the Middle East, including President Bush’s announcement last week of sanctions against Iran and growing tension between Turkey and Iraqi Kurds, along with reports of reduced supplies in the United States, Mexico, and the Middle East, have contributed to the run, Mr. Halff said. A major Mexican crude producer, Petroleos Mexicanos, announced this morning it had halted production on about 600,000 barrels of oil because of a major storm.

The dollar also continues to weaken against the Euro, making oil more attractive to foreign investors.
731 2007-10-29 The events underscore that on Wall Street, even the highest paid chief executives with handpicked boards are not immune to the furies of investors and employees.

His fall is also a reminder of how dangerous it is to tinker with a firm’s culture. Having declared the idea of a nurturing Mother Merrill passé, Mr. O’Neal has discovered how vengeful a spurned culture can be.

Mr. O’Neal’s ascent — through hard work and the cultivation of crucial relationships — was unusual for its swiftness. He also has the ability to be at the center of major financial disruptions without taking on significant blame. He was a senior banker in the junk bond division when the firm had a $470 million write-down; he was a co-head of Merrill’s institutional business in 1997, a few months before the Asian financial crisis hurt the markets. He was chief financial officer in 1998 when the firm had a quarterly loss because of bond trading and exposure to the troubled hedge fund Long Term Capital Management.

People who have worked with Mr. O’Neal, 56, describe an aloof, calculating man who during his 20 years at the firm has made few friends. While he has been quick to forge temporary alliances with superiors like Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president who was his first mentor, and Arshad R. Zakaria and Thomas H. Patrick Sr., who championed his candidacy for the top job, he has been equally quick to cut ties to them.

Some of his closest relationships date back to his days in the General Motors treasury department where he was first noticed as a smart, ambitious executive. It was at G.M. that he met his wife, Nancy Garvey, who was an economist and remains one of his closest confidantes, and John D. Finnegan, the chief executive of Chubb whom he recruited to the Merrill board in 2004.

But colleagues say there was a part of Mr. O’Neal that seemed to resist this ascent. Twice, he came close to leaving the firm and was notorious for his propensity to fall into a funk when things were not going his way. A golf fanatic — his handicap is nine and he belongs to four country clubs — he often plays alone, in addition to the usual rounds with clients and a circle of friends outside Merrill.

But, colleagues also say that at times of crisis, he can display energy, acumen and leadership, as he did in the days after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. Then Merrill’s president, Mr. O’Neal worked countless hours as the firm tried to regain its footing.

For many, especially those far from the intrigues and complexities of Wall Street, Merrill Lynch stands for solidity and good faith, principles that were rocked by the events of the last few months. But old Merrill hands feel that the firm will survive, despite the notion that it may become vulnerable to a takeover.

“This is a resilient franchise,” said Stephen Hammerman, a former vice chairman of Merrill who supported Mr. O’Neal’s bid for chief. Mr. Hammerman said he felt concern for Merrill Lynch employees who have seen the stock decline.

For a time, Merrill’s business flourished as Mr. O’Neal took on more risk and made deep cuts. In 2006, Merrill made $7 billion from using its capital to trade for itself and clients, compared with $2.2 billion in 2002. Some riskier businesses that the firm was involved with, like private equity and lending, fared well this summer.

Merrill’s exposure to the volatile and ultimately toxic market for complex debt instruments called collateralized debt obligations exploded to more than $40 billion from around $1 billion about 18 months ago. Initially, the increased risk was a boon — part of a shift from the firm’s classic position as a money manager with an excellent stock underwriting business to a bank that had become increasingly hooked on the high-octane, high-risk returns that came from investing its own money.

In the second quarter, just before the collapse in the credit markets, fixed-income revenues skyrocketed 201 percent over the same quarter a year earlier. Underpinning this growth was the firm’s market-leading position in packaging different and risky kinds of debt.

Directors were briefed about the firm’s subprime exposure in April and collateralized debt obligations in July, according to a person briefed on the presentations. While Merrill was scrambling to reduce its exposures, worsening conditions in late July shut down the market for even the highest-rated collateralized debt obligations, making it clear that Merrill’s position was starting to look problematic, this person said.

From late July through September, Mr. O’Neal was actively involved in tackling the problem, said a person briefed on the events. He led daily meetings, and called in during his vacation.

He also had another window into the market’s fall. As a director at BlackRock, Mr. O’Neal had been briefed on the dangers of high-risk subprime exposure.

On its second-quarter conference call, Merrill and Mr. O’Neal projected a sunny outlook, promoting the firm’s risk management practices.

But in July, when the credit markets froze, it was clear that Merrill stood to lose a lot of money. As the market deteriorated, and Merrill faced bigger losses, tensions were beginning to boil over. In contrast to past Merrill chiefs who cultivated a clubbier style of management, Mr. O’Neal was not averse to letting rivalries fester.

According to people briefed on the situation, Mr. O’Neal wanted to fire his chief financial officer, Jeffrey N. Edwards, and replace him with a longtime friend, H. McIntyre Gardner.

At the end of July, Ahmass L. Fakahany, who despite his lack of any trading experience had assumed broad responsibility over the firm’s risk exposure, kept the board briefed on the situation. He sent an e-mail message to Charles O. Rossotti, the director in charge of Merrill’s risk committee, according to one person briefed on the communication. In the message, which he copied to Mr. O’Neal, Mr. Fakahany told the board of the exposure.

With the markets worsening, Mr. Fakahany and Mr. Fleming sent a three-page letter to directors on Aug. 9, titled “Board Market Update End July Results: Note from Fakahany and Fleming,” discussing the mounting losses and troubles, and explaining that significant deterioration had taken place in July, according to a person briefed on the situation. The letter was also sent to Mr. O’Neal and Merrill’s general counsel, Rosemary T. Berkery. The deterioration continued, ultimately reaching $7.9 billion in late October, almost $2.5 billion more than Merrill had announced only weeks earlier.

For the board, the fast accumulation of bad news came as a shock. A year earlier, directors had paid Mr. O’Neal $46 million after the firm’s impressive results. Now the biggest losses in the firm’s 93 years were looming.

When directors were briefed late last week about Mr. O’Neal’s approach to G. Kennedy Thompson, the chief executive at Wachovia, they were furious. Mr. Fleming, who is close to Mr. Thompson, had followed up Mr. O’Neal’s initial overture, making it look as if it was more than just putting out feelers.

Even after that board meeting, it was by no means unanimous that Mr. O’Neal would have to leave. As late as Tuesday, the day before earnings were to be reported, one director told a friend that it was a mistake to lump Mr. O’Neal with other troubled chief executives like Charles O. Prince III of Citigroup, who is under scrutiny because of write-offs. Internally, employees viewed the merger talks as the last straw.

“We made some stupid mistakes and most of us said, ‘Let’s figure out how to make this better,’” said a financial adviser with over 25 years of experience at Merrill. “But then you throw in the merger talks and the typical guy says ‘We are desperate.’ The sentiment is, these guys have to go.”

But sentiment was building against Mr. O’Neal among former Merrill executives, some of whom made direct appeals to the board. If he leaves, Mr. O’Neal could be paid at least $159 million, according to an analysis by James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation consulting firm. Had he succeeded in putting together a merger, he might have left with as much as $274 million.

Mr. O’Neal does not have a severance contract, but the board’s compensation committee could grant him severance.

By late in the week, it had become clear that a change was needed. At that point, three directors, all of whom had been recently selected by Mr. O’Neal, had taken the lead in considering life without him at Merrill — Mr. Finnegan, Mr. Rossotti and Armando M. Codina, a prominent real estate developer who knew Mr. O’Neal from the G.M. board.
732 2007-10-29 NEW DELHI, Oct. 28 — From a village in Madhya Pradesh, State, in the heart of India, Gudiya Bai came here walking because, she said, she had lost her land to a limestone mine. From eastern Orissa, Johny Bilyung came because most of his tiny plot had been taken over for the construction of a dam. And from neighboring Jharkhand, Budhua Tanabhagat came because he had yet to get water from a dam that cost him half of his fields.

For 26 days, thousands of peasants like these have marched more than 200 miles here to the capital from Gwalior, in central India, with the hope of telling their government how they had been cast aside by India’s roaring economic growth. They arrived Sunday morning in an orderly, peaceful three-mile-long procession. Most of them wore plastic flip-flops, and some said they were already on their third pair.

A spokesman for Ekta Parishad, or Unity Council, which organized the march, said it had registered 25,000 participants. The council mobilizes people, particularly the “poor and deprived,” to seek “proper and just” use of land and other resources.

The marchers’ principal grievance was over land, and their presence in the capital was a stark reminder of one of India’s biggest challenges as it seeks to balance the needs of a vulnerable countryside with the demands of economic expansion.

More than half of the population makes its living from agriculture, and most peasants subsist on tiny plots fed by fickle rains. While industrial and public works projects displaced people in past decades, the pace of industrialization has accelerated significantly in recent years, sharpening competition over land, one of India’s most coveted resources.

Peasants’ protests, some of them violent, have delayed several proposed projects — including steel mills, power plants and Chinese-style Special Economic Zones — postponing several billion dollars in investments in the past two years. The government has been compelled to revisit its Special Economic Zone policy, which gives developers generous tax breaks, and is writing a policy to compensate those whose lands and livelihoods are lost.
733 2007-10-29 But Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who has taken a particular interest in nuclear security, said in a statement, “The department seems to think that the terrorist threat to its nuclear facilities is no more serious than a Halloween prank, as evidenced by its failure — more than six years after the 9/11 attacks — to do what it must to keep our stores of nuclear-weapons-grade materials secure.” Mr. Markey said the delay was unsurprising but unacceptable.

One site that will miss its deadline by years is the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, which holds a large stock of weapons-usable uranium. The laboratory plans to dilute the uranium, but that will take until 2015, the auditors found.

Two other sites that will miss their deadlines are operated by the National Nuclear Security Administration, which is responsible for weapons security. The agency was established in 1999 after a number of security breaches in the weapons complex, and in January its director was forced to resign because of other security lapses.

After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Energy Department changed its “design basis threat,” the description of the attacking force against which the weapons sites should prepare their defenses. The details of this design basis threat are classified, but the new definition specifies a larger and more capable group of attackers.

To emphasize the importance of the preparations, Congress wrote into law that the Energy Department sites should submit plans on how the department would meet the requirements. Recognizing that much of the department’s work runs far behind schedule, Congress specified that if a delay were necessary, it would have to be approved by the secretary or deputy secretary of energy.

An unclassified version of the Energy Department’s first report to Congress, in July 2006, said that more than $420 million had been spent in the previous three years in an “aggressive” program. Among the changes was giving security officers armored vehicles and large-caliber weapons. That change reduced “the need to hire more security officers to account for the expected attrition that would be a natural result of the increased adversary force.”

The department has rewritten its design basis threat several times. Mr. Kilpatrick said in his statement that all sites now met the 2003 version of the design basis threat and were working toward the current version, set in 2005.

The Energy Department told Congress in 2006 that six sites would meet the 2008 deadline. But the accountability office said that one of those, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, would not make the deadline.

The Energy Department said work at the five other sites would be completed later; those are the Nevada Test Site, the Hanford nuclear reservation in Washington State, the Idaho National Laboratory, the Los Alamos National Laboratory and Y-12, a weapons site in Tennessee.

The G.A.O. said in July that the Idaho National Laboratory would not be done until 2013, four years later than the Energy Department’s estimate.
734 2007-10-29 But in the last two years, there has been a slow but steady turnaround. In February 2006, TheStreet.com announced that it was discontinuing the strategic review. Since then, total quarterly revenues have grown to $14.9 million from $10 million, with the company currently valued at about $400 million. This month, the stock reached seven-year highs of more than $14 a share, and the site has more than five million monthly unique visitors.

A series of content and advertising-related acquisitions has reflected the site’s growing, robust appetite. After acquiring the Stockpickr recommendation service early this year and building its online videos into a television section, TheStreet.com purchased the interactive marketing business Corsis (and its Promotions.com online agency) in August for $20.7 million and signed a content-sharing deal with AOL. Last week, TheStreet.com introduced a mobile content service with Quattro Wireless.

It has also been building a news-based, celebrity-flavored sister site named Mainstreet.com, which will be introduced by the beginning of the year, along with a redesign of the main site.

“Everyone loves money,” said David Morrow, editor in chief of TheStreet.com. “Mainstreet.com will make money fun.”

Steve Elkes, the company’s chief revenue officer and executive vice president of mergers and acquisitions, said that TheStreet.com’s main strengths were things that no startup or Web arm of an established media company could necessarily guarantee: longevity, history and an established online audience. “Money can’t buy success on the Web,” he said. “You need time to build a community.”

Despite the efforts to build its content and broaden its scope, right now TheStreet.com may still be best identified with Mr. Cramer, the chair-throwing, “booyah”-shouting host of “Mad Money” on CNBC. Mr. Cramer drew more controversy than usual this year, beginning when he seemed to suggest on a December video for TheStreet.com that he had once manipulated stocks as a trader, and continuing this August with a straight-to-YouTube clip from an appearance on CNBC, where he became hysterical while discussing interest rates, saying at one point that “we have Armageddon.”

Mr. Cramer declined to be interviewed, but Mr. Clarke expressed no concerns about Mr. Cramer’s relationship with the site. “To me, all the press and publicity about Jim is good,” he said. “Jim’s our promotional vehicle; he’s associated with TheStreet.com.”

The success of TheStreet.com comes at a tumultuous time in business journalism, due in no little part to Mr. Murdoch. The purchase of The Wall Street Journal by his News Corporation and the debut of the Fox Business Network has caused anxiety and scrambling among his print and television competitors. And the subprime mortgage crisis and the resulting volatile markets have increased mass interest in financial news — and might make an established, long-standing online portal like TheStreet.com attractive to a larger organization.

No offer has yet been made, but TheStreet.com’s executives see Mr. Murdoch’s entry into financial news as more an opportunity than a challenge.

For now, “I’m hoping that we can get as many of our content creators on Fox Business Channel as possible, with TheStreet.com splashed across the screen,” Mr. Morrow said.
735 2007-10-29 “Eat it! Lick it! Snort it!” Such was the legal commentary offered by Britney Spears when she left her latest court hearing on Friday afternoon, as reported by “Access Hollywood.” (Actually there was one more imperative phrase, but it’s not likely to appear in this newspaper.)

It’s starting to seem as if America’s appetite for titillating news about Ms. Spears can be matched only by her ability to supply it. The unworn unmentionables, the bobbled baby, the hewn hair, the umbrella attack, the loose lip-syncing, the benders and fender-benders: We have seen it all. And, notwithstanding all the rather transparent statements of concern and condemnation, we have watched avidly but rather dispassionately. What motivation could possibly be stronger than pure, unimpeded, indefensible curiosity?

Yet there remains one thing we haven’t really seen Ms. Spears do: We generally haven’t seen her in the recording studio, at least not recently. And in that sense, her new album, “Blackout” (Jive/Zomba), arrives in shops tomorrow as something of a mystery. Her face is on the front, and 12 songs — all of which have surfaced online in recent weeks — are listed on the back. But we don’t know much more than that, and (legal commentary aside) she doesn’t seem to be talking.

The album’s first single is “Gimme More,” a nifty little electro-pop song that was swiftly overshadowed by Ms. Spears’s inept pantomime of it at the MTV Video Music Awards in September. “Gimme More” was produced by Danja, a deft protégé of Timbaland who is perfecting his own melancholy, robotic sound. It did pretty well on radio (it hit No. 14 on Billboard’s Pop 100 Airplay chart) and, propelled by hundreds of thousands of paid downloads, reached No. 3 on the main singles chart, the Hot 100.

The album includes four other Danja productions, and “Gimme More” seems to provide the template for virtually the entire CD: The electronic beats and bass lines are as thick as Ms. Spears’s voice is thin, and as the album title suggests, the general mood is bracingly unapologetic. As if to taunt all the voyeurs crying crocodile tears for her children, she delivers almost nothing but slithery come-ons and defiant invitations to nightclub decadence.

If that sounds depressing, then you should hear “Piece of Me,” produced by the Swedish duo of Bloodshy & Avant, the same team that produced her 2003 song “Toxic.” Introduced by a sludgy bass line, Ms. Spears waxes defensive, in a heavily synthesized voice that’s the main (and sometimes only) instrument: “I’m Miss Bad-Media-Karma, another day another drama/Guess I can’t see the harm in working and being a mama.”
736 2007-10-29 THE FED WATCH When Federal Reserve policy makers next meet to set interest rates, they are widely expected to continue a policy of pre-emption. Except for housing, the American economy is showing surprising strength and little need for help  from ...
737 2007-10-29 LIBRESCO--Emile WWII navigator, business executive, educator, civic leader, and Democratic Party loyalist, died on August 30 at 85. He received a B.A. from City College and an Ed.D. from Columbia University. Dr. Libresco had multiple careers: as a...
738 2007-10-30 A new e-mail trail sheds light on cat rescue efforts at Kennedy International Airport....
739 2007-10-30 A consumer talks to a sales representative about buying a high definition television at a Best Buy store in Minnesota last December. (Craig Lassig/AP) New Yorkers are watching more high-definition television than any other local market in the Unit...
740 2007-10-30 $161.5 million. That is how much E. Stanley O'Neal will walk away with as he departs Merrill Lynch. In a regulatory filing Tuesday afternoon, the financial firm detailed its agreement with its now-former chairman and chief executive. And perhaps t...
741 2007-10-30 An Apple iPod Touch ad inspired by Nick Haley, 18. Mr. Haley uploaded his version to YouTube before being asked to help produce the professional ad.
742 2007-10-30 From our DealBook colleague Julia Werdigier in London: Not too long ago, UBS's mergers and acquisitions bankers were looking forward to giant bonuses for the year, which has been one of their busiest and most successful. So far in 2007, UBS is ran...
743 2007-10-30 Your business's basic method of operation is collapsing and the margin calls are coming in. Your stock may soon be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. What should you do now? Change the company's name, of course. A real estate investment tr...
744 2007-10-30 Bear Stearns cut 300 jobs Monday to reduce costs, as the investment bank continued to deal with the summer's credit turmoil that swept through Wall Street. The Bear Stearns layoffs will affect various business units, including the firm's equity tr...
745 2007-10-30 Somerset Partners, a private equity firm, shelled out $509 million for 450 Park Ave. in New York, which Bloomberg News called the highest price ever paid for a United States office tower on a per-square-foot basis. Somerset paid about $1,566 a squ...
746 2007-10-30 William S. Lerach, 61, a former partner at the law firm now known as Milberg Weiss, pleaded guilty to conspiracy on Monday. Mr. Lerach pleaded guilty to conspiracy to obstruct justice, specifically for concealing his secret, illegal payments to Dr...
747 2007-10-30 The Baugur Group, the Icelandic investment company that owns the House of Fraser department store chain, said it might make a joint bid for the luxury retailer Saks. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission Monday, Baugur said it ha...
748 2007-10-30 NBC Universal's chief executive, Jeffrey Zucker, dismissed repeated rumors on Monday that the media company would be sold by parent, General Electric. Speaking at an event in New York, Mr. Zucker said that G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey Immelt, h...
749 2007-10-30 Microsoft is giving a booster shot to its Health Solutions Group, announcing on Monday plans to acquire a clinical workflow software developer, Global Care Solutions. The acquisition of Global Care Solutions, based in Bangkok, Thailand, is designe...
750 2007-10-30 PetroChina, China's biggest oil and gas conglomerate, said Monday it had raised 66.8 billion yuan ($8.93 billion) from its initial public offering in Shanghai, making it the country's largest domestic initial public offering so far. PetroChina pri...
751 2007-10-30 Home prices dropped again in August and consumer confidence remained at the lowest level in two years, reinforcing investors’ bleak expectations for the economy, a new report showed today. The trouble signs came as Federal Reserve policy makers began a two-day meeting that could culminate in an interest rate cut.

The Case-Shiller survey found that prices of homes across 20 major United States metropolitan areas fell 4.4 percent for the 12 months through August, the steepest drop since 2001, when the survey began.

The measure, which is released by Standard and Poor’s, is considered more accurate than comparable government reports and offers investors more evidence that the housing sector is facing its worst stretch since the early 1990s.

Home prices in the New York City area fell 0.8 percent in August, and are down 3.8 percent for the year ended in August. Miami, Las Vegas and Los Angeles were among the hardest hit cities for the month, while Denver and Charlotte posted modest gains.

Meanwhile, an October survey of consumers showed confidence in the economy at the lowest level in two years. The confidence index fell to 95.6 from 99.5 in September, which was also revised downward, according to the Conference Board, a private research firm.

A fifth of those surveyed believe there will be fewer jobs in the next six months, and slightly more Americans expect their income to decrease compared with a year ago, the Conference Board said. The share of consumers who believe employment is plentiful dropped below 25 percent for the first time since August 2006.
752 2007-10-30 SHANGHAI, Oct. 29 (AP) — PetroChina, China’s biggest oil and gas conglomerate, said Monday it raised 66.8 billion yuan ($8.93 billion) from its initial public offering in Shanghai, making it the country’s largest domestic initial public offering so far.

PetroChina priced its four billion new yuan-denominated shares at 16.7 yuan ($2.23) each, at the top end of the indicative price range.

The new shares account for 2.18 percent of the state-owned company’s enlarged share capital.

Before the PetroChina stock offering, the initial public offering of the coal producer China Shenhua Energy in Shanghai in September was the largest for a domestic exchange, raising 66.58 billion yuan ($8.90 billion).

PetroChina priced its shares at a discount to its Hong Kong-traded shares, which gained 3.2 percent on Monday to 19.62 Hong Kong dollars ($2.52).

Shares of the company are scheduled to begin trading in Shanghai on Nov. 5.

The benchmark Shanghai composite index has more than doubled in value this year as investors have flooded into the market, seeking higher returns than they can earn on bank savings. Most shares of elite state companies like Shenhua and PetroChina have had at least double-digit gains in their first day of trading after initial public offerings.
753 2007-10-30 The trip is not a sign, however, that the Bush administration is considering major health initiatives, officials said.

“We don’t have anything cooking that we haven’t announced,” the department official said. “We would not endorse a system like the Netherlands or Switzerland’s. But if there’s something we could learn about their system, we should learn about it.”

Other experts, however, are endorsing the two countries’ health systems.

The proposals of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and John Edwards borrow heavily from changes in the two countries. Mitt Romney’s changes when he was governor of Massachusetts were in part modeled on those in Switzerland. Mr. Romney has not endorsed this approach as a candidate seeking the Republican presidential nomination.

The Healthy Americans Act, introduced by Senators Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, would largely adopt the Dutch reforms.

Mr. Wyden said Mr. Leavitt’s trip was part of growing Republican support for proposals for universal health care through individual mandates and private providers.

“I think Mr. Leavitt’s trip is a really positive development,” Mr. Wyden said.

A spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, Susan Pisano, said she was struck by Mr. Leavitt’s timing. On Wednesday, Ms. Pisano’s trade group will be the host of a luncheon at which Dutch and Swiss insurance executives will discuss the changes in Europe.

The event is meant to dispel the myth that every nation that provides universal health care does so through government-run systems.

“The only models we seem to focus on here are those in Canada and Great Britain, which both have government-run systems,” Ms. Pisano said. “We thought it made sense to look at two countries that have universal coverage but rely on the private sector to get there.”

W. David Helms, president of AcademyHealth, a health policy research organization here, said he met top Dutch health officials for several days this month in the Netherlands.

The Netherlands is a particularly good model for the United States, Mr. Helms said, because it has solved two basic problems: moving from an employer-based system to one in which individuals buy their own insurance and subsidizing care for the poor.

“I think the Netherlands is hot right now because a number of people are realizing that we need to go to an individual-based system instead of an employer-based one,” he said.

President Bush recently proposed eliminating the different tax treatment for employer- and individually purchased health insurance by letting individuals buy insurance with pre-tax dollars.

Robert Blendon, a professor of health policy and political analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health, said interest in the Swiss and Dutch models had soared among policy experts because of a growing consensus that the United States would never adopt a single-payer system.

Professor Blendon said that the Massachusetts plan and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s proposal for California demonstrated that such changes were politically feasible, and that the Netherlands and Switzerland showed that they could work.
754 2007-10-30 The Swiss mining company Xstrata has bid $2.8 billion for Jubilee Mines of Australia, the companies said. The acquisition, unanimously recommended by Jubilee’s board, would be the latest in a series of purchases by Xstrata in Australia, but would be its first foray into nickel mining in the country. Xstrata, based in Zug, has copper and zinc operations in Australia. Xstrata bid 23 Australian dollars ($21.11) a share, a 35 percent premium to Jubilee’s closing price on Friday.
755 2007-10-30 Microsoft, seeking to expand in the medical sector, has agreed to acquire the assets of a privately held Thailand-based health information company, it said. The Thai company, Global Care Solutions, specializes in creating software for hospitals’ clinical and administrative operations. Financial terms were not disclosed. Peter Neupert, a vice president of Microsoft’s global health solutions group, said Microsoft would acquire software, intellectual property and other assets of Global Care, which is based in Bangkok.
756 2007-10-30 LOS ANGELES, Oct. 29 — William S. Lerach, 61, a former partner at the law firm now known as Milberg Weiss, pleaded guilty to conspiracy on Monday.

Mr. Lerach pleaded guilty to conspiracy to obstruct justice, specifically for concealing his secret, illegal payments to Dr. Steven G. Cooperman, who was a plaintiff in the class-action lawsuits for which the firm became famous.

Dr. Cooperman, 64, of Fairfield, Conn., has already pleaded guilty to participating in the scheme. Sentencing for Mr. Lerach was set for Jan. 14.

Mr. Lerach, 61, of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., admitted to a role in an arrangement in which the firm pursued companies with class-action lawsuits when their share prices dropped.

The criminal cases against Mr. Lerach; his former partner, Melvyn I. Weiss; several other former partners; and the firm itself are based on how prosecutors say these parties gained an illegal advantage over other firms filing similar suits. Mr. Lerach and the others, prosecutors said, gave kickbacks of about 10 percent of the firm’s share of settlements to individuals who remained on call to act as lead plaintiffs.
757 2007-10-30 NASA mission managers will add a day to the mission of the space shuttle Discovery so crew members can do “exploratory surgery” on a malfunctioning part of the International Space Station’s power system, the space agency announced yesterday.

The problem concerns a rotary joint on the right side of the station that turns the station’s solar arrays so they face the sun during orbit. During an initial examination on Sunday, the spacewalking astronaut Daniel M. Tani collected what he called “metal-to-metal scraping” that peppered the inside of the joint mechanism. Mr. Tani picked up some of the fragments with tape and took them back into the space station.

Mission managers hoped the shavings were aluminized Mylar, a foil used as backing on the insulating covers, and not steel, which would suggest that the mechanism is grinding against itself. They asked Peggy A. Whitson, the space station commander, to conduct an experiment of putting some of the filings on a piece of paper and running a magnet underneath.

Aluminum is not magnetic; steel is. The filings “followed the magnet around,” Michael T. Suffredini, the space station program manager, said yesterday morning in a briefing with reporters.

Mission controllers had known of the problem for several weeks, when a mission control contractor noticed an unusual vibration. Station managers have decided to lock the array in a position that allows it to collect a fair amount of sunlight until the problem can be fully investigated and resolved.
758 2007-10-30 Gasoline prices have often been a taboo subject for Venezuelan governments. There are memories of the riots in 1989, in which hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people died after protests set off by an increase in gasoline prices that resulted in higher transportation costs. That instability helped set in motion a failed coup attempt by Mr. Chávez in 1992, which first thrust him into the public eye.

After his re-election to a six-year term last December, when his political capital was abundant, Mr. Chávez called the gasoline prices “disgusting” and said his government was planning to raise them with a measure “financed by those who own a BMW or a tremendous four-wheel drive.” But he turned his attention to other matters, avoiding the touchy subject.

The link between social peace and gasoline so cheap it is almost given away is evident to many motorists. “If you raise gasoline, the people revolt,” said Janeth Lara, 40, an administrator at the Caracas Stock Exchange, as she waited for an attendant to fill the tank of her Jeep Grand Cherokee at a gas station here on a recent day. “It is the only cheap thing.”

During an oil boom that is lifting the incomes of both rich and poor, Venezuela is grappling with Latin America’s highest inflation rate, about 16 percent. The local currency, the bolívar, has plunged almost 50 percent in unregulated trading this year, reaching a record low of about 6,000 to the dollar in October (the official rate is fixed at 2,150 to the dollar.) Gasoline is one of the few products subject to price controls here that is in relatively ample supply. Newspapers have been filled recently with tales of consumers struggling to find milk. Last month, eggs were scarce.

Economic uncertainty makes it harder to tinker with fuel prices because a small increase could cascade. There could be an impact on the poor, with higher costs for food and other goods for which transportation costs are important, said Francisco Rodríguez, a former chief economist at the National Assembly.

One option is to keep the price of diesel cheap, because it is used in most freight and public transportation, while raising gasoline prices for relatively prosperous car owners. Another idea is to give transportation vouchers to people in poor neighborhoods.

“We are gradually moving toward an economic storm because of our addiction to cheap fuel,” said Orlando Ochoa, an economist at Andrés Bello University in Caracas.

Scholars trace the origins of Venezuela’s subsidy to the 1940s, when leftists imposed caps on gasoline prices after overthrowing the government of Gen. Isaías Medina Angarita. Because profits on sales of gasoline went to foreign oil companies at the time, the measure was seen as a way of redistributing oil revenues to Venezuelans.

Leaders were forced to raise prices in the 1980s and ’90s in the midst of financial distress. But Mr. Chávez has been hesitant to raise gasoline prices since his presidency began almost nine years ago.

Venezuela is not alone among oil-rich countries grappling with subsidized gasoline. Iran, a close ally, was shaken by unrest in June when its government rationed gasoline, which cost 34 cents a gallon at the time. But a thriving car-buying habit rivaled by few nations is forcing the government here to sell greater amounts of cheap gasoline.

Vehicle sales in Venezuela climbed 49 percent in the first nine months of the year from the same period last year, in part because cars are seen here as an investing hedge against economic uncertainty. Not only has the bolívar dropped in value, but there is also concern over real estate as squatters are allowed to take control of vacant properties.

Fuel smuggling into neighboring Colombia, where prices are much higher, is also rife. Domestic fuel consumption is up 56 percent in the past five years, to 780,000 barrels a day, said Ramón Espinasa, a former chief economist at Petróleos de Venezuela, the national oil company. One-third of oil production now goes to meet the subsidy, he said.

Petróleos de Venezuela has disputed such estimates but recently stopped providing public figures on domestic fuel sales. A spokesman at the company said officials were not available to comment on the matter.

Despite government efforts to open the market to car manufacturers from Iran and China, bulky, gas-guzzling sport-utility vehicles from the United States remain among the most sought-after automobiles here.

Perhaps the most coveted S.U.V. of all in Venezuela is the Hummer, an ethical quandary for Mr. Chávez.

“What kind of a revolution is this?” the president said on his television show this month, after a report here that General Motors was planning to import 3,000 Hummers to meet a rising demand. “One of Hummers?”

“No,” he said with the angry tone of a schoolmaster, answering his own question while announcing a measure that makes it more expensive to import Hummers and other luxury items like whiskey. “This is a revolution of truth.”
759 2007-10-30 ESPN and TNT will start the N.B.A. season with a slew of new digital rights that will, among other things, let them stream their games live on their broadband outlets.

“Part of the point is that when we get exclusive games, we can broadcast them anywhere,” said John Skipper, the executive vice president for content at ESPN. “When we have a Friday doubleheader, you can watch it on TV, or on your phone, or you can watch it on your computer on ESPN360.com.” ESPN360.com is a broadband service.

The digital rights were negotiated in eight-year media agreements that were announced in June and will pay the N.B.A. $7.4 billion through 2015-16. As part of the deals, ESPN and TNT were allowed to deploy their digital rights this season, while the first year of the television portions of the contracts does not start until next season.

“We all agreed that these were rights that advertisers were demanding,” said Adam Silver, the N.B.A.’s deputy commissioner and chief operating officer. “And it made no sense to send them into the marketplace with one hand tied behind their backs.”

For ESPN, the rights will let them stream their games on their Mobile TV service that is now available on Verizon’s MediaFlo, as well as on ESPN360. It will also allow live and on-demand streaming of their N.B.A. studio shows on ESPN.com and Mobile TV, and live audio streaming of their radio and TV games and live look-ins to games on ESPN.com.
760 2007-10-30 Verizon Communications reported better-than-expected third-quarter profit yesterday, driven by strong wireless subscriber growth, though analysts were not impressed by its Internet subscription sales.

Despite the threat of losing subscribers to the iPhone from Apple Inc., which is available only on AT&T, customer growth at Verizon Wireless exceeded Wall Street expectations and made up for a slowdown in Verizon’s landline business.

“It’s a story of tremendous strength in wireless and continued deterioration in wireline,” said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

Verizon Wireless, a joint venture with Vodafone, added 1.8 million net retail customers in the quarter, taking total subscribers to 63.7 million. It accounts for about half of the revenue of Verizon Communications.

“If I was AT&T, I’d be a little disappointed I wasn’t able to take more market share from Verizon Wireless,” said Christopher C. King, a Stifel Nicolaus analyst.

Verizon’s third-quarter net income was $1.27 billion, or 44 cents a share, compared with $1.92 billion, or 66 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
761 2007-10-30 Bear Stearns cut 300 jobs yesterday to reduce costs, as the investment bank continued to deal with the summer’s credit turmoil that swept through Wall Street.

The layoffs came the same day that the Swiss bank UBS, which is already writing down the value of some assets by $3.4 billion, warned investors that its fourth-quarter results might be hit by a further downturn in the United States housing and mortgage markets.

The Bear Stearns layoffs will affect various business units, including the firm’s equity trading business, according to an internal memo obtained by The Associated Press. They represent about 2 percent of the staff, which was 15,516 employees as of Aug. 31.

Bear Stearns already cut about 600 positions from its mortgage-origination unit as defaults from borrowers with risky credit began to grow.

A spokesman would not say where positions were cut, confirming only that 300 cuts were made. He said, however, that the layoffs did not mean a hiring freeze, and that the investment bank would continue to add jobs as needed.
762 2007-10-30 SIRTE, Libya, Oct. 29 — Ali Mohamed Gedi, the prime minister of Somalia, resigned Monday after a long feud with the country’s president that was imperiling Somalia’s beleaguered transitional government.

Mr. Gedi, a veterinarian turned politician, announced his resignation in Baidoa, a town where Parliament meets, saying that he was stepping down for the good of the country.

“There has been a lot of wrangling back and forth,” he said in Parliament. “And to put all this to rest, I am resigning for the interests of the Somali people.”

His colleagues, some of them pursuing a no-confidence motion against him, greeted his resignation with cheers.

As he spoke, thousands of people streamed out of Mogadishu, the perennially shell-shocked capital, as insurgents battled Ethiopian troops. Residents said artillery shells had pounded apartment buildings. Soldiers from both sides flooded into the streets. The black smoke of burning tires wafted over the city.

The Ethiopian troops who invaded Somalia in December seem unable to douse the insurgency, which draws fighters from a mix of different groups: the Islamist forces who briefly ruled Somalia before they were ousted by the Ethiopians, clan militias and rank-and-file profiteers who have parasitically benefited from Somalia’s chaos for years.
763 2007-10-30 MINNEAPOLIS, Oct. 29 (AP) — The Northwest Airlines Corporation, reporting results for its first full quarter after leaving Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this summer, said Monday that it earned $244 million, topping Wall Street estimates, as it cut back on seats but raised prices.

Northwest has been adding international and regional jet offerings and trimming mainline seats within the United States. It said overall capacity would go down 1 percent to 2 percent during the fourth quarter. Other airlines have been shifting seats to overseas routes as well.

“All of the major airlines are saying, ‘If need be, we can reduce our capacity,’” said an Avondale Partners analyst, Bob McAdoo. “Which is what you need to do. Because at some prices, some of this capacity you’re flying around doesn’t make sense.”

Northwest is in a good position in that area because its 103 DC-9’s are paid for, so they can be parked with little damage to profits.

“We have significant fleet flexibility, particularly with our DC-9’s, to further reduce capacity should we see an impact on demand,” said David M. Davis, the chief financial officer. However, the company expects continued strong demand, Mr. Davis said.

The company, based in Eagan, Minn., earned $244 million, or 93 cents a share, in the third quarter, reversing a loss of $1.18 billion, or $13.50 a share, a year earlier, when it had bankruptcy-related costs. Revenue fell to $3.38 billion from $3.41 billion.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected earnings of 76 cents a share on revenue of $3.36 billion.
764 2007-10-30 Thank you for another thoughtful piece by Verlyn Klinkenborg, who admirably makes the point that taking an animal’s life should not be a cavalier endeavor.

As a longtime vegan with three vegan-from-birth children, I would like to suggest that since vegetarians are generally healthier than meat eaters, there is no excuse for compassionate people to eat animals.

The American Dietetic Association, based on all the scientific evidence, states that vegetarians have “lower body mass indices than nonvegetarians, as well as lower rates of death from ischemic heart disease; vegetarians also show lower blood cholesterol levels; lower blood pressure; and lower rates of hypertension, Type 2 diabetes, and prostate and colon cancer.”

There is no moral difference between eating a dog or a pig, a cat or a chicken. For the same reason that most of us would not eat our pets, we should also not eat chickens, pigs or other animals.
765 2007-10-30 A low-fat diet may reduce a postmenopausal woman’s risk for ovarian cancer, but only if the diet lasts for many years, a new randomized trial has found.

Researchers randomly assigned 19,541 women to a low-fat regimen reinforced with behavioral modification that included 18 group sessions in the first year and quarterly maintenance sessions after that, along with careful recording of food intake.

A group of 29,294 women consumed their regular diets, which were about 10 percent higher in fat and lower by about one serving a day in fruit and vegetables.

There were no significant differences between the two groups in age, race, body mass index, physical activity level and other variables.

For the first four years, there was no difference in cancer rates. But for the next 4.1 years, women on the low-fat diet had a 40 percent reduced risk for ovarian cancer. Although that is a substantial percentage difference, the absolute risk for ovarian cancer is not great. Over the eight years of the study, 57 women in the diet group and 103 in the comparison group got ovarian cancer.

Still, “this is not a trivial matter,” said Ross L. Prentice, the lead author and director of public health sciences at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. “About 20,000 women a year die from ovarian cancer. We’re happy to be able to say that a dietary change can reduce the risk for a serious disease.”
766 2007-10-30 People who suffer from chronic headaches have been known to try all sorts of pills and home remedies. But cayenne peppers?

Behind the folk wisdom is capsaicin, the active ingredient in cayenne. It is said to bring relief by depleting Substance P, a neurotransmitter that helps transmit pain impulses. Sounds unlikely, but a number of studies have tested the claim, and most have found evidence to support it.

One prominent study was published in 1998 in The Clinical Journal of Pain by researchers in the department of anesthesia and critical care at the University of Chicago. In it, the researchers analyzed data from 33 prior studies and found that capsaicin seemed to work better than placebos for headaches occurring in clusters.

But simply eating hot sauce isn’t going to help. Most studies suggest that capsaicin works just when applied topically. A study by researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital recruited sufferers of chronic headaches and randomly split them. One group had small amounts of diluted capsaicin applied inside the nose for a week. The other received placebo. The study found “a significant decrease in headache severity in the capsaicin group,” but not the placebo group. Other studies, including one this year, published similar results.

Studies have found that capsaicin may help relieve headaches.
767 2007-10-30 Wearing a bright, rose-colored tie and sounding calm, Mr. Olmert delivered a brief statement and immediately left the hall. Dr. Shlomo Segev, director of the Institute for Medical Screening at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center at Tel Hashomer, near Tel Aviv, and Prof. Jacob Ramon, chairman of the Department of Urology and Uro-Oncology at the same hospital, joined him on the podium and stayed to answer questions. Professor Ramon, a former pilot in the Israeli Air Force, will probably perform the surgery, a hospital spokesman said.

Mr. Olmert’s doctors gave a reassuring assessment, calling the prime minister’s tumor “microscopic,” and saying the surgery was not urgent. Professor Ramon put Mr. Olmert’s prospects of disease-free survival — meaning no recurrence of the disease after treatment — at more than 95 percent.

Mr. Olmert underwent a biopsy on Oct. 19 and received the results about a week later, Dr. Segev said.

The treatment will involve the full removal of Mr. Olmert’s prostate gland, an operation that can be performed under full or local anesthetic, the doctors said. They added that the procedure usually required three days’ hospitalization followed by a period of recuperation at home.

The prime minister will be incapacitated for four to five hours during and immediately after the operation, according to the doctors. He will probably be temporarily replaced by the vice prime minister and foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, who was informed of the diagnosis while on an official visit to China.

The doctors said Mr. Olmert’s ability to travel would not be affected by his condition, other than for a few weeks after the surgery. According to the doctors, it is usual to wait at least six weeks between the biopsy and surgery. Since there is no urgency to operate, Mr. Olmert is expected to be able to attend a Middle East peace conference planned to take place in Annapolis, Md., before the end of the year.

Mr. Olmert took over the duties of prime minister in January 2006 after his predecessor, Ariel Sharon, suffered a crippling stroke that left him comatose. Mr. Olmert was elected to the office in March 2006. Mr. Sharon still lies in a long-term rehabilitation facility — also at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center.

Mr. Olmert faced calls for his resignation this spring after an official committee of inquiry accused him of severe failures in conducting the 2006 war in Lebanon. This month, he was questioned twice by the police at his official residence as part of a criminal investigation into whether he tried in 2005, as acting finance minister, to help steer the sale of an Israeli bank to a friend. Two other criminal inquiries involving Mr. Olmert are under way.

Meanwhile, in Gaza on Monday, two Palestinian gunmen belonging to Hamas and a 44-year-old civilian were killed by Israeli ground and air forces during clashes in the north and the south of the territory, according to Palestinian medical officials. One Israeli soldier, a 34-year-old reservist, was killed and another was seriously wounded in the clashes, an army spokeswoman said.

Separately, Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, urged Israel to “reconsider its actions” concerning the Gaza Strip, a day after Israel starting reducing fuel supplies to the territory in response to continuing rocket fire from Gaza.

Mr. Ban said the “punitive measures” taken by Israel were “unacceptable.” The Israeli government had also announced its intention to interrupt electricity supplies to the Gaza Strip, but late Monday Israel’s attorney general ordered the defense establishment to re-examine that decision in the light of the harm it would cause to Gaza’s people.
768 2007-10-30 FOR A WEAKER SAFETY BILL Nancy A. Nord, the acting chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, has asked Congress to reject legislation that would strengthen the agency after several recalls of tainted and dangerous products manufactured b...
769 2007-10-31 Spitzer on Hillary and his driver’s license plan....
770 2007-10-31 Photographs of the Dumbo neighborhood on the Brooklyn waterfront, which is being considered for historic district status....
771 2007-10-31 The commercial portrays John McCain as a corruption-busting, responsible fiscal steward. But it also contains perhaps one of the closest brushes with commercial confrontation....
772 2007-10-31 The share price that Facebook has used for its employee stock options rose more than 30-fold between January 2006 and August 2007. It’s likely to experience another steep jump in value after Microsoft’s investment is factored in....
773 2007-10-31 A&E has suspended production on the popular show "Dog the Bounty Hunter" after the show's star, Duane Dog Chapman, was allegedly heard expressing racist insults in two recorded phone calls. The National Enquirer published the audio tape on its Web...
774 2007-10-31 Up Next in David Pogue
775 2007-10-31 Looks from Roberto Cavalli's new collection for H&M. It's Halloween, so I figured this was a good moment to share a few thoughts on Roberto Cavalli's new collection for H&M. It goes on sale Nov. 8, but after seeing a preview in the H&M showroom, I...
776 2007-10-31 Gov. Eliot Spitzer was asked this morning about Hillary Rodham Clinton's response last night to a question about his license plan....
777 2007-10-31 Curt Schilling is a rare breed, and it's not just because of his extraordinary postseason success. He operates without an agent, shares his thoughts on a personal blog and actually seems to be the one guy who might really mean what he says about f...
778 2007-10-31 Karen Hughes, a close confidante of President Bush, announced today that she is leaving her job as undersecretary of state, where she was responsible for improving America's reputation and standing overseas. Ms. Hughes used a variety of techniques...
779 2007-10-31 Merrill Lynch's plate might get fuller. The firm, which ousted its chairman and chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, yesterday after an $8.4 billion write-down and an unauthorized merger approach to a rival bank, Wachovia, may now have to contend w...
780 2007-10-31 Indexes have long been used as a gauge of performance for stock and bond investors, but, Investment Dealers' Digest wonders, can they be used within the hedge fund industry, and could they supplant the role of funds-of-funds that many institutiona...
781 2007-10-31 The Nasdaq Stock Market is a front-runner among possible buyers of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, which could be worth as much as $600 million, according to news reports. According to the Wall Street Journal, Nasdaq has been in talks for months ...
782 2007-10-31 Dublin-based Merrion Pharmaceuticals has cut the expected price range of its planned initial public offering of 4 million American Depositary Shares, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Tuesday. The specialty pharmaceutical co...
783 2007-10-31 Applebee's International shareholders voted to approve the $2.1 billion takeover of the casual dining chain by pancake restaurant owner IHOP. The Applebee's vote in Overland Park, Kan., clears the way for the transaction to be completed next month...
784 2007-10-31 That gave way to a plan to remove the remaining 21 insulating covers from the right-hand joint (Mr. Tani took one cover off) in hopes of finding the source of the shavings and determining what repairs might be possible.

But those plans had to change as well after the tear was seen. The new spacewalk will take place on Friday — or, if the plans cannot be worked out in time by mission managers, on Saturday.

The damage was spotted while a solar array on the left-hand side of the station was being extended on Tuesday, after the retracted arrays had been moved into position on the far left end of the station’s enormous power truss. The panels had been retracted so that the array could be relocated from a temporary position atop the station.

The shuttle commander, Pamela Melroy, was working the controls that extended the array when she radioed to the ground, “We, uh, detected some, what appears to be a wraparound or some damage.”

The two-and-a-half-foot tear in the array may have been caused by a guide wire snagging one of the hinges that connect the fanfold panels of the array.

In a video press conference this morning, Commander Melroy said “it was a tough situation,” and difficult to monitor the unfolding, because “the sun was shining directly into our camera views.” She had already stopped the deployment once because it was so hard to see what was going on with the arrays. “It happened fairly quickly,” she said.

“We’re always going to second-guess ourselves, and there might have been some other things we could have done,” she said. “I think we did as well as we could under the environmental circumstances.”

During the NASA press conference, which took place this morning before the official decision to swap tasks for the spacewalk, Commander Melroy said that the crew was ready to take on anything that mission managers wanted them to do.

“I think we’re kind of in the groove right now, so if the ground decides that’s the right thing to do and they ask us to do it, we’ll be ready to support it,” she said.

In a briefing with reporters yesterday, Michael T. Suffredini, the space station manager, said that the pileup of problems is challenging but not dire. “It’s not a situation where anybody’s particularly panicked,” Mr. Suffredini said.

The ribbon cable that carries power from the array to the station was undamaged — “that’s great news,” he said — and the panel continues to supply 95 percent of the power that it should.

The panels were designed to be used in their fully extended, taut form. Keeping them partly extended could cause structural problems and complicate calculations for their response to thruster firings, docking with a space shuttle or even strenuous crew exercise, Mr. Suffredini said.

Because of the damage, managers have decided to lock the rotary joint that orients the left-hand array toward the sun. That means neither of the two rotary joints will be in use, impairing the solar panels’ power production.

Managers had said the station would have plenty of power despite locking the right-hand joint, because it could still receive a fair amount of sunlight. But that estimate was based in part on the assumption that the left-side array would be free to track the sun.

Now, with that array locked as well, Mr. Suffredini said, power woes could affect the timing of the next shuttle mission to the station. The shuttle Atlantis is scheduled to fly as early as Dec. 6 to deliver a European-made science module.

In NASA scheduling parlance, that mission is known as the 1E flight, and Mr. Suffredini told reporters on Tuesday, “I wouldn’t want to plan a 1E flight until I knew a little better what was going on with this array.”

In giving official word to Commander Melroy of the spacewalk change, Mr. Antonelli, of the Navy, referred to the focus of the new spacewalk as “solar-array wing stuff,” a vague description of plans that appear, at this point, to still be vague as well.

The array will be hard for astronauts to reach, managers said. Possible repairs include a spacewalk to reinforce the array, perhaps by strapping the torn panel to its neighbor.

“It doesn’t have to look good,” Mr. Suffredini said. “It just has to give us power.”

He voiced cautious optimism about resolving the problems with the array and the rotary joint, saying: “I, in my mind, have a path through the wilderness on both of these problems. It’ll take time.”

Meanwhile, aboard the station today, the 10-member combined crew worked through tasks that included transferring goods carried by the shuttle up to the station. The most complex tasks of the mission — attaching a new room known as the Harmony module to the station and moving the solar array and truss — have already been accomplished.

Clayton Anderson, an astronaut who has lived aboard the station since June and will return to Earth next week with the Discovery crew, floated through his work this morning wearing a black cape that billowed in the microgravity environment to celebrate Halloween.
785 2007-10-31 HSBC Holdings, the biggest bank in Europe, has sold its Marbles and Beneficial branded credit cards in Britain to a specialist lender, SAV Credit, for £385 million ($796 million). HSBC said the portfolios consisted of 338,000 accounts and were not a core part of its strategy to expand its card business. HSBC acquired Marbles as part of its purchase of Household, a lender in the United States, in 2003. Marbles closed to new credit card customers in April. SAV was founded in 2001 as a provider of credit cards to consumers unable to get cards among mainstream lenders. It has opened more than 150,000 credit card accounts.
786 2007-10-31 WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 (Dow Jones) — A federal district court’s oversight of Microsoft has been extended until the end of January to give the judge in the case time to consider a motion to extend that oversight for another five years.

The majority of terms of a consent decree reached between Microsoft and federal and state antitrust authorities in 2002 was to expire in November.

But two weeks ago, two groups of state attorneys general appealed to the court to continue the consent decree until 2012, arguing that competition in the personal computer software marketplace would be harmed without such a move.

The parties were to assemble before Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly one last time next week, as they have been doing every quarter for the last five years.

According to filings with the court made public on Tuesday, they have now agreed to extend the judicial oversight of Microsoft pending a decision by Judge Kollar-Kotelly on the motion by the state antitrust authorities.

The decision reached on Tuesday to extend the consent decree is significant because the judge could have dismissed the bid to extend the oversight without considering it, although it was not likely to indicate what her ultimate decision would be.
787 2007-10-31 Prime Minister Hun Sen said he planned to legally disown his adopted daughter, who is a lesbian, so she cannot claim any inheritance. Mr. Hun Sen made the disclosure about his closely guarded family life in a speech at a graduation. “My adopted daughter now has a wife,” he said. “I’m quite disappointed.” At the same time, he appealed to people not to discriminate against homosexuals, adding, “Most of them are good people and are not doing alcohol, drugs or racing vehicles.”
788 2007-10-31 A hunter is recovering after he was shot in the leg at close range by his dog, a spokesman with the Department of Natural Resources said. The hunter, James Harris, 37, of Tama, was hit in the calf Saturday, the opening day of pheasant season, said the spokesman, Alan Foster. “He took between 100 to 120 pellets in about a four-inch circle to his calf,” Mr. Foster said. Mr. Harris was hit when he put his gun on the ground to retrieve a bird, Mr. Foster said. The dog stepped on the gun and tripped the trigger when Mr. Harris was about three feet away. The dog was not injured.
789 2007-10-31 Because the chemical companies are not required to meet even minimal drug-manufacturing standards, there is little to stop them from exporting unapproved, adulterated or counterfeit ingredients. The substandard formulations made from those ingredients often end up in pharmacies in developing countries and for sale on the Internet, where more Americans are turning for cheap medicine.

In Milan, The Times identified at least 82 Chinese chemical companies that said they made and exported pharmaceutical ingredients — yet not one was certified by the State Food and Drug Administration in China, records show. Nonetheless, the companies were negotiating deals at the pharmaceutical show, where suppliers wooed customers with live music, wine and vibrating chairs.

One of them was the Wuxi Hexia Chemical Company. When The Times showed Yan Jiangying, a top Chinese drug regulator, a list of 186 products being advertised by the company, including active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished drugs, Ms. Yan said, “This is definitely against the law.”

Yet in China, chemical manufacturers that sell drug ingredients fall into a regulatory hole. Pharmaceutical companies are regulated by the food and drug agency. Chemical companies that make products as varied as fertilizer and industrial solvents are overseen by other agencies. The problem arises when chemical companies cross over into drug ingredients. “We have never investigated a chemical company,” said Ms. Yan, deputy director of policy and regulation at the State Food and Drug Administration. “We don’t have jurisdiction.”

China’s health officials have known of this regulatory gap since at least the mid-1990s, when a chemical company sold a tainted ingredient that killed nearly 100 children in Haiti. But Chinese regulatory agencies have failed to cooperate to stop chemical companies from exporting drug products.

In 2006, at least 138 Panamanians died or were disabled after another Chinese chemical company sold the same poisonous ingredient, diethylene glycol, which was mixed into cold medicine.

China has an estimated 80,000 chemical companies, and the United States Food and Drug Administration does not know how many sell ingredients used in drugs consumed by Americans.

The Times examined thousands of companies selling products on major business-to-business Internet trading sites and found more than 1,300 chemical companies offering pharmaceutical ingredients. How many others sell drug ingredients but don’t advertise this way on the Web is not known.

If the Milan show is any guide, most, if not all, are not certified by China’s drug authorities.

China exports drug ingredients to customers in 150 countries, said Sun Dongliang, a Chinese trade official who helped organize his country’s Milan exhibitors. Many suppliers have passed inspections by drug authorities and sell active pharmaceutical ingredients, or A.P.I.’s, of high quality, buyers say.

“Sometimes you can just have your lunch on the floor of the factory because it’s so clean and so perfect, sometimes much better than in Europe,” said Jean-François Quarre, a French drug company official who had a booth in Milan. But Mr. Quarre cautioned that he has seen the other side as well. “It’s frightening.”

At their worst, uncertified chemical companies contribute to China’s notoriety as the world’s biggest supplier of counterfeit drugs, which include unauthorized copies as well as substandard, even harmful, formulations. “Underregulated manufacturers are increasingly becoming the source of A.P.I.’s used in the production of counterfeit medicine,” R. John Theriault, until recently Pfizer’s head of global security, said in a statement to Congress.

Because United States drug regulators require pharmaceutical suppliers to meet high standards, the American supply chain is among the world’s safest. But as China’s chemical suppliers multiply, Congressional investigators are questioning the F.D.A.’s ability to protect consumers.

Even some Chinese chemical companies recognize their limitations in making pharmaceuticals.

“We don’t have the resources and means to produce medicine,” said Gu Jinfeng, a salesman for Changzhou Watson Fine Chemical. “The bar for producing chemicals is pretty low.”

Even so, Watson Chemical advertises that it makes active pharmaceutical ingredients. But Mr. Gu said he would export them only to countries with lower standards than China, or if “we can earn really good profits.”

Just days before the Milan trade show, United States officials made an announcement that brought home the global reach and attendant dangers of China’s expanding chemical industry. The officials disclosed that they had dismantled a 27-state underground network for steroids and human growth hormone, arresting 124 people in “Operation Raw Deal.”

The supply trail almost always led to China. Thirty-seven companies there supplied virtually all of the bulk chemicals, federal officials said.

Of the 37 suspect companies, all but one unnamed by the American authorities, The Times identified eight. Records show that six are uncertified chemical companies, including Hunan Steroid, which marketed its products at the Milan convention.

“Just want to see the old customers and develop the new market,” said Sun Xueqin, a deputy export manager for Hunan Steroid. Ms. Sun said the company sold raw pharmaceutical ingredients in Europe and America and more advanced pharmaceutical ingredients in India, among other places.

Later, another Hunan official, Huang Zili, said the company did not sell to the United States, and declined to comment on the government’s contention that Hunan was a supplier of bodybuilding drugs. Hunan has not been charged with any crime.

As serious as the accusations are in Operation Raw Deal, health experts say they believe that counterfeit drugs, particularly those sold on the Internet, pose a greater threat to a broader segment of the American public.

“The facts are irrefutable,” Mr. Theriault, the former Pfizer official, told Congress. “The importation of counterfeit, infringing, misbranded and unapproved pharmaceutical products in the United States is increasing exponentially.” Pfizer makes Viagra, one of the drugs most often counterfeited.

Finding uncertified companies feeding the market is not difficult. Orient Pacific International, the Milan registrant whose owner did not show up, advertised that it makes and exports pharmaceutical ingredients to “worldwide famous medical companies.” The owner, Mr. Xu, is accused of selling counterfeit medicine to treat ailments like cancer, mental illness and heart disease, according to United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or I.C.E.

Mr. Xu shipped drugs to an Internet pharmacy, investigators say. But he also penetrated the highly regulated supply chain of legitimate distributors in Europe, said David A. Faulconer, a customs official. Acting on tips from large drug companies, federal officials devised a plan to stop him from doing the same in the United States.

Posing as a buyer, an investigator for the immigration and customs agency met Mr. Xu in Bangkok on March 6. Mr. Xu gave him “detailed suggestions for transshipment and smuggling techniques to evade United States Customs detection,” federal records show.

After investigators bought multiple shipments of counterfeit drugs, Mr. Xu traveled to Houston “to consummate an agreement for widespread distribution of his counterfeit products in the United States,” according to an affidavit filed in federal court. Federal agents arrested Mr. Xu, who has pleaded not guilty.

Another company exhibiting in Milan, Honor International Pharmtech, was also the subject of a customs investigation. In January, agents seized 3,041 fake Viagra pills sent by the company to a DHL shipping hub in Wilmington, Ohio, according to customs.

The shipment, disguised as grape seed extract, was destined for an Internet pharmacy in Central America, said agents who requested anonymity because the investigation continues.

“We do make grape seed extract,” the company’s managing director, Nie An, said in a telephone interview. He denied shipping counterfeit Viagra, but he acknowledged other indiscretions: making false advertising claims, using another company’s import-export license and creating a fake corporate name.

“We don’t really have a factory,” Mr. Nie said, even though he advertised that he did. Honor International is just a trading company, he said, adding, “As a trading company, saying you can manufacture attracts business. It was fake advertising.”

The Times found several other companies posing as manufacturers, thereby obscuring a drug’s provenance. In a recent joint statement, chemical associations in the United States and Europe cautioned that globalization has led to a rise in complexity in supply chains, “increasing the potential for contamination, mislabeling or substitution.”

Pharmaceutical ingredients can pass through three or four trading companies, none of which check their quality. The ultimate manufacturer may not realize the ingredients came from an uncertified chemical company.

Mr. Nie, for example, said he markets Viagra’s main ingredient, sildenafil, through a partnership with a chemical company in a distant region that he has never visited. “We met them at a trade fair,” he said. “This company didn’t even have a booth at the fair. They were standing outside the entrance to the exhibition center, and they handed us a flier with a menu of their products.”

He said he was trying to the reach the factory, which has no Web site, to fill a Croatian company’s order.

“Our main markets are in Latin America — Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay,” he said. “A little in Canada, a little in the United States. In Europe, we export to Germany, Russia, Italy.”

But Mr. Nie faces an uncertain future. He said that Chinese investigators had recently visited his office, and that they knew about the seizure in Ohio.

Viagra is hardly the only drug that companies try to copy. The French drug maker Sanofi-Aventis grew weary of watching other companies sell knockoffs of its new diet drug, Acomplia, and alerted French authorities that three Chinese companies were marketing their own version of the product at the 2006 pharmaceutical ingredient trade show, held in Paris. Six Chinese company officials were arrested.

One of those arrested in Paris was Jin Lijie, managing director of the Wuxi Hexia Chemical Company. Still, Wuxi Hexia showed up in Milan in 2007 selling a line of pharmaceutical ingredients.

Its representatives declined to be interviewed in Milan, or at its offices in the boomtown of Wuxi. “We are all young college graduates and we are still learning about the market,” said an employee named Du Yanqun.

A good place to find companies selling uncertified drug ingredients is Changzhou in the Yangtze delta, where the raw materials for chemical production are readily available and easily transported by canals and roads.

Several factories there sent representatives to Milan, including the Changzhou Kangrui Chemical Company. It makes pharmaceutical ingredients in an old converted steel plant. “I’m afraid it will leave you with a bad impression,” said Zhou Ladi, a sales representative, as she gave a tour. She said Kangrui Chemical hopes to move into a new plant by early 2009.

“As long as we don’t export products that are under patent in other countries, the government encourages us to export,” she said.

To help find customers overseas, smaller factories enlist the services of people like Bian Jingya, export manager for a trading company called the Changzhou Wejia Chemical Company.

Ms. Bian said chemical companies are involved in all phases of drug manufacturing, including making finished products. Some, she said, “are under patent in other countries.”

Ms. Bian, who was also in Milan, said the government should spell out more clearly what companies may and may not do. “If you want to be regulated, they will regulate you,” she said. “If you don’t want to be regulated, they don’t.”

The Chinese drug agency does not oversee the making of pharmaceutical raw materials, called intermediates, which are the building blocks for active pharmaceutical ingredients. “It is unrealistic for us to certify all factories that make intermediates and regulate them like medicine products,” said Ms. Yan, the agency official. But if companies make active ingredients, a more refined product, then they must be regulated by drug authorities, she said.

When The Times pointed out that many uncertified chemical companies openly advertise active ingredients, Ms. Yan said that was illegal. “If there are in fact chemical companies that are making drugs without certification then this is very serious,” she said. “These companies are not qualified to make medicine. They make chemicals.”

Wang Siqing, managing director of the Changzhou Yabang Pharmaceutical Company, estimated that uncertified chemical companies make half the active pharmaceutical ingredients sold in China. “The stuff produced by chemical plants is clearly counterfeit medicine, but they aren’t investigating,” Mr. Wang said in an interview at his office. “This has been happening in a regulatory void.” He added that most chemical company exports go to unregulated markets in Africa or South America. “That’s not to say these products don’t enter the United States through these other countries,” he said.

To find out how well American consumers are being protected from unsafe imported drugs, investigators from the House Energy and Commerce Committee recently accompanied F.D.A. officials on inspections of drug plants in China and India.

In a letter to the F.D.A. commissioner, the committee said that the agency was unable to provide such basic information as the number of firms exporting to the United States, and that overseas F.D.A. inspectors lacked necessary logistical support. A House hearing on F.D.A. oversight of foreign drug manufacturers is scheduled for Thursday.

“China alone has more than 700 firms making drug products for the U.S., yet the F.D.A. has resources to conduct only about 20 inspections a year in China,” said Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The F.D.A. said it would answer the committee’s questions at the hearing.

United States officials learned of problems with China’s chemical companies in the mid-1990s while investigating the fatal poisonings in Haiti. Chinese authorities took no action against the uncertified chemical company that made the poison, diethylene glycol, or the giant state-owned trader, Sinochem International Chemicals, that exported it.

A decade later another state-owned trading company, CNSC Fortune Way, exported the diethylene glycol — also from an uncertified chemical company — that ended up in the deadly Panamanian cold medicine in 2006.

Chinese officials have known for years that uncertified chemical companies are producing active pharmaceutical ingredients. In 2004 the Chinese drug authority’s newspaper cited complaints that some licensed companies “affiliate” with unlicensed ones to hide their illegal purchases, while others buy only a token amount from certified suppliers to pass inspection. “The impact of chemical products on the bulk pharmaceutical market hints at a much larger problem: a huge hole in drug safety,” the drug agency publication stated.

Since the Panama poisonings, China is considering ways to corral the chemical industry. At Panama’s request, Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, has pressed the Chinese government to step up regulation of chemical companies selling pharmaceutical ingredients.

American and Chinese health officials held their first high-level meeting in May, and hope to sign a memorandum of agreement in December. “The Chinese have finally come to the realization that their regulatory system needs repair,” said William Steiger, director of international affairs for Mr. Leavitt’s agency. But meaningful change will be difficult. Chinese authorities may not have enough investigators to weed out the many small chemical companies that are making drug ingredients.

And efforts to close the regulatory gap must overcome one particularly thorny issue: some uncertified companies accused of selling counterfeit drugs are owned by the government itself.
790 2007-10-31 In a radio advertisement playing in New Hampshire and in speeches along the campaign trail, Rudolph W. Giuliani has cited statistics to cut at the heart of his Democratic rivals’ health care proposals, which he has derided as European-style “socialist” plans that will lower the standard of care in the United States.

“I had prostate cancer five, six years ago,” Mr. Giuliani, a Republican presidential candidate, said in a speech that has been turned into the radio commercial. “My chance of surviving prostate cancer — and, thank God, I was cured of it — in the United States? Eighty-two percent. My chance of surviving prostate cancer in England? Only 44 percent under socialized medicine.”

Mr. Giuliani’s Democratic rivals would argue that they are not advocating government-run health care in their plans to extend coverage to the uninsured. But, beyond that, the 44 percent figure that Mr. Giuliani has been citing is in dispute.

The Office for National Statistics in Britain says the five-year survival rate from prostate cancer there is 74.4 percent. And doctors also say it is unfair to compare prostate cancer statistics in Britain with those in the United States because in the United States the cancer is more likely to be diagnosed in its early stages.

“Certainly, if you intensively screen for prostate cancer, you will find early disease,” said Dr. Ian M. Thompson, chairman of the department of urology at the University of Texas at San Antonio. “And simply because you find it earlier, you will always have longer survival after the disease is diagnosed.”

Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani, said yesterday that the 44 percent figure came from an article in City Journal, a publication of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization.
791 2007-10-31 Avon Products’ profit soared 61 percent in the third quarter as the company enjoyed strong revenue growth across all divisions.

Avon, the New York-based direct seller of beauty products, is in the midst of revamping its business to increase sales. The company said yesterday that net income rose to $139.1 million, or 32 cents a share, in the quarter that ended Sept. 30. That compared with $86.4 million, or 19 cents a share, in the year-ago period.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected 31 cents a share on revenue of $2.27 billion for the quarter.

Avon unveiled a multiyear reorganization plan in November 2005 after the company’s global sales sagged. The plan involved steep job cuts, the elimination of management layers to speed reaction to market trends, the realignment of manufacturing centers and the outsourcing of work to countries with cheaper labor costs.
792 2007-10-31 In a telephone interview, William H. Tobey, a senior nonproliferation official at the National Nuclear Security Administration, said the program had reduced the chance of unauthorized access at the nuclear weapon sites and that it was “continued evidence of this bright spot in U.S.-Russian relations.”

Relations between Russia and the United States have soured on a number of issues, including the Iranian nuclear program and the Bush administration’s insistence on the need to build missile defenses in Europe, a proposal that has alarmed the Kremlin.

As recently as last week, Mr. Putin publicly compared the disagreement over the need for a missile defense system, and the United States’ plans to build it near Russia, to the Cuban missile crisis. On Monday, the Russian military claimed to have conducted more than 20 long-range flights with its aging fleet of strategic nuclear bombers, and said a similar number of flights were planned for this week.

Russia has also taken to broadcasting state-controlled news reports of tests of cruise missiles and powerful conventional weapons, drawing comparisons to American systems and suggesting that the tests are necessary because of threats from the West.

Russian and American politicians and security analysts have suggested that some of Mr. Putin’s statements, and the nationalist content on Kremlin-controlled television networks, have been tied to the election season here. Parliamentary elections are scheduled for early December, and a presidential election to select Mr. Putin’s successor is planned for the spring.

The election season has arrived against a backdrop of rising inflation and steeply climbing living costs. At the same time, Russia is facing criticism from the West about its behavior, including its record of nondemocratic elections and the use of energy and trade levers, in the West’s view, to punish governments that have challenged its authority.

The continuing work at the missile bases, however, belies the intensity of some of the Kremlin’s statements, showing that Mr. Putin’s government continues to collaborate on strategically delicate nonproliferation programs.

Mr. Tobey and another official at the security administration, a semiautonomous arm of the Department of Energy, declined to provide many details of the final inspection and work, saying that under the agreement with Russia many elements of the program remain classified.

But he said the security upgrades had been conducted at bunkers, rail transfer points and so-called mating facilities, where warheads are joined to rocket systems. In all, he said, the work cost about $150 million, and was paid for by the United States.

He said work on other security and nonproliferation programs was also ahead of schedule. Among them are plans to install radiation detectors at all Russian border crossings by 2011 and an effort to finish construction in 2009 of fossil-fuel power plants in Siberia to replace the last three nuclear power plants in Russia that produce plutonium.
793 2007-10-31 Wyeth, the largest maker of hormone-replacement medicines used during menopause, won dismissal of a lawsuit in Minnesota linking its Premarin and Prempro drugs to breast cancer.

Judge George F. McGunnigle of state district court in Minneapolis granted Wyeth’s motion to throw out the case, ruling that a woman who blamed the drugs for her breast cancer had failed to offer any “scientifically valid evidence” supporting her claim, the company said yesterday.

The decision comes more than two weeks after a state court jury in Reno, Nev., ruled that Premarin and Prempro had helped cause breast cancer in three women and awarded them a total of $134.5 million. Wyeth, which faces more than 5,300 lawsuits over the two drugs, is appealing that decision. As many as six million women took the Wyeth medicines for menopause symptoms like hot flashes and mood swings before a study in 2002 highlighted the drugs’ links to cancer.

Annual sales of Wyeth’s hormone-replacement drugs topped $2 billion before the Women’s Health Initiative study, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, suggested that women using the medicines had a 24 percent higher risk of breast cancer.

The drugs, which are still on the market, generated more than $1 billion in sales in 2006.

Wyeth’s lawyers insist the company conducted extensive safety tests on the drugs and warned of the risks through prescription labels and information sheets. They also contend that the company properly marketed the drugs as beneficial to women with menopause symptoms and osteoporosis.
794 2007-10-31 LONDON, Oct. 30 — Representatives from top oil-producing countries blamed a combination of financial speculation, geopolitical instability and a shortfall in refining capacity for the steady advance of oil toward $100 a barrel.

Mohammed bin Dhaen al-Hamli, the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, pledged to keep markets amply supplied. But at an oil industry conference in London, he said there was only so much OPEC could do to keep a lid on prices.

“Increasingly oil markets are being driven by forces beyond OPEC’s control, such as geopolitical events and the growing influence of financial investors,” said Mr. Hamli, who is also the oil minister of the United Arab Emirates. “We are of course concerned about the high level of oil prices.”

He declined to say if, or when, the price of oil would reach $100, but he noted that OPEC members had decided last month to increase output by 500,000 barrels a day on Thursday.

Heads of state of OPEC member nations will meet next month in Riyadh, but Mr. Hamli said there were no plans to raise output at that meeting.
795 2007-10-31 CINCINNATI, Oct. 30 (AP) — Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive reported big jumps in quarterly profits Tuesday. But the two consumer product companies’ stocks headed in opposite directions after P.& G. issued a cautious outlook in the face of rising commodity costs and consumer uncertainty.

Shares of Colgate, based in New York, rose 1.4 percent after the company, the maker of Colgate toothpaste, Palmolive dishwashing liquid and Irish Spring soap, posted a 22 percent increase in profit for the third quarter.

Shares of P.& G., Colgate’s bigger Cincinnati-based competitor, whose brands include Tide detergent, Gillette shavers and Crest toothpaste, dropped by 4 percent after P.& G. reported a 14 percent profit rise for its first fiscal quarter.

Colgate’s earnings climbed to $420.1 million, or 77 cents a share, for the quarter that ended Sept. 30 from $344.1 million, or 63 cents a share, the previous year. Excluding charges, including some for reorganization, earnings totaled $466.4 million, or 86 cents a share, compared with $402.6 million, or 73 cents a share, a year earlier.

On that basis, analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected net income of 85 cents a share on sales of $3.48 billion.
796 2007-10-31 “We’re giving them relief,” Mr. Lautenberg said after the vote. “Relief from traffic congestion, relief from lines at the airport, relief from planes lined up on the tarmac. Today, the Senate has said to American travelers, ‘You will have another choice.’”

The House, historically less generous toward Amtrak than the Senate, has yet to act on the bill.Over nearly four days of debate on the Senate floor, critics of the subsidies used the opportunity to lay out a long list of complaints about Amtrak management and performance, including financial failures.

Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said the bill needed a clarification of corporation’s mission.

“Is it supposed to provide only those services where it can make a profit?” Mr. Bond asked. “Is it supposed to supplement air service in specific markets regardless of cost? Is it supposed to serve rural markets regardless of cost? Is it supposed to provide tourist travel regardless of cost?

“All of these have been held out from time to time as reasons to subsidize Amtrak and as reasons why it should not be held accountable for the effective use of the taxpayers’ money. However, those are empty excuses.”

Mr. Bond and other critics pointed to money-losing food and beverage services on the railroad and first-class service on long-distance routes as examples of costs that they said taxpayers should not have to subsidize.

Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, tried to amend the bill to require Amtrak to provide quarterly reports on the finances of its food and beverage services and to limit those services on money-losing routes.

The bill’s supporters argued that national rail service was vital and that the government had never provided enough money for the kind of high-quality, high-speed service in countries like France and Japan.

High gasoline prices and congestion on highways and at airports have helped increase demand for rail services. Last week, Amtrak reported an 11 percent increase in ticket revenue for the recent fiscal year, to $1.5 billion, from $1.37 billion.
797 2007-10-31 Late last week, Mr. Haley’s spot had been viewed 2,131 times on youtube.com. Among the viewers, Apple executives said, were marketing employees at Apple in Cupertino, Calif., who asked staff members on the Apple account at TBWA/Chiat/Day to get in touch with Mr. Haley about producing a professional version of the commercial (which, truth be told, had the same look and feel as many of Apple’s other ads).

“I was sitting on the bus and I got this e-mail on my phone,” Mr. Haley, a native of Warwick, England, said in an interview last week from the University of Leeds, where he is a “fresher,” or first-year student.

The message said, “‘We represent Apple and we’ve seen what you have produced and we’d like a chat with you,’” Mr. Haley recalled, adding: “This seemed ridiculous and far-fetched. My initial reaction was, someone wanted to steal it.”

He was soon persuaded that the message was real and traveled to Los Angeles in October, in his first visit to the United States, to work on a broadcast-ready version of his spot with creative executives at TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Consumers creating commercials “is part of this brave new world we live in,” said Lee Clow, chairman and chief creative officer at TBWA Worldwide, based in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Playa del Rey.

“It’s an exciting new format for brands to communicate with their audiences,” Mr. Clow said. “People’s relationship with a brand is becoming a dialogue, not a monologue.”

The commercial based on Mr. Haley’s spot was seen on football games Sunday afternoon and on shows that night, including “Desperate Housewives” and Game 4 of the World Series. It is also to be shown in Europe and Japan.

Apple paid for Mr. Haley’s expenses while he stayed in Los Angeles, said an Apple spokesman, Steve Dowling, and also “compensated him like any creative professional, for his idea and his contributions to the creative process.”

Although Mr. Dowling declined to say how much Mr. Haley had been paid, he said the company would also be “making a significant financial contribution toward his education at Leeds” and — at Mr. Haley’s request — giving him Apple products like a MacBook Pro laptop.

YouTube visitors have flocked to watch Mr. Haley’s original spot (youtube.com/watch?v=KKQUZPqDZb0) since the professional version began running on TV. As of yesterday, viewings had grown to more than 490,000.

As for how faithful the professional spot is to Mr. Haley’s amateur version, Mr. Clow said, “we didn’t mess with his content” because “it has a charm to it, a youthful fun.”

The changes include more polished editing and filming the new version in high definition.

“My input was totally respected,” Mr. Haley said, adding that he considered the agency’s commercial “pretty similar” to the original.

The experience of working with the agency executives was “overwhelming, surreal and fantastic, all in one,” said Mr. Haley, who is studying politics at Leeds.

“This is my first taste” of advertising, he added, but offered a thoughtful response when asked what it means if consumers like him are willing to make commercials.

“That’s the whole point of advertising; it needs to get to the user,” Mr. Haley said. “If you get the user to make the ads, who better?”

As heartily as Mr. Clow endorsed the concept of user-generated content, he suggested that turnabout is fair play.

At TBWA, “we’re producing films we put on YouTube that we make in a day and a half in the parking lot,” he said, laughing.
798 2007-10-31 Home prices dropped again in August and consumer confidence remained at the lowest level in two years, reinforcing investors’ bleak expectations for the economy, a new report showed today. The trouble signs came as Federal Reserve policy makers began a two-day meeting that could culminate in an interest rate cut.

The Case-Shiller survey found that prices of homes across 20 major United States metropolitan areas fell 4.4 percent for the 12 months through August, the steepest drop since 2001, when the survey began. The measure, which is released by Standard and Poor’s, is considered more accurate than comparable government reports and offers investors more evidence that the housing sector is facing its worst stretch since the early 1990s.

Home prices in the New York City area fell 0.8 percent in August, and are down 3.8 percent for the year ended in August. Miami, Las Vegas and Los Angeles were among the hardest hit cities for the month, while Denver and Charlotte posted modest gains.

Meanwhile, an October survey of consumers showed confidence in the economy at the lowest level in two years. The confidence index fell to 95.6 from 99.5 in September, which was also revised downward, according to the Conference Board, a private research firm.

A fifth of those surveyed believe there will be fewer jobs in the next six months, and slightly more Americans expect their income to decrease compared with a year ago, the Conference Board said. The share of consumers who believe employment is plentiful dropped below 25 percent for the first time since August 2006.

“Home prices declining at an accelerating rate, that’s not exactly anything new at this stage,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR. But Mr. Shapiro said the confidence report suggested employment levels could be dipping, and he said he expected a weaker payroll report for October.
799 2007-10-31 Managers, of course, are hired to be fired, even Torre after 12 consecutive postseason appearances. When the Yankees hired Torre, they did so on the suggestion of Arthur Richman, a veteran member of their public relations staff. They had no basis for their decision other than the recommendation of a man who had known Torre from their time together with a previous employer, the Mets.

There was nothing in Torre’s managerial résumé that predicted the success he would have with the Yankees. The Mets, the Braves and the Cardinals had all fired him. Now he is talking to the Dodgers as the major leagues’ most successful manager of the past dozen years.

But why is he talking to the Dodgers? Why does he want to continue managing? Baseball has become a young man’s game. Girardi, who yesterday succeeded Torre with the Yankees, is 43.

Once they start managing, though, managers can’t stop managing. No matter how many times they lose their job, they eagerly await the next opportunity.

Around the middle of the 2001 season, Jeffrey Loria, the Montreal Expos’ owner, wanted to change managers and prevailed upon Jeff Torborg, a close friend, to replace Felipe Alou.

Torborg, a former catcher, had previously managed three other teams and was fired by each. When Loria contacted him, he was serving as a game analyst for Fox. “I have a nice lifestyle,” said Torborg, who was 59 at the time. “I was basically doing one game a week.”

Nice work if you can get it, and Torborg had it. But when he heard the siren song, Torborg followed it, explaining that he still had something to prove and thought he could do it with the Expos. He was fired after the season.

In Torre’s case, should he take the Dodgers’ job, he will do so at potentially great risk to his reputation.

Torre’s reputation has never been better. Although the Yankees didn’t win the World Series in Torre’s last seven seasons as their manager, they won four in his first five seasons, they played in six World Series in his first eight years, and they played in the postseason in each of his 12 seasons.

Furthermore, his breakup with the Yankees enhanced the fans’ feeling for him and elevated him to a godlike status.

By managing the Dodgers, or anyone for that matter, he runs the risk of ruining his record and his renown. Should he fail to direct the Dodgers to the playoffs, critics could reconsider his Yankees years and suggest that he won in those years because of the monstrous payrolls George Steinbrenner provided.

The Dodgers’ payroll is not meager. At about $124 million this season, the Dodgers had the third-highest payroll in the major leagues, but they were still about $90 million below the Yankees. Half of the other 28 teams had payrolls below $90 million.

Maybe Torre is tired of hearing suggestions that he was a playoff perennial because of the Yankees’ enormous payrolls and their ability to spend to cover up mistakes. Maybe he wants to demonstrate that, unlike during his pre-Yankees years, he can win with mediocre teams.

Maybe it’s all about ego. The Yankees’ exit strategy stung Torre, and he’ll show them they made a mistake. Maybe, Torre fantasizes, the Dodgers will get to the World Series next year and the Yankees won’t.
800 2007-10-31 The expiration dates were originally noted on drivers’ licenses under a policy instituted under former governor George E. Pataki in 2004, when the Department of Motor Vehicles began putting “temporary visitor” marks on licenses issued to individuals with temporary visas, along with the date that those visas expired. Immigrants’ advocates criticized the policy, saying that it encouraged discrimination even against legal immigrants and led to confusion about whether the licenses themselves were valid.

Mr. Spitzer ended the Pataki-era practice after his initial announcement on Sept. 21 that illegal immigrants would be allowed to obtain licenses beginning as early as December. At the time, the administration seemed to agree with the advocates, saying that the marking was pejorative and, in any case, would become superfluous when the new licensing policy went into effect later this year.

But under the deal struck last week with federal officials, New York will offer three types of licenses, including one that will meet new federal security standards, available only to citizens and legal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants will be able to get a different license, which would not be valid for air travel or for entering federal buildings. But such licenses will not be issued until the broader licensing plan goes into effect at the end of 2008. A third type of license will be available to only United States citizens who are New York State residents, which will be valid for crossing the Canadian border.

Because the whole program had been delayed, said Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman for the governor, the administration had decided to delay the cancellation of the “temporary visitor” stamps.

“Given the announcement this weekend, and the idea to move toward three types of licenses, and delaying the implementation for one year, it’s in the best interest of safety to maintain the label,” she said.

Ms. Hong said the change would seriously inconvenience immigrants. She also said the stamps wrongly linked driving privileges with immigration status, something that Mr. Spitzer has rejected.

The stamps will not appear on standard licenses issued after 2008. Instead, those licenses, which will be available to citizens and illegal immigrants, will be marked “not valid for federal purposes.”

The temporary visitor stamp will still be used on licenses good for federal identification purposes that are issued to legal immigrants.
801 2007-10-31 LET THE TAX DEBATES BEGIN   An overhaul of the tax code, proposed last week by Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, left, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has helped frame a debate over one of the biggest issues facing ...