1 2010-12-01 With 10 nods for his comeback album, "Recovery," Eminem led the nominations for the 53rd annual Grammy Awards, which were announced on Wednesday night in a televised ceremony from Los Angeles....
2 2010-12-01 Fill in the blanks in this article about schools revamping grading so that it reflects only the mastery of material--not good behavior. Use your own words and phrases, or click "read more" to choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases th...
3 2010-12-01 It wasn't just the big Wall Street banks. Mutual funds and others took advantage of Fed programs during the financial crisis....
4 2010-12-01 Prosecutors may have a hard time proving that outside experts received any benefit or breached their fiduciary duty....
5 2010-12-01 The men's magazine has archived nearly every one of its issues on a portable hard drive. You know, for the articles....
6 2010-12-01 Sarah Steelman is the first -- but perhaps not the last -- prominent Republican to jump into Missouri's Senate race....
7 2010-12-01 Google's long-awaited electronic books project will allow users to buy e-books from it or independent booksellers, and have access to them on Internet-connected devices....
8 2010-12-01 Frugal travel product gift ideas, beauty-related job discrimination and other consumer-focused items from Wednesday's Times....
9 2010-12-01 No war had ended, but that didn't keep this couple from celebrating in Times Square, as Librado Romero explains....
10 2010-12-01 Prosecutors are warning that the crime of insider trading is becoming an all too common way of doing business. Preet Bharara, the United States attorney policing Wall Street, recently told the New York City Bar Association that “illegal insider trading is rampant” and vowed that he would use “every legitimate tool” to track down and prosecute this crime. It’s about time.

With uncertainty about how aggressively Washington will enforce the new financial reform law — and the financial industry’s continued resistance to regulation — such vigilance is particularly welcome.

Mr. Bharara’s most high-profile case is against the Galleon Group, a former hedge fund, some of its principals and others who did business with the fund. The case became public a year ago when Mr. Bharara charged Raj Rajaratnam, the group’s co-founder, and five others with running the biggest insider trading scheme in history involving hedge funds. Since then, 23 people have been charged with crimes, 14 have pleaded guilty and three have been sentenced.

Before the 2009 financial crisis, David Skeel, an expert on financial regulation, explained that “hedge funds are best understood by what they are not. They are not regulated.” Astoundingly, that is basically still true.

While the new reform law requires hedge funds to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission and gives the S.E.C. the power to inspect them, the funds can still skirt nearly all the laws regulating investment funds. They can operate largely in secret unless the S.E.C. audits them. They don’t have to file quarterly financial statements, disclose what they are investing in or worry about restrictions on risky investments.

This makes it far too easy to manipulate markets. In the Galleon case, millions of dollars were paid to insiders to provide secret information about such well-known companies as I.B.M., Lenovo and Advanced Micro Devices. That information was then used to trade stocks, reaping tens of millions of dollars of ill-gotten profits.
11 2010-12-01 Take the example of Mr. Obama’s first initiative, the roughly $800 billion stimulus bill, which independent and conservative voters revile as a huge government handout, while liberals deride it as too small and too timid. Or look at the health care law, which struck independents as liberal overreach and yet bitterly disappointed the left because it didn’t include a government-run plan. Just where Mr. Obama actually lives on the ideological continuum — that is, exactly what kind of Democrat he sees when he looks in the mirror to examine his busted lip — is the most vexing question of his presidency.

The body of Mr. Obama’s writing and experiences before he became a presidential candidate would suggest that he is instinctively pragmatic, typical of an emerging generation that sees all political dogma — be it ’60s liberalism or ’80s conservatism — as anachronistic. Privately, Mr. Obama has described himself, at times, as essentially a Blue Dog Democrat, referring to the shrinking caucus of fiscally conservative members of the party.

In a 2005 blog post that may be as valuable as either of his books in identifying the inner president, then-Senator Obama castigated his own party’s ideological activists for their attacks on Democratic senators who had voted to confirm as chief justice. “To the degree that we brook no dissent within the , and demand fealty to the one, ‘true’ progressive vision for our country, we risk the very thoughtfulness and openness to new ideas that are required to move this country forward,” Mr. Obama, who voted against confirming Chief Justice Roberts, wrote then.

At the same time, Mr. Obama has been loath to publicly disown his base on any specific issue, even where he disagreed and where his political prospects might have benefited. And this probably says more about his personal philosophy than it does about his ideology.

You have to remember that Mr. Obama first entered politics in in the mid-1990s, when “triangulation,” as practiced by , was becoming a vile curse word in liberal circles. Mr. Clinton had repeatedly solidified his own standing by putting a good bit of distance between himself and his own supporters on the left — a tactic liberals found both dispiriting and distasteful.

Part of the contrast Mr. Obama sought to draw with during the 2008 campaign was that you would never catch him triangulating against his friends for political gain. It was a point of pride for Mr. Obama that he would have no so-called Sister Souljah moments, even when he vehemently disagreed with liberals.

The problem with this stance, two years into his presidency, is that it seems to have put Mr. Obama in something of a box. Since he isn’t willing to break publicly with liberals, independent and conservative voters tend to see him as a tool of the left. And since he generally won’t do exactly what the left wants him to do, he ends up with very little gratitude from his own party.

This political no-man’s land, however, is about to become uninhabitable. The national debt is near the top of any list of voter concerns at the moment, and when his commission votes Friday on its final recommendations, Mr. Obama will be handed concrete and contrasting options for addressing it.

Budget experts from both parties agree, for instance, with the commission’s co-chairmen, and , that some reduction in benefits will be essential to the nation’s long-term fiscal stability. But liberal groups are adamant about preventing any change to the structure of the program, which they see as the last unassailable pillar of New Deal liberalism.

Should Mr. Obama embrace the commissioners’ argument on Social Security, the sense of betrayal on the left will be so intense that he could conceivably draw a primary challenge over it in 2012.

Another critical question is whether Mr. Obama will embrace some overhaul of the tax code that leads not just to broader payroll taxes but also to reductions in income tax rates in return for eliminating many tax breaks, as the commission’s chairmen suggested in their initial draft. Liberals propose raising taxes on wealthier Americans and businesses instead.

Mr. Obama’s opening move this week in the fast-forming budget debate was to propose a freeze in salaries for federal employees — a classic, Obama-like gambit that mildly annoyed the left and will do little to assuage public fears about spending. More consequential decisions are coming, however, and they will tell us much about the kind of president Mr. Obama still intends to be.
12 2010-12-01 Gov. David A. Paterson is considering whether to sign legislation that would impose a temporary moratorium on the issuing of permits for a controversial type of natural gas exploration that has raised broad safety concerns in New York State.

The State Assembly voted 93 to 43 on Monday night to block new permits for the drilling practice, known as hydraulic fracturing, until May 15. The purpose would be to give the state more time to address safety and environmental worries, especially concerns that the drilling could contaminate groundwater supplies.

The Senate approved the temporary moratorium in August.

Hydraulic fracturing is a type of natural gas drilling that involves shooting chemicals and water into rock formations to release natural gas. The moratorium is aimed particularly at heading off hydraulic fracturing that relies on horizontal drilling, which requires the use of chemicals and vast amounts of water.

Speaking on Tuesday on a radio program, Mr. Paterson called the temporary moratorium “really not that big of a deal,” given that the State Department of Environmental Conservation is reviewing the potential impact of horizontal hydraulic fracturing upstate. “We will not come to a conclusion by the end of this administration,” he said on “The Capitol Pressroom.”

For years, natural gas companies have been buying leases upstate and applying for permits to tap the Marcellus Shale, site of one of the largest natural gas fields in North America. The department, which is also sifting through more than 14,000 comments from public hearings on the issue, is not likely to come up with final regulations governing drilling there before May, some state officials have said.

The Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York, an industry group, urged Mr. Paterson to veto the bill, warning that the legislation as written also applies to new permits for a less controversial type of hydraulic fracturing that is already allowed. This involves drilling vertical wells that are not as deep and injecting far less water than is used in horizontal wells.
13 2010-12-01 In Gladys Rosario’s family, mental illness is not just an affliction but a legacy, one that has touched each member in a different way.

Two of Ms. Rosario’s brothers, Edwin and Nelson, medicated themselves with intravenous drugs; Edwin died of pancreatic cancer at 31, and Nelson of AIDS at 48.

Ms. Rosario’s eldest daughter, Karen DeJesus, is hamstrung by social anxiety and has not attended school since the eighth grade. “I start shaking and crying; I can’t breathe,” she said. She takes Zoloft and sees a therapist.

Ms. Rosario’s mother, Isabel DeLeon, 75, has schizophrenia, and her mental state is so precarious that Ms. Rosario has not told her of Nelson’s death this year. Respecting a deathbed request from her brother, she does not plan to.

“She always dreams about him, and asks me how he’s doing, and I have to lie to her,” Ms. Rosario, 53, said, her voice choked with tears.

For her own bipolar disorder, Ms. Rosario takes medication and undergoes therapy. “I have two daughters,” she said. “I have to live for my daughters.”

For the past six years, Karen, 18, and Michelle DeJesus, 15, their mother and their father, Ralph DeJesus, 54, have shared a modern two-bedroom apartment abutting the Bronx Zoo, with a washing machine and hardwood floors. The apartment costs $1,300 a month, but a Section 8 subsidy covers all but $304.

It is a giant leap forward from the year and a half the family spent in a shelter when the girls were 7 and 10.

Mr. DeJesus is an unemployed maintenance worker. His jobless benefits recently ran out after 99 weeks, and Ms. Rosario is unable to work because of her bipolar disorder. The only money coming in are disability payments for Karen and her mother that total $1,000 a month.

When her brother died in February in Puerto Rico, where the family is from, Ms. Rosario sent what little money she had to cover the funeral. She was unable to pay her utility bill and spent two sweltering weeks at the end of August with no electricity.

As she worked her way through the social services maze, she found the Jewish Board of Family and Children’s Services, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. A social worker there secured $500 to pay the electric bill and to have her utilities restored.

The financial strain is testing Ms. Rosario’s 19-year marriage; Mr. DeJesus is staying in Bayonne, N.J. But her troubled marriage is only one of her worries.

“I have no teeth,” she said. Infection and a critical lack of calcium in her blood led to their gradual loss. “I need an operation, but I have no money,” she said.

Ms. Rosario was referring to dental implants, which cost $2,500 to $3,500. Medicaid does not cover the cost of implants, which she was told were her only option. Her toothlessness is not at all apparent. But she knows.

“Sometimes I don’t go outside,” she said. “I feel real bad.”
14 2010-12-01 “I think it’s come a lot slower, personnel-wise, than we thought,” James conceded. “As far as the record, those are things that you can’t control.”

It was a curious assertion, given that James came here for the express purpose of uniting with Wade and Bosh, to create a superteam worthy of the basketball history books. A monstrous winning percentage was sort of implied.

Yet Miami is fifth in the Eastern Conference, barely ahead of the Cavaliers, his hometown team, the one he spurned last summer. On Thursday, James will make the journey home, for a nationally televised grudge match with his former team and its fans. Two months ago, fans would have expected a rout for Miami. But the Heat has shown more stagger than swagger, to the great glee of Cavaliers fans. A grass-roots Laugh at LeBron movement was started on Twitter this week, urging the Quicken Loans Arena crowd to mock James rather than boo him.

That might be the most benign suggestion anyone has made. In July, angry fans burned James’s jersey. To mark his return, a local bar, the Barley House, is holding a LeBron James Roast, which will feature the roasting of a pig with James’s No. 6 branded on it.

Although the league will not provide details, security is expected to increase drastically for Thursday’s game.

No matter the response, it promises to be an intense evening for all involved. James grew up in Akron, Ohio, and grew into a two-time most valuable player during his seven years with the Cavaliers. He led them to the finals in 2007 and to consecutive 60-win seasons before Cleveland bowed out, ingloriously, to the Boston Celtics in the second round last spring, in what turned out to be his farewell.

“I think it’s going to be very emotional for myself,” James said. “I got a lot of great memories in that city. So many times, from ups and downs and a lot of thing that I’ve done in my life. I give a lot of thanks to that city, a lot of thanks to those fans for giving me the opportunity to not only showcase my talent, but grow from a young boy to a man in my seven years.

“So it’s going to be very emotionally draining.”

The Heat has already endured it share of tumult. Miami started the season 5-4, then followed a three-game winning streak with a three-game losing streak, including stunning upsets by Memphis and Indiana.

Bosh was the early scapegoat, for failing to deliver nightly double-doubles. The blame then passed to the Heat role players, particularly the big men, for failing to provide an inside scoring threat or protection at the rim.

Even Heat fans have come under fire, for failing to arrive on time and stay through the final buzzer, making American Airlines Arena look half-empty. The trend was so disturbing that the team started a campaign urging supporters to Fan Up.

Now the focus is on Spoelstra, who has reportedly clashed with James and is being blamed for the Heat’s stilted offense.

“We all know that we’re not playing at a high level right now,” Spoelstra said. “We can play much better and get to another level that we all anticipated. How long that will take, I don’t know.”

Even the leader of the free world is urging patience. “It takes some time for the team to come together,” President Obama told ABC’s Barbara Walters last week.

The most pointed observation came Sunday, when Tracy McGrady — a former star in the mold of James and Wade — said that those two look “terrible” on the court together.

“They’re rhythm players that need the ball,” McGrady said.

Scouts have made the same observation: Wade and James appear to be taking turns as the primary playmaker and scorer, rather than finding a way to blend their talents. In their victory over Washington on Monday, James carried the load in the first half, scoring 20 points, then watched Wade go for 22 points in the second half.

Wade said it was only the second game this season when “we both felt comfortable with each other taking over, and not necessarily worrying about when we’re going to get a shot or when we’re going to get the ball.”

Until they do, the Heat may be just another talent-rich, chemistry-poor team trying to forge an identity, instead of the basketball behemoth everyone expected.

“Players and coaches know that talent alone doesn’t do it,” James said, suggesting that the news media had perhaps expected too much, to soon. “But it takes time.”

James and Wade seem committed to the task, no matter how long it takes. First, they must deal with a tense homecoming in Cleveland.

Some have questioned whether it is wise for James to taunt Cavaliers fans with his talc toss. James said he “probably will,” then demurred.

“We’ll see,” he said with a light grin. “I may change, I don’t know.”

Wade, ever the supportive teammate, said James should not have to change his routine.

“If he don’t throw it up,” Wade said, “I’ll throw it up for him.”
15 2010-12-01 “Part of the barrier to faster growth and recovery is confidence in households that they will be financially secure and that they can make purchases and take chances in changing careers and changing locations,” Mr. Bernanke said. “With unemployment so high, that confidence is hard to come by.”

The discussion, organized by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and held at the Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University, was part of an effort by Mr. Bernanke to reach out more.

“We spend a lot of time, of course, looking at data, sitting in Washington, looking at the screen, but there’s only so much you can learn from that,” he said.

Sandra Pianalto, the president of the Cleveland Fed, who moderated the discussion, referred obliquely to the firestorm the Fed has faced in recent weeks. “Through my interactions with Ben, I’ve learned that extreme circumstances often require very creative and aggressive policy responses, and that the right decisions sometimes aren’t the most popular decisions,” she said.

While none of the executives criticized the Fed, Samuel J. Palmisano, the chief executive of I.B.M., said that uncertainty, particularly over regulations, was holding back businesses, not financial constraints.

“Clearly, there’s tons of liquidity, as you know,” he told Mr. Bernanke, who was seated to his left. “There’s probably more than we could consume. It’s not a credit issue. It’s not the financial system or a banking issue. I think at the end of the day it’s clarity.”

But two of the three local business owners on the panel said financial conditions were still tight. “Credit is much more tight today than it was in past years,” said Dwight E. Smith, founder of Sophisticated Systems, a provider of information technology services.

Curtis J. Moody, co-founder of Moody Nolan Architects, said, “The lines of credits are more difficult to get, and they’re lower.”

The business leaders agreed that the partisan climate in Washington was not helping matters. “Exports aren’t partisan, competitive tax policies aren’t partisan,” Mr. Palmisano said. “Economic expansion, job creation, isn’t political at the end of the day.”

Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive of Ford, said the government needed “a laser focus on creating an environment where businesses can grow.” He said that “currencies need to be set by the market” and “not manipulated,” and added, “We need to have trade agreements that actually allow us to export.”

That appeared to be a reference to a free trade agreement with South Korea that was negotiated by the Bush administration and is opposed by Ford. The Obama administration wants to complete the deal and submit it to Congress, but negotiations with South Korea have become stuck over restrictions on American auto and beef exports.

Mr. Bernanke said he took away from the discussion the need for clarity on regulatory, trade and fiscal matters. He also emphasized the importance of government support for technological innovation and the need to improve public education, community colleges and work force training.

Several M.B.A. students in the audience said that they had hoped Mr. Bernanke would discuss the Fed’s decision to buy bonds to reduce long-term interest rates, a topic they had debated in class. The students were generally skeptical about the strategy’s effectiveness.

“If you inflate the economy without doing anything about growth, you’re just printing money,” said one of the students, Jyotisko Sinha, 27.
16 2010-12-01 A recipe for White House Apple Cake....
17 2010-12-01 Without “Dancing With the Stars” on its Monday schedule, ABC fell to second place in the night’s ratings as CBS and its all-repeat lineup took the lead. According to Nielsen estimates, just six million viewers watched ABC’s spinoff series “Skating With the Stars” from 8 to 9:30 p.m. Reruns of sitcoms including “Two and a Half Men” (11.2 million) and “How I Met Your Mother” (8.5 million) lifted CBS to No. 1 over all. NBC was third with new episodes of “Chuck” (6.2 million), “The Event” (5.8 million) and “Chase” (6 million); Fox was fourth.
18 2010-12-01 Mr. Jean said the “Simpsons” producers — in particular, the creator of the series, Matt Groening — were pleased with how the first Fox News joke seemed to ruffle the feathers of Bill O’Reilly, the host of the Fox News program “The O’Reilly Factor.” (On his show last week, Mr. O’Reilly played the “Simpsons” satire of Fox News and, with a smile, said: “Pinheads? I believe so.”)

The “Simpsons” producers could not let that remark stand, so they rushed their second Fox News joke into Sunday’s episode — so late in the production process that the gag could be inserted only into the version shown in North America but not into versions shown in foreign markets or on the Internet.

“There’s a lot of masters that go out,” Mr. Jean said in a telephone interview, “so to save money, we just put it in the one master that’s for the U.S. and Canada. More money that will then go to Fox News and undoubtedly to Bill O’Reilly.”

Mr. Jean emphasized that neither he nor his “Simpsons” colleagues had ever been told by their corporate Fox parents to stop making fun of Fox News.

“Both ends of it benefit the ultimate News Corp. agenda,” Mr. Jean said. “We’re happy to have a little feud with Bill O’Reilly. That’s a very entertaining thing for us.”

Mr. Jean said that, in addition to garnering “The Simpsons” a little extra publicity, the back-and-forth with Fox News was teaching the animated show how to take better advantage of the Web and how to integrate topical jokes into a show that can take a year or more to produce a single episode.

“We’ve really entered this new era,” Mr. Jean said, “where even a show like us, that’s produced so far in advance, turns into a sort of daily show, where you do something, you can throw something in that gets immediately around the Internet. It gets a response. It’s mostly just us trying to do our humor in the new way that humor is done.”

Mr. Jean said next week’s episode would feature the trouble-making pop star Katy Perry but would probably not have another Fox News joke.

“There won’t be a helicopter,” he said. “But that’s in response to nothing. It’s just because of how long the episode turned out. It’s so you can see more of Katy Perry’s cleavage.”
19 2010-12-01 Better is the way these layers come back in the end in reverse order, because the timing of Tchaikovsky’s final chords is so judicious. (Did this production influence the Seattle-born Mark Morris, whose internationally famous retelling, “The Hard Nut,” is also shaped by an illustrator, Charles Burns, and also includes the Princess Pirlipat element of the story?)

The most marvelous moment in this production is pure Sendak and a triumph of layering: the journey by boat that takes Clara and the Nutcracker Prince to a new land at the start of Act II. Behind them passes the best rolling panorama I’ve ever seen in the theater, but the marvel is what passes before them. Cartoon dolphins leap from the painted waves, exactly on upward-rippling shrieks in the woodwinds. I think Tchaikovsky meant those shrieks to indicate children’s ecstatic glee at what they see, but I’ve never known them so well caught by stage action.

By contrast, the Colorado Ballet’s version — 20 years old, though extensively revised and redesigned over the years — seemed thoroughly middle of the road, and often wonderfully so. The visual style — Jose Varona’s designs come from a former San Francisco Ballet production — is gently cartoony. The mice soldiers (the most adorable characters of all, as played by adults) wear helmets and other armor. The Stahlbaums’ main room has wooden beams; a river runs through the Land of Snow; and the backdrop for the Kingdom of the Sugar Plum Fairy shows her bonbon islands and Disneyesque sweet-built castle with big, bright, edible-looking mushrooms; a strawberry tree; and lollipop shrubs in the garden.

In the Chinese Dance a Chinese man keeps pole-vaulting merrily across a six-legged dragon’s back before finally mounting it as if it were his steed. For once, the ballet’s dancing Flowers have floral costumes that are not pastel but bold colors, and each has a tiny flower tiara.

The company looked in most respects warm and generous. Though Dana Benton’s Clara caught childhood nicely in other respects, her bright-smile act turned the heroine into a ballet stereotype. The smiles of the Sugar Plum Fairy and her cavalier (Chandra Kuykendall and Igor Vassine) looked congealed; both danced with beautifully ample styles that have begun to stale.

Not the least pleasure in Denver was that Tchaikovsky’s marvelous score — skillfully paced by the conductor Adam Flatt and sounding good in the modernized, handsome Ellie Caulkins Opera House — was played uncut and without interpolations. (This is surprisingly rare among “Nutcrackers.”)

In Seattle the remarkably mellow sound of the orchestra, well conducted by the veteran Allan Dameron, was even better. Though the Marion Oliver McCaw Hall looks hangarlike, its acoustics are surprisingly complimentary. (The best orchestral standards in American ballet can be found at Pacific Northwest Ballet and the Kennedy Center in Washington. In Seattle the superb music director Stewart Kershaw retired last year; he will be replaced by Emil de Cou, whose excellent direction of the orchestra I am remiss in not having mentioned in the recent Suzanne Farrell Ballet season at the Kennedy Center.)

Pacific Northwest Ballet — like the Joffrey Ballet at the Kennedy Center last week — has a live choir in the Snowflakes scene: a rare luxury in America. Yet these musical pleasures are undercut in Seattle by several clumsy reorderings and splicings. The most awkward, in Act I, is a Pastorale duet (tremulously sung), interpolated from the Tchaikovsky opera “Queen of Spades,” accompanying a re-enactment of the Pirlipat story, done by Drosselmeier’s dolls for Clara.

Saturday evening in Seattle brought the greatest event of all the “Nutcracker” performances I’ve seen so far this season in the marvels of phrasing from Carla Körbes as Clara. While her slender figure and exquisite stage manners are ravishing, what’s spellbinding is the way she finds time for everything. Phrase endings are serene; she jumps impulsively into huge overhead lifts (partnered by Batkhurel Bold); her mood is never monochrome; and she draws the audience into her world.

Mr. Stowell’s choreography — at its subtlest and most complex for the big Waltzes of Snowflakes and Flowers — turns the Sugar Plum adagio into a blah series of big ballerina effects. Ms. Körbes, however, finds its architecture.
20 2010-12-01 A recipe for an Apple Smash cocktail....
21 2010-12-01 A recipe for a Bohemian Spritz....
22 2010-12-01 Mrs. Clinton, however, did not dismiss the leaked material so lightly. Asked by a student about the WikiLeaks case, she repeated her condemnation of the release of the cables, saying it would threaten the lives of human rights activists, religious leaders and antigovernment figures.

“This was a very irresponsible, thoughtless act that put at risk the lives of innocent people all over the world, without much regard for those who are most vulnerable, including journalists,” she said. It was Mrs. Clinton’s second reference to journalists in the context of the leaks. She noted that confidential communication was vital for both journalists and government officials.

Still, Mrs. Clinton tried not to allow the leak to muddy her message of openness in this restrictive country. While she credited Kazakhstan for coming further than its neighbors in protecting human rights and democracy, she said more needed to be done. She promised to investigate the case of an imprisoned journalist, which was raised after her speech by the man’s wife.

In the Internet age, Mrs. Clinton said, it was difficult to balance freedom and responsibility. Some governments, she said, were overreacting by throwing bloggers in jail. At the same time, spreading information online can be harmful, she said, citing the recent case of a young man in New Jersey who committed suicide after a fellow student posted video of him in a gay sexual encounter.

“We’ve got to support and protect freedom of expression, whether it’s from an individual or from a journalist,” she said. “But there also have to be some rules or some sense of responsibility that has to be inculcated.”

None of the details about Kazakhstan in the cables are particularly scandalous, but they are somewhat satirical in tone.

In one passage, Prime Minister Karim K. Masimov is described as arriving at 11:30 p.m. at Chocolat, one of the trendiest nightclubs in the capital, Astana. As other members of his group got up to dance, Mr. Masimov was spotted by American officials dancing alone on a stage overlooking the floor. Another senior Kazakh official, the cable said, “appears to enjoy loosening up in the tried and true ‘homo Sovieticus’ style — i.e. drinking oneself into a stupor.”

The cable goes on to describe a dinner thrown by a wealthy oligarch, Aleksandr Mashkevich, for Kazakhstan’s foreign minister, Kanat Saudabayev, and two unnamed American congressmen. “It is not clear what Mashkevich is spending his billions on, but it is certainly not culinary talent,” the cable said, describing a menu of boiled meat and noodles, and surly waiters who behaved as though they had been trained at the “Soviet cafeteria training academy.”

“The wine, at least, was somewhat upscale,” it concluded.

Mrs. Clinton said she would continue reaching out to world leaders whose names or countries were in the cables. That could make her five-day trip to Central Asia and the Persian Gulf something of a contrition tour, since she is likely to encounter European and Persian Gulf leaders who appear in a far less innocent light than Mr. Nazarbayev and his colleagues.

But on her next stop, Kyrgyzstan, she is likely to get a break: the only notable cable in which that country figures is about a lunch with Prince Andrew of Britain and local and foreign business people. After listening to his guests catalog the corrupt business practices in Kyrgyzstan, the prince is quoted as saying, “All of this sounds exactly like France.”
23 2010-12-01 In a survey of 115,000 active-duty and reserve service members, the report found distinct differences among the branches of the military, particularly in the Marine Corps, whose leaders have been the most publicly opposed to allowing gay and bisexual men and women to serve openly. While 30 percent of those surveyed over all predicted that repeal would have some negative effects, 40 percent to 60 percent of the Marine Corps and those in various combat specialties said it would be negative.

Mr. Johnson and General Ham, who briefed reporters on the report, did not offer a specific explanation for why were more opposed to repeal, although General Ham said that among Marine Corps respondents, a lower percentage had served alongside someone they believed to be gay or lesbian. This summer, when the Marine commandant at the time, Gen. James T. Conway, was asked for an explanation about Marine resistance to repeal, he responded that it was difficult to answer, but “we recruit a certain type of young American, a pretty macho guy or gal.”

In his remarks to reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Gates acknowledged the higher levels of “discomfort” about repealing the law among those in the combat branches of the military. He said that those findings remained a concern to him as well as to the chiefs of the service branches, but that the concerns were not insurmountable as long as any repeal was carried out carefully and with what he said was “sufficient time and preparation to get the job done right.”

Mr. Gates refused to offer a timetable for how long that might be, and neither Mr. Johnson nor General Ham would say whether the process could take months or years. As the bill before the Senate now stands, any repeal would not be carried out until , Mr. Gates and Adm. , the chairman of the , certified that the military was ready to end the ban.

Mr. Gates said much of the preparation would involve educating and training service members and their leaders.

Mr. Obama, who campaigned for president on a promise to repeal the law, hailed the study. “Today’s report confirms that a strong majority of our military men and women and their families — more than two-thirds — are prepared to serve alongside Americans who are openly gay and lesbian,” he said in a statement.

Democrats in the Senate also applauded the study, but Senator , the Republican who has vowed to block the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” was largely silent, at least by early evening.

“Senator McCain and his staff are currently in the process of carefully reviewing the Pentagon’s report regarding the repeal of the ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ law,” Brooke Buchanan, a spokeswoman, said in a statement.

Mr. McCain has said in the past that he would consider authorizing a repeal of the law once the Pentagon review was complete, but he has also cited the concerns of the service chiefs for his resistance to ending the ban.

The House passed its version of a repeal of the law this past summer, but prospects for passage in the Senate remain uncertain, with time running out this year. Mr. Gates, Admiral Mullen, Mr. Johnson and General Ham are scheduled to testify on the report to the Senate on Thursday, but a more important session will come on Friday, when the Senate Armed Services Committee is to hear testimony from the chiefs of the , Navy and and the commandants of the Marines and the Coast Guard.

The service chiefs have all expressed reluctance in the recent past about repeal, and it is unclear how they will present themselves on Friday. Mr. Obama summoned them to the White House on Monday to talk exclusively about “don’t ask, don’t tell” and afterward told aides he would not discuss the specifics of what was said.

The Pentagon report on “don’t ask, don’t tell” also found that 69 percent of those surveyed believed they had already worked with a gay man or woman. Of those, 92 percent reported that the unit’s ability to work together was very good, good or “neither good nor poor.”

In the most strongly worded section of the report, the authors concluded that while their mandate was to assess the impact of repealing the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy — and not to determine whether it should be repealed — they had done just that.

“We are both convinced that our military can do this, even during this time of war,” Mr. Johnson and General Ham wrote. “We do not underestimate the challenges in implementing a change in the law, but neither should we underestimate the ability of our extraordinarily dedicated service men and women to adapt to such change and continue to provide our nation with the military capability to accomplish any mission.”

The study recommended no housing or living changes as a result of any repeal, and the authors also quashed any suggestion that there should be separate bathroom facilities.

They called separate bathrooms “a logistical nightmare, expensive and impossible to administer.”
24 2010-12-01 It seems the F line, where one out of five trains routinely ran late, did not quite make up for the loss of a unique mode of transport that seems more suited to a Swiss ski chalet than an urban metropolis.

“If you are down on that platform at 8:30 in the morning, you have to let three or four or five trains go by before you get on that train,” said Matthew Katz, the president of the Roosevelt Island Resident Association. “It has been very difficult.”

Jose Valero, 27, a film student, commutes from Roosevelt Island to classes in Union Square. On Tuesday, he was planning to switch back to the tram, even though it forces him to walk a few blocks to connect with the No. 6 train. He added that the aerial trip reminded him of similar rides in Granada, Spain.

Bob Curry, 64, who works in the financial district, said his commutes on the tram or the F train took about the same amount of time, despite the 10-minute walk to the No. 6 train from the tram’s Manhattan terminal at Second Avenue. But, he added, there is no comparing the views.

“It’s about the ambience: it’s an immensely enjoyable way to see the city,” Mr. Curry said. “It puts a smile on your face. It’s just glorious.”

Even those who benefited from the temporary halt to the tram’s service say they welcome its return. Business at Recep Maz’s fruit stand, outside the island’s subway entrance, has jumped 5 percent since the tram stopped running. But restoring the tram “will be good for the island, so I cannot be selfish,” Mr. Maz said.

Sky trolleys are more often used to span peaks of snow and ice rather than glass and steel. But in 1976, a tram was chosen as the stopgap transportation measure for a rapidly developing island still waiting for a subway station.

Officials promised to add subway service within a few years of the tram’s debut. Instead, the station did not open until 1989. By that time, islanders were reluctant to give up their three-minute commute with the million-dollar views.

Still, the F train has proved more popular than its above-ground counterpart. About 5,000 trips are taken on the tram on an average weekday in both directions; the F train stop generates 5,300 trips leaving Roosevelt Island.

For some, the tram remains more a novelty than anything else. “When you have kids visiting, they think it’s a ride at Disney World,” said John Bermingham, who owns an antiques shop around the corner from the Manhattan terminal of the tram.

And for many New Yorkers, the tram may be best known for the notorious episode when dozens of passengers were stuck dangling for hours after a malfunction in 2006. The riders had to be transferred midair to a rescue gondola.

That experience, of course, pales to the tram’s travails in the 1981 film “Nighthawks,” where Sylvester Stallone faced off against a European terrorist who hijacked the tram to trap officials from the United Nations. Or the scene in “Spider-Man” in which the Green Goblin forces the hero to choose between saving a hijacked tram filled with children or his love interest, Mary Jane. (Spidey, of course, saves everyone.)

Leslie Torres, chief executive of the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation, which runs the tram, was asked if it was disquieting that cinematic depictions of her charge inevitably involve a hostage crisis. “Drama is what people like in film,” Ms. Torres said. “There’s no question that’s what sells.”

When the tram first opened in 1976, Abraham D. Beame, then the mayor, christened the vessel with a bottle of Champagne — promptly soaking the leader of the City Council. There was Champagne again this time around, but officials said they were taking precautions. “We don’t actually want to smack the tram with the bottle,” Ms. Torres said.

Former Representative Rick A. Lazio, whose wife and daughter were among the passengers trapped on the tram during the 2006 incident, said he was glad to see that officials had installed a more reliable infrastructure for the tram. Mr. Lazio said he planned to take a ride soon to check out the spruced-up trip.

“I would take it; they would take it,” Mr. Lazio said of his family. “You’ve got to have some confidence in basic public competence.”
25 2010-12-01 Prices rose in many cities from April through July, mostly helped by government tax credits that have since expired.

The national quarterly index, which measures home prices in nine regions of the country, dropped 2 percent in the third quarter from the previous quarter.

In the other report, the Conference Board said that its Consumer Confidence Index for November rose to 54.1 points, up from a revised 49.9 in October. Analysts were expecting 52.0. November’s reading is the highest since June’s 54.3.

The November reading is the highest since June, when the index stood at 54.3 just as the economy’s recovery started to lose momentum. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected 52.0.

It takes a level of 90 to indicate a healthy economy, which has not been approached since the recession began in December 2007.

One component of the index, how Americans feel now about the economy, rose to 24, up from 23.5. The other gauge, which measures how American feel about the economy over the next six months, rose to 74.2, up from 67.5 last month.

“Consumer confidence is now at its highest level in five months, a welcome sign as we enter the holiday season,” Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement. “Consumers’ assessment of the current state of the economy and job market, while only slightly better than last month, suggests the economy is still expanding, albeit slowly. Hopefully, the improvement in consumers’ mood will continue in the months ahead.”

Others were less optimistic.

“The rise in consumer confidence in November is not consistent with a sustained acceleration in consumption growth at a time when income growth is weak, the unemployment rate is high and a double dip in house prices is under way,” said Paul Dales, United States economist at Capital Economics.

The consumer confidence index, which measures how respondents feel about business conditions, the job market and the economy over the next six months, has recovered fitfully since hitting a record low of 25.3 in February 2009. Economists watch confidence closely because consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of economic activity and is crucial to a strong rebound. The improved confidence mirrors an increase in spending in November, fueled by early discounting on holiday goods that lured shoppers into stores.

The Conference Board’s index, based on a random survey mailed to 5,000 households from Nov. 1 to Nov. 19, showed that worries about jobs eased, but that concern remained high.
26 2010-12-01 BEIJING — The United States Embassy was denied access to an appeal hearing for an American geologist sentenced in July to eight years in prison for buying a database on China’s oil industry, an American official said here Tuesday.

The hearing began in the morning, and no result had been announced by the evening.

Robert Goldberg, the embassy’s deputy chief of mission, said outside the courtroom in Beijing that the embassy had made a formal request to attend the hearing of the geologist, Xue Feng. The Beijing High People’s Court denied the request, he said, even though Dr. Xue is entitled to consular representation under the 1980 United States-China Consular Convention.

“Regardless of the outcome of today’s hearing, we urge the High Court and the Chinese government to ensure fairness and transparency in the process of Dr. Xue’s appeal,” Mr. Goldberg said. “We urge the Chinese to grant Dr. Xue humanitarian release and immediate deportation, so that he can return home to the U.S. and reunite with his family.”

Mr. Goldberg said the embassy had filed a formal protest with the Foreign Ministry over the denial of consular representation. Asked about the complaint at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon, a ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said, “The Chinese judicial authorities will handle the case according to law and continue to fulfill our obligations according to the China-U.S. treaty on consular affairs.”

Dr. Xue was detained three years ago and later charged under a vague state secrets law. He had signed a purchase contract on behalf of an energy consulting company based in Colorado, IHS Energy, for a database on the Chinese oil industry. A court sentenced him on July 4 to eight years in prison and immediate deportation afterward. It also fined him $30,000. American officials were present at his first trial.

Dr. Xue was born in China but received citizenship in the United States before returning here as a businessman. The White House had lobbied Chinese leaders on his behalf, and American officials had visited him in jail nearly 30 times. The American ambassador to China, Jon Huntsman, has called for his release.
27 2010-12-01 Five choices, five disparate circumstances, five demands on the capacity of FIFA’s 22-man committee to make the right decision for an event scheduled for 12 years from now.

And FIFA, in its wisdom, has allotted just two hours on Thursday afternoon in which to decide, by secret ballot, the destination of the two World Cups. They will first select among four bids from Europe to host the 2018 tournament.

Then they will dust off the 2022 bids, with their complexities of race, religion, culture and climate. One vote depends to some extent on the other. If FIFA chooses to take a risk and pick Russia for 2018, that means three successive World Cups will have gone to nations whose infrastructure and other necessities needed to be built from the ground up.

South Africa last summer was a triumph of hope over inexperience. Brazil in 2014 is the world’s foremost soccer nation in terms of playing talent, but it is a mighty gamble that an apparently burgeoning economy can meet deadlines on new stadiums, new airports, new everything.

Consider FIFA’s own priorities. It operates on billion-dollar margins that would exceed the budget of many small nations. It demands of whichever host it opts for a complete waiving of entry visas; total exemption of taxation on its profits; and on brand exclusivity for the six companies that pay FIFA almost as much in sponsorship deals as it will receive in world television rights.

In short, as we witnessed in South Africa, there must be laws to prevent any rival companies to Adidas, the Emirates airline, Hyundai, Sony, Visa and Coca-Cola from exploiting FIFA space. Imagine what those stipulations will mean to Eric Holder, the United States attorney general, who flew to Zurich with the nation’s presentation panel (former President Bill Clinton; the actor Morgan Freeman; Sunil Gulati, the head of the United States Soccer Federation; and Landon Donovan, the national team player) as it made its pitch to FIFA on Wednesday. His country may also face any number of security issues at entry points in 12 years.

But according to the way FIFA dealt with the Netherlands’ objections to its demands, a bidder that seeks to maintain its own rule of law risks being marked down, or struck off the ballot.

The United States handled FIFA’s tournament, and its restrictions, handsomely and profitably enough in 1994. Its bid now is to some degree based on the sure-footedness of that tournament, on the billions of dollars that can be taken for granted, and on the possibility that a second running of the World Cup would capitalize on the evident growth of soccer across the ethnically diverse United States.

Coca-Cola, you would imagine, might have quite a say in whether it is America’s time again.

Or Visa might see more market growth in the new Tiger economies rising in the East.

Ostensibly, the sponsors have little or no input in how FIFA shapes its future, and the world game. But few of the 22 men who cast the vote can possibly know what it took for Lowy, an immigrant from Czechoslovakia, to master the language and build up his real estate and shopping mall empire that makes him the ultimate go-getter in Australian society.

Lowy’s campaign survived accusations of attempted bribery for FIFA votes. But that, as we hear all too loudly, is not exactly unheard of in the FIFA family.

“The global power that flows from a simple round ball will, if we get the World Cup, deliver benefits for this generation and generations of Australians to come,” Lowy said.

Building stadiums and transportation across Australia’s vast distances would be one challenge. Converting Australians from Aussie rules to FIFA rules would be another.

At the opposite extreme, Qatar, a relatively tiny land, has the oil money to build all the stadiums FIFA requires in a space more compact than any before. Its soccer culture is undeveloped, but it hired Zinédine Zidane, one of the sport’s greats, to spread the word that Arabia, and the Muslim people, deserve a shot at the world’s most-watched sporting event.

Money, no problem. Vision within sight. Technology to cool every stadium, whatever the boiling temperatures outside. And inside FIFA’s power structure, it has Mohamed Bin Hammam, the president of the Asian Football Confederation, an undoubted force on the executive committee and perhaps a potential FIFA president before 2022.

Also on that committee, also rich and politically engaged, is Chung Mong-joon. The South Korean, whose father fled communism in the North, has the fortune of a Hyundai corporation that was built from nothing, along with the determination to push for almost anything.

When the North fired on the South’s island Yeonpyeong last month, there were some assumptions that this meant it was game over for the bold idea of uniting the Koreas through soccer’s World Cup.

All of this has everything, and nothing, to do with choosing a World Cup venue. But FIFA loves a legacy, and now is not the time to rule anything out.

Albert Einstein once said that politics is far more complicated than physics. Einstein never, of course, encountered the politics of a double World Cup ballot in Zurich.
28 2010-12-01 In a statement, Google said it had strived to “do the right thing by our users and our industry.”

“But there’s always going to be room for improvement,” the company said, “and so we’ll be working with the commission to address any concerns.”

A spokeswoman for Mr. Almunia, Amelia Torres, said the commission had notified the Justice Department in about the investigation. Authorities in the United States have been examining Google’s acquisitions and actions for indications that its market power may be anticompetitive but have not brought any formal proceedings. Google had been eager to avoid a formal investigation in after watching other American technology companies, like and , battle the antitrust authorities there for years. The European Commission’s moves in antitrust matters are often followed up by American regulators at the state or federal level.

“I think we’ve all seen this movie before in the case of Microsoft,” Keith Hylton, a professor at the School of Law, said in an e-mail.

Google has become a powerhouse on the Internet by helping publishers offer Web advertising space, as well as by selling search-related ads, which appear as “sponsored links” alongside the so-called natural search results.

The commission investigation stems from complaints by three companies: Foundem, a British price comparison service; Ciao, a price comparison service in owned by Microsoft; and eJustice, a French legal search tool. People with direct knowledge of the case, who were not authorized to comment publicly, said at least one additional complaint had been filed.

Foundem said that it suffered big financial losses when Google downgraded it in search results and that Google unfairly favored its other online services, which include mapping, translation and video .

The commission said it would also examine whether Google lowered the “quality score” of competing search services, making it more expensive for them to buy sponsored links.

In addition, the investigation will look into whether Google imposed exclusivity obligations on Internet companies that use Google’s advertising systems, preventing them from placing ads from Google rivals on their Web sites.

In response, Google said AdSense, its program for advertising partner sites, stopped using exclusive contracts two years ago. The company says that when it downgrades a company in its search rankings, it is often because such sites merely duplicate content from other sites, making them less useful to consumers.

“We built Google for users, not Web sites, and the nature of ranking is that some Web sites will be unhappy with where they rank,” Google said.

The company says its high share of searches does not equate to a position of dominance on the Internet because of the rise of companies like and , which, like search, also serve as a source of links to other Web sites.

Google has highlighted the role of its rival Microsoft in the antitrust complaints against it, noting its ownership of Ciao and the membership of Foundem in a Microsoft-sponsored lobbying group in Brussels, called Icomp.

European officials did not regard the current crop of complaints as sufficient to take immediate action against Google, according to people with direct knowledge of the investigation, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to comment publicly.

The opening of the formal investigation allows officials to send detailed questionnaires to companies doing business with Google, as well as competitors, and to demand that they provide answers in similar detail. The commission wants companies to come forward with any information about possible competitive abuses by Google, while shielding them from fear of retaliation by Google, according to the people with knowledge of the inquiry.

Lafitte, who represents eJustice, said that responses by other companies to the questionnaires could enlarge the scope of the investigation.

He said that any company that currently has a large exposure to the Internet “has, one way or the other, a serious problem with Google.”

Ms. Torres said investigators could reach a preliminary conclusion about whether Google has violated European competition law over the course of next year, and possibly within “a few months,” Ms. Torres said.

If Google is found in violation of European competition law, the commission has the power to fine it up to 10 percent of its annual revenue, which totaled more than $23 billion last year.

Before settling last year, Microsoft had paid fines of about $2.4 billion over the past decade in a long-running antitrust case in Brussels that focused on the Windows operating system.

In another case, the commission fined Intel about $1.45 billion for abusing its dominance in the computer chip market. Intel has appealed that decision to an tribunal.
29 2010-12-01 Kenneth C. Frazier, the president of Merck, is to become chief executive of the pharmaceutical giant at the beginning of next year, the company said Tuesday.     Mr. Frazier, 55, a lawyer by training who graduated from Harvard Law School, is belie...
30 2010-12-01 COLOMBO, Sri Lanka -- Southern China has its assembly plants. India has customer support centers, research laboratories and low-cost lawyers.      And Sri Lanka's contribution to global outsourcing? Accountants -- thousands of them, standing ready...
31 2010-12-02 White House Hanukkah celebration features a nontraditional menu along with more traditional talk of faith (and tax cuts)....
32 2010-12-02 The minutes before the tip-off of the Heat-Cavaliers game on TNT were focused entirely on LeBron James and his return to Cleveland....
33 2010-12-02 With some adaptive technology, Ashish Goyal works on the trading floor in London for JPMorgan Chase, despite being blind....
34 2010-12-02 The new, less frenzied pace of admission facilitated making “a considered decision,” Ms. Bell added, although this should not be interpreted to mean that the collectors of high-ticket contemporary art have suddenly become impulse-averse.

“People have to decide quickly, or should,” said David Maupin, a principal in the Lehmann Maupin Gallery, who within 50 minutes of the show’s opening had already sold a video by Tony Oursler, a neon sculpture by the British artist Tracey Emin, a sculptural wall piece resembling crazed azulejo tiles by the Brazilian Adriana Varejao, one of Mickalene Thomas’s rhinestone encrusted paintings of a Pam Grier-style odalisque, and a suite of neo-Schnabel paintings by the young Puerto Rico-born artist Angel Otero.

Seated at a banquette at Mr. Chow’s restaurant in the W hotel, Mr. Maupin was visibly pleased by the events of the day. He was not alone. The restaurant had been taken over for a private dinner for 220 given jointly by the dealer Larry Gagosian; Wendy Murdoch, the wife of the media magnate; and Dasha Zhukova, an arts patron who, as both the daughter and the partner of Russian oligarchs, moves in a gilded aura of impossible good fortune.

Beneath silver balloon sculptures trailing streamers, waiters passed Champagne with the efficiency of field medics. A mixture of guests difficult to imagine anywhere but at Art Basel Miami Beach produced the contented ambient buzz of a happy hive. The floating balloons were like shiny cartoon thought bubbles, lacking only the words that tend to hover unspoken at events like this one: “What recession?”

Talking to Gary Tinterow, the man with the comic-operetta title of Engelhard Chairman of the Department of 19th-century, Modern and Contemporary Art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, was Steven Cohen, the hedge-fund billionaire renowned for fearless spending (he once paid over $100 million for a work of art.) “Can you believe what he was asking?” Mr. Cohen asked, with mock horror, referring to the cost of an artwork seen at the fair. There is much to beggar belief at Art Basel, as Mr. Cohen knows. Sticker prices are the least of it.

In what other setting is one likely to find the Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez seated alongside Daphne Guinness, the fashion apparition, at dinner? Where else will you spot gorgeously clad nonentities like Nicky Hilton chatting up collector roués like Johnny Pigozzi (whose new LimoLand boutique sells clothes for “rich old men”), or Ben Stiller being introduced to Sheikh Mubarak Al-Muhairi, the Abu Dhabi developer, or an alarmingly taut-looking Calvin Klein rubbing shoulders with Julian Schnabel, rumpled as always in shorts and sneakers and looking as though he’d just come from mowing the lawn.

If Art Basel is, as Ms. DeWoody suggested, about the fun that can be had by those who seldom fly commercial, it is also a fixture along an ongoing social circuit, one where it is presumed that everybody knows everybody else, or else soon will.

“It’s a traveling party,” said Sam Orlofsky, a director of the Gagosian Gallery in New York. Only about a fifth of those on the tour are, in fact, serious art collectors. The rest are along for the ride.

“In the end,” Mr. Orlofsky added, “it’s about what else there is to do besides think about the fact that you’re super-rich.”
35 2010-12-02 John Malone's Liberty Media relinquished its controlling shares in IAC/Interactive for two small business units and $220 million...
36 2010-12-02 But teams outside of American banks still face considerable fund-raising obstacles in trying to follow HSBC's lead....
37 2010-12-02 Carlos Ghosn, Nissan chief executive, dismisses the critics of the electric Nissan Leaf....
38 2010-12-02 Michael J. Copps, one of the five commissioners on the Federal Communications Commission, criticized the casual nature of the license renewal process for television and radio stations and said a "public value test" would strengthen the process....
39 2010-12-02 The approval from a federal judge comes less than a month after the studio behind the James Bond franchise filed for bankruptcy....
40 2010-12-02 Compared with London's annual Ark gala, tonight's event for Hedge Funds Care lets industry players give back, for less....
41 2010-12-02 At a conference, Whitney Tilson takes a bearish view, warning of the de-leveraging still to come....
42 2010-12-02 Senator John McCain says he's not impressed with a survey of military opinion on the ban on gay service memebrs....
43 2010-12-02 The young artists used stills from one of Korine's films and added mixed media to create a rich, disturbing and strangely alluring universe, now on view at the Swiss Institute....
44 2010-12-02 A co-chairman suggests that the oil and gas industry needs to create a self-policing body modeled on one formed decades ago by the nuclear power industry,...
45 2010-12-02 John Boehner, the next House speaker, expresses the message of constitutional conservatism in calling for every bill to identify the part of the Constitution it rests on. Sarah Palin used the phrase to campaign for limited government. Tea Party members call themselves constitutional conservatives. It is the new mantle in which Republican politicians are wrapping themselves.

The challenge lies in understanding what, if anything, it actually means.

The phrase is used mainly in opposition: against health care reform; against the General Motors bailout; against President Obama’s policies. A year ago, conservatives focused on the gravity of economic problems. This election, their concern shifted to the danger represented by solutions.

Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican polling firm, says the message that 4 out of 5 Republicans wanted to send in the House elections was that American governance must “return to the Constitution.” Constitutional conservatives have an ill-defined faith in the redeeming power of the founders’ vision.

A polemic called the Mount Vernon Statement used the phrase last winter to rally an expanded Republican Party. The statement noted five principles: limited government; individual liberty; free enterprise; advancing freedom, opposing tyranny; and defending family, neighborhood, community and faith.

The phrase is connected to a radical vision. (The Web site of Mike Lee, the Republican senator-elect from Utah, touted him as a constitutional conservative and, as The Times reported, he “views much of what the federal government currently does as unconstitutional.”) But the statement is a vague, highly selective catchall.
46 2010-12-02 NEW YORK (AP) — Verizon Wireless says its new 4G wireless broadband network will start accepting customers on Sunday in 38 cities.

Initially, only laptop users will be able to take advantage of the higher data speeds offered by the network, compared with Verizon’s 3G network. The speeds are somewhat higher than those offered by T-Mobile USA and AT&T in places where their 3G networks have been upgraded to the highest speeds.

Verizon is charging less for 4G than for 3G. One data plan will cost $50 a month for 5 gigabytes of data, compared with $60 for 3G.

Another plan will provide 10 gigabytes of data for $80 a month. The Verizon Wireless chief technology officer, Tony Melone, said he expected many customers would find 5 gigabytes was not enough. When downloading at top 4G speeds, it takes about an hour to exhaust a monthly allotment of 5 gigabytes of data.

Mr. Melone said Verizon should have 4G smartphones available by next summer.

The 4G coverage areas include the cities on the Boston-to-Washington stretch as well as in California, Chicago, Miami, Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Seattle.

A Sprint Nextel subsidiary, Clearwire, already has an active 4G network that uses a different standard than Verizon’s.
47 2010-12-02 Re “Hanukkah, Rekindled” (Op-Ed, Dec. 1): Bravely following in the footsteps of all the bubble-bursters over the years who have sought to reduce the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah to a mere “seasonal festival of light in search of a pretext,” Howard Jacobson eloquently makes the tired case.

But those of us who feel inspired yearly, and deeply, by Hanukkah understand that the lack of “grandeur” in the holiday’s observance is precisely its point. As the special prayer we recite on Hanukkah puts it, we thank God for handing “the strong into the hands of the weak, the many into the hands of the few.”

What we celebrate, in other words, is that seeming puniness does not preclude genuine puissance. In the words of the Talmudic rabbis, “a little light pushes away a lot of darkness.”

And so when sensitive, knowledgeable Jews gaze at the tiny flames of their menorah, what they ponder is the subtle but compelling power of the Jewish religious tradition, the Torah.

I invite Howard Jacobson to spend a night of Hanukkah with our family. Our children excitedly embrace the story of an improbable Jewish military victory as a wondrous miracle; our five hanukkiot (menorahs) blaze each night against a window papered with homemade holiday decorations; we sing numerous Hanukkah songs in Hebrew and English; we spin the dreidel; and, yes, our children receive presents.

In Mr. Jacobson’s words, “Christmas has been brilliantly marketed.” We have “brilliantly marketed” Hanukkah to our children without ever comparing it to Christmas. When one’s own history and festivals are fully embraced, taught and celebrated positively, children feel no need to yearn for the holiday of another religion.
48 2010-12-02 The city is a particularly stark laboratory for urban school reforms. It is a fraction of the size of New York, where Dr. Alonso was a deputy to Chancellor Joel I. Klein, and more troubled than Washington, whose many private schools and status as the nation’s capital have complicated overhaul efforts.

What is more, Baltimore’s troubled schools may be just as much a cause of the city’s problems as a result. The high dropout rate feeds a drug industry that has led to a landscape of boarded-up buildings and despair. The school system is 88 percent black (compared with the city’s 63 percent black population), and 84 percent of students are on free or reduced-price meals, a measure of poverty.

The murder rate here is six times that of New York City.

For Dr. Alonso, 53, those statistics made the job attractive, rather than a reason to run. When the school board offered him the job of superintendent in 2007, he took it without ever having set foot in the city. Nine commissioners met him three times in different places in Maryland, in order to avoid talk that he was leaving his job in New York.

“It’s a test case for what’s possible,” Dr. Alonso said. “There were incredible opportunities because the troubles were so big.”

The system had churned through six superintendents in six years, so Dr. Alonso’s priority was to persuade people that things would be different this time. For his changes to work, he needed a lot of support, but that took some convincing.

“The community felt alienated,” said Bishop Douglas I. Miles, a pastor at Koinonia Baptist Church and a major sponsor of youth programs in the city. “There was a sense that we weren’t wanted except to do bake sales.”

So Dr. Alonso held public meetings, inviting parents, librarians and leaders of nonprofits and churches. He directed community organizers to knock on doors in a campaign to bring back high school dropouts. Students as young as fifth graders were allowed to choose their schools in a boisterous annual fair.

“Everything was about creating a surge of energy into the schools,” he said. “I wanted people to have to push to get past each other.”

Next he took on the culture of the schools, which relied heavily on suspensions for discipline, a practice Dr. Alonso strongly opposed. “Kids come as is,” he likes to say, “and it’s our job to engage them.”

Now school administrators have to get his deputy’s signature for any suspension longer than five days. This year, suspensions fell below 10,000, far fewer than the 26,000 the system gave out in 2004.

Instead, schools handled discipline problems more through mediation, counseling and parent-teacher conferences, and offered incentives like sports and clubs. Mental health professionals were placed in every school with middle grades.

“There was a lot of punishment energy focused on the kids,” said Michael Sarbanes, executive director of community engagement. “We were trying to overcome a perception that had built up over years that we don’t want you.”

Some of the system’s 198 schools were beyond rescue, and Dr. Alonso closed them, all 26. Many new ones were opened in their place.

In one school that was closed, Homeland Security Academy, a middle school with a security-industry theme, students regularly set fires in the bathrooms.

“There were two and three fires a day and you couldn’t really teach,” said Deanna Delgado, who taught English there.

Even so, the closings drew resistance. Jimmy Gittings, a vice president for the American Federation of School Administrators, which represents school principals, argued that closing schools simply moves around a problem, and leaves its root cause — poverty — untouched.

“The foundation in the development of a child begins at home,” Mr. Gittings said. “We are not getting that foundation. That’s why our schools aren’t strong.”

The reorganization was also speeding the retirement of many older black educators, and though only about 15 percent of new principals were from outside Baltimore, people noticed.

“They come in with these high credentials, and you say, wow,” said the Rev. Alvin C. Hathaway, pastor at the Union Baptist Church. “But then you realize they’re literally moving through the city with a GPS.”

The politics of urban education reform can be fragile, but Dr. Alonso is relatively well protected because the board that chose him is appointed by both the governor and the mayor, making it all but impervious to political winds.

He took full advantage of that freedom, making fast changes. Under the old system, principals fulfilled directives from the central office. Now principals have full control over the schools’ budgets and are held accountable for performance. They are required to consult with a committee of parents and community representatives when deciding how the money will be spent.

The approach, not unlike the one taken by Mr. Klein in New York, has its critics. Diane Ravitch, a professor at New York University and author of “The Death and Life of the Great American School System: How Testing and Choice are Undermining Education,” argues that making individual principals more accountable shifts responsibility away from those who run school systems.

Valerie Johnson, who has been teaching in Baltimore since 2005, said she felt uncomfortable with the approach at first. “But because I saw so many dysfunctional schools just existing on their own, I’m more in favor,” she said.

Dr. Alonso, she said, has “gone more to the root of the problem,” instead of focusing solely on test scores.

And Baltimore teachers, who were initially opposed to Dr. Alonso’s methods, last month approved a contract that enshrined them. Now teachers are compensated based on performance, not longevity.

In an era when school reformers have become household names in their cities, Dr. Alonso clearly sees himself among them. He talks loftily of historical forces and once remarked that he felt like a character from “War and Peace.”

Dr. Alonso’s personality is large, but so are Baltimore’s troubles, and his supporters argue his confidence is an asset. Parents, for their part, appreciate the changes.

Bernadette Smith, a 43-year-old mother of five, calls the opening of Green Street Academy, a small environmentally themed school in the building of the defunct West Baltimore Middle School, “a divine intervention.”

Students, called scholars, change classes in single-file lines. Homerooms are named for the colleges the teachers attended. The principal, Edward E. Cozzolino, has drawn a dedicated following of Teach for America alumni. And while it has the feel of a charter school, a full third of its students have special needs.

When Ms. Smith took her fifth grader to see the school, Mr. Cozzolino “got down to my son’s level and looked him in the eye. My son said to me, ‘Mom, this is it.’ ”
49 2010-12-02 MOSCOW — Russia’s prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, responded angrily to allegations of corruption in world soccer’s governing body on Wednesday, suggesting that some members of the body were being “smeared” in an effort to undermine his country’s bid to host the World Cup in 2018.

Russia has been locked in a battle with England and several other countries for the right to host the World Cup, and political intrigue has intensified in the run-up to the vote in Switzerland scheduled for Thursday, which will also decide the host of the 2022 tournament. A public affairs program broadcast on the BBC this week accused officials from FIFA, soccer’s governing body, of taking kickbacks and other wrongdoing, the latest in a spate of similar allegations.

“Regretfully, we have recently witnessed an obvious campaign against some members of the FIFA Executive Committee,” Putin said at a cabinet meeting in Moscow.

“They are being smeared,” he said. “There is an attempt to discredit them. This seems to constitute unfair competition during the run-up to the voting.”

Putin did not explain why he felt the allegations could hurt Russia’s chances, but he announced that he would not attend Thursday’s vote as planned, saying he wanted FIFA members “to make the decision objectively without any pressure from the outside.”

A black belt in judo and a ski buff, Putin is Russia’s self-styled athlete-in-chief. In a decade in power, he has made restoring Russia’s athletic prominence, lost with the collapse of the Soviet Union, a priority. He is credited with personally securing Russia’s bid to host the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, a resort town on the Black Sea where he has a home.

Russia has hosted the Olympics once before, in 1980, but has not hosted a World Cup, a monumental task that will require the government to spend millions on infrastructure. While the potential financial gains for the host country are difficult to measure, the championship generates billions of dollars in revenue for FIFA, which has been widely criticized for its lack of transparency.
50 2010-12-02 The foreigner said some expatriates working with charities and development agencies in the North had this response: “We have seen crises like this before, but we’re taking it very seriously. And this is the first time there have been civilian casualties, which ups the ante.”

Meanwhile, apparently, life goes on, at least for Kim Jong-il, the “Dear Leader” of North Korea. Mr. Kim was the focus of a university symposium to mark the 20th anniversary of the publication of his celebrated book “The Theory of Dancing Art.”

Mr. Kim’s work “clarifies the principled requirements and ways for carrying forward and developing the brilliant tradition of Korean dancing art established in the period of the anti-Japanese revolutionary struggle,” according to a report Tuesday from the North’s official news agency.

Mr. Kim also toured a machine-tool factory and offered “field guidance” on how to improve production, the Korean Central News Agency said. Mr. Kim is heralded in the North, as was his father, for dispensing guidance on myriad trips to factories, farms, hospitals, military bases, film sets and sound stages.

At the Ryongsong Machine Complex, the agency reported, Mr. Kim visited the factory dining hall where he expressed concern for the workers’ daily lives “as their real father would do.”

He was accompanied by his sister, Kim Kyong-hee, and her husband, Jang Song-taek, both of whom are members of Mr. Kim’s ruling inner circle. No mention was made of his youngest son and apparent heir, Kim Jong-un.

Pyongyang, of course, has by far the best living standards in the otherwise impoverished North, which is facing renewed famine, according to numerous reports. A recent visitor there said he had seen many people with cellphones, including three teenagers huddled over one phone as they were, yes, texting.

Unlike on a previous visit, he said, he managed to slip away from his government escorts and went for a jog in the capital. He and his colleagues on an academic tour saw splashy displays of imported goods, especially cognac, and they were treated to lengthy and bountiful banquets.

In a four-day visit, said the man, a Western scholar, there was only one brief power failure, and the huge statue of North Korea’s founding president, Kim Il-sung, remained lighted overnight in central Pyongyang. The North is chronically short of fuel and diesel oil, and many factories have been idled because of a lack of power and raw materials.

A beer factory was operating, however, and the visitor pronounced the Taedong River beer, a local brand, “very drinkable.” Private stalls and markets in and around the capital “appeared to be thriving,” he added.

After hearing complaints from factory managers and state economic planners, the scholar said any potential reform of the hyper-socialist economy in North Korea was being hamstrung by a range of sanctions by the United Nations, the United States and other nations. Most of the sanctions have been imposed over the North’s refusal to abandon its nuclear programs.

The foreigner living in Pyongyang also saw the bark and the bite of sanctions among North Koreans.

“Sanctions have not changed behaviors of the elite, nor have they stopped the flow of luxury goods or cars to Pyongyang,” the foreigner said. “But for ordinary people, they have so very little to work with — tools, running water, medicines in clinics. Imports of any kind are just absent.”

The foreigner said political isolation had been effective in shutting off North Koreans to most international commerce, from material goods to cultural influences to political ideas.

“In some ways,” the foreigner said, “people here are so used to being without — without stuff, without validation, without contact to the outside world, without a set of standards about how things happen — that sanctions and isolation are normal. They feed a sense of victimhood, or at least underdog-ness, that justifies both the regime and attacks like the one we’ve just seen.

“That said, every day I wake up and I can’t believe that my ‘normal’ is living in a dictatorship. I feel a mixture of sadness and frustration at what I observe.”
51 2010-12-02 CARACAS, Venezuela — Miraflores Palace, designed in the 1880s by an Italian count for one of Venezuela’s 19th-century dictators, has been home to presidents here for more than a century. In recent years, it has welcomed a lively medley of foreign leaders, including Presidents Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran and Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil.

But on Wednesday, Venezuela’s president, Hugo Chávez, opened the doors of the neoclassical building to a new set of residents: flood victims.

Appearing on state television at Miraflores clad in an olive drab military uniform, Mr. Chávez welcomed 26 families who had been displaced by torrential rains in recent weeks. The rainfall has caused flooding and landslides that have killed 25 people and forced more than 30,000 Venezuelans to flee, civil defense officials said.

“I have a proposal for you families: stay here for a year,” the president told the refugees who became his housemates on Wednesday. He then led them on a brief tour of a palace wing where beds and cribs had been set up next to a barbershop. “When you leave,” he said, “it will be to an apartment of your own.”

Beyond offering a helping hand, Mr. Chávez was once again displaying his facility at taking hold of the public discussion during a time of crisis, and he blunted criticism over his government’s handling of flood-prevention measures and its response to the rains.
52 2010-12-02 “Brooklyn, Brooklyn in the house!” Darren Aronofsky shouted from the front of the Ziegfeld Theater on Tuesday night. Mr. Aronofsky, the director and Coney Island native, was living out a childhood fantasy when his film “Black Swan” had its New York premiere at that Midtown Manhattan movie palace, which he frequented while growing up. “Mom, I have a confession: I cut out of high school to see ‘Raiders of the Lost Ark’ in this theater,” he said, later admitting it wasn’t a one-time thing.

It was a local-boy-made-good moment for “Black Swan,” which opens in select cities on Friday. For the premiere the red carpet extended down the block, the paparazzi screamed for the stars — Natalie Portman, in a décolleté black gown, Mila Kunis, in a cream one, Barbara Hershey, Winona Ryder, Vincent Cassel — and afterward, everyone gathered at a party in the chandeliered St. Regis hotel, which was decked out in tarnished mirrors and strategically placed black and white feathers. The mood was jubilant, and the look was slightly creepy, appropriate for a fantasy- and horror-tinged story of a perfectionist ballerina (Ms. Portman) madly preparing for “Swan Lake.”

Downtown on the same night, in the back room of an Italian bistro in Chelsea, “The Kids Are All Right” was having a little soiree, one so low key that even the presence of two of its stars, Julianne Moore and Mark Ruffalo, caused barely a ripple among the restaurant patrons out front. The film, about lesbian parents (Ms. Moore and Annette Bening) who must deal with meeting their children’s sperm donor (Mr. Ruffalo), was a Sundance Film Festival hit and an indie success story when it opened this summer. Both films represent the vision of dedicated directors, who labored for years to get their work on screen despite having impressive credits. And both could wind up in a catbird seat come Oscar night. Already this week they have earned accolades, scoring multiple nominations from the Film Independent Spirit Awards, which will be handed out the day before the Oscars at the end of February. As a director Mr. Aronofsky was also honored Monday night at the Gotham Independent Film Awards, the traditional opening day of statuette campaigning in New York. (“Black Swan” and “The Kids Are All Right” were nominated there too but lost the top prizes to “Winter’s Bone,” a lower-budget drama set in the Ozarks.)

As surely as the holiday season brings sugarplum fairies and eggnog, it also means the start of a few months of fiercely competitive self-promotion for Hollywood. The weeks leading up to the Oscars are a fanciful slog of cocktail parties, luncheons, lesser award shows and industry screenings, all of which I chronicle daily in my role as the Carpetbagger columnist. Already there is a short list of films that are likely to be anointed with one of the 10 best-picture spots, including, in addition to “Black Swan” and “The Kids Are All Right,” “The Social Network,” “Inception,” “The King’s Speech” “Toy Story 3,” “127 Hours” and “Winter’s Bone.” “The Fighter,” a boxing film from David O. Russell, and “True Grit,” the Coen brothers remake of that John Wayne classic, are latecomers to the still wide-open race, adding drama to the ever-shifting predictions from Oscarologists.

One thing my compatriots agree on: The contest for best actress will be noteworthy. Besides Ms. Bening, Ms. Moore and Ms. Portman, Jennifer Lawrence, the 20-year-old star of “Winter’s Bone,” and Nicole Kidman, playing a grieving mother in “Rabbit Hole,” are being lauded for standout performances. (In what may be a glimpse of the competition to come, the Spirit Awards nominated six actresses instead of the usual five this year; Ms. Bening got a nod, but Ms. Moore didn’t.)
53 2010-12-02 Q. I have some self-portraits I took with the Mac’s Photo Booth program, but I want to adjust the color on them. Is there any easier way to get them into Adobe Photoshop without having to e-mail them to myself?

A. Photo Booth, included with Mac OS X, is used mainly for taking pictures and videos with the built-in iSight cameras on most current Macs. Although the program has several special effects and backgrounds, an image-editing program can be more useful for tweaking the color and the crop.

The Photo Booth window includes icons that let users send a selected image to Apple’s iPhoto software or attach it to a mail message. Users can also just click and drag a selected thumbnail picture from the window to put a copy of the file on the desktop or in a folder. Then open it with Adobe Photoshop.

In Photo Booth, users can see the location of the original picture on the Mac’s hard drive. Click on the thumbnail image and choose Reveal in Finder from the File menu; the keyboard shortcut for the same action is Command-R. From here, you can drag the photo to a new location.

Recent versions of Photo Booth can also take video clips or a series of four snapshots that can form an animated GIF file for use as a buddy icon. To get either of these types of files out of Photo Booth, select the file, go to the File menu and choose Export.

TIP OF THE WEEK If you have increased your screen real estate by adding a second monitor to your Windows 7 system, Microsoft has a few keyboard shortcuts that make managing multiple screens easier. Once the second monitor (or projector) is connected, press the Windows key + P to pop open a panel of options for extending or duplicating the screen — or to switch between the computer or projector display. To move the active window from one monitor to the other, press the Windows and Shift keys — and either the right or left arrow key — to toggle between screens. For more information on multiple monitors in Windows 7, visit support.microsoft.com/kb/976064. J. D. BIERSDORFER
54 2010-12-02 For the United States, winning over Belarus is a significant milestone in Mr. Obama’s campaign to secure all vulnerable stocks of nuclear material in the next four years, said Philip H. Gordon, the State Department’s assistant secretary for European and Eurasian affairs. Belarus is the last country in the former Soviet orbit outside Russia with a large stockpile of highly enriched uranium, which can be used to make nuclear bombs if enriched to a pure enough grade.

It had also been a stubborn holdout, so much so that in April the White House declined to invite Belarus to a 47-nation nuclear security summit meeting convened by Mr. Obama, at which another former Soviet republic, Ukraine, announced that it would relinquish its highly enriched uranium.

Belarus’s hard-line leader, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, said at the time, “Nobody will be allowed to make Belarus bow down.”

But late in the summer, a senior State Department official said, Belarus contacted the administration to express interest in reopening negotiations. The United States has agreed to give it an undisclosed amount of financial and technical assistance to ship 220 kilograms, or about 485 pounds, of highly enriched uranium to Russia, where it will be changed to a less purified grade.

The United States will also give Belarus advice on pursuing a new nuclear reactor fueled by low-enriched uranium. That will make it less dependent on imported gas from Russia, which the American official said was a major selling point.

As a reward for its decision, Belarus has been invited to attend the next nuclear security summit, in South Korea in 2012. In 1994, it agreed to relinquish the nuclear weapons left on its soil after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Most of its highly enriched uranium dates from that era.

It was not clear how much of Belarus’s uranium stockpile was enriched to 90 percent, the level of purification needed for a weapon. Researchers at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, based in Monterey, Calif., have estimated that at least 40 kilograms of the stockpile is weapons grade.

Mrs. Clinton addressed another nuclear predicament, saying she was “encouraged” that Iran had agreed to meet six major powers for negotiations next week in Geneva. But she said the Iranian nuclear program would have to top the agenda, something Tehran has steadfastly resisted.

“We hope that Iran will enter into these negotiations in the spirit in which they are offered,” she said.

Mrs. Clinton said a proposal to ship uranium out of Iran, enrich it abroad and return it to fuel a research reactor in Tehran would have to be modified to reflect new realities. Iran backed out of such a proposal shortly after it was announced last year, and began aggressively enriching its uranium.

If nuclear issues grabbed the headlines, the WikiLeaks disclosures were still the talk of the hallways at this meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which was held in a vast, futuristic convention center in Astana, Kazakhstan’s 13-year-old capital.

Several officials said Mrs. Clinton spent the day on damage control, smoothing feathers and explaining how the cables are used. Addressing one of the most damaging disclosures, she told Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, that neither she nor anyone else had ordered government employees to spy on the United Nations, according to someone who took part in the meeting.

The State Department has confirmed that intelligence agencies asked American diplomats to collect personal data on foreigners — a request that it says most diplomats ignore. Mrs. Clinton told Mr. Ban she had ordered an “aggressive review” of such requests, said this person, who spoke on condition of confidentiality because it was a private meeting.

In her meeting with Mr. Berlusconi, another official said, Mrs. Clinton reassured him that reports from in the field did not represent American policy. Afterward, she heaped praise on him while they posed for pictures, saying, “We have no better friend; we have no one who supports American policies as consistently as Prime Minister Berlusconi has.”

For all that, Mrs. Clinton insisted that no one expressed concerns about working with the United States. Kazakhstan’s foreign minister, Kanat Saudabayev, described the cables, which included embarrassing personal details about his country’s leaders, as “something we will live through.”
55 2010-12-02 Google has finally set a date - or at least a ballpark one - for its long-awaited foray into electronic books, Google Editions.     The company will introduce Google Editions by the end of the year, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday nigh...
56 2010-12-02 HONG KONG - A bank whose customer base is larger than the population of the United States, a French cosmetics maker, a microlender and a Chinese pharmaceutical company that makes an anticoagulant derived from pigs' guts: Asian stock exchanges have...
57 2010-12-03 Google’s proposed $6 billion deal for the social discount site Groupon would complement other local business-focused services, analysts say. Evelyn M. Rusli examines the possible deal, which stumbled late Friday evening when Groupon brushed it o...
58 2010-12-03 Chancellor William B. Chandler III asks the money question and wants answers soon in the takeover battle between Airgas and Air Products....
59 2010-12-03 Google's proposed $6 billion bid for the social discount site Groupon would complement other local business-focused services, analysts say. DealBook's Evelyn M. Rusli examines the expected deal.
60 2010-12-03 A project to turn an iPod Nano into a wristwatch has attracted over $540,000 in funding online through Kickstarter....
61 2010-12-03 They are coaches and camp counselors, authoritarians and bullies, father figures and brotherly shoulders to cry on -- there aren't many roles the platoon sergeant doesn't play....
62 2010-12-03 DEBBIE REYNOLDS There is nothing that she keeps to herself.

CARRIE FISHER I’ll never be known for my work with boundaries. But certainly there is stuff that is private. “Wishful Drinking” is adulterated. Unadulterated me would be impossible. I try to adulterate myself in a childish way.

REYNOLDS That’s confusing even to me.

FISHER There’s a line I have that our family was designed more for public than for private. But there are definitely some things that are only mine. I am someone who dreams at night, and you don’t know what I’m dreaming.

Q. It’s brave to be so honest.

FISHER There’s a part of me that gets surprised when people think I’m brave to talk about what I’ve gone through. I was brave to last through it.

REYNOLDS We haven’t tried to keep secrets because we haven’t done anything to be kept secret.

FISHER Well, I have. There were things that were kept secret for a really long time, like my substance abuse.

REYNOLDS But your substance abuse came out of being manic depressive, which is a disease, which you were unfortunately given by genetic factor, which is your father’s gift to his daughter. We will lay that on him — or at least I will.

Q. Just to clarify, do you suffer from manic depression or bipolar disorder?

FISHER They say bipolar now. It’s the same as manic depression. I think manic depression is more descriptive. Bipolar sounds like a gay bear.

Q. It seemed for a long time that you wanted your mother to put her outsize personality away. How do you feel about being her daughter now?

FISHER I love being her daughter. Debbie Reynolds is great.

REYNOLDS Have you met her?

Q. Are you two performing some kind of routine for me?

FISHER No. This is how we talk.

REYNOLDS No. This is not how we talk.

Q. What was the source of your friction over the years?

REYNOLDS I think we’ve always been open and honest — that’s why we didn’t get along. As a parent you must give your opinion. And if that causes a breach, then it causes a breach. Carrie and I have disagreements and stalemates, but we still walk away loving each other.

Q. Carrie teases you pretty mercilessly in “Wishful Drinking.” She even insinuates that you played a role in making her a little cuckoo — like when you had her performing a nightclub act at the age of 12 or when you were pregnant with her and continued to dance rigorously.

REYNOLDS Mental illness is not something that I gave her.

FISHER If anything, my mother taught me how to sur-thrive. That’s my word for it. She would go through these amazingly difficult things, and the message was clear: Doing the impossible is possible. It’s just not fun. She broke her ankle one night during a performance and went back onstage and sang “Tammy” with her foot in a bucket of ice. She should be put on that thing with the four presidents — Mount Rushmore. Right after Teddy Roosevelt, but have his eyes looking down at her cleavage.

Q. Eddie Fisher died in September. How did he affect your relationship?

FISHER He defined me more by his absence than by presence. In later years I realized that we could have a relationship if I was taking care of him. If I had an expectation that he was going to be some kind of parent to me, that was always going to disappoint. For whatever reason that is who he was. At least he did one thing: He knew he didn’t deserve my care and attention, and he appreciated it.

REYNOLDS He let you take care of him — how generous.

Q. Debbie, I take it from your comments that you never forgave him for leaving you with two little kids to marry Elizabeth Taylor.

FISHER In my opening night of “Wishful Drinking” in San Francisco, Mama was there and he came too. And she hid behind my rack of clothes so she wouldn’t have to see him.

Q. “Wishful Drinking” is your first stage work in decades. What made you decide to go back in front of a live audience?

FISHER I had watched my mom do it all my life, but I didn’t think I could do it. When I was a kid and did her nightclub act with her, I got horrible stage fright. And besides, performing in front of a live audience was her thing. She enjoys herself. She allows it to rejuvenate her. I finally came to it because I found my instrument, which was being myself and not singing.

REYNOLDS I wish you would sing more. Everyone wants you to sing more.

Q. How much is not singing a way to annoy the hell out of your mom?

FISHER Anytime I can annoy her is a holiday.
63 2010-12-03 The Food and Drug Administration plans to consider yet another diet pill next week, but the agency staff noticed some cardiovascular issues....
64 2010-12-03 Aesop's perfectly lightweight face cream is a rich moisturizer that really works....
65 2010-12-03 Thomas C. Naratil, a top executive of the bank's wealth management unit in the Americas, will succeed John Cryan, who will leave UBS in May....
66 2010-12-03 It is buying its Manhattan office building for $1.8 billion, in one of the biggest commercial real estate deals ever....
67 2010-12-03 President Obama’s bipartisan fiscal commission did not reach the 14-vote threshold for sending a package to Congress for a vote, but the plan is likely to serve as a template for the future....
68 2010-12-03 But five years later, American officials in interviews said that they had no evidence that Iran had used the parts or technology to actually construct a BM-25, let alone begin the years of flight testing necessary before it could reliably add the missile to its arsenal.

It is unclear why Iran appears to have had trouble with the BM-25. According to one American official, it is possible that Iran did not get complete “missile kits” from the North Koreans in 2005, or that Iranian scientists have had difficulty mastering the technology.

Both American officials and outside experts appear to agree, however, that Iran did use some of the BM-25 technology to launch a satellite into space last year, and that Iranian scientists probably used data from that launching for its military program.

“Just because the BM-25 program hasn’t progressed as far as the Iranians hoped it would, the concern remains,” said one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because assessments about Iran’s missile program are classified.

The dozen cables provide a glimpse of secret discussions between the United States and a number of foreign governments about the BM-25, described earlier this week in an article in The New York Times. Their views are colored by their relationships with Iran.

The Israelis, for instance, take a more alarmist stance than the United States because Israel regards Iran as its greatest threat. Russia, on the other hand, denies that the BM-25 even exists.

In the cables, American officials argue that North Korea developed the medium-range weapon based on a Russian design, the R-27, once used on Soviet submarines to carry nuclear warheads.

The cables describe how the North Koreans, in turn, transferred “missiles” or “missile systems” to Iran. The cables do not refer to missile parts or “kits.”

But the cables, written over four years, vary in the certainty with which Americans make the claim about the technology transfer, with one cable saying Iran “has probably acquired” BM-25s and another discussing “substantial data indicating Iranian possession of a missile system.”

The public release of the cables has stirred debate among experts outside the government on the existence of the BM-25 and whether, if Iran has the weapon, it poses an immediate threat to Western Europe.

Many experts say the BM-25 has undergone no flight testing either by North Korea or Iran, and they note that traditionally it takes a dozen or so tests over several years to perfect a missile and prepare it for military deployment.

On the other hand, NATO last month agreed to establish an antimissile shield and has invited Russia to take part, suggesting growing concern in Europe of an Iranian missile threat.

One of the most knowledgeable public analysts of Tehran’s endeavors in rocketry is Michael Elleman, a missile engineer who contributed to a report on Iran’s program issued in May by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, an arms analysis group in London.

That report was skeptical of Iran’s having obtained the BM-25 from North Korea. Now, Mr. Elleman said, he is less certain.

“It is possible that the BM-25 does not exist,” he said in an e-mail message. “However, it is more likely that it does, in some fashion. We just do not know, precisely, because it has never been tested.”

The first cable in the WikiLeaks cache that refers to the BM-25 came from the American Embassy in Tel Aviv, sent to Washington on May 5, 2006. The cable discusses a meeting a month earlier between Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, and Meir Dagan, director of Mossad, Israel’s main spy agency.

According to the cable, Mr. Dagan talked of Iran’s having a medium-range missile, the Shahab-3, that “can currently carry nuclear material, and reported that Iran is also trying to adapt the BM-25 missile, which already has a longer range, for this purpose.”

American intelligence officials do not believe that Iran has yet mastered the technology to put a nuclear warhead on top of a missile.

But the most detailed discussion about the missile is contained in a cable from Feb. 24 of this year, which describes the disagreements between American and Russian officials about the missile.

The cable shows that American officials firmly believed that Iran had obtained 19 of the missiles from North Korea, and that there was direct evidence of the weapons transfer. But it goes on to indicate that the Russians dismiss that claim as a myth driven by politics.
69 2010-12-03 The activist investor muses on his aggressive strategy and big bets at an industry conference....
70 2010-12-03 AdWords offers its users a text to study and rules to follow -- but don't ask too many questions....
71 2010-12-03 The following statement was released by JPMorgan Chase in response to a lawsuit filed against it on Thursday by the trustee handling the bankruptcy of Bernard L. Madoff’s fraudulent investment scheme:

The complaint filed today by the trustee for the Madoff estate blatantly distorts both the facts and the law in an attempt to grab headlines. Contrary to the trustee’s allegations, JPMorgan did not know about or in any way assist in the fraud orchestrated by Bernard Madoff.

As a provider of regular commercial banking services to Madoff’s brokerage firm, JPMorgan complied fully with all applicable laws and regulations governing customer accounts. Moreover, to the extent foreign affiliates of JPMorgan made indirect investments with offshore funds that in turn invested with Madoff, those affiliates invested significantly more than they ever redeemed.

Any suggestion that JPMorgan supported Madoff’s fraud is utterly baseless and demonstrably false. The trustee’s irresponsible and over-reaching allegations are especially disappointing in light of the significant effort that JPMorgan has made to assist the trustee in investigating the Madoff fraud. Since the fraud was revealed in December 2008, JPMorgan has shared significant information with the trustee and addressed the questions that the trustee has raised.

JPMorgan intends to defend itself vigorously against the merit-less and unfounded claims brought by the trustee.
72 2010-12-03 “What the G.O.P. Missed” (editorial, Nov. 28) states that “current technology” used in the missile defense that was adopted during the NATO summit meeting in Lisbon has demonstrated “real progress” toward an “effective” missile defense system. In fact, the missile defense system adopted during the NATO meeting uses technology that is fundamentally flawed and will never work reliably in real combat.

The defense uses interceptors with infrared vision to home in on attacking warheads and decoys. Using infrared vision to find warheads accompanied by decoys is the same as requiring inspectors at airports to intercept bombs in suitcases with only regular vision.

The missile defense adopted by NATO has no way to deal with such trivial, expected and highly credible countermeasures. The New York Times has reported one of the many manifestations of this fundamental flaw in the NATO-adopted defense in “Physicists Say Weapon Failed in Missile Tests” (front page, May 18).

The writer is a professor of science, technology and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
73 2010-12-03 Texas has three railroad commissioners, who are elected statewide. They regulate oil and gas, which you’d never know from their title. But that’s not the only reason there’s a serious effort afoot to change the agency’s name and replace those officeholders with part-time gubernatorial appointees, as there are at most of the state’s other regulatory agencies.

Another, bigger reason is that there are lily pads and launch pads in Texas government, and the Railroad Commission is a launch pad. Being a railroad commissioner is less an end than a means — a way to propel yourself into a better, more high-profile and more powerful job.

The Texas Railroad Commission was established at the end of the 19th century as an effort to regulate trains, but it morphed into the biggest player in world energy pricing. OPEC was modeled on the agency’s control of Texas oil well production, which limited supply and kept up prices worldwide.

The commissioners serve six-year terms, staggered so that only one is on the ballot every two years, and they regulate oil and gas, pipelines, surface mining and gas utilities in the state. Texas isn’t the center of the energy production universe anymore, like it was in the middle of the last century, but commissioners still have the industry’s full attention — and they often use it, and the money that follows, as the base of support for moving up the political ladder.

Two of the last three state comptrollers, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, a Republican, and John Sharp, a Democrat, started their statewide runs at the commission. Tony Garza ran an unsuccessful race for attorney general, got appointed by Gov. George W. Bush as secretary of state and then ran successfully for the Railroad Commission. After Mr. Bush moved from the little white house in Austin to the big White House in Washington, he named Mr. Garza the United States ambassador to Mexico.
74 2010-12-03 A bitter dispute over who can work on solar power projects has brought to a halt San Francisco’s efforts to install solar panels at City Hall, Davies Symphony Hall and other prominent buildings.

Electricians, roofers and other unions are battling over “green collar” jobs that are emerging with the city’s aggressive pursuit of clean energy. In June, protests that led to shouting matches between electricians and other laborers stopped work on a five-megawatt solar power plant in the Sunset district.

Officials mediated that dispute, but the city later suspended about $7 million in similar projects after activists threatened more protests.

“We’re going to protest it every time,” said James Richards, leader of Aboriginal Blackmen United, a group that organized the June protests on behalf of workers from Bayview and other low-income neighborhoods. “We deserve the work.”

The dispute underscores the complexities of how jobs will be divided in the green economy. State regulations provide limited direction for employers trying to determine which workers are appropriate for clean-energy projects.
75 2010-12-03 A year ago, delegates from 193 countries went to Copenhagen with hopes of signing a treaty limiting emissions of greenhouse gases and committing each country to hard targets. What emerged was an interim “statement of intention” full of nonbinding pledges that mean nothing if governments choose not to honor them.

Delegates are now in Cancún, Mexico, for the latest round of United Nations climate talks. Differences between rich and poor countries — and the biggest emitters, China and the United States — remain unresolved, which means there will be no binding agreement. Yet there is still a chance for some progress if governments follow through on the commitments they have already made on burden-sharing and transparent reporting of emissions.

Prodded by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, industrialized nations agreed in Copenhagen to provide $30 billion in aid between 2010 and 2012, and $100 billion annually beginning in 2020, to help poorer countries develop less polluting sources of energy, preserve their forests and adapt to drought, sea level rise and other consequences of warming.

In exchange, developing countries including China and India, agreed in principle to a transparent system of emissions reporting so the world could see whether all governments were meeting voluntary targets.

These promises must now be made into something real. The poorer nations complain, rightly, that they have seen little hard cash, including from the United States. The delegates in Cancún need to devise systems to monitor the flow of money from rich to poor countries and to oversee efforts to prevent deforestation. Doing so would increase pressure on wealthy governments to deliver and take away at least one possible excuse for inaction.

Meanwhile, China has been balking at working out the details on the transparency agreement, which at the moment envisions only a vague process of “international consultation and analysis.” The top United States negotiator in Cancún, Todd Stern, wants something much more specific, akin to the detailed reporting required by international trade agreements. That makes good sense to us.
76 2010-12-03 Nocsae’s executive director, Mike Oliver, who said he was not invited to testify at the hearing, confirmed in a phone interview from his Kansas City, Mo., law office that he and his staff had been in touch with commission officials since mid-November. He said that he welcomed a “collaborative effort” with the commission, but disagreed with the characterization that helmets are held to below-science standards.

“We know that rotational and linear accelerations are involved in causing concussions,” said Oliver, who held a meeting in October with Nocsae officials and outside scientists to discuss the issue. “The things that we don’t know are the numbers, or combination of numbers, that are acceptable thresholds. At that point, the science is all over the place.”

The commission tends to encourage industry groups to improve their own standard rather than attempt the cumbersome process of creating its own, several people involved with Thursday’s hearing said. The risk of eventual government regulation, they said, can be incentive enough to bring change.

In an interview after the hearing, Udall had more pointed comments regarding Nocsae, which includes representatives from, and is largely financed by, the sporting goods industry. He said the agency had not been aggressive enough in pursuing stronger standards as concussions became one of the most pressing health concerns in youth sports.

“That’s why having the Consumer Products Safety Commission, with all of their safety people and the knowledge and experience they have, to be able to say, ‘We think the science is there, we think you can improve upon it, and go out and do it,’ ” Udall said. “Then you have a real pressure point.”

Oliver said: “I don’t agree that we need a pressure point. This committee works as quickly and hard as it can to respond to what the science tells us.”

Some Nocsae officials and industry experts have said in recent months that reforms have been impeded by the legal liability that would be brought by Nocsae’s accepting an enforcement role of a stricter standard. Udall said he would listen to why explicit legal protection would help the process. Oliver said legal concerns had never been a consideration and protection was not necessary.

Udall said his staff had been communicating with the N.F.L.’s head, neck and spine committee as that group considered developing a separate standard for N.F.L. players’ helmets. That committee is scheduled to meet in New York on Wednesday with several outside experts in neurology and biomechanics. Udall said he might ask that a representative from his office attend.

This is not the first time the commission has become involved in standards for football helmets. It participated in discussions in the 1970s before it decided that Nocsae’s original mission — to eliminate skull fractures on the football field — was essentially complete. It yielded to industry self-governance for the next three decades, an era that appears to be ending.
77 2010-12-03 Other votes had to be taken — the expiring Bush-era tax cuts were on the agenda — but then 4 o’clock rolled around and it was his time.

In the chamber where laws got made, relief portraits of the likes of Tribonian, Gaius and Solon adorning the walls, the 111th Congress conducted its bit of nasty business relatively briskly, finding no benefit in stretching out this mini-morality play any longer than necessary.

In the hour allocated for debate, a silent House listened as the ethics committee chairwoman, Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, and other committee members made the case for censure, revisiting Mr. Rangel’s bundle of ethical misdeeds: unpaid taxes; improper solicitation of charitable donations; flawed reporting of income — what some of his sturdiest defenders had seen fit to condense further to little more than grabbing the wrong stationery.

There was talk of “a public trust,” “a new era of transparency” and “a solemn occasion.”

The normally brassy Mr. Rangel was penitent as he apologized “for putting you in this awkward position today,” before recalling a day in Korea 60 years ago “in sub-zero weather,” when “I was wounded and had no thought that I would be able to survive.”

A string of defenders, from New York, California and Iowa, argued for a reprimand, a written rebuke of his wrongdoings, not the censure that would mean a verbal flogging in front of everyone. There was no mistaking that it all had the feel of the territory of small boys allowed into the world of grown-ups.

In a momentary twist, Representative G. K. Butterfield of North Carolina introduced an amendment to lower the punishment to reprimand. A voice vote was called for. It was ruled in favor of the amendment. A recorded vote was demanded.

No one any longer seemed certain where this was going.

Members of Congress watched the lighted green yeas and red nays blink on the wall scoreboard.

There were 15 minutes to vote. With five minutes left, it was 100 yeas and 131 nays. Was it possible censure would not happen this day?

The final minutes went badly for Mr. Rangel. The amendment fell by 267 to 146.

The vote on the censure resolution was an easy call. There was no need to watch the lights. Mr. Rangel studied them for a while, then lingered by his seat, his head bent, no more outs available.

From the dais, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, in her waning days as presiding officer, summoned “the gentleman from New York” to the well of the House to hear a chastisement unheard in 27 years, not since the July day in 1983 when the House delivered bipartisan shame to a Republican and a Democrat who had had dalliances with 17-year-old pages.

Mr. Rangel stood, feet apart, his arms clasped before him, the vigor washed out of him.

Ms. Pelosi solemnly read the one-paragraph admonition properly known as House Resolution 1737. No florid rhetoric was flaunted for this pressing bit of protocol, but the stiff, cut-and-dried language of censure: “Resolved, that, one, Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York be censured,” and so forth.

In their seats in the arched rows, his hushed colleagues stared through tight eyes at the peculiar spectacle. In less than half a minute and with 90 spoken words, it was over.

Now one additional line would be edited into the biographical brief of a 20-term warhorse congressman and decorated Korean War veteran: the 23rd member of the House to be so punished.

A chastened Mr. Rangel asked for one more minute to speak. He called what had happened to him a “new criteria” and said there was more politics than justice on display. Then he finished by saying, “At the end of the day, compared to where I’ve been, I haven’t had a bad day since.”

There was some scattered applause. As Mr. Rangel headed back up the aisle, a few members of Congress hugged him or touched him on his arm. He walked out the door alone.

Members of Congress got going with their obligatory post-mortems: Make the punishment fit the crime, sad but necessary.

Its day not yet done, the machinery of government moved on to other matters.
78 2010-12-03 “After a 16-hour day, there’s room for error,” said Valerie Vazquez, a spokeswoman for the board.

“Recanvassing is incredibly important, and it’s a good thing that the city is finding mistakes when they happen,” said Lawrence Norden, senior counsel of the Democracy Program of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University Law School.

The final tally swelled the total vote count to 1,366,881 from 1,145,826 on Nov. 2 in the official certified version. The largest cache of newly found machine ballots was in Queens — about 80,000, or 31 percent, more than were reported on election night. The 195,000 differential does not include an additional 28,442 affidavit ballots cast on paper at the polls on Election Day because of missing registrations or other reasons, and 30,665 absentee and military ballots or scattered write-in votes, all included in the final tally.

“It’s absurd and disturbing that one in six votes in New York City went uncounted in the election night returns,” said Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party. Despite the more high-tech voting system that replaced antiquated machines, the process of counting votes is cumbersome, requires the use of sharp scissors and leaves plenty of room for mistakes.

Once the polls close, each of the digital scanners used at the city’s polling sites spews out a supermarketlike receipt. Election workers cut the paper strips and sort them by election district, since a polling place may serve more than one district. They then use a calculator to tally the results for each candidate, and the count is transcribed by hand onto “return of canvass” forms. They are given to police officers at the polling places, who take them to local precinct houses, where the numbers are entered in a computer and transmitted to the board and to The Associated Press — which distributes them to other news organizations.

“It is not current technology,” said Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer, a Democrat from Manhattan who is chairwoman of the government operations committee.

Douglas A. Kellner, the chairman of the New York State Board of Elections, said, “The large discrepancy is probably accountable to the inspectors lack of familiarity with the new system for preparing the canvass reports because, for the first time, multiple machines were used for multiple election districts at the same poll site.”

In 2008, after a number of election districts reported no votes for Barack Obama in the Democratic presidential primary, the board found during its official recanvass 35 cases in which an election inspector reported the results incorrectly on the canvass sheets and 20 instances when a police officer entered erroneous data.

In the 2005 mayoral race, the discrepancy between the count reported on election night and the final tally were 34,022 votes, or less than 3 percent.

“Comparing data on poll site performance and voter turnout from year to year is an essential tool in evaluating the board’s performance on every Election Day,” the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said.

According to the preliminary returns in the race for governor on election night, Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democrat, had 901,640 votes in the city. His official total, including paper ballots, was 1,097,792, or 196,152 more votes. The citywide count for his Republican opponent, Carl P. Paladino, increased to 212,423 from 191,652 on Nov. 2 in the official recount.

Among the write-in candidates for governor, the biggest winners were the incumbent, David A. Paterson, with 79 votes (approximately, since spellings varied), followed by 65 for Rick A. Lazio, whom Mr. Paladino defeated in the Republican primary; 45 for Rudolph W. Giuliani; 43 for Mr. Bloomberg; 6 for former Gov. George E. Pataki; 5 each for former Gov. Eliot Spitzer and former Mayor Edward I. Koch; and 4 for former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.

“None of the above” received eight write-in votes.

Mr. Cantor said the significant difference in votes undermined the credibility of the new computerized voting system. “The Board of Elections just spent hundreds of millions of dollars to go backwards,” he said, adding that the new system “can’t even give us accurate and timely returns.”
79 2010-12-03 Mr. Lopez is leaving for many reasons — his hours as a restaurant manager were cut, he is tired of waiting for a green card, he has missed enough of his children’s lives — but the economy, he says, was the final straw. “Whatever I’m making, I’m using to pay the bills,” he said. “I can work to survive over there, and there I can be surrounded by all my family.”

Ecuador is not the only nation to offer aid to returning countrymen. Many nations, including Ethiopia, Jamaica and Morocco, waive sizable import taxes on goods brought back. Some, like El Salvador and Mexico, offer bus fare and educational assistance to returning people deported from other countries.

But immigration experts say Ecuador stands out for its aggressive promotion of its campaign — in New York, it advertises in bus-stop shelters and on Spanish-language television — and for its special ministry dedicated to migrant affairs.

By no means has the program ignited an exodus. The Ecuadorean population in New York State has risen steadily over the past decade, to an estimated 175,000. But the ranks of those leaving have grown, too. Last year, the Queens office assisted 347 people with tax waivers as they left the country, more than twice as many as in 2008.

Pablo Calle runs the local arm of the program from the Casa Ecuatoriana in the Corona section of Queens. He said the office had been overwhelmed with requests for help moving back.

One recent morning, more than a dozen people — everyone who came through the front door except a deliveryman — wanted to register for the program or learn more about it.

“Everybody comes here,” Mr. Calle said as the lobby chairs began to fill up.

Many in this steady stream of people, young and old, said they were finished with the scramble of immigrant life.

Luis Paramo, 32, a truck driver, said his work had dried up over the past two years. After seven years in this country, he said, he and his wife, Isabel, are planning to return to his family’s home in central Ecuador. They said many friends in New York had already gone back.

“Here, you have to pay rent, buy food,” Mr. Paramo said. “There, I’m with family, so it’s easier. I feel happy that I’m going home, but I’m scared to begin again.”

Welcome Home was started in 2007 by Ecuador’s president, Rafael Correa, a left-leaning economist. He had lived in Belgium and studied in the United States, and he made reaching out to expatriates a crucial plank of his election campaigns.

Mr. Calle, of the Welcome Home office in Queens, described the program as a much-needed service for weary immigrants, but also as a way to develop Ecuador, a poor Andean nation that is enjoying its most stable economic and political climate in years.

“People left because of a lack of opportunity,” Mr. Calle said. “To go back, we want to give them an opportunity to develop the country and their communities.”

One of the Ecuadorean government’s lures is the Cucayo Fund, which has provided entrepreneurs with seed money — up to $50,000 — to start more than 1,900 businesses, officials said.

Mr. Lopez, the departing restaurant manager, plans to apply for a Cucayo grant and open a hotel in the city of Cuenca. But even if he does not get the money, he said, it is time to leave New York.

Since the recession began, his health benefits have been cut, his pay has dropped and his workload has increased. If he loses his job, he said, he doubts he will find another. And if the recession deepens, he fears losing what he has worked so long to achieve. Back home, he can meet his four grandchildren, and see his three sons for the first time in a decade.

“I cannot save money now,” he said. “The bills are the same, but the income is not the same.”
80 2010-12-03 “Here we are locking people up for want of a couple of hundred dollars,” said Jamie Fellner, senior counsel with the domestic program of the advocacy group.

“Pretrial liberty should not be conditioned on the size of your bank account,” Ms. Fellner said.

The report raised the possibility that many of the poorer defendants pleaded guilty at arraignment for sentences with no jail time, simply to avoid being behind bars while awaiting trial.

“The client is placed with a choice of staying out of jail and being on Rikers Island and fighting their case,” said Robin Steinberg, the director of the Bronx Defenders, a nonprofit group that provides legal representation to Bronx residents charged with crimes. “Almost anybody would plead guilty. It creates a pressure on poor people in the criminal justice system for them to plead guilty without regard to whether they were guilty or not guilty.”

Arraignments in New York are a speedy affair, with prosecutors, defense lawyers, other advocates and judges working to ensure that defendants get their day in court — or just a few moments, really — within 24 hours of arrest, as state law requires.

Someone from the New York City Criminal Justice Agency, a nonprofit organization, interviews those arrested in the booking cells, gathering criminal histories and basic biographical and employment history to present to the prosecutor, defense lawyer and judge. The prosecutor requests a bail amount, and the judge makes a determination.

Some of those involved in the process take issue with the findings of the report.

Jerome E. McElroy, the executive director of the Criminal Justice Agency, which provided some of the data for the report, said there were complicating factors that the study had not taken into account.

“In many instances,” Mr. McElroy said, “there may be another open case, and that may be why the person is not released on their own recognizance.”

He also said that gathering information about a defendant’s financial situation in a five-minute jail interview was a tall order.

“It is not really possible for us to get reliable information on a person’s financial condition before the arraignment,” Mr. McElroy said. “At the present time, we don’t do that. If we did, by virtue of simply asking the defendant, and the court wanted some further verification of the reliability of the answer given by the defendant, I don’t know how we could do that.”

Melissa C. Jackson, the supervising judge for Manhattan in New York City Criminal Court, said state law already required that judges take into account a defendant’s financial situation when determining bail, and she disagreed with the assertion that judges would set high bail as a form of pretrial sentencing.

“It’s really counterintuitive because those judges are going to be handling the cases all the way through,” she said. “Why would they want a heavier caseload? That to me is a purely political take on what is really a complicated judicial decision.”

Judge Jackson said the main reason judges set high bails was that in the past, defendants had failed to appear in court.

Prosecutors also disputed the contention that they requested high bail amounts to pressure destitute defendants into pleading guilty.

“Pressure to get a defendant to plea is not a factor in setting bail in Staten Island,” said Daniel M. Donovan, that county’s district attorney.

“We have an assistant prosecutor who in about 30 seconds has to come up with a dollar figure that that young person believes is adequate,” Mr. Donovan said.

“We don’t get to interview the defendant; we have to make a determination without substantiating any of the information before us,” he said.

The district attorney of Brooklyn, Charles J. Hynes, said the report dealt with an important issue.

“My office is committed to request bail only when it will ensure a defendant’s return to court to face criminal charges, and never solely on the basis of the defendant’s inability to pay,” he said in a statement.
81 2010-12-03 SANA, Yemen — Qatar, winner of the bid for the 2022 World Cup, has undertaken a number of ambitious building projects in recent years, earning a global reputation despite its tiny size.

With immense oil and gas reserves, it has lured internationally famous architects to build museums of Islamic art and history. Several major American universities have opened branches at Education City, a complex in Doha, the Qatari capital. Like Dubai and Abu Dhabi, its rival Gulf principalities to the east, Qatar has grown with extraordinary speed, building a futuristic skyline of glass and steel towers and luring investors and workers from around the world.

Qatar, which is smaller than Connecticut, is not new to sports: in January it will host the Asian Cup for the second time. But the World Cup is a different order of magnitude, and hosting it will provide an extraordinary engineering challenge. Qatar is witheringly hot in summer, with temperatures regularly exceeding 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Its World Cup bid included plans to build nine climate-controlled stadiums that can be dismantled and moved after the tournament.

To some extent, Qatar has distinguished itself from regional rivals with controversial and sometimes contradictory gestures. It is host to a major American military base, and to Al Jazeera, the satellite TV station that was known, especially in its early years a decade ago, for anti-American programming. It has close relations with Iran and Syria, yet it allows Israel to maintain a commercial office in Doha, and cultivates Western banks and investors assiduously.

Qatar’s ambitions are largely the product of its emir, Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, an absolute monarch who overthrew his father in a bloodless coup in 1995. Ever since, he has opened the once-hermetic emirate to the outside world and fought to put it on the map. There are only about 300,000 Qatari citizens, with most of the 1.7 million residents being foreign workers. Officially, Qatar subscribes to a relatively puritanical school of Sunni Islam, but tends to be milder than Saudi Arabia, its much larger neighbor to the west.
82 2010-12-03 Beginning with accidentally sprayed Russian mucus and ending with deliberately deployed American urine, the plot of “Mars” owes at least as much to bodily fluids as it does to science fiction. Low key, low budget and low energy, this animated space odyssey from the writer and director Geoff Marslett accompanies three mismatched astronauts to the red planet and the search for new life forms.

Constantly monitored by Shep (Howe Gelb) at Mission Control and a pair of perky television journalists (Liza Weil and James Kochalka), the astronauts bicker and bond. Charlie (Mark Duplass), a cocky celebrity famous for a long-ago space walk, spends most of his time bedazzling his standard-issue jumpsuit. Casey (Zoe Simpson), a gung-ho New Zealand doctor, dreams of being the first person on Mars. Meanwhile their leader, Hank (Paul Gordon), nursing a perpetually stoned affect, works on developing a personality.

Employing his own version of the rotoscoping technology used in films like “Waking Life” and “A Scanner Darkly,” Mr. Marslett (who teaches animation at the University of Texas at Austin) keeps the politics to a minimum and aims his best jokes at space-race rivalries. Maintaining an amiable and innocently awed tone, he minds his science more than his fiction, delivering a listless romance upstaged by a cute robot, dancing aliens and Kinky Friedman as a Johnny Cash-style president of the United States. At least in space no one can hear you urinate.

Written and directed by Geoff Marslett; director of photography, Jason Eitelbach; edited by David Fabelo and Mr. Marslett; production design by Tracy Duncan and Mr. Marslett; costumes by Vanessa Nirode; produced by Javier Bonafont, Robert Howell, Mr. Marslett and Anish Savjani. At the reRun Gastropub Theater, 147 Front Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Mark Duplass (Charlie Brownsville), Zoe Simpson (Casey Cook), Paul Gordon (Hank Morrison), Cynthia Watros (Allison Guthrie), Liza Weil (Jewel), James Kochalka (Jackson), Howe Gelb (Shep), Nicole Atkins (Casey’s Mom) and Kinky Friedman (the president of the United States).
83 2010-12-03 The Chicago Transit Authority announced last month that it is looking for a consulting firm to help develop a “revenue-generating corporate sponsorship program” — a plan to sell private companies the naming rights to CTA train lines, train stations and bus routes.

The consultant will determine which of the agency’s assets might attract sponsorships and what the naming rights would be worth, according to a request for proposals issued by the CTA. Public bidding would be central to the consultant’s work, the CTA said, to assure “transparency and increased competition.”

But there was no such bidding last year when the CTA agreed to let Apple spend nearly $4 million on renovation of the North and Clybourn train station. The CTA agreed to let Apple turn an unused bus driveway into a plaza and to renovate the inside of the station to the company’s specifications. In return, Apple was given the rights to lease the plaza space for no charge for at least 10 years, to advertise anywhere in the station at rates set by the CTA, and to purchase station naming rights if the agency ever sells them.

In response to a Freedom of Information request, CTA officials told the Chicago News Cooperative this week that they did not solicit any bids or analyze the value of the agreement. The CTA did not respond to further questions, and an Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.

Chicago has a reputation for developing public-private partnerships, some highly praised, like the financing of Millennium Park, and others deeply unpopular, like the city’s parking meter privatization. Those types of deals have become a key issue early in the campaign for mayor. Several candidates have promised greater transparency in any future deals.
84 2010-12-03 Sound bars are generally long and thin, and while they are a significant improvement over most built-in TV speakers, even they struggle with low-end frequencies. For those frequencies, there is no substitute for cubic inches. That means a subwoofer — a stout box with a nice booming speaker inside — is sometimes included. This would seem to violate the sound bar’s simplicity, but subwoofers that come with sound bars are usually wireless (though they still need a power outlet) and can be placed anywhere in the room. Think of it as an extra humidifier.

Sound bars range in price from a few hundred dollars to a couple of thousand. At the high end is the Yamaha YSP-5100, which sells for about $2,000. Yamaha made one of the first sound bars six years ago, and the 5100 is its top-of-the-line model.

The YSP-5100 is not small. It contains 44 speakers inside its black cabinet, which measures 55 inches long and 12 inches high. Small or midsize televisions will be dwarfed by this monolith.

The 5100 does not come with a subwoofer, as the assumption is that the owner has or will get one. But the 5100 can work in harmony with any external subwoofer; it comes with a small unit that connects to a low-end speaker and establishes a wireless link back to the sound bar.

The 5100 revels in its technology. Its setup process is the most advanced of the units tested, and requires the owner to place an included microphone where TV viewers will sit. The sound bar then emits a series of tones to calibrate the speakers to the room. The remote control is bigger than most cable or TV remotes, and has dozens of buttons to configure and calibrate the device. It is all very impressive, but not for the technophobe.

Once configured, the Yamaha performs exceptionally well. Separation of different sounds (a plane flying overhead, the first few raindrops) is uncannily good. The Yamaha also has a number of sound modes, so you can tailor it to the content you are watching — like sports instead of movies. Even without a subwoofer, the Yamaha recreates very good surround sound from a single — if somewhat imposing — black rectangle.

At the lower end of the price spectrum is Samsung’s HW-C450, which retails for around $250. Unlike the Yamaha, it has only six speakers in its cabinet, but that cabinet is considerably smaller and thinner than the Yamaha’s. Access to direct controls is available from the buttons that run across the top of the sound bar, which flank a digital display that indicates status and mode. Unfortunately, that display faces the ceiling, so while it is easy to see when standing next to it, it is impossible to read from the couch.

The Samsung comes with a welcome subwoofer. Both units are remarkably easy to set up — nothing more than two power cables and a connection from the sound bar to the TV. There is no configuration to do with the Samsung — it is less of a bespoke experience than the Yamaha, but the Samsung costs a fraction of the Yamaha and can be up and running in minutes.

The Samsung’s audio performance was also very good. Coming off the $2,000 Yamaha, some things sounded a bit murkier, but a day later (when memories of the Yamaha had faded), the Samsung sounded powerful and clear, particularly at louder volumes. Because of the subwoofer, menacing sounds from particularly dark sequences in “Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince” could be felt and heard.

The last sound bar tested was just right. Polk’s SurroundBar 6000 can be found for $500, and it was the best combination of performance and price. The Polk gets more from less, generating superior sound from only four speakers in the sound bar and an external wireless subwoofer.

The SurroundBar is also a smaller, lower-profile device. While not quite as slim as the Samsung, it still blends in easily with a television. The design over all is rigorously simple — a grated front covers the speakers, and a panel incorporates a few basic buttons. There is no display and there is no real need for one — the Polk eschews multiple sound modes and other adjustable settings for an approach that works straight out of the box.

That approach is a good one. The Polk provided rich, clear, well-rounded sound. Placement was also excellent — sounds were distributed well enough to cause listeners to reflexively swivel their heads in reaction. The included wireless subwoofer was strong without overpowering the overall audio.

Setup was the fastest of all the units tested, with a three-cable (two power, one TV connection) solution like the Samsung. The remote control was also refreshingly simple — just volume controls for the sound bar and the subwoofer, three source buttons, power and mute. Also, special recognition must be granted to the team that wrote the instruction manual; the included guide was written in miraculously natural English, and read as if a very knowledgeable friend had stopped by to help unbox your new sound bar.

Regardless of the make or the model, these sound bars all proved the same point: sound is severely underrated by television manufacturers. With the proper audio setup, the overall experience is enhanced. The TV image seems bigger because it feels bigger. Unless their primary cinematic love is the silent-film era, TV viewers will thank you for adding a simple, self-contained fix to their entertainment setup.
85 2010-12-03 Q. What are some of your favorite sections of the score?

A. The party scene, which is extremely, in our production, active and rigorous and complicated. But the music is through composed, it keeps interrupting itself, new ideas keep entering and cutting things short. It’s not in discrete pieces like the second act is, with all the national dances. The first one has so many tones and modes in it emotionally that it never seemed to me that it should be about how children should behave in an ideal world of the late 19th century. The music is very much darker, and stranger and a little bit hostile. Drosselmeier is not everybody’s friend. Read the Hoffmann.

And then something like the Arabian number is way too slow in most productions, and so is the Tarantella, or it’s deleted, or the coda of the Sugar Plum. The coda of that music, which I love, that’s shocking, weird music.

Q. What did you like about the Hoffmann story?

A. The story within, that’s why it’s called “The Hard Nut,” it’s not a joke title. It’s the name of the story that Drosselmeier tells her [Marie, the heroine]. To me that makes way more sense, to go around the world and find the nut that cures her ugliness. It’s an actual story instead of Act I being, ‘Aren’t children adorable?’ and Act II being, ‘Here, let’s do some dances for you,’ even though you’re 9, and it won’t be that interesting for you, and you’re watching from the back anyway.’ Also, I did it with around 35 people instead of 135 people, so it’s a different thing.

Let me just tell you, kids love it. This piece being around so long, 20 years, it means that in Berkeley, where we’ve done it a lot, people are now bringing their children. That’s the first “Nutcracker” they saw.

Q. Have you discovered anything new in the music over the years?

A. I had a couple of sessions of looking at conducting it myself, with the help of some colleagues at Tanglewood. I had a string quartet and a pianist and my wonderful coach, Stefan Asbury. And we had a couple of sessions of that, we went all the way through the score, with me conducting, and it’s hard. There are some things that you learn. Something like the battle scene, it just turns into a melee, and it’s all noisy and funny and laughy, but the music is astonishingly advanced. There are so many ideas, there are different perceived rhythms and keys, and there are reminders and there’s foreboding, prefiguring stuff that is going to come later.

Q. Would you want to conduct it one day?

A. I’ve been thinking about it. Not this year. I hope some day that I may be qualified to conduct it.

Q. Are you looking forward to performing?

A. Some people had no idea I was in it, and I’ve been in, like, every single performance. Sorry if you missed me; that means I was a good actor. This year I got a promotion. I’m Dr. Stahlbaum. I’m not the inebriated party guest. I’m just learning that. It’s a new part for me.

Q. Can you talk a little about the “Waltz of the Flowers”?

A. I choreographed a lot of it while I was at Jacob’s Pillow with whoever in my company wasn’t teaching that day and I made up a new “Waltz of the Flowers” every day. I generated waltz material based on vegetation and flowers and the National Geographic Channel, which didn’t exist yet. It’s a bunch of different things. It’s predatory and it’s delicate and it’s sort of baroque. And it’s a corsage and it’s rotting fruit, and I love that. And it’s not all women, because flowers aren’t like that.

Q. There’s a lot of humor. Were you trying to subvert some of the elements of a classic “Nutcracker”?

A. Mine is fully classical; it’s more classical structurally and compositionally than a lot of classical ballets. I love a good “Nutcracker” that I didn’t make up better than anyone else, I love this stuff. It’s not a sendup. It’s a perfectly legitimate version with virtuosic dancing, and of course there’s funny stuff, and scary stuff and sexy stuff and, it’s sad.

Q. Why do you think “The Nutcracker” is such an American staple?

A. I think it’s an industry, so if you can pay the bills for the rest of the year from a few weeks of “Nutcracker,” congratulations. If, sadly, that’s the only thing that draws customers, then you have to relook at everything that you do the rest of the year. Our “Nutcracker” does not pay for the rest of the year. It’s an expensive production. We use a children’s choir instead of a synthesizer. You might as well use robot dancers and save money all the way around.

Q. Are there particular recordings that you’re fond of?

A. There’s a great Gergiev performance recently that’s beautiful, gigantic and super Russian crazy. But the Michael Tilson Thomas one is my favorite. That one from years ago has great mystery to it, and he uses toy instruments in the battle scene, and it’s very beautiful and haunting. But my favorite “Nutcracker” that’s not mine is the “Nutcracker Suite” from “Fantasia.” Whether Balanchine had something to do with it or not, we don’t know, but it’s exquisite, it’s the greatest. If it can be as magic as that, then hooray.
86 2010-12-03 The Leaf is part of a bigger mission by Mr. Ghosn to redefine a brand that has been something of a laggard in green technology, a field long dominated by and its pioneering Prius gasoline-electric hybrid.

“Nissan was a ‘me too’ company,” Mr. Ghosn said. “But in electric, we’re pioneers.”

Initial inventories of the Leaf will be modest. The automaker has the capacity to make 50,000 units in the first year, 20,000 of which will be allocated to the United States. Nissan has been taking reservations since earlier this year and says it already has filled its American quota.

Where Mr. Ghosn and the skeptics diverge is in forecasts for coming years, not only for the Leaf but for electric vehicles generally.

Mr. Ghosn said Nissan expected to sell at least one million units of the Leaf in its first six years — considered a model’s standard life cycle — and recoup the company’s within that period. In comparison, it took the more than a decade from its 1997 debut to hit the one million-unit sales mark.

“We’re not selling 5,000 or 10,000 cars,” Mr. Ghosn said. “We’re talking about a massive option in the market.”

Mr. Ghosn — who splits his time between and the offices of Renault, which owns 44 percent of Nissan — sees the Leaf as setting off a wider shift toward electric cars. Together with Renault, Nissan has spent nearly $5.3 billion since 1992 to develop the Leaf and seven other all-electric models in a joint zero-emissions project.

By 2020, Mr. Ghosn said, electric cars will account for a tenth of global auto sales.

Most industry forecasts have been far more conservative. J. D. Power, the market research company, predicts that in 2020 only 1.3 million of a projected 70.9 million cars that will be sold worldwide will be electric, fewer than 2 percent. Even the most optimistic analysts put the figure at no more than 5 percent.

The doubts about electric cars include concerns about their relatively low horsepower, the reliability of a new technology and the prospect of the batteries losing their charge on the road. The sticker-price premium of an electric car over a gasoline one will also dissuade consumers, critics say, especially now that gasoline prices have steadied.

Buyers of electric cars, the pessimists predict, will be limited to a demographic niche: high-income, environmentally conscious and early adopters of technology. “It will be difficult to convince large numbers of consumers to switch from conventionally powered passenger vehicles,” J. D. Power said in a report in October.

Mr. Ghosn has spent months trying to counter those concerns, one by one. He said the Leaf’s traveling range between charges would meet the needs of most motorists. Volume production will bring down costs, Mr. Ghosn said, while credits, which Nissan says come to $7,500 in the United States, will offset some of the Leaf’s price premium.

And while Mr. Ghosn acknowledged that the Leaf would not appeal to everyone, he said there was a viable target audience. “The guy who is today driving a large pickup truck, doing a hundred miles a day — if he doesn’t come buy our electric cars, it’s not a problem,” Mr. Ghosn said. “Whom we are addressing first are environmentally conscious people who drive relatively moderate distances and really want something that’s completely independent of oil.”

Those target consumers, he said, make up more than 10 percent of the market.

Mr. Ghosn’s confidence is rooted partly in Nissan’s strong rebound from a slump during the global economic crisis. In its most recent quarter, Nissan’s net profit increased fourfold from a year earlier, prompting the automaker to raise its full-year net profit forecast to $3.2 billion, almost twice the previous estimate. It is Nissan’s second turnaround under Mr. Ghosn, a Lebanese-Brazilian Frenchman who took the helm in 1999 and brought the automaker back from the brink of bankruptcy.

Mr. Ghosn cites moves by his rivals to step up their electric vehicle development as evidence that his is the right strategy. While Toyota is careful to play down the prospects of the electric car in favor of its prized hybrid technology, it has slowly broadened its electric vehicle plans, saying last month that it would expand the 2012 rollout of the electric version of its ultracompact, the iQ.

But perhaps the biggest battle is the one about to begin between the Leaf and the Volt plug-in hybrid from General Motors. The Volt went on sale this month, for $41,000 before government subsidies.

Mr. Ghosn said the Volt was not a direct competitor because it would carry a gasoline engine to kick in after 50 miles on batteries.

The biggest constraint on Leaf sales, Mr. Ghosn said, will be how many electric cars Nissan’s factories can make. Over the next two years, the company, which now makes the Leaf only in Japan, plans to open assembly and battery factories in , and that will give it the capacity to make 500,000 electric vehicles a year.

But Nissan also appears to be hedging its bets. In November, it officially introduced the Infiniti M hybrid, its first mass-produced hybrid model besides the hybrid Altima sedan, which uses Toyota’s technology. Analysts have warned that developing multiple powertrains could weigh on Nissan’s finances.

But for this, too, Mr. Ghosn has a counterargument.

“There’s demand for other types of cars — it’s not simply either-or,” he said. “But people who buy electric cars,” he said, leaning forward in his chair, “they will never ever buy another type of car again.”
87 2010-12-03 Defense Secretary , whose testimony at the hearing led off the Pentagon’s position, also told Mr. McCain that many of those in combat were in their early 20s, had never even served with women and had a focused, limited experience in the military. He acknowledged that he, too, was worried about their resistance to change, but said their objections were not insurmountable.

“With time and adequate preparation, we can mitigate their concerns,” Mr. Gates said.

“Well, I couldn’t disagree more,” Mr. McCain shot back. “We send these young people into combat; we think they’re mature enough to fight and die. I think they’re mature enough to make a judgment on who they want to serve with and the impact on their battle effectiveness.”

Mr. McCain, a naval aviator in the Vietnam War who was shot down and imprisoned in , then added: “Mr. Secretary, I speak from personal experience.”

Adm. , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, appeared alongside Mr. Gates and made a personal appeal to the panel. “I’ve been serving with gays and lesbians my whole career,” he said. “I went to war with them aboard a destroyer off the coast of Vietnam. I knew they were there. They knew I knew it. We never missed a mission, never failed to deliver ordnance on target.”

Admiral Mullen added: “Should repeal occur, some soldiers and Marines may want separate shower facilities. Some may ask for different berthing. Some may even quit the service. We’ll deal with that.”

Repeal faces uncertain prospects in the Senate. It is unclear if there are enough Republicans willing to vote for it, and also if there is enough time in the lame-duck Senate.

Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen made the argument that the Senate should vote in the next few weeks because delaying would result in a wave of lawsuits and the potential for repeal to be ordered by what Mr. Gates called “judicial fiat” — meaning, he said, that the military would have no time to prepare for the change. “Those that choose not to act legislatively are rolling the dice that this policy will not be abruptly overturned by the courts,” Mr. Gates said.

Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen also spoke against the argument of “not now,” voiced by many of the combat troops who were surveyed, that a time of two wars is not the right moment to impose social change on the force. Admiral Mullen told the committee that he had no expectation that “challenges to our national security are going to diminish in the near future, such that a more convenient time will appear.”

Mr. Gates said: “If not now, when? When we’re out of ? But who’s to say — as I look ahead in the world, I don’t see the world getting to be a safer, easier place to live in, where our troops are necessarily under less stress.”

The two appeared to be heading off some of the arguments expected to be advanced in testimony before the panel on Friday by the chiefs of the Army, Air Force and Navy, and the commandant of the Marine Corps. All have expressed reluctance about repeal.

Mr. Gates and Mr. Mullen appeared with the co-authors of a new Pentagon report on the effects of repeal on the military: Jeh C. Johnson, the Pentagon’s general counsel, and Gen. Carter F. Ham, the commander of the Army in Europe.

All were pressed not only by Mr. McCain but also by other Republicans on the panel about whether it was a good idea to push for repeal when the survey revealed so much resistance among combat forces. Mr. Gates at one point bristled at those questions and said that although the service members’ opinions were important, they did not get a vote.

“I can’t think of a single precedent in American history of doing a referendum of the American armed forces on a policy issue,” Mr. Gates told the panel. “Are you going to ask them if they want 15-month tours? Are you going to ask them if they want to be part of the surge in ? That’s not the way our civilian-led military has ever worked in our entire history. The ‘should’ question is to be decided by the Congress or the courts, as far as I’m concerned.”

Senator , Republican of , pressed Mr. Gates on why the survey, which consisted of 103 questions, had not simply asked service members their opinion on whether the law should be changed. Mr. Gates swiftly responded, “I think that in effect doing a referendum of the armed forces on a policy matter is a very dangerous path.”
88 2010-12-03 The suspects were small and furry and elusive, as mice tend to be. They were scurrying around Police Headquarters in Lower Manhattan. Janitors were put on the case. Traps were set - glue traps, to be exact. We wrote about them. But not everyone wa...
89 2010-12-03 7:03 p.m. | Updated LONDON - Frederick A. Goodwin, the former chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, who was widely blamed for the bank's demise, has been cleared by Britain's financial regulator of any major wrongdoings.     The Financial Ser...
90 2010-12-03 LONDON - As a trader at JPMorgan Chase in London, Ashish Goyal helps manage billions of dollars of the bank's exposure to risks like foreign exchange fluctuations. In his spare time, he takes tango lessons, plays cricket and goes clubbing with fri...
91 2010-12-04 But just try doing it to cats....
92 2010-12-04 Delving into an archive from Russia that offers peeks of the 1892 premiere production of "The Nutcracker."...
93 2010-12-04 Pfizer has agreed to set up a $75 million fund and to create a new compliance committee to settle shareholders’ lawsuits accusing the board and top officials of failing to stop illegal marketing of its drugs, according to a settlement agreement filed in United States District Court on Friday.

The company denied any wrongdoing as part of the preliminary settlement, which is subject to judicial review. A Pfizer spokesman said the fund and committee would advance the regulatory and ethics work it had already started in recent years amid a series of government investigations.

Mark Lebovitch, lead counsel for the institutional investors who brought the lawsuits, said it would be one of the largest derivative settlements ever and a good outcome for shareholders.

The suits were filed after Pfizer, the world’s largest pharmaceutical company, settled federal marketing investigations in September 2009. The company paid $2.3 billion to settle claims that it had marketed numerous drugs for unapproved purposes. The total included the largest criminal fine in United States history, $1.3 billion, on a charge of illegal marketing of the painkiller Bextra, which was withdrawn from the market in 2005.

Last year’s case was Pfizer’s fourth settlement since 2002 over illegal marketing.

“The core question of the case was, Where was the board when this was going on?” Mr. Lebovitch said in an interview.
94 2010-12-04 The Air Force’s unmanned X-37B spaceplane landed at Vandenberg Air Force Base on Friday after more than seven months in orbit on a classified mission, officials said. The Air Force has not said whether the plane carried anything in its cargo bay, but says the primary purpose of the mission was to test the craft itself.
95 2010-12-04 Tiger Woods is starting to look like his old self at the Chevron World Challenge in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He got off to a blazing start Friday, and solid putting enabled him to play bogey free in the second round for a six-under-under 66 that gave him a four-shot lead going into the weekend of his final tournament this year.

Woods was at 13-under 131, his best 36-hole score this year by six shots. And his four-shot lead over the United States Open champion Graeme McDowell had to be a refreshing change for a player who had been at least nine shots back through 36 holes in seven tournaments this year.

“I’ve been here before, so it’s not a strange feeling,” Woods said. “It’s just one of those things where tomorrow is the same game plan, just go out there and plot my way along and take care of the par 5s.”

He did that again at Sherwood Country Club and now has played the five par 5s in 10 under through two rounds. That included an eagle on the second hole, and perhaps Woods’s most impressive shot of the day, if not the year. He hit a 4-iron from a hanging lie so severe that it caused Woods to stumble down the hill after impact. The ball landed 8 feet to the right of the pin.

YANG LEADS L.P.G.A. At Orlando, Fla., Amy Yang held firm atop the leader board at the L.P.G.A. Tour Championship, taking a three-shot lead by the time the second round was halted by darkness. She finished with a two-under 70, playing through near-freezing temperatures at dawn. Maria Hjorth (68) and Seon Hwa Lee (73) were three shots back.
96 2010-12-04 In two separate incidents on Thursday, Ai Weiwei, a prominent Chinese artist and frequent critic of the Chinese Communist Party, and Mao Yushi, an 80-year-old economist, were prevented from flying out of Beijing to cities in Asia, presumably because Chinese authorities are trying to keep Chinese intellectuals from attending the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Norway next Friday. The prize was awarded to a Chinese dissident, Liu Xiaobo, in early October. China is also preventing Mr. Liu’s wife, Liu Xia, from leaving the country to collect the prize. On Thursday, Mr. Ai was catching a flight to Seoul, South Korea, and Mr. Mao was going to Singapore. Both were stopped in the Beijing airport and told by the authorities that they could not travel because they might “endanger state security.” Mr. Ai said in a Twitter message that he had not intended to go to the Nobel ceremony but that he was instead traveling on a matter related to his art.
97 2010-12-04 The appealing voice of the soprano Dorothea Röschmann was showcased to fine effect on Thursday evening when she made her debut with the New York Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall.

Colin Davis, in town to lead several programs with the Philharmonic, conducted Ms. Röschmann and the tenor Ian Bostridge in 12 songs from Mahler’s “Des Knaben Wunderhorn” (“From the Boy’s Magic Horn”).

Mahler composed the songs in about 10 years, beginning in 1892. He took the wording from three volumes of German folk poetry of the same title compiled by two young writers who tinkered with texts and added their own. The poems, mostly in ballad form, are wide-reaching in content, exploring topics like war, knights, castles, love, fairy tales and animals. The moods range from satiric humor to pathos. Goethe, who admired the collection, wrote that “you are bound to find something sympathetic or stimulating” in it.

Ms. Röschmann sang with a plummy, nuanced voice notable for its attractive timbre and range of colors. She easily cut through Mahler’s rich, picturesque orchestration and brought a vivid characterization to the songs. She offered a charming rendition of the lighthearted “Lob des Hohen Verstandes” (“Praise From an Advanced Intellect”), in which a donkey judges whether a nightingale or a cuckoo sings more beautifully, and sang expressively in the tragic “Irdische Leben” (“The Earthly Life”), in which a mother has no food for her hungry child.

There was lively chemistry between Ms. Röschmann and Mr. Bostridge in the duo numbers, like “Trost im Unglück” (“Solace in Misfortune”). But Mr. Bostridge, who primarily sings lieder with piano accompaniment, didn’t match her vocal prowess. Sometimes out of sync with the orchestra, he often failed to project above the ensemble in his middle and lower ranges, and he was barely audible in some sections. His higher range was stronger, though sometimes strained. Mr. Bostridge could be seen coughing onstage; perhaps a cold accounted for some of the inconsistencies.

The program opened with a lithe but generally undistinguished rendition of Beethoven’s Symphony No. 2, marred by sloppy brass playing. The work, notable for the lovely theme in the Larghetto, is probably the least performed of Beethoven’s symphonies. Adhering mostly to Classical models, it did break new ground by, for example, replacing the traditional third-movement minuet with a scherzo.
98 2010-12-04 Mr. Goldenberg does not know for sure that his work was stolen. “I’m not saying I’m so brilliant that they could only have been my ideas. And it would have been O.K. if there had been some sort of follow-up.”

Such experiences leave a bad taste. And job hunters are in the uncomfortable position of trying to figure out where to draw the line — especially in these times, when so many people are competing for so few jobs. They want to be cooperative and available, but not exploited.

Nor does this problem just arise in job interviews. If you have your own business and are seeking clients, how far should you go?

Judith Rohatiner, who works part time as a Web and graphic designer, has been in this position.

“The first time someone said they wanted to see my work, it seemed reasonable to design a logo or write a story and I fell for it,” she said. “I would get an e-mail back saying, ‘This is not for us.’ Then I would Google the company and see my work.”

Ms. Rohatiner said she had sent e-mails questioning the companies’ use of her product, but never received a response.

Now, she identifies all the work she does with a watermark and states, “This artwork cannot be reproduced.”

While she knows an unscrupulous business can still use her work without paying her, “It does tell them, ‘This is a red flag and I know what you’re doing.’ There are predatory people and you need to have a few hard knocks before you’re aware of it. There may be a legitimate reason to have you work on a product but it shouldn’t be before a face-to-face meeting.”

Jean Baur, a senior consultant with Lee Hecht Harrison, an outplacement firm, said employers had a right to request that job candidates produce work. After all, she said, professors are usually required to teach classes as part of the interview process and scientists are almost always asked to do a presentation.

And Ms. Baur, like others I interviewed who are involved in the job search business, says she thinks it’s rare that a prospective employer uses such work in an unauthorized manner.

But at the same time, job hunters should be wary and savvy. As Ms. Rohatiner discovered, there is something wrong if a company assigns you something before ever meeting you.

“If it makes you feel uncomfortable or you think you’re being taken advantage of, then you are,” said David Perry, a managing partner in the executive search firm Perry-Martel International, based in Ontario. He suggested looking in Google for the name of the company and “interview tactics” or “free internships” to see if there was any buzz about the company’s practices.

But once you have made it past the door and have an interview, how do you handle requests for work?

“It’s tricky,” said Ms. Baur, who is also the author of the new book, “Eliminated! Now What?” (Jist Publishing).

The issue, as Mr. Goldenberg said, is not just that you are putting in hours of work without getting paid for it. It can also be awfully hard to show your best side when producing something for a company that you are not familiar with.

“Unless you’re given lots of data, you end up giving them a laundry list of ideas, and you’re bound to hit one they’ve already tried and failed,” he said. “But you don’t want to just say, ‘I won’t do that.’ You want to show that you have the expertise.”

Of course, each situation is different. Do you think you are one of dozens of people being asked to submit something? Then it may not be worth your while. But if you are one of three finalists? Then you may be much more willing to put in the time and effort.

If you decide you are willing to do extra work, but are concerned about some aspect of it, don’t acquiesce quietly. Ask questions and negotiate.

Make sure you understand what the employer wants. Mr. Perry, for example, said he was recently recruiting for a company looking to fill the position of sales vice president. At the end of a long interview process, the final two candidates were each asked to give a 15-minute presentation.

“This is a legitimate way to find out if the claims made on a résumé are valid,” Mr. Perry said. “After all, when does anyone say on a résumé, ‘I’m mediocre?’ ”

The candidate who ultimately got the job spent an hour asking questions to hone his presentation, said Mr. Perry, who is also the co-author of “Guerrilla Marketing for Job Hunters 2.0” (John Wiley & Sons, 2009).

“For some jobs, we give people an hour and a half to rewrite copy,” he said. “Some people just delve in. Others ask questions. Those are the ones we want.”

Also, you don’t have to simply say yes or no. See if you can tailor the work to meet your needs as well as those of the prospective employer.

“If you’re being asked to put in 15 to 20 hours of additional work, say something like, ‘I’d love to accommodate you and would normally devote X amount of hours to this, but given my client commitment, can I focus on just one aspect as a representation of my ability to deliver value? ” suggested Susan Whitcomb, founder and president of the Academies, which trains career coaches. “Pick out one area where you’ll shine the most.”

Another option, Ms. Baur said, is to suggest, if you are asked to do something that will take a substantial amount of time, that the company hire you on a contract basis. Then you will be paid, there is no commitment on either side and you will have a foot in the door.

Finally, if you want to do the work, it’s fine to ask — politely — if it will be used for any commercial purposes. “Most people won’t lie,” Mr. Perry said.

And if the interview process feels unethical or exploitative, the job probably won’t be any better.

“If it really is free work, you don’t want to work there,” Ms. Baur said. “Most people can come up with a reasonable plan that’s fair to both sides.”
99 2010-12-04 DURING the great housing bubble, it was the least expensive homes whose prices went up the most. And now it is those homes that are suffering the most.

“That is where the most creative lending was,” said David Blitzer, the chairman of the index committee at Standard & Poor’s, arguing that the lax lending standards played a significant role in the inflation of prices.

The S.&P./Case-Shiller indexes released this week showed widespread declines in home prices in the third quarter of this year as the market suffered from the removal of temporary tax credits that had led to a small rally in home prices earlier in the year. No region had lost more than 5 percent in a quarter since mid-2009, but that happened to Phoenix in the third quarter.

For 16 major regional areas, S.& P. publishes separate indexes for the top, middle and bottom thirds of homes in the area, as measured by price. Those figures show that from the beginning of the decade through each area’s peak, prices of lower-value homes rose faster than either of the other groups in each of the markets except one, Denver, where the rises were virtually identical for all groups.

The latest figures show that prices of lower-cost homes have fallen further from the peak in each of the 16 areas.
100 2010-12-04 Gen. Norton A. Schwartz, the chief of staff of the Air Force, recommended not carrying out any repeal until 2012 because of the strain the military is bearing now. “I do not agree with the study assessment that the short-term risk to military effectiveness is low,” he said. He added that his forces in Afghanistan were carrying a heavy load.

The hearing was relatively serene compared with one on Thursday, when Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who has been the leading opponent to repeal on Capitol Hill, tensely squared off with Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen, who both have said it is urgent that Congress change the law. Mr. McCain held back from the service chiefs on Friday, although he made it clear that he remained adamantly opposed and that he considered the debate over gay and bisexual people serving openly in the military as little more than a sideshow.

“Our economy is in the tank and the American people want that issue addressed,” Mr. McCain told the service chiefs. “And the military is functioning in the most efficient, most professional, most courageous fashion.” He concluded that it was wrong “to somehow believe that this is some kind of compelling issue.”

Nonetheless, there seemed a sense of inevitability among Republicans on the panel that repeal of the law, a campaign promise of President Obama, would eventually occur, although perhaps not in the current Congress. The House has voted to authorize repeal, and there appear to be enough “yes” votes in the current Senate, but it is unclear whether there is enough time left before the end of the year for the measure to advance.

One Republican member of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts, said Friday that he supported repeal, which was a switch from his vote in the spring against changing the policy.

Of the three service chiefs who oppose repeal at present, General Casey appeared to be the one most swayed by the results of the Pentagon study. The review found deep concerns about changing the law among combat forces but concluded that 70 percent of service members over all thought repeal would have little effect on the ability of their units to work together.

As General Casey explained it, the presumption underpinning “don’t ask, don’t tell” is “that the presence of a gay or lesbian service member in a unit causes an unacceptable risk to good order and discipline.” He told the panel: “After reading the report, I don’t believe that’s true anymore and I don’t believe a substantial majority of our soldiers believe that’s true.”

When General Schwartz recommended a delay until 2012, the time frame seemed to exasperate Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee and who has long supported repeal. “Why is 2012 the right time?” Mr. Levin asked General Schwartz. “There may be people in combat.”

“You don’t know how many people will be in combat in 2012, and yet, ‘Hey, do it then, not now,’ ” Mr. Levin said. A short time later he concluded that “delaying this until 2012 is totally arbitrary.”

Both sides cited comments from active-duty service members to make their cases. General Amos, for example, read aloud comments that a Marine platoon commander made about his unit in an online survey: “Despite differences, we are so close that we anticipate each other’s next move in garrison and in combat. Our ability to do our job is predicated on this kind of relationship. If you were to add any element of sexual competition, intra-unit sexuality or hesitance in trust, it would unquestionably prevent those bonds from forming or immediately destroy them if introduced.”

But a short time later, Mr. Levin looked at General Amos and read aloud a quote in the Pentagon’s report from a Special Operations commando: “We have a gay guy in the unit,” Mr. Levin read. “He’s big, he’s mean and he kills lots of bad guys. No one cared that he was gay.”

Three other military officials at the hearing supported repeal of the law right now: Gen. James E. Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Adm. Gary Roughead, the chief of naval operations; and Adm. Robert J. Papp Jr., the commandant of the Coast Guard.
101 2010-12-04 BEIJING — China will tighten its monetary policy next year, the country’s leaders said Friday, a sign that they are increasingly concerned about inflation and an overheated economy.

The move, announced in an article by Xinhua, China’s official news agency, comes as other nations, including the United States, continue to grapple with a global recession.

Xinhua reported that the Politburo, the elite team led by nine members at the top of the Communist Party hierarchy, had decided that China’s monetary policy should shift “from relatively loose to prudent next year.” The article also said China “will continue its proactive fiscal policy,” meaning that investment spending would not be severely curbed.

China’s economy has continued to grow rapidly, bolstered in part by an enormous government stimulus package and liberal lending by state banks after the global financial crisis began in late 2008. The move to rein in liquidity and bank lending, presumably through interest rate increases and other means, indicates that Chinese leaders feel confident enough in prospects for future growth that they can afford to cool down the economy.

The Xinhua article did not discuss the implications of a tighter monetary policy for the value of the renminbi. But one reason China has kept its monetary policy loose for the last several years has been to issue more renminbi and buy United States dollars.

That currency market intervention has kept the renminbi weak and has made Chinese exports more competitive in foreign markets while making foreign goods more expensive in China. The United States, Europe and some developing countries have become increasingly concerned; they say the relative weakness of the renminbi has caused the transfer of jobs and economic growth to China. And the Obama administration in particular has been putting pressure on China to let the renminbi appreciate.
102 2010-12-04 Speculation that Roger C. Altman, a prominent Wall Street investment banker and former Treasury deputy secretary, is a leading candidate to become the next director of President Obama's National Economic Council reignited on Friday when he was see...
103 2010-12-04 John Kinnucan, the research analyst who refused a request by agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation to wear a wire, has received a subpoena. In an interview with DealBook, Mr. Kinnucan said that an F.B.I. agent showed up at his front door...
104 2010-12-04 STEINBERG--Meyer "Mike" We love you and miss you. Jean, Bonnie, Carol and Lois...
105 2010-12-04 LONDON - UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, appointed an executive at its American wealth management unit as the bank's next chief financial officer, the company said Friday.     The executive, Thomas C. Naratil, will succeed John Cryan, who will le...
106 2010-12-05 Jeffrey B. Kindler's retirement comes almost two years after he led Pfizer's bid for Wyeth, the first major deal after the financial crisis....
107 2010-12-05 In 1860, President Buchanan, in his final State of the Union address, admonishes both sides in the secession crisis for heightening tensions....
108 2010-12-05 The Gaylord Opryland hotel in Nashville celebrated its reopening recently with three days of events that included country music concerts, a Christmas tree lighting and indoor fireworks at its Delta Atrium. The hotel had been closed since May....
109 2010-12-05 BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) — France rallied from two sets down to defeat Serbia in doubles Saturday and take a 2-1 lead in the Davis Cup final.

Arnaud Clément and Michael Llodra overcame Nenad Zimonjic and Viktor Troicki and the hometown crowd in Belgrade Arena to win, 3-6, 6-7 (3), 6-4, 7-5, 6-4.

“The key was the spirit we had on the court,” said Clément, playing in his first Davis Cup final. “It was not easy to start the third set.

France needs one more victory to win a 10th Davis Cup and its first since 2001. Only twice since 1981 has the team that won the doubles failed to win the final. France blew a 2-1 lead against Russia in 2002.

“We are leading 2-1, but we still have a far way to go,” France’s captain, Guy Forget, said.

On Sunday, Novak Djokovic will face Gaël Monfils in the first reverse singles. Djokovic has a 5-0 record against Monfils, including a straight-sets win in their last match, at the United States Open quarterfinals.

Janko Tipsarevic is scheduled to play Gilles Simon in the other singles match. Simon won their only previous match, at 2008 in Rotterdam in two tie breakers.
110 2010-12-05 For Silicon Valley Internet entrepreneurs, the changing dynamics of the venture capital finance business are not a bad thing. Starting an Internet company these days usually requires much less capital than in the past. The emergence of the superangels, combined with venture capitalists’ hunger for early-stage deals, means better terms for company founders.

For big, successful start-ups, these are also good times, in that the large venture capital firms are moving upstream into what would once have been considered private equity territory, with financing rounds in the nine figures. That gives companies like Twitter and Facebook a lot of options other than going public.

But for many rank-and-file venture capitalists, life is not so good. The institutional investors that are the backbone of venture capital finance — pension funds, insurance companies and university endowments — have generally seen poor returns on these investments over the past decade. That means it’s hard for venture capitalists to raise money.

The industry as a whole is shrinking: the number of venture capital firms in the United States has declined from a peak of 1,023 in the mid-2000s to 794 today, according to the National Venture Capital Association. The amount of money under venture capital management has declined even more. Meanwhile, local venture capitalists are facing new international competitors like DST out of Russia as well as shrewd, Internet-centric domestic rivals like Union Square Ventures, of New York, and Foundry Group, of Boulder, Colo.

At the elite end of the business, though, there is still plenty of clover on Sand Hill Road. A big name like Marc Andreessen, the Netscape co-founder who has shown as good a touch for investing as he did for software development, can raise a fund of $650 million, as he and his partner, Ben Horowitz, just did, without much trouble.

The longtime Valley kingpins — Kleiner, Sequoia Capital, Accel Partners — can aspire both to dominate the glamour deals and to cherry-pick among smaller opportunities, though they can’t rest on their laurels. Kleiner has started special funds for iPhone apps and social media deals.

Indeed, even John Doerr — the Kleiner partner whom Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures called “the Michael Jordan of venture capital” in a joint appearance at the Web 2.0 conference — has to be very aggressive in this climate.

And that brings us back to Mr. Doerr’s friend, Mary Meeker. Whether she will be a good venture capitalist remains an open question. But she has already added some sizzle for Kleiner, helping solidify its position on the very short A-list of firms that almost any sensible entrepreneur would want in a deal.

In this case, what’s good for Kleiner is good for Silicon Valley.
111 2010-12-05 Even after a Pentagon report showing that most troops and their families think that allowing gays and lesbians to be themselves would not be a big deal, even after the defense secretary and the chairman of the urged the Senate to repeal the law that demands dishonesty, Democrats were still fending off a snarling and a few unreconstructed Southerners.

Senator , chairman of the committee, was eager to show that a gay soldier could be just as lethal as a straight one. He read a quote from the Pentagon report: “As one Special Operations force warfighter told us, ‘We have a gay guy [in the unit]. He’s big, he’s mean, and he kills lots of bad guys. No one cared that he was gay.’ ”

Levin read the quote to Gen. James Amos, the commandant of the , who are the most resistant to gays serving openly. “I don’t doubt,” the general replied, “that at any given base or combat outpost that we’ll find men and women that are out there just exactly like that Special Operations soldier, Marine, sailor, whoever he was.”

Yet General Amos said that because of “the very tough fight in Afghanistan, the almost singular focus of our combat forces as they train up and deploy into theater, the necessary tightly woven culture of those combat forces,” he would recommend against the repeal right now.

McCain stressed that we should not make this sort of change while we’re in a bad economy and two long-running wars. So gay Americans who risk their lives get endlessly oppressed because chest-beating straight guys in the Bush era continued deregulation and careened into endless combat missions — and not even in the country hosting ?

Some Republicans complained about what Senator called “implementing social change in the middle of two battles.” But those battles were designed to implement social change in Islamic countries on an epic scale.

In yet another ludicrous bit of goal-post shifting, McCain said it wasn’t enough that the top two leaders of the military, and many of the troops, favored repeal. Now he wants to hold 13 hearings and solicit the views of senior enlisted personnel around the world, even though, as the Army chief, Gen. George Casey Jr., dryly informed the panel, the military is not a democracy. The five service chiefs agreed that, if asked, they could successfully carry out the changes.

It’s unclear why McCain is being so stubborn and stalling, particularly when those closest to him — his wife, his daughter and his cloakroom buddy — have all boldly spoken out on behalf of gays in the military.

It seems a sore point at home: said the topic would be off-limits at Thanksgiving. And Lieberman, following an indignant McCain on the panel Thursday, asserted, “It’s just wrong and un-American to discriminate against people based on their sexual orientation.”

Senator Brown, a lieutenant colonel and a J.A.G. lawyer in the Army National Guard, recalled a visit to Walter Reed, where he “saw a soldier who lost both his legs, lost an arm and lost most of another arm, doing crunches, you know, to try to get his torso strengthened enough so he could still have a viable, you know, and fulfilling life.” He said he did not care if that man, or the other heroes and fallen fighters, were gay or straight.

“I just wanted to know if they gave their limb or their life, you know, with pride and with honor for our country,” he said. Later, he put out a statement saying he supports the repeal.

Tale of two Republicans: In his own fuzzy way, the newcomer was eloquent and inclusive. And in his own grumpy way, the old-timer was erratic and intolerant.

Gays aren’t risking dying because they’re dying to do makeovers and make-outs in the barracks. They’re going to adapt and fit in. They’re good at that because they’ve had to be.
112 2010-12-05 Arnaud Clément and Michael Llodra defeated Nenad Zimonjic and Viktor Troicki, 3-6, 6-7 (3), 6-4, 7-5, 6-4, to give France a 2-1 lead against host Serbia in their Davis Cup final in Belgrade.

Clément lost his serve in both sets that the French lost. But his spectacular lob that landed on the baseline triggered a crucial break in the 11th game of the fourth set.

Zimonjic then lost his serve in the opening game of the fifth set, and the French wrapped up their comeback win after 4 hours 34 minutes.
113 2010-12-05 It is too early to declare a Knicks revival, but deep enough into the season to draw some meaningful conclusions.

Their offense is among the N.B.A.’s best, producing 109.4 points per 100 possessions — which was ninth best in the league entering Saturday, according to the Web site Basketball-Reference.com. Their effective field-goal percentage (weighted for 3-pointers) was fifth.

The Knicks’ defense, perhaps predictably, is in the bottom half of the league in both effective field-goal percentage allowed (18th) and points allowed per 100 possessions (22nd).

Yet the Knicks have shown a timely defensive edge, winning close games and holding off late rallies. They were leading the league in blocks per game (7.15) and were ninth in steals (7.85).

The greatest sign of their resilience, however, lies in this 8-1 surge. On Nov. 16, the Knicks lost their sixth straight game, a down-to-the-wire 120-118 defeat in Denver that dropped them to 3-8. It was a critical moment, one that threatened to define the season.

Had their confidence sagged, the Knicks could easily have dropped the next three road games and returned to New York with a 3-11 record and calls for D’Antoni’s dismissal. Instead, they won six straight games.

In that moment of doubt, Stoudemire and Felton — the $100 million power forward and the steady point guard — took command of the locker room.

“We definitely had to be the two positive leaders,” Felton said, “just to keep everybody focused and say: ‘Look, we can’t be satisfied with losing. We got to get rid of this mentality. And we got to find a way.’ ”

Looking back, Felton said, the losing streak “made us mature as a team.”

It is easy to lose sight of the fact that the Knicks are one of the league’s youngest teams, and practically built from scratch. Stoudemire and Felton — the foundation of the lineup —became pick-and-roll partners just two months ago.

The Knicks had to work their way through Danilo Gallinari’s slump, Toney Douglas’s streaky play, Ronny Turiaf’s varied injuries and the incorporation of two rookies, Landry Fields and Timofey Mozgov.

Many of the doubts raised in training camp have been dispelled, while others remain:

¶Do they have enough outside shooting to keep defenses honest? So far, yes, but it could use improvement. The Knicks ranked 20th in 3-point shooting (35.4 percent), but they have been markedly better over the last 10 games (38.4 percent).

¶Without David Lee, can they compete for rebounds? Surprisingly, yes. In fact, they may be better. The Knicks ranked 22nd in rebounding differential (minus-1.45 per game), but that is a huge improvement over last season, when they were outrebounded by 4.5 per game, despite Lee’s efforts. Stoudemire is averaging 8.7 rebounds, while Fields (7.2), Wilson Chandler (6.1) and Gallinari (4.7) are all making an extra effort.

¶Is Felton a suitable pick-and-roll partner for Stoudemire? Three weeks ago, the answer would have been no, but Felton is gaining confidence and making the right passes. He averaged 9.3 assists over the last 10 games, the fifth-best mark in the league in that span.

“I tried to give you guys a heads-up back then,” Stoudemire said, “that it takes time to build chemistry. I’ve been in this situation before, where I built chemistry with Stephon Marbury in Phoenix, I built chemistry with Steve Nash. And now it’s the same with Raymond.”

¶Can they win with two rookie starters? No, but one has turned out pretty well. Fields won Eastern Conference rookie of the month for November, after averaging 10.8 points and 7.1 rebounds. Fields’s solid play has been critical, allowing D’Antoni to use Chandler as a starting forward or as a spark off the bench. Mozgov has been a disappointment, however.

The 20-game caveat is that the Knicks have played the N.B.A.’s easiest schedule, based on opponents’ winning percentage (.392), according to ESPN’s John Hollinger. But the caveat to the caveat is that they have played 12 games on the road (going 8-4) and seven back-to-back sets.

Fields could hit a wall. Gallinari may slump again. Turiaf could be banged up a lot. Or they may all continue improving. Kelenna Azubuike could return, bolstering their defense and shooting.

“I think we can get even better, no question about that,” Felton said. “We don’t want to be complacent and be settled with where we’re at right now just because we’re winning. We want to continue to still get better, no matter what.”
114 2010-12-05 The grandfather would take the trolley to visit his grandson in the projects, passing along portentous advice like: “Do. Not. Play. Football.” The reason? “Your. Bones. Are. Not. Set. Yet.”

The boy weighed 123 pounds but went out for football at Central High. And promptly broke his left shoulder. A few days later, the grandfather came by and spotted the boy lying on a sofa, a cast on his shoulder.

“He came over and kissed me on the forehead,” Cosby said. “I set my ears to listen. He never said, ‘I told you, Junior.’ He always kept his money in his sock. He reached in and gave me a quarter and put it in my right hand and said: ‘Get yourself some ice cream. It’s got calcium in it.’ ”

The boy did not miss the rebuke: always listen to your grandfather.

Football did not keep Cosby in high school. “I had no life ahead of me,” he said darkly. He wound up in the Navy, earning an equivalency diploma, tending to the wounded in a military hospital.

He applied for a track and field scholarship at Temple but had to take the SAT. The questions flitted around him. “All those things, like ghosts of Christmas past,” Cosby said. “I was put in remedial everything.”

He played freshman football. “I’m around 185,” he said. “I think I am a good running back, but I’m really not that fast. There is only one thing I can do, that is throw a cross-body block. Picture perfect. I love it. Not that good at pass blocking.”

He remembered one hit he took, turning into “caterpillar fuzz.” As he lay on the ground, “I started to feel my legs and I said, ‘Oh, my God, I’m paralyzed.’ If I don’t try to move, I’ll never know if I’m paralyzed, so I stay there.

“My trainer says, ‘Ask him his name.’ Dumbest thing I ever heard. I said, ‘Rumpelstiltskin,’ and Coach said, ‘He’s all right!’ I got up and the field was tilting. Somebody tapped me and said, ‘You have to go off the field.’ ”

Just about everybody at the dinner Tuesday will identify with that hit.

Temple won five games, lost 11 and tied two in Cosby’s two seasons. He harbors two memories of himself in action.

At Gettysburg, he said, Temple had a fourth-and-1. The call was to dive straight up the middle, but Cosby went for the improv — to the left side, and was stuffed. That was bad enough, but on Monday, the coaches produced a film of a lineman opening a hole up the middle — “like a railroad train,” he said.

Cosby balanced that memory with a play against Toledo. Playing right cornerback, he burst across the line and hit the ball carrier.

“I stayed on my feet,” he said. “I hit the guy. He had the ball. When we met, I put my body on his and, wham, that guy had no leg power. The ref blew the whistle.”

Meantime, Cosby was tending bar and telling jokes, and before long, he was working in Greenwich Village, “The Gaslight Cafe at 116 MacDougal Street; Minetta Tavern; the Fat Black Pussycat,” he recited with reverence. He told his coaches he was giving up football. “Showbiz, man, showbiz.”

He told about playing basketball at the playground on West Fourth Street and having his mostly absent father materialize, urging him to go back and play football.

“My father said, ‘Junior, it takes a man to play football, but any fool can get up on the stage and make an ass of himself.’ ”

In Cosby’s version, he gave his father some money and said the next installment would be for a coffin. The pain behind the story is palpable. As Cosby told it, the decision to stop playing was also about getting a real education. “If I just get a C, I’m not going to know anything,” he said.

It was still the early ’60s. Most professional athletes, particularly black men, were not making money.

“I’m going to be a schoolteacher,” he said. “I’m going to tell ’em what they’re missing.”

In his long and successful career, Cosby has been a star of “I Spy”and the father on “The Cosby Show,” and he has entertained on comedy records and talk shows. He received a degree from Temple, then two advanced degrees in education from the University of Massachusetts: a master’s in 1972 and a doctorate in 1977. In recent years, Cosby has been an advocate of blacks’ aspiring to education, getting the most out of this society.

Through it all, he said, he has only minor aches from his few years of football. “My left shoulder, forget jumping jacks,” Cosby said. “My tailbone took a couple of hits and, as I think about it, the nose was moved a couple of times.” But nothing compared with the artificial joints and brain damage of people who played longer.

Still a fan of resurgent Temple, Cosby said he could barely follow the complexities of the sport, and when Franco Harris took him into the Steelers’ locker room he could not imagine his neck supporting the modern weapon-helmet. He sounded boggled by the financial machinations and allegations involving Heisman-level players.

He was asked one final meaning-of-life question: what did football teach him?

“Obedience and hope,” Cosby said. And education. “Put yourself in the position so that with tuition and books, you can multiply things by pi.”

And still remember the good plays and the bad plays, and maybe the dream plays, too.
115 2010-12-05 In Fast Company, Danielle Sacks looked at the challenges facing the advertising industry.

Thanks to the Internet and digital technology, agencies are finding that the realization of their clients’ ultimate fantasy — the ability to customize a specific message to a specific person at a specific moment — is within their grasp. It is also one very complex nightmare. After all, digital isn’t just one channel. It’s a medium that blooms thousands of other mediums. Brad Jakeman, who formerly led advertising at Citigroup and Macy’s, says the explosion of platforms like search, geotargeting, the iPad and mobile apps means fragmented media budgets and fragmented consumer attention. “The irony is that while there have never been more ways to reach consumers, it’s never been harder to connect with consumers,” explains Jakeman, now chief creative officer at Activision, the gaming company. The death of mass marketing means the end of lazy marketing.

Writing on National Geographic’s blog central, Luna Shyr considered the problem of setting one’s watch in Antarctica.

Of the unusual phenomena that occur at the polar extremes of the Earth, time is a particularly peculiar one. Yes, the sky at the South Pole splits the year between whole days of light and dark. But how do humans who venture there — to a place where the world’s 24 time zones converge — and to the rest of Antarctica set their clocks?

It all depends. While scientific observations follow coordinated universal time (UTC), each Antarctic research station adopts one of three practices for coordinating logistics on the ice. The majority keep the time of their home country. Others stay on the clock of the city from which their ships or aircraft departed. Fewer still use the standard time at their geographic location. All of which means a smattering of times on a continent the size of the United States and Mexico combined. So who plays Father Time at the Pole itself? New Zealand, last port of call for Americans headed to their station at the bottom of the world.

The Rise of the Railroads

In The New York Review of Books, Tony Judt wrote of the enormous changes ushered in by the birth and rise of the railroads.
116 2010-12-05 In psychiatry, this is a serious business. These disorders are severely disabling, and the new approach proposes to phase out five of the disorders — dependent, histrionic, schizoid and paranoid, in addition to narcissistic, the least common — in favor of choosing from a list of personality traits that best describe a particular patient.

All five disorders have taken on a life of their own among therapists as well as researchers. As with everything DSM, as the manual is known, the experts will be debating the new approach for years after the psychiatric association’s task force releases the final draft, expected in 2013.

Nonscientists have been appropriating technical terms going back at least to the ancient Greeks and their doctors’ notion of the humors. In more recent generations, people have borrowed freely from physics (black hole, light speed), geology (tectonic shift), cardiology (type A personality) and most of all psychology.

Freudian terminology spread like pollen in the first half of the 20th century, especially in postwar America, transforming precise concepts like ego, repression and projection into widely understood shorthand for behavior. Therapists in turn have reclaimed and reinterpreted these and other Freudian ideas as they refine their own work.

“This process goes on in all sciences, where terms with narrow, technical definitions move into general use and acquire much broader meanings,” said James G. Ennis, a sociologist at Tufts University. “But especially so in the social sciences, which hit people closer to where they live. Psychology, sociology, anthropology — all are essentially providing people with a way of understanding their identities.”

The modern DSM, more so than any other medical document, stirs this crossbreeding, because it tries to draw a line between normal and abnormal behavior. For years people used the term “schizophrenic” to mean split-minded, or scattered, despite the severity of the diagnosis. The DSM committee dropped so-called passive-aggressive personality from the manual years ago, but the phrase is such an evocative description of a familiar behavior that it has become a fixture of the shared language. Terms like O.C.D. and A.D.H.D. are quickly gaining a similar status.

Narcissism was always a natural. Its technical definition describes a devastatingly vulnerable person, compensating for a deeply imprinted inadequacy with a desperate need for admiration, and a grandiose self-image. “When you see extreme examples of this or other personality disorders, you sit back and say: ‘Wow. It’s just stunning,’ ” said Dr. Darrel Regier, research director at the psychiatric association and co-director of the team updating the DSM. “But all of these disorders are on a continuum with more normal behavior, and people will immediately pick up on some of more annoying traits in the definition and run with it.”

And why not? Virtually all of the narcissistic types most people see are the milder, more normal variety, and the idea that these pompous clowns are crying on the inside doesn’t excuse how they treat others. No blaming it on Mom or Dad or some nanny.

“There’s a lot of self-centeredness in the world, and narcissist has become an instantly recognizable type,” even if people don’t appreciate the complexity of the diagnosis, said Dr. Andrew E. Skodol II, chairman of the DSM personality disorders work group and research professor of psychiatry at the University of Arizona College of Medicine.

Stripped of most — but not quite all — of its pathology, “narcissist” becomes an easy way to flag the self-smitten (if not used as an all-purpose insult), and sounds so much more thoughtful than “egomaniac,” the older term, invoking Greek myth and modern psychiatry. “It’s a shorthand you can apply to all these powerful and famous people that allows you to feel superior and have this gloss of science,” said Dr. Michael First, a psychiatrist at Columbia and a former editor of the DSM.

A word like that is not going anywhere, regardless of what the experts working on the DSM decide. On the contrary: in recent months some of the researchers pushing to drop the diagnosis have softened their stance; the betting now is that the diagnosis is going to remain in the final revision.

The term, like so many people it describes in life and in treatment, cannot be so easily ignored.
117 2010-12-05 “These are just the views of junior officers,” he said. “They are not authentic. We should not even take them seriously.”

Mr. Karzai seemed at times statesmanlike and above the fray and at others frustrated, but overall he seemed more inclined to put the revelations behind him.

In response to questions, Mr. Karzai said that he understood that of course his ministers spoke about him, but that he was sure the way the cables characterized their remarks was not correct. “Take the example of Mr. Zakhilwal,” he said. “I am sure they are not true.”

Mr. Zakhilwal, the finance minister, was reported to have called Mr. Karzai “an extremely weak man,” comments he denied in his own news conference later on Saturday.

Mr. Karzai also said that people might say things casually in private that might not reflect their more considered and accurate positions. “People say things to other people not necessarily to be a part that they want to take home, and I understand some of the ministers may have been talking about me and some of them have done, I know, and other ministers in future may do the same,” he said, speaking in English. He added pointedly, “But we will not have a WikiLeaks to reveal that.”

He scorned the accuracy of another cable, about former Vice President Ahmed Zia Massoud’s taking $52 million in cash out of the country, saying that it was absurd to think that a vice president could arrive in another country with 30 suitcases full of cash. Furthermore, he said, the United States government had never spoken to him about it.

“The American government has been talking to us every day about corruption, every day they give us examples, every day they bring a case of $5,000, how come no report was given of this?” he said.

He continued: “We don’t know what to do with this whole thing: do we believe it or not believe it? I would go towards not believing it, that is better for Afghanistan.”

In his own news conference, Mr. Zakhilwal denied having uttered the remarks about Mr. Karzai as reported in a diplomatic cable sent by Mr. Eikenberry on Feb. 26, and suggested that the views were the ambassador’s.

“I have never, ever used this word ‘weak’ to describe the president, never, ever,” he said. “I have not said any kind of words like this regarding anyone.”

He said the accusations had destroyed any trust between him and the ambassador and would affect the ambassador’s effectiveness. “It has certainly hurt relations not only between me and him, but between some ministers and the ambassador, and it will certainly not be business as usual,” Mr. Zakhilwal said.

“The ambassador has used my name to support his views of the president,” he said. Asked if he was calling for the ambassador to resign, the minister replied, “It is up to the ambassador.”

Relations between Mr. Karzai and the American ambassador have been uneasy since the leaking of a secret diplomatic cable in November 2009 in which the ambassador said Mr. Karzai was “not a reliable partner” for the United States.

The American Embassy in Kabul sought Saturday to dampen the dispute. “We know there are many questions raised by these leaks, and we will work through those in private with our Afghan partners,” Caitlin Hayden, an embassy spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We are determined not to allow the reckless actions of WikiLeaks to harm the strong and strategic relationships we have built over many years with many members of the government of Afghanistan.”

Mr. Zakhilwal said he had offered his resignation to President Karzai, if there was any suspicion that the cables reflected his real views, but that the president had said he did not believe the cables and had asked him to stay on.

Mr. Zakhilwal is considered one of the ablest members of the Afghan cabinet and has proved a crucial representative for the country in negotiations with international donors and the Obama administration.
118 2010-12-05 As China ratcheted up the pressure on Google to censor its Internet searches last year, the American Embassy sent a secret cable to Washington detailing one reason top Chinese leaders had become so obsessed with the Internet search company: they were Googling themselves.

The May 18, 2009, cable, titled “Google China Paying Price for Resisting Censorship,” quoted a well-placed source as saying that Li Changchun, a member of China’s top ruling body, the Politburo Standing Committee, and the country’s senior propaganda official, was taken aback to discover that he could conduct Chinese-language searches on Google’s main international Web site. When Mr. Li typed his name into the search engine at google.com, he found “results critical of him.”

That cable from American diplomats was one of many made public by WikiLeaks that portray China’s leadership as nearly obsessed with the threat posed by the Internet to their grip on power — and, the reverse, by the opportunities it offered them, through hacking, to obtain secrets stored in computers of its rivals, especially the United States.

Extensive hacking operations suspected of originating in China, including one leveled at Google, are a central theme in the cables. The operations began earlier and were aimed at a wider array of American government and military data than generally known, including on the computers of United States diplomats involved in climate change talks with China.

One cable, dated early this year, quoted a Chinese person with family connections to the elite as saying that Mr. Li himself directed an attack on Google’s servers in the United States, though that claim has been called into question. In an interview with The New York Times, the person cited in the cable said that Mr. Li personally oversaw a campaign against Google’s operations in China but the person did not know who directed the hacking attack.

The cables catalog the heavy pressure that was placed on Google to comply with local censorship laws, as well as Google’s willingness to comply — up to a point. That coercion began building years before the company finally decided to pull its search engine out of China last spring in the wake of the successful hacking attack on its home servers, which yielded Chinese dissidents’ e-mail accounts as well as Google’s proprietary source code.

The demands on Google went well beyond removing material on subjects like the Dalai Lama or the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre. Chinese officials also put pressure on the United States government to censor the Google Earth satellite imaging service by lowering the resolution of images of Chinese government facilities, warning that Washington could be held responsible if terrorists used that information to attack government or military facilities, the cables show. An American diplomat replied that Google was a private company and that he would report the request to Washington but that he had no sense about how the government would act.

Yet despite the hints of paranoia that appear in some cables, there are also clear signs that Chinese leaders do not consider the Internet an unstoppable force for openness and democracy, as some Americans believe.

In fact, this spring, around the time of the Google pullout, China’s State Council Information Office delivered a triumphant report to the leadership on its work to regulate traffic online, according to a crucial Chinese contact cited by the State Department in a cable in early 2010, when contacted directly by The Times.

The message delivered by the office, the person said, was that “in the past, a lot of officials worried that the Web could not be controlled.”

“But through the Google incident and other increased controls and surveillance, like real-name registration, they reached a conclusion: the Web is fundamentally controllable,” the person said.

That confidence may also reflect what the cables show are repeated and often successful hacking attacks from China on the United States government, private enterprises and Western allies that began by 2002, several years before such intrusions were widely reported in the United States.

At least one previously unreported attack in 2008, code-named Byzantine Candor by American investigators, yielded more than 50 megabytes of e-mails and a complete list of user names and passwords from an American government agency, a Nov. 3, 2008, cable revealed for the first time.

Precisely how these hacking attacks are coordinated is not clear. Many appear to rely on Chinese freelancers and an irregular army of “patriotic hackers” who operate with the support of civilian or military authorities, but not directly under their day-to-day control, the cables and interviews suggest.

But the cables also appear to contain some suppositions by Chinese and Americans passed along by diplomats. For example, the cable dated earlier this year referring to the hacking attack on Google said: “A well-placed contact claims that the Chinese government coordinated the recent intrusions of Google systems. According to our contact, the closely held operations were directed at the Politburo Standing Committee level.”
119 2010-12-05 A personalized, one-owner 1974 Lamborghini Espada....
120 2010-12-05 Ms. Stern was sitting in the kitchen of her Long Island home, a room as pink as her Lamborghini (“of course,” she said of the pink floor tiles, counters, oven and refrigerator). She wore a pink poplin shirt and blue jeans.

The Lamborghini was a gift from her late husband, Stanley. She and her husband were high school sweethearts in New Rochelle. “His last name was S-T and mine was S-C, so we sat next to each other,” she explained. (Her maiden name was Schwartzman.)

They became close friends and eventually started dating. One thing they had in common was an interest in European cars, especially Italian ones. They visited the New York auto show at the Coliseum on Columbus Circle each year.

There were other excursions.

“We used to drive up to a dealership in Nyack, N.Y., Bob Grossman’s, and we would just look at the cars,” she said. “We weren’t the only ones. It was something to do.”

After they married, Mr. Stern, a lawyer, bought a Citroën SM, in large part because the French car had a Maserati engine. And it was a Maserati that drew the couple up to Nyack one day in 1973.

“We found out that Bob had a burned-out Maserati Ghibli that was once owned by a racecar driver,” Ms. Stern recalled. But the Sterns were past the point of buying a fixer-upper, she said.

“And then I saw the Lamborghini.”

A hulking brand-new grand touring car with four seats, the Espada had a 350-horsepower V-12 and a 5-speed manual transmission. It was shaped like a wedge — a Bertone design — and the factory color was a bright green.

“I just had to have it,” Ms. Stern said.

It took a couple of trips to Nyack to see the car before she was able to persuade her husband to buy it as a Christmas present. No test drive needed: she traded in her little Fiat 124 Spider and they drove the Lamborghini home.

“There was one condition,” she said. “I had to use it as a daily driver.”

And she did. The couple’s four children maxed out the passenger space of the Espada, which has rear seats and, fortunately for the Sterns, a spacious trunk.

“You didn’t have the regulations you do now,” she said, referring to the laws for child seats.

She used to drive in car pools with the Lamborghini. “Every child in the neighborhood has been in the car,” she said. “If you wanted to ride in the car, sometimes you got into the trunk.”

The odometer stopped working several years ago, at 98,800 miles; Ms. Stern says that the car has well over 100,000 miles on it now. Many of those came on road trips with the Maserati Club’s eastern chapter — she and her husband were founding members of the group in 1985. Mr. Stern owned a 1980 Maserati Quattroporte that he put 160,000 miles on, she said.

Ms. Stern has piloted the Lamborghini around the road course portion of Pocono Raceway, a track in Pennsylvania whose trioval is one of Nascar’s superspeedways. One year, the Sterns drove it to Florida for a club meet.

In 1979, she had the car painted pink for the first time. "I think it shows off the body lines better,” she said — and in 1992 she undertook a complete restoration. “It was either get rid of it or restore it,” she said.

The Lamborghini was in the shop for two years. When it was done, she shipped it to Monterey, Calif., for the Concorso Italiano, one of the collector-car events around the Pebble Beach Concours d’Élégance. “They didn’t have a category for it, so they gave it a ribbon for the Special Prize,” she said, showing the ribbon.

Ms. Stern has enough ribbons, trophies, awards and platters to cover her dining room table, which she did for a visitor. Each accolade won by the Lamborghini came with a story, and Mr. Stern co-starred in most of them. Clearly the Sterns were partners in every part of their lives, until his death in 2004.

Ms. Stern said he had supported all of her pursuits, from attending the Skip Barber racing school to flying loops in her Cessna Aerobat, a single-engine plane reinforced to handle higher loads imposed by stunt flying.

“If you heard him talk about me, you would have thought I was Amelia Earhart and Stirling Moss rolled into one,” she said. “He may not have approved of everything I did, but he stood by me.”

There was one thing, however, he did not allow.

“At one point I wanted to turn my dining room into a garage — a showroom kind of thing,” she said. “Everybody voted me down. They didn’t think it was good for resale value.”
121 2010-12-05 “When we go back two decades ago,” said Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns, a lifelong resident whose district includes Cypress Hills, “there were issues in regard to public safety, the infrastructure was crumbling. But we have solidly turned that around, and there is a vibrant new feeling out here in this area. It’s no longer a community of last resort. It’s a community of choice.”

Among the agents of change is the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation, founded in 1983. It is responsible for more than 300 units of affordable housing, and has 200 more units now in progress, said Michelle Neugebauer, the corporation’s executive director.

Ms. Kayman is one who has benefited. Her home would have cost an additional $140,000 without subsidies from the city and the local group.

It also works with merchants to improve the retail corridor along Fulton Street, and collaborated with the city Department of Education to create a new school, Public School 89 Cypress Hills, which opened in September and serves students through Grade 8.

“It’s always been a first-homeownership kind of place,” said Bishop David Benke, an activist who since 1974 has been the pastor of St. Peter’s Lutheran Church on Highland Place. “A lot of people come here wanting to push their kids through school, people who want the best for their families. They’re first- or second-generation immigrants, and the young-adult crowd that follows is usually very dedicated to family.”

His more than 30 years in Cypress Hills have provided glimpses of this ethic from a previous era — German and Irish immigrants who once, he says, operated an abundance of ice cream shops in the neighborhood — as well as among the currently dominant Latinos.

Lance Wenceslao, 65, who was born and raised in the area in a Catholic family, said the Cypress Hills of his youth, “quiet and bare,” had become “a far more vibrant Hispanic neighborhood.” Mr. Wenceslao retired to Georgia in 2002, but only recently put his house on the market; his grown children lived in it after he moved. The colonial, on Barbey Street, is listed at $400,000.

Occupying a little more than a square mile, and wedged just south of the mass of cemeteries that separates Brooklyn and Queens, Cypress Hills is home to more than 40,000 people. Although neighborhood contours are often a subject of contention, its boundaries are described by the Encyclopedia of New York City and the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation as the Queens border to the north, Atlantic Avenue to the south, Pennsylvania Avenue to the west and Eldert Lane to the east.

From the vantage point of Jamaica Avenue, the expanse of cemeteries to the north, with Queens on its far side, offers views of mausoleums, headstones and markers, along with huge brick arches and abandoned buildings.

As Bishop Benke put it, “Our neighbors to the north are very quiet.”

Fulton Street is a mix of barber and beauty shops, bodegas and storefront churches beneath the rusted yellow elevated tracks of the J and Z trains. Latino restaurants proliferate as one moves eastward: takeout joints; sprawling seafood places advertising Saturday-night karaoke; Salvadoran pupuserías, where men gather over a lunchtime Presidente beer to the soundtrack of unwatched Univision soap operas. Eventually, the tracks diverge from Fulton Street and begin a northward curve, giving riders a close-up of the cornices of otherwise anonymous buildings.

“We’re starting to see a lot of redevelopment of our commercial strips, making it more exciting and viable for the next generation of homeowners,” said Assemblyman Towns, noting that Cypress Hills was not yet a “Starbucks community.” (While residents elsewhere might wish for fewer Starbucks outlets, Mr. Towns implied that if one arrived, it would be a key marker of progress; he noted with pride that the local Dunkin’ Donuts offers WiFi.)

The development corporation occupies several storefronts along Fulton Street, and has helped bring in businesses like a day care center and a sporting goods store.

In January, Javier N. Solis opened a new franchise of Los Taxes, a tax preparation company with a mostly Hispanic clientele, in one of the development corporation’s Fulton Street buildings. Mr. Solis, who lives in Queens and has worked in Cypress Hills for about 15 years, recalled more dangerous days.

“I had the cellphone number for a D.A. in the narcotics division,” he said, adding that in the 1990s he would alert the official to suspicious activity.

To speak to residents and business owners is to hear stories of progress made, work yet to be done and protectiveness of the community’s image.

“We had to work to better the neighborhood,” said Wilson Piña, who owns a travel agency, the Atlas Travel Group, as well as the Highland Driving School. He cited the variety of restaurants, affordable shopping and convenient transportation as reasons people are increasingly willing to stay. “This is not a bad neighborhood,” he said. “This is a good neighborhood.”

“It’s such a diverse area, in terms of housing types,” said Raymond Parasmo, a broker with Fillmore Real Estate. In the southern portion, blocks are lined with attached houses; as one travels north, the land inclines and detached houses become more common, including large ones near Highland Park, bordered by metal fences or brick walls.

Single-family houses are priced from $275,000 to $350,000, brokers say, and two-families start around $400,000. Houses tend to linger four to six months, as they did last year, said Cirilo Rodriguez, a broker with Charles Rutenberg Realty. Recent buyers have been from the Dominican Republic and Ecuador.

Rentals are scarce, said Lassaad Messai of Best Way Home Realty. Some can be found in multifamily homes, one-bedroom units for about $1,000 and two-bedrooms for about $1,250.

Mark Kerr, an agent with Fillmore Real Estate, said prices in Cypress Hills and surrounding areas were down 15 to 20 percent over the last year or so.

The J and Z trains serve Cypress Hills; commuting to Midtown Manhattan takes about 50 minutes. Area buses include the 56, along Jamaica Avenue, and the 24, along Atlantic Avenue.

WHAT TO DO

The Arlington branch of the Brooklyn Public Library went up in 1907, one of the original libraries built by Carnegie. The split-level building has various wooden staircases leading to reading rooms, one of which has a nonfunctioning brick fireplace.

The 141-acre Highland Park has tennis courts and a synthetic turf field for football and soccer that opened in 2009.

Elementary schools in the general area include Public School 108 Sal Abbracciamento, through Grade 5. Last year 39.1 percent of fourth graders met standards in English and 66.4 percent in math, versus 45.6 and 58.4 citywide.

Junior High School 302 Rafael Cordero teaches Grades 6 through 8. Nineteen percent of eighth graders met standards in English, 18.5 percent in math, versus 37.5 and 46.3 citywide.

Franklin K. Lane High School, on Jamaica Avenue in Woodhaven, Queens, serves Grades 9 through 12. SAT averages last year were 353 in reading, 379 in math and 341 in writing, versus 439, 462 and 434 citywide.

About 380,000 people are interred in Cypress Hills Cemetery, according to “Cypress Hills Cemetery,” by Stephen C. Duer and Allan B. Smith, published in September. Among them are Mae West and Jackie Robinson.
122 2010-12-05 Occupying two three-story structures separated by a verdant courtyard, the Twin Oaks Apartments were built as multifamily residential units in the early 1960s. When Hofstra took over the complex three decades ago for student use, the apartments were partitioned to accommodate greater numbers. Walls that went three-quarters of the way to the ceiling transformed dining areas into bedrooms, and the units were stocked with beds, desks and chests of drawers.

According to Timothy D. Fournier, the president and chief executive of Conifer, the buildings have been empty for two years. He said the plan was to reconfigure them as 58 two-bedroom and 36 one-bedroom units, with a few balconies. Asbestos abatement is under way.

The deal also includes converting and leasing out a former Hofstra library across the parking lot as office space.

The option to rent will be limited to families that earn a maximum of $62,000 — 60 percent or less of the median income for four in Nassau County. Monthly rent for nearly all the one-bedrooms will be $1,135; for comparison, a current market-rate rental nearby is $1,282. Most two-bedrooms will cost $1,128, versus $1,586 for a market-rate rental.

Mr. Fournier said the conversion to a multifamily community would put the property “back on the tax rolls,” as well as temporarily creating 100 construction jobs.

Fire escapes will be taken off the outside of the building and sprinklers installed inside. New windows, air-conditioning and heating systems are part of the plan, and $441,800 in weatherization funds will be spent to make the complex more energy-efficient. A computer lab, a fitness room and a community room will be built in the basement of one of the buildings, Ms. Garvin said.

Allen Handelman, the project director for Conifer, said that when completed, the buildings “won’t look like student housing anymore.” The lobby will be refurbished with a ceramic tile floor; hallways will be carpeted; new doors with wood veneers installed for each apartment, to provide “a softer, more residential tone.”

Institutional lighting and elevator cabs will be replaced, and kitchens will include dishwashers among the new Energy Star appliances. A design firm will be called in to banish the drab and “get the colors right,” Mr. Handelman said. Additionally, each building will have its own laundry facilities.

A new “elegant gatehouse” will be built at the entrance for security reasons, and the courtyard landscaping will given a fresh look, he added.

Brian Lawlor, the state commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal, described the project as the first multifamily rental to receive “simultaneous approval” from several “newly integrated housing agencies.” Money sources include $15.6 million in tax exempt bond financing; a “Homes for Working Families” loan of $2.5 million; and the $440,000 weatherization grant. Nassau County also contributed $1 million.

“It is unusual that a multifamily development such as this becomes available in Nassau,” Mr. Lawlor said. “If this was five years ago, we wouldn’t have had any hope of turning it into affordable housing. It would have been scooped up and turned into luxury condos.”

He also surmised that the surrounding residential neighborhood, about half a mile from Hofstra’s Uniondale campus, would welcome having “family housing” after years of student use.

But once Twin Oaks is spruced up, the student population could become a source for tenants.

Richard V. Guardino Jr., executive dean of the Wilbur F. Breslin Center for Real Estate Studies at Hofstra, said that the university had stopped using Twin Oaks in 2008, and that with the construction of another dormitory on campus, it “no longer needed the bed space.”

Still, he pointed out, 50 percent of Hofstra students are from out of state, and some may need affordable housing when they graduate and first start working, if they seek to stay in the area.

“We are absolutely delighted that there is an opportunity for our students and young people to have rental housing,” Mr. Guardino said. With rentals constituting less than 20 percent of housing on the Island, “adding 94 units is a tremendous boost.”
123 2010-12-05 The Museo de Arte de Ponce in Puerto Rico reopened last month after a three-year, $30 million renovation and expansion. The museum now has additional exhibition space and more than 600 new pieces, including a 28-foot-tall sculpture by Roy Lichtens...
124 2010-12-05 Jonathan Weber writes a regular column for The Bay Citizen     For the Silicon Valley cognoscenti, the news last week that Mary Meeker, the stock analyst once dubbed ''the Queen of the Net,'' was abandoning Morgan Stanley to join the Kleiner Perki...
125 2010-12-05 Travelers headed to Europe finally have a payment option for parking kiosks, tollbooths and railroad ticketing machines that do not accept magnetic stripe debit or credit cards.     Travelex, a currency exchange company, last week began selling a ...
126 2010-12-06 The new Sundance series “Girls Who Like Boys Who Like Boys” takes place in a world where the words “fag hag” are not spoken. Oddly enough, this world appears to exist inside the same New York City where many of us live.

To make sure that we get the point, the show takes a break during its premiere on Tuesday night, after introducing us to its cast of four straight women and their four gay best friends, so that they can tell us how they feel about the term. It’s ugly, one of the women says, with a sad little pout. Fag hags don’t have sex, another declares, the implication being that she has plenty, thank you.

This self-conscious attempt to escape a stereotype that suggests an excess of neuroticism and a shortage of sex appeal — no Margaret Cho, Kathy Griffin or “Will and Grace” here — probably has less to do with principle than with the Sundance Channel’s wanting to flatter its audience. These are serious women — like you! If they’re all kind of uptight and not much fun, well, that’s the price you pay for seriousness.

But “Girls Who Like Boys Who Like Boys” is not sociology or even (though its publicists might disagree) documentary. It’s a reality show, and while its women might be better behaved and more accomplished than those real housewives over on Bravo, they’re still going to get stuffed into the same formulas.
127 2010-12-06 The zombie-laden series is popular with viewers 18 to 49 years old....
128 2010-12-06 The Korea Mining and Development Corporation is a North Korean maker and seller of Scud missiles. According to diplomatic cables, it has ties with companies in Europe, Asia and Africa that supply it with parts, markets and financial pipelines.
129 2010-12-06 This past Saturday, we held the first TimesOpen Hack Day, a full 14 hours of sessions, coding and fun. The results were spectacular!...
130 2010-12-06 My story really begins at Charleston, a perfect haunt of light and invention that stands in the English countryside. It was warm that summer and the mornings went far into the afternoon, when the best of the garden would come into the house, the flowers arranged in pots and given new life by Vanessa in her fertile hours. She was always there with her oils and her eyes, the light falling through the glass ceiling to inflame the possibility of something new. She had good days and bad days. On good days she set out her brushes and knew the time was right for work when all her memories became like an aspect of sleep.

It was June 1960. The gardener had just brought a tray of foxgloves into the kitchen, the flowers pert but deafened after a week or two of bees. I was sitting in a basket next to the oven when a ladybird crawled over the table. ‘He’s got the knock, innee?’ said the insect, climbing over a breadcrumb.

‘He’s just tired,’ I said. ‘He needs a cup of tea.’

Mr. Higgens swiped the soil off the table and the poor creature, too. ‘Bloody slummocky in here,’ he said. ‘Grace! Where you want them?’

People have no head for miracles. They are pressed into shape by the force of reality, a curse if you ask me. But never mind: I was lucky to have my two painters, Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant, a pair who, for all their differences, shared a determination to dream the world they lived in and fashion it into permanence. And what a blessing it was to paddle about on those Sussex flagstones and chase the yellow wasps, turning slowly into lovely me, the sort of dog who is set for foreign adventures and ordained to tell the story.
131 2010-12-06 Last Friday, the Bondurant School of High Performance Driving teamed up with the Barrow Neurological Institute to hold a driving clinic for paralyzed drivers....
132 2010-12-06 A teacher in Germany uses Times video to teach business English to her adult students....
133 2010-12-06 Netflix streaming may be convenient, but it's rarely the way to get the best picture quality possible....
134 2010-12-06 The list from International Animated Film Society is sure to have some overlap with the little gold man race, especially this year, when the Academy can nominate only three films....
135 2010-12-06 Just because spouses mention somebody else's new kitchen or car doesn't mean they want to blow the household's budget....
136 2010-12-06 With all that's been written about Groupon, one question lingers: Are the local businesses that use it eager to use it again?...
137 2010-12-06 Stanley Goldstein, founder of the New York Hedge Fund Roundtable, says pay limits would bolster the industry's image....
138 2010-12-06 The current situation demands an "all of the above" strategy when it comes to diversifying the nation's energy portfolio, two officials write....
139 2010-12-06 A beautiful, deeply flavored, highly textured dish - golden brown on top, dark green within, and studded with the red tomatoes....
140 2010-12-06 Did Black Friday, Small Business Saturday or Cyber Monday help your business?...
141 2010-12-06 A combination of the two bookstore chains could help them pare back the number of stores they run, as well as cut operational costs....
142 2010-12-06 For years, General Electric was seduced by the big profits its finance unit pulled in. And a top adviser, McKinsey, did the same, missing the warning signs of the financial crisis....
143 2010-12-06 Meanwhile, the state was to get $110,000 of the $11.2 million it is owed by OTB under the terms of a plan filed in Bankruptcy Court last month.

State Senator Eric Adams, a Democrat of Brooklyn, said he was once among those who believed that helping OTB amounted to propping up a dying industry. But after he joined the Senate Committee on Racing, Gaming and Wagering, of which he is now the chairman, he took a tour of the state’s breeding farms that changed his perspective. “It was a learning experience for me to see how it’s all connected,” Mr. Adams said. “Once you start collapsing various parts of the industry, everything is going to fall apart like a house of cards.”

The state estimates that 17,000 New York jobs are directly supported by the racing industry.

OTB’s problems have been pondered for decades. State law requires the corporation to pay a percentage of its gross revenue to the state and the racing industry. OTB has long said that its payments should come out of net revenue, after its own expenses are covered. That change was always a tough sell, especially given regular official findings of wasteful spending.

Although the total continues to drop, in recent years OTB has annually taken in some $900 million in bets and paid out about three-quarters as winnings.

When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg threatened to shut down OTB in 2008, rather than have the city cover a $17.8 million deficit, the state took it over. This summer, the Paterson administration rejected a plan developed by Meyer S. Frucher, the governor’s choice to reorganize OTB. Mr. Frucher was replaced by Lawrence S. Schwartz, Mr. Paterson’s top aide, who installed as chief executive Greg Rayburn, a specialist in turning around bankrupt companies, at a monthly wage of $125,000.

Passage of a rescue bill is far from certain. The Senate left Albany the day before the Assembly approved the bill. Passage in the Senate is likely to require the support of all the Democrats and some of the Republicans. Also, it appears likely the other regional OTBs will seek cost-saving measures similar to those granted to the city OTB in the Assembly bill, but it is not clear whether that would delay legislative action.

If the effort fails, OTB is scheduled to close Tuesday night. The state would be on the hook for as much as $700 million in pension and health benefits for retirees. The Internet and phone system might be auctioned off. And more than 1,000 OTB employees would be out of work, though even if the plan goes forward, only 800 would remain.

“OTB is certainly a problematic entity, and we have never been very sympathetic to them as that entity,” said State Senator Frank Padavan, a Republican of Queens. “But on the other hand, we do have these employees who are the victims here.”
144 2010-12-06 ¶Mike McKay will join the San Francisco office of BBDO Worldwide, effective in January, as executive creative director. He will succeed Jim Lesser, who is being promoted to chairman. Mr. McKay has been executive creative director at the Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe. BBDO is part of the Omnicom Group.

¶Robert Grammatica, global chief client officer at Rapp, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, was named managing director for the New York office. He succeeds Terry Young, who left to become president at Purple@Epsilon, New York, a unit of Epsilon.

¶Prometheus Global Media, New York, dismissed four longtime employees at its Adweek unit. They included Barbara Lippert, editor at large, the last advertising critic at a weekly ad trade publication. The others were Mark Dolliver, editor at large; Jim English, research editor; and David Gianatasio, managing online editor.

¶Additional advertisers have announced they will run commercials during Super Bowl XLV on Feb. 6, to be broadcast by Fox. The advertisers include the Audi division of Volkswagen, a returning sponsor; Best Buy, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser; BMW, which last advertised during a Super Bowl a decade ago; and Mercedes-Benz, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser. Fox has previously said that all the commercial time in the game was sold out; other sponsors include Anheuser-Busch InBev, Cars.com, E*Trade Financial, the Chevrolet division of General Motors, GoDaddy.com, HomeAway and Mars.

¶The popular “Pure Michigan” campaign, which promotes Michigan as a tourism destination, will continue after the State Legislature agreed to appropriate an additional $10 million so that ads could keep appearing. There had been concern that the budget for the campaign, which features the voice of the actor Tim Allen, would be reduced substantially or eliminated. The campaign was created by the Birmingham, Mich., office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The campaign, coincidentally, won several awards last week, including best in show, at the 2010 D Show, for creativity in advertising produced by Detroit-area agencies.

¶MDC Partners, Toronto, acquired majority interests in Kenna, Mississauga, Ontario, and Capital C Communications, Toronto. MDC acquired both stakes, for undisclosed financial terms, from Newport Partners Holdings, Toronto.

¶Jumptap, Cambridge, Mass., a mobile advertising company, is allying with Cyber Communications Inc., known as CCI, part of Dentsu, Tokyo. Financial terms were not disclosed. CCI will invest in Jumptap and Jumptap will offer its technology in Japan through CCI.

¶Travel Ad Network, New York, acquired the assets of TravelMuse, Palo Alto, Calif., including a travel planning Web site (travelmuse.com). Financial terms were not disclosed.

¶CheapOAir, part of Travelong, New York, plans to begin running on Monday its first television advertising campaign. Commercials, carrying the theme “Get there for less,” are being created by LDMI, Omaha.

¶Spending in the United States on mobile advertising — search, display ads and text ads — will grow to $2.9 billion in 2014 from $491 million last year, according to a forecast from BIA/Kelsey, Chantilly, Va.
145 2010-12-06 The timing did surprise several people who follow the company.

“The departure is sudden but I doubt there was one event per se that caused Kindler’s departure,” said Tim Anderson, a pharmaceutical analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein. He added that Pfizer stock might rise on the news because investors wanted to see some change at the company.

Barbara Ryan, an analyst at Deutsche Bank who follows major pharmaceutical companies, said Mr. Kindler did not appear to have been forced out.

“What I’ve heard is it was a mutual decision, and I think that’s probably true,” Ms. Ryan said on Sunday evening. “I think he’s done a lot of great things at Pfizer, and at the same time he hasn’t necessarily gotten broad support from all of Pfizer’s shareholders, which include external directors.”

But Erik Gordon, a pharmaceutical analyst and clinical assistant professor at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business, suggested that the board made such as sudden move because they were unhappy with Mr. Kindler.

“Pfizer needed an experienced pharma executive,” Mr. Gordon said Sunday. “It had better not be ‘business as usual’ because that’s not what boards who make unexpected C.E.O. changes are looking for.”

In the statement on Sunday, Mr. Kindler said he wanted to “recharge my batteries, spend some rare time with my family and prepare for the next challenge in my career.”

Mr. Kindler said the timing seemed to be right to step down now that the Pfizer and Wyeth operations have been combined for nearly a year.

Mr. Kindler joined Pfizer in 2002 as chief counsel after working at General Electric and McDonald’s. He succeeded Henry A. McKinnell Jr. as Pfizer’s chief in 2006.

Mr. Read, who was also named president of the company on Sunday, joined Pfizer in 1978 and has led worldwide pharmaceutical operations, which account for approximately 85 percent of Pfizer’s annual revenue. He was named corporate vice president in 2001. The company presidency is a newly created position.

Raymond F. Kerins Jr., Pfizer’s vice president for communications, who worked closely with Mr. Kindler, said that he was not being forced from office.

“The good news is we’ve got a guy with experience,” Mr. Kerins said. “Ian Read basically has been running 85 percent of the company anyway.”

Last year, Mr. Kindler also took an active role lobbying Congress and the White House over the health care overhaul. In March, he was named chairman of the industry trade group, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
146 2010-12-06 BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) — Serbia celebrated its first Davis Cup title Sunday, becoming the second unseeded nation to win the trophy when Viktor Troicki beat Michael Llodra, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3, to complete a 3-2 comeback victory over France.

Troicki, who had replaced Janko Tipsarevic in the final singles match, dropped to the court in jubilation after his victory, and his teammates fell into one another’s arms to celebrate. The Serbian players kept their promise to have their heads shaved on the court.

“This is unbelievable,” Troicki said. “I don’t know how to react, what to do. This is the best moment of my life.”

Croatia was the first unseeded nation to win the title, in 2005.

France was leading, 2-1, in the best-of-five-series after winning the doubles Saturday in its bid to capture its 10th Davis Cup and first since 2001.

Novak Djokovic tied the series by beating Gaël Monfils, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4, in Sunday’s first singles match.
147 2010-12-06 European finance ministers are under mounting pressure to significantly increase the 750 billion-euro rescue fund for the currency union when they meet Monday.

Didier Reynders, the Belgian finance minister, suggested over the weekend that the fund, established this year and the equivalent of $1 trillion, would have to be increased when it is made permanent after 2013. Instead of waiting until then, he said that the fund should be increased now.

If the decision to increase the fund were made “in the next weeks or months, why not apply it immediately to the current facility,” Mr. Reynders told reporters in Brussels on Saturday. Belgium holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, so Mr. Reynders leads meetings of its finance ministers.

His comments suggested that the idea of increasing the size of the bailout fund was winning support. Among the more free-speaking of Europe’s finance ministers, Mr. Reynders is also one of the longer-serving members of the group.

Though his comments may have been speculative, others last week also suggested that the European Union might be about to take bolder measures to try to restore confidence.

The International Monetary Fund has argued in a report that the bloc should have a bigger program in place, and that the European Central Bank should increase its bond-buying program.
148 2010-12-06 Baikal Wave did not learn that the software piracy case had been closed until recently. After repeatedly asking the Irkutsk police for information, the group said it finally received a terse letter from police officials explaining that they had ended the inquiry on Sept. 22 because of the “absence of a criminal act.”

Baikal Wave had from the start maintained that all its software was legal, but the police had continued to pursue the case, and for months, the group had faced the prospect of criminal sanctions, including possible jail time for its leaders.

It appears that the authorities could not move forward in part because Microsoft would no longer help them.

The day after the article was published in The Times, Microsoft apologized for its role in these cases and indicated it would no longer have any involvement in them. The decision would seem to have made it very difficult for the authorities to deploy what had been an increasingly common law-enforcement tactic against government critics.

Microsoft also contacted police officials in Irkutsk and urged them to drop the Baikal Wave case, according to Marina Levina, a spokeswoman for Microsoft in Moscow.

“With the benefit of hindsight, we realize we perhaps could have done more” to help Baikal Wave, Ms. Levina said.

Galina Kulebyakina, a co-chairwoman of Baikal Wave, said Microsoft’s turnabout had damaged the credibility of the Irkutsk police’s case. “They had no choice but to dismiss the charges,” Ms. Kulebyakina said.

She said the authorities had not formally announced their decision because they were embarrassed at how the case had turned out.

Baikal Wave has long contended that the police carried out the raid to prevent the group from organizing a demonstration against a decision by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin to reopen a paper factory that has polluted nearby Lake Baikal for decades. The lake by some estimates holds 20 percent of the world’s fresh water.

The police in Irkutsk did not respond to requests for comment. In earlier statements, police officials had said that the Baikal Wave inquiry had nothing to do with the group’s activities.

In addition to changing its policies in Russia, Microsoft announced a major plan to help the nonprofit sector and to prevent political crackdowns from being carried out by the authorities under the guise of software piracy inquiries.

The company said it would provide free automatic software licenses to more than 500,000 advocacy groups, independent media outlets and other nonprofit organizations in 12 countries with tightly controlled governments, including Russia and China.

Last month, Microsoft flew several leaders of Russian nonprofit groups, including Ms. Kulebyakina, to New York City for consultations on the free software licenses. The meeting was organized in part by Human Rights First, an American group that has worked closely with Russian advocacy groups, including those subjected to software piracy investigations.
149 2010-12-06 WASHINGTON — Nine years after the United States vowed to shut down the money pipeline that finances terrorism, senior Obama administration officials say they believe that many millions of dollars are flowing largely unimpeded to extremist groups worldwide, and they have grown frustrated by frequent resistance from allies in the Middle East, according to secret diplomatic dispatches.

The government cables, sent by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and senior State Department officials, catalog a list of methods that American officials suspect terrorist financiers are using, including a brazen bank robbery in Yemen last year, kidnappings for ransom, the harvesting of drug proceeds in Afghanistan and fund-raising at religious pilgrimages to Mecca, where millions of riyals or other forms of currency change hands.

While American officials have publicly been relatively upbeat about their progress in disrupting terrorist financing, the internal State Department cables, obtained by WikiLeaks and made available to several news organizations, offer a more pessimistic account, with blunt assessments of the threats to the United States from money flowing to militants affiliated with Al Qaeda, the Taliban, Hamas, Lashkar-e-Taiba and other groups.

A classified memo sent by Mrs. Clinton last December made it clear that residents of Saudi Arabia and its neighbors, all allies of the United States, are the chief financial supporters of many extremist activities. “It has been an ongoing challenge to persuade Saudi officials to treat terrorist financing emanating from Saudi Arabia as a strategic priority,” the cable said, concluding that “donors in Saudi Arabia constitute the most significant source of funding to Sunni terrorist groups worldwide.”

The dispatch and others offered similarly grim views about the United Arab Emirates (“a strategic gap” that terrorists can exploit), Qatar (“the worst in the region” on counterterrorism) and Kuwait (“a key transit point”). The cable stressed the need to “generate the political will necessary” to block money to terrorist networks — groups that she said were “threatening stability in Pakistan and Afghanistan and targeting coalition soldiers.”

While President George W. Bush frequently vowed to cut off financing for militants and pledged to make financiers as culpable as terrorists who carried out plots, President Obama has been far less vocal on the issue publicly as he has sought to adopt a more conciliatory tone with Arab nations. But his administration has used many of the same covert diplomatic, intelligence and law enforcement tools as his predecessor and set up a special task force in the summer of 2009 to deal with the growing problem.

While federal officials can point to some successes — prosecutions, seizures of money and tightened money-laundering regulations in foreign countries — the results have often been frustrating, the cables show. As the United States has pushed for more aggressive crackdowns on suspected supporters of terrorism, foreign leaders have pushed back. In private meetings, they have accused American officials of heavy-handedness and of presenting thin evidence of wrongdoing by Arab charities or individuals, according to numerous cables.

Kuwaiti officials, for example, resisted what they called “draconian” measures sought by the United States against a prominent charity and dismissed allegations against it as “unconvincing,” according to one cable.

The documents are filled with government intelligence on possible terrorist-financing plots, like the case of a Somali preacher who was reportedly touring Sweden, Finland and Norway last year to look for money and recruits for the Shabab, a militant group in Somalia, or that of a Pakistani driver caught with about $240,000 worth of Saudi riyals stuffed behind his seat. One memo even reported on a possible plot by the Iranians to launder $5 billion to $10 billion in cash through the Emirates’ banks as part of a broader effort to “stir up trouble” among the Persian Gulf states, though it was not clear how much of the money might be channeled to militants.

One episode that set off particular concern occurred in August 2009 in Yemen, when armed robbers stormed a bank truck on a busy downtown street in Aden during daylight hours and stole 100 million Yemeni riyals, or about $500,000. American diplomats said the sophistication of the robbery and other indicators had all the markings of a Qaeda mission. “This bold, unusual operation” could provide Al Qaeda “with a substantial financing infusion at a time when it is thought to be short of cash,” a dispatch summarizing the episode said.

Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen, known as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, is seen as a rising threat by the United States and was blamed for a parcel bomb plot in October and the failed attempt to blow up a jetliner last Dec. 25. The cables do not make clear whether the finances of the Yemen group are tied to Osama bin Laden’s network.

American officials appear to have divided views on the bin Laden group’s fund-raising abilities. A February cable to Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration’s special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, said that “sensitive reporting indicates that al-Qaida’s ability to raise funds has deteriorated substantially, and that it is now in its weakest state since 9/11.”
150 2010-12-06 KUALA LUMPUR -- In many countries, university campuses, brimming with youthful enthusiasm and impatience for change, have long served as hotbeds of political activism and training grounds for future leaders.     In Malaysia, however, it is illegal...
151 2010-12-06 KRISSEL--Robert A.,76, of Lakeville, CT., died on Saturday, December 4, 2010, at home surrounded by loving family and friends. He was born January 10, 1934. He was married to Janet Carter now deceased and Jenelle Soderquist who survives. Bob gradu...
152 2010-12-06 A project that began with an iPod Nano and an experimental wristwatch design has quickly exploded online, receiving over $570,000 in financing through Kickstarter, a Web site that helps people find support for projects.     The project was created...
153 2010-12-06 KRISSEL--Bob. Our mothers were sisters. We lived our lives together as friends, confidants and business partners. Your family is my family. To Jenelle, Kim, Jim, Dina, Toni and your spouses and progeny, Pierce and I and all of the Canno Family con...
154 2010-12-06 LAMB--Julia Appleton Flitner, conservationist, died peacefully December 3, 2010 at RiverWoods, Exeter, New Hampshire in her 93rd year. Daughter of Gertrude (Wellington) and Stanwood Edwards Flitner formerly of Englewood, New Jersey and Cornwall, N...
155 2010-12-07 bout a quarter of the way into the season, a strong case can be made that the Knicks should have started their free-agency search with Stoudemire and that he is having the biggest impact of any player in a summer of free-agent frenzy....
156 2010-12-07 The owner of Moen faucets, Titleist golf balls and Jim Beam whiskey says it will pare down to a liquor company....
157 2010-12-07 Federal aid is insufficient, a panel agrees, and low natural gas prices and a failure to legislate a price on carbon dioxide emissions don't help either....
158 2010-12-07 Basketball is in the blood of Danny Hurley, the first-year men’s coach at Wagner; his assistant Bobby Hurley, his brother; and their father, Bob Sr., the longtime coach at St. Anthony of Jersey City....
159 2010-12-07 Joshua Foust occupies a place in the circle of prolific bloggers on all things Afghan, a gadfly commentator who has recently completed a new book, "Afghanistan Journal: Selections From Registan.net."...
160 2010-12-07 Our behaviors suggest that we are all terribly busy and important. Really?...
161 2010-12-07 R Baby, a nonprofit founded by Marathon Asset Management's chief operating officer and his wife, holds a benefit....
162 2010-12-07 In a move that has been rumored for weeks, is was confirmed on Tuesday that Barry Weiss, a top executive at Sony Music Entertainment, has signed a new deal with Universal Music Group....
163 2010-12-07 Income tax rates would stay the same for two additional years for all taxpayers, rich and poor, if President Obama's compromise with Congress stands....
164 2010-12-07 Pulling out the rug, just in time for 2012....
165 2010-12-07 How Amy Gottesman built Smash Party Entertainment into a thriving business....
166 2010-12-07 How does it feel to be a photojournalist preparing for an assignment that's left a friend of yours badly injured? Michael Kamber shares his thoughts....
167 2010-12-07 The Knicks (13-9) are four games above .500 for the first time since the end of the 2000-1 season, when they were 48-34.

They lost in the first round of the playoffs that season, but the future still held promise and there was little indication that the Knicks would finish the decade without another winning record. Promise, however, is the theme once again, thanks to an accommodating stretch of their schedule and Stoudemire’s play.

“I’m really just taking my time, taking what the defense gives me,” said Stoudemire, who made 15 of 23 shots.

Danilo Gallinari’s 3-pointer iced the game after Kevin Love’s free throws had narrowed the Knicks’ lead to 111-107 with a little more than a minute remaining. Minnesota did not lead in the fourth quarter after carving large leads in the first half.

Wilson Chandler had 21 points and Raymond Felton again controlled the pace with 18 points, 11 assists and 4 steals. Shawne Williams continued to park at the corner 3-point line and hit three long-range shots. Williams is 10 for 12 on 3-pointers in the three games D’Antoni has used him.

The Timberwolves (5-16) have sunk to the depths of the Western Conference and are not a true barometer for any opponent. But they provided a gauge for the Knicks to see how far they have come this season. On Nov. 12, the Knicks’ season teetered on the verge of collapse when the Timberwolves — sparked by Love’s 31 rebounds and 31 points — came back from a 21-point deficit to beat the Knicks.

That defeat marked the Knicks’ sixth loss in nine games to start the season, and they lost two more before embarking on their current hot stretch.

With Ronny Turiaf healed from a sore left knee and available for the first time in five games Monday, the Knicks figured to have an answer for Love, who still found crevices, rebounds and, often, the bottom of the basket.

The Knicks limited Love to 15 rebounds. He scored 33 points and Michael Beasley added 25 points on 10-for-18 shooting.

“It was very competitive,” Love said. “It went back and forth a little bit. It was fun to play in. It just wasn’t fun when the buzzer went off.”

Behind Love’s 21 points and 8 rebounds in the first half, Minnesota twice pushed its lead into double digits. The Knicks also had trouble containing Beasley’s slashes to the rims. The former Knick Darko Milicic started strong but left the game in the first quarter with a contusion on his right quadriceps. Minnesota then fell apart after halftime.

At one end came a collection of turnovers and offensive fouls. At the other end came a series of Felton 3-pointers and Stoudemire jump shots. The Knicks caught the Timberwolves at 77-77 and led for nearly the rest of the third quarter. Turiaf ended the period by blocking Wayne Ellington’s shot into the stands.

“They got us in Minnesota,” Stoudemire said. “We didn’t play particularly well, I got into foul trouble and they took advantage of foul trouble. Tonight was a battle in revenge.”

Amar’e Stoudemire claimed the Eastern Conference’s player of the week honors for the second consecutive time and became the first Knick since Patrick Ewing in 1992-93 to win it at least twice in a season. Stoudemire averaged 33.3 points and 11.7 rebounds during the week of Nov. 29-Dec. 5. ... Bill Walker did not play because of a sore knee.
168 2010-12-07 Amnesty International is calling on Malaysia to halt the practice of judicial caning, a punishment the organization said amounts to torture and violates international law. In a report released on Monday, Amnesty International said that the number of offenses subject to caning under Malaysian criminal law had increased to more than 60 in recent years and that as many as 10,000 people were caned annually. Based on interviews with 57 people, the report found that some inmates had been left with permanent scars and physical disabilities after being hit with the 3-foot-long cane used in Malaysian prisons. A statement issued by the prime minister’s office said that the government could not comment on the accuracy of the report because it had not had adequate time to review its findings.
169 2010-12-07 An Italian fishing boat on Monday pulled the remains of two American balloonists from the Adriatic Sea, ending a two-month hunt for their bodies. Cmdr. Guido Limongelli said documents found in the gondola confirmed the identities of Richard Abruzzo, 47, of Albuquerque, and Carol Rymer Davis, 65, of Denver. The two had been participating in the 54th Gordon Bennett International Gas Balloon Race when contact was lost Sept. 29 as they flew over the Adriatic. They had taken off from Bristol, England, on Sept. 25.
170 2010-12-07 Jackson Heights has long been a hub for South Asians in New York. Bollywood movie stars dance across window posters. Mannequins wear comely saris, next to bakeries offering sweets flecked with silver. Buffet restaurants compete for lunch crowds: all-you-can-eat costs $8.95 at Indian Taj and $9.95 down the block at Delhi Palace.

Atop it all sits the Jackson Heights Merchants Association, with its roughly 450 members. “This organization is known across New York and in India,” said Mahipal Singh, a lawyer involved in the dispute. “It has influence.”

The Jackson Heights furor is all too reminiscent of India’s political culture for Mr. Singh, who said that back home, strongmen outnumbered statesmen.

“In India, to be a politician, you have to be a bully,” he said. “They are trying to do the same thing, but they forget this is America, not India, and there are rules here.”

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Singh walked along 74th Street, his blue turban protecting him from the rain as he noted the loyalties of each business he passed. Amba Jewelers was with his side, known as Slate B in the legal documents. Lavanya, a clothing shop, was against him on Slate A. Alankar Jewelers was on Slate B, while Krishna Jewelers was on Slate A.

Some trace the ill will back decades, but the real drama began in the run-up to the Aug. 1, 2009, election for the board of directors. (The date had been set by the State Supreme Court in response to a lawsuit calling for fresh elections.)

The campaign was marred with such heavy-handed manipulation that Justice Charles J. Markey, in his decision that November to invalidate the election, quoted the former Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev: “The trouble with free elections is, you never know who is going to win.”

According to Justice Markey, Jagir Singh, a leading association member and the owner of Subzi Mandi, a grocery store, distributed fliers with the wrong election date, then illegally imposed a $50 fee as a precondition of voting. And on the afternoon of Aug. 1, the judge said, Mr. Singh told a small group that the vote would take place at 4 p.m.

“Jagir Singh’s choice of same-day notice, whether a tactic calculated to guarantee a low turnout or the product of impulse or poor judgment, is untenable as a matter of law,” Justice Markey wrote. He voided the ballot results and appointed Stephen D. Hans, a Queens lawyer, to act as referee and oversee a fresh election.

Jagir Singh was ordered to pay Mr. Hans’s fee of $325 an hour, as well as his expenses.

Mr. Singh did not respond to several phone messages seeking comment, but the lawyer representing his slate, Mitchell R. Goldklang, defended him. “Mr. Singh is an upstanding member of the community, and he’s well respected,” Mr. Goldklang said.

A new election was held in March, but it had problems of its own. One side was accused of bringing in voters from outside the neighborhood, some from as far as Pennsylvania; the other side, of abusing the proxy voting process with double votes. At least one private detective was hired to investigate the charges.

Last week, Mr. Hans said he was finishing his review of the ballots and expected to announce a winner in the coming weeks. All told, the wrangling has cost both sides tens of thousands of dollars, Mahipal Singh said.

It is all a long way from the cooperative spirit that Vasantrai M. Gandhi, 73, envisioned when he helped found the association about two decades ago, to push for more attention from the local police precinct. Mr. Gandhi, who owns a gold store, said there were only a few dozen members then, and none of today’s turmoil.

“It hurts me,” he said. “But this is sometimes what happens.”

Everyone agrees that seeing Jackson Heights dark during Diwali, which was observed the first weekend of November this year, was an especially low point. The Diwali fair, called a mela, usually features raffles, music, surprise guest stars, a battalion of food vendors and lots of lights.

“It’s all ego,” he said. “Just a wasting of time and money. Nothing else.”
171 2010-12-07 “Many card members find Discover’s protection products valuable as they provide peace of mind,” the statement said. “Discover seeks to maintain long-term relationships with our card members and for that reason, we have enjoyed the highest level of customer loyalty among leading credit card brands for 13 years.”

The lawsuit appeared to have little impact on Discover’s share price, which was up 20 cents on Monday, closing at $19.04. Last year, Discover reported $1.3 billion in profit.

Identity theft protection costs $12.99 a month, and payment protection, another product in question, which allows a customer to defer credit card payments in the event of job loss or disability, costs 89 cents for every $100 in outstanding balances a month, the attorney general’s office said.

In 2009, such products generated $295 million in revenue for Discover, an 18 percent increase over the previous year, company filings said.

The lawsuit lays out a scheme in which Discover — and its affiliated processing company, DFS Services — called customers and purported to be simply checking in to make sure they understood all the benefits that came with the card. Instead, some customers would end up unwittingly enrolled in a Discover fee-based program, the suit contends.

In some instances telemarketers read consumers a “disclosure” but intentionally butchered the wording, leaving out important words, running sentences together or speed-reading the text, “all to make it incomprehensible to the consumer,” the attorney general’s office said in a statement. In other instances, telemarketers would leave out the fact that the consumer was buying something. Instead, they would emphasize parts of their script suggesting that a sale had not occurred.

That is what one customer, Bradley Sparish, 50, of Cottage Grove, Minn., said happened when Discover called him in 2009, a few months after he signed up for a Discover Card. On the call, a recording of which was obtained by the attorney general’s office and played for reporters, a telemarketer offered to send information on the payment protection plan.

But before hanging up, he sped through a “disclosure” and garbled details on pricing. At the end, Mr. Sparish asked, “I’m not automatically enrolled in this, am I?”

The telemarketer responded, “Don’t worry. All we do here today is mail everything out to you.”

In fact, Mr. Sparish was charged on his next monthly bill. He eventually got Discover to stop charging him, but he did not receive a refund.

“I pay the bill on time every month,” he said. “I’m their best clientele. I have a great credit score. And yet they do this to me.”

Ms. Swanson says her lawsuit seeks to require Discover to stop its telemarketing practices and pay penalties and restitution to consumers.

A federal lawsuit filed earlier this year in New Jersey made similar claims, accusing Discover of using “confusing and misleading sales tactics to surreptitiously enroll” card members in the payment protection plan.

David S. Paris, the lawyer for the plaintiffs in that case, said the accusations fell into two categories: customers who had been led to believe they were simply receiving information from Discover but were actually enrolled in a financial product and charged a monthly fee; and customers who had been enrolled, and charged, without being called at all.

“If one or two people called me and told me this happened to them, I might think they are irresponsible or made a mistake,” Mr. Paris said. “But I get five to 10 calls a week on this.”
172 2010-12-07 “The only way to get the I.M.F. and the E.C.B. out of the country is to straighten our finances,” said Fergus O’Dowd, a spokesman for the main opposition party, Fine Gael, using the acronym for the European Central Bank. The party is expected to lead the next government. “We have to work our way back to economic sovereignty, and that will take a number of years.”

A large part of what has made acceptance of the bailout so painful is that the Irish, for the best part of the last two decades, believed they had seen the end of a history of backwardness and poverty that had left the country as the lame man of Europe for nearly half a century after World War II, when other countries on the Continent were ascending to unprecedented levels of prosperity.

The boom had a name, the Celtic Tiger, that caught the sense that the Irish were proving that old stereotypes were dead. A country drained by 150 years of emigration was suddenly attracting a tide of migrants and looking to a date — around 2030, demographers predicted — when Ireland as an island, north and south, would again have a population of eight million, a benchmark last seen before the great famine of the 1840s.

As often as not, recriminations about the bailout’s harsh terms are offset by an acknowledgment that there is plenty of blame to go around at home, starting with the Fianna Fail government’s failure to rein in the bank-fueled property boom that sent the country careering toward bankruptcy. The boom left the country with tens of billions of dollars in “ghost” developments — billions of dollars in empty or unfinished hotels, golf courses and residential developments.

For Fianna Fail, governing party for 75 of the nearly 90 years since the free state was established, the ironies are crushing. Over the decades, it had established itself as the natural party of government, with an iconic standard-bearer in Eamon de Valera, who escaped execution in 1916 and played a decisive role in leading the country to the full independence that came in 1948. The party now stands accused, by many in Ireland, of dereliction of its responsibility to keep the country solvent — and sovereign.

Disdain for Mr. Cowen and his associates is rife. Passing by the General Post Office on O’Connell Street in Dublin, where the 1916 rebels issued their ill-fated declaration of independence, Gerry Lenihan, a retired youth program worker from County Cork, said “cronyism” in the Fianna Fail government betrayed the country. “For all of the faults in the bailout, the I.M.F. hasn’t imposed anything worse than what was coming anyway,” he said.

Another Dubliner, Mairead Delamere, a 55-year-old civil service worker, took a similar view. “Ordinary Joe Soaps were wondering where all the money was coming from, but they were not in a position to question it,” Mrs. Delamere said.

But Paul Allen, a political lobbyist encountered in the bar of a five-star hotel nearby, said Britain’s denial of property rights to native Irish, which lasted centuries, had bred popular yearnings that fueled the property bonanza.

Others say that the blame can be spread wider.

“Everybody partied,” said Brian Lenihan, the finance minister. Prominent among those indulging themselves, many say, were government ministers. Mr. Cowen’s salary, untouched in the government’s austerity plan, is $305,000 a year, compared with $220,000 for David Cameron, his counterpart in London. Lawmakers earn $135,000 a year, 30 percent more than their British counterparts.

Ministers have access to Mercedes limousines with tinted windows and police drivers, and to a fleet of government jets. When international officials met with the Cowen government, they walked to meetings in central Dublin while Irish ministers swished past in official cars. When one minister, Pat Carey, was asked about this by a popular TV host, Vincent Browne, Mr. Carey responded indignantly. “Do you want me to walk home?” he asked. “You could take a taxi,” Mr. Browne replied.

The indulgence had its counterpart in everyday life. Middle-class Irish bought apartments in Spanish coastal resorts and added conservatories to their homes. Entrepreneurs who borrowed billions from Irish banks for property developments hobnobbed in the ritziest resorts in Europe and the United States. An event that came to encapsulate the boom, the Ryder Cup golf tournament held in 2006 at the K Club, a resort west of Dublin, had promoters boasting the club was among the world’s most luxurious.

All that now seems far removed from the grim present. “We can complain about a loss of sovereignty and national shame at having to take a bailout, but at least they are giving us a route back,” said Diarmaid Ferriter, a professor of modern Irish history at University College Dublin. “We are going to have to prove all over again that we are capable of responsible self-government.” He added, quoting Charles Gavan Duffy, a 19th-century Irish nationalist, “We have to prove we are a nation, and not a rabble.”
173 2010-12-07 “Still the Best Congress Money Can Buy,” by Frank Rich (column, Nov. 28), correctly diagnoses the root of our country’s malaise as the “hijacking of the political system by anonymous special interests” but does not offer a fix.

Granted, silver bullets are hard to find in the days of the Roberts Court, but there’s at least one credible solution blessed by the court and public opinion alike.

The Fair Elections Now Act, backed by some 200 members of Congress, would enable qualifying candidates to say no to special interest money and collect $100-or-less donations and matching public funds instead. Once elected, they would be accountable to their conscience and constituents alone.

Eight states from Arizona to Maine are already leading the way on fair elections; it’s high time Congress followed suit.
174 2010-12-07 The Supreme Court agreed Monday to hear arguments on whether plaintiffs can turn to the courts to seek reductions in emissions by coal-burning utilities on the ground that the emissions are a “public nuisance.”

The court will hear an appeal of a 2009 decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, allowing a suit filed against the utilities by eight states, New York City and three land trusts to proceed. A lower court had dismissed the suit, calling the regulation of emissions a political matter.

The suit, brought in 2004, argued that the utilities were creating a public nuisance by burning coal and spewing heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, contributing to the problem of global warming. At the time the lawsuit was considered an alternative to federal legislation or regulation, which had been slow in coming.

It is the first public-nuisance suit related to climate change to reach the Supreme Court. Lower courts have generally declined to allow such suits to proceed because it would put judges in the position of deciding how much carbon dioxide was too much.

In their appeal of the Second Circuit’s reinstatement of the suit, the utilities — American Electric Power, the Southern Company, Xcel Energy, the Cinergy Corporation and the Tennessee Valley Authority — said the emissions issue was a matter for Congress.
175 2010-12-07 McDaniels is viewed as a bright offensive mind, but in the middle of just his second season as the coach, he was on thin ice and his tenure was marked by a number of gaffes. The Broncos are 5-17 since starting 6-0 last year. McDaniels, wielding personnel power that he might not have been prepared to handle, jettisoned quarterback Jay Cutler and receiver Brandon Marshall, among others, and he used a first-round draft pick on quarterback Tim Tebow, who has played sparingly and is viewed as a long-term project.

Finally, the tipping point came over Thanksgiving weekend when the Broncos and McDaniels were fined after the team’s video coordinator was caught improperly taping the San Francisco 49ers walk-through before the teams played in London. Steve Scarnecchia was fired, but McDaniels was fined because he knew about the tape and did not report it immediately. Ten days later, McDaniels was gone. And the Broncos were starting over again.

GIANTS PREPARE FOR VIKINGS The Giants have a lot on the line Sunday against Minnesota. At 8-4, the Giants are tied with Philadelphia atop the N.F.C. East, with two division games remaining — including one against the Eagles. A 10-win season probably will not guarantee a playoff spot, so the Giants are in a must-win mode.

First, the Giants will have to sift through a week of speculation about whether Brett Favre, who sustained a sprained right shoulder against the Bills, will play. Leslie Frazier said Monday it would be up to Favre and the team’s medical staff — although it is hard to imagine his voluntarily sitting it out. Still, it means the Giants also have to prepare for the more-nimble Tarvaris Jackson.

“He’s a different animal with his athleticism and his ability to create plays with his feet and prolong plays with his feet,” Giants defensive tackle Barry Cofield said.

THE HAYNESWORTH QUESTION Even with the Washington Redskins (5-7) in wait-until-next-year mode, Albert Haynesworth remained a distraction. Haynesworth, a two-time All-Pro who needed 10 days to pass a preseason conditioning test, showed up late to practice Friday and was inactive for Sunday’s game against the Giants — though Coach Mike Shanahan did not say so until shortly before kickoff.

Haynesworth probably would not have made much difference in the 31-7 loss, but it may have further isolated him from his teammates. Haynesworth’s linemate Phillip Daniels told reporters, “When I come to the locker room on game day, I expect guys to be ready to go and play.” Daniels added: “That’s what I go out there and play for every day — my teammates. And I think that’s the part of the game that really skipped by him.” (AP)

AROUND THE LEAGUE Dallas Cowboys receiver Dez Bryant, the 24th overall pick in this year’s draft, had surgery on his fractured right ankle and is done for the season. ... Defensive end Cullen Jenkins, who is second on the Green Bay Packers with seven sacks, has a strained calf and will miss at least a couple of weeks. ... The Vikings are expected to sign the former Florida State running back Lorenzo Booker, who played this season for the Hartford Colonials of the United Football League and led the league with 5.4 yards a carry. (AP)
176 2010-12-07 Pfizer’s chief executive, Jeffrey B. Kindler, has quit, saying he is tired — perhaps of impatient investors calling for him to step down. Mr. Kindler made one sensible big deal and some mistakes, but shareholders lost about 20 percent of their investment during his four-and-a-half-year tenure. Even so, it’s far too early to judge whether he jumped or was pushed.

The problem is pharma’s glacial timescale. Drug companies pour billions into research and development, yet the fruits don’t become evident for years. Pfizer’s most pressing concern is replacing revenue that will be lost in 2011 when patent protection expires on Lipitor, the company’s treatment for high cholesterol, which brought in $11 billion in revenue in 2009. The drug was first synthesized in 1985 by a company swallowed by Pfizer in 2000. And the research that led to this class of drugs was performed by a Japanese company in the early 1970s.

The slowness and uncertainty of any payoff from research and development is one reason drug group bosses like to buy other companies, as Mr. Kindler did with the $68 billion acquisition of Wyeth. Mergers and acquisition activity brings growth and cost savings within an executive’s typical tenure. While it’s too early to assess fully the Wyeth deal, at least Mr. Kindler did it in early 2009 with the financial crisis still fresh, so he didn’t overpay.

On the R.& D. front, Mr. Kindler talked when he was appointed of rejuvenating Pfizer’s drug pipeline and tried to accomplish it by splitting the division into smaller groups. There is little sign of success as yet, but the process can take a decade or more.

Along the way, Mr. Kindler paid $225 million for the rights to an allergy pill promoted as an Alzheimer’s treatment based on trials performed in the unreliable Russia market. The drug bombed, one of several errors that tarnished his reputation.

But in the end, it may be the failure to turn around Pfizer’s share price that weakened Mr. Kindler’s grip on the corner office at the age of 55. The 57-year-old Ian C. Read, who succeeds him, will now get a chance to create his legacy, by his own and his predecessors’ actions.
177 2010-12-07 AT the airline departure lounge, I sometimes feel as if I’m some rube from the sticks, lined up with the hopeless mob outside a hot Hollywood nightclub. The red rope does not open for me or any of the others. I am not on the List because, like many , I have let my elite status lapse on various airlines since it is no longer worth the effort.

On the other hand, I can now buy my way in to a small degree of status — in a method similar to tipping the bouncer to raise that rope. I slip an extra $15 when I check in, for instance, and not only do I get an aisle seat near the front of coach, but I also get a level of priority boarding that used to require elite status. And priority boarding means I get an early chance to stow my carry-on in an overhead bin somewhere near my seat.

As I noted here last week, there is a constant tug of war between those who pay the bills (employers) and those who venture forth into the growing discomforts and indignities of air travel (employees). And not all business travelers click their heels and salute every time the company says they have to travel more cheaply, because that often means they will be traveling less comfortably and less efficiently.

Sometimes, paying those additional fees, like $15 for a better seat or $30 to $50 to get into an airline lounge to work between flights, makes sense on both personal and business levels. And, it seems, many companies agree.

A report to be released this week by Orbitz for Business challenges the conventional wisdom that everybody hates airline fees. In fact, many business travelers see them as a way to tailor a trip to their needs. The study finds that companies and corporate travelers increasingly seek “a balance” between compliance with strict company travel policies and the requirements of a traveler on a specific trip, said Frank Petito, the president of Orbitz for Business, the business travel management unit of .
178 2010-12-07 While Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said the meetings in Brussels would include discussion of deepening the bailout fund, Mrs. Merkel had said she did not favor an immediate increase.

The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was scheduled to attend the meeting. European diplomats say privately that there has been a debate in recent days on whether to increase the fund to make it clear that a big economy like Spain could be defended, if needed. But many think that the public mood in Germany makes such a move politically impossible for Mrs. Merkel, unless it is presented as a last-ditch effort to save the euro itself.

“It is a last-resort mechanism,” said a European official who was not authorized to speak publicly. “We still have enough money for Portugal, if needed, and Spain is not drowning. There is also the question of whether this would send the right signal to the market. It might be misinterpreted as suggesting that there was more to come.”

Germany, once the driving force behind European integration, now has to placate public opinion, which is openly hostile to measures that could require Germany to pick up more of the bill for weaker economies.

The recent strategy of the Merkel government has been to create a structure to deal with the debt crisis after 2013, when the current bailout mechanism expires.

By insisting that bondholders face possible losses in crises after 2013, Germany thinks that the markets will price the risk into the bonds issued by weaker economies, thereby pressuring them to improve their public finances, effectively mirroring Germany’s own economic model.

Mrs. Merkel has rejected a separate call from Luxembourg and Italy to create a common euro zone bond. Such a move would not be permitted under the European Union’s governing treaty, she said. Creating the legal possibility to issue euro zone bonds, German officials suggest, would require a substantial rewriting of the European Union treaty, something most countries would be unwilling to do because it could require referendums in several countries where it lacked enough support.

The idea of common euro zone bonds has long been favored by Luxembourg and Belgium, the biggest supporters of European integration. It was supported Monday by the Italian finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, in a joint article in The Financial Times with Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, chairman of the group of euro zone ministers.

Diplomats were surprised at Mr. Juncker’s tactics, because issuing a proposal without the support of Germany or France limits the possibility of success, even if ministers agree to study its long-term prospects.

“Is this the kind of debate you want to have when the markets are incredibly nervous?” one European official asked. “The answer is no.”

The German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, sought Monday to lower speculation about new measures. “We can’t have a new debate every week,” he said. “The necessary has been decided.”
179 2010-12-07 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — The Supreme Court said on Monday that it would hear an appeal by four big coal-burning utilities of a ruling that a group of states and New York City could proceed with a lawsuit seeking to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the power companies.

Justices agreed to review an appeals court ruling that reinstated a 2004 lawsuit by eight states, New York City and three land trusts claiming the utilities had created a public nuisance by contributing to global warming.

In their appeal, the American Electric Power Company, the Southern Company, Xcel Energy and the Cinergy Corporation, which Duke Energy acquired in 2006, said that the case involved political questions for Congress and the president, not the judiciary.

The states — California, Connecticut, Iowa, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Wisconsin — and the other plaintiffs urged justices to reject the appeal by the utilities. That would have allowed the lawsuit to go forward.

The Supreme Court will most likely hear arguments in March, with a ruling expected by the end of June. It will be the most important environmental case of the term, and the biggest since the Supreme Court’s ruling in 2007 that federal environmental officials can regulate greenhouse gas emissions.

The case is known as American Electric Power Company v. Connecticut, 10-174. Coal-fired power plants emit about twice as much carbon dioxide as plants that burn natural gas. Nuclear power plans emit virtually no greenhouse gases. Scientists say greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide warm the earth by trapping solar heat in the atmosphere.
180 2010-12-07 A typical user could begin reading an e-book on an iPad at home, continue reading the same book on an Android phone on the subway and then pick it up again on a Web browser at the office, with the book opening each time to the place where the user left off.

The Google eBookstore could be a significant benefit to independent bookstores like Powell’s Books in Portland, Ore., that have signed on to sell Google e-books on their Web sites through Google — the first significant entry for independents into the e-book business.

“This levels the playing field,” said Oren Teicher, the chief executive of the American Booksellers Association. “If you want to buy e-books, you don’t just have to buy them from the big national outlets.”

It is also an opportunity for independents to learn from past missteps. They were slow to build Web sites to sell books during the initial expansion of online retailing in the 1990s, a mistake that led their customers to turn to Amazon and its deeply discounted selection.

“They were so overwhelmed with the competition that Amazon presented, they just didn’t know what they could do to be competitive in the digital arena,” said Peter Osnos, the founder and editor at large of PublicAffairs, an independent publisher. “Google’s giving them a real shot at doing that.”

Publishers said they were elated that Amazon would have another serious e-book retailing force to contend with. Only last year, Amazon nearly had the e-book market to itself, leading publishers to worry that they were headed toward an Amazon monopoly.

Since then, a vastly more diversified marketplace has emerged. Last fall, Barnes & Noble introduced an e-reader, the Nook, and more recently, an updated color version, the Nook Color. In April, Apple unveiled the iPad, which the company said in October had sold 7.5 million units.

Perhaps most important, five of the six largest publishers of trade books switched this year from a traditional wholesale model to what is known in the publishing industry as an agency model. Under that model publishers set their own prices for e-books, and a retailer acts as an agent of the publishers, taking a 30 percent cut of each sale and leaving 70 percent for the publisher.

A crop of e-readers introduced this year has given consumers more choices, at prices that are competitive, even less than $100. Google e-books will be readable on any open-format e-readers, including the Nook, a development that publishers said would give consumers greater freedom.

“Consumers have been in a position where they had to claim some kind of loyalty,” said Maja Thomas, the senior vice president for Hachette Digital, part of the Hachette Book Group, which publishes authors including Stacy Schiff and James Patterson. “Now they can buy books from their local bookstores online, or from Powell’s, or from Google.”

E-books bought through Google are not currently readable on Amazon’s Kindle, a Google spokeswoman said, although Kindle users will be able to read free e-books obtained through Google.

Google executives said that the five large trade publishers using the agency model would operate under that model with Google, while many other publishers would use a traditional wholesale model.

In addition to the dedicated Google site and independent bookstores’ sites, Alibris, an online retailer for new and used books, movies and music, will sell e-books. Google has also set up an affiliate program that would allow blogs and other Web sites to steer customers to buy books through Google, earning a marketing commission for traffic that they send to Google.

The Google e-bookstore will go well beyond trade books, including scientific, technical, medical, scholarly and professional reference books that might more typically be read on a desktop or laptop computer. For some books, if the publisher allows it, customers will be able to cut and paste text, a feature that made some publishers balk.

Some industry specialists said they were waiting to see if Google — which has far more experience in search than in sales — could create a site that is as simple to use for e-commerce as Amazon.com, and whether large numbers of consumers would shift their buying loyalties from well-known national book chains to Google or local bookstores.

“Everything depends on execution,” said Mike Shatzkin, founder and chief executive of the Idea Logical Company, which advises book publishers on digital change. “They don’t have a lot of experience in retail or merchandising.”

It is difficult to say what Google’s addition to the market means for the wider penetration of e-books, said Tim McCall, the director for online sales and marketing for the Penguin Group USA.

“Obviously Google has a very broad reach, so I would say that at the very least, our books and our e-books should be more discoverable,” Mr. McCall said. “It’s interesting that the newest partners who are selling books are as much technology companies as they are traditional retailers.”

David Steinberger, the chief executive of the Perseus Books Group, said that Google’s dominance in the search business could raise the profile of books in general.

“They have the ability to bring book content up through search, and now they’ll have the ability to consummate a sale,” Mr. Steinberger said. “That feels like it will grow the market.”

The Google e-bookstore is an outgrowth of the Google books project, an effort that began in 2004 to scan all 130 million books in the world, by Google’s estimate. Scott Dougall, Google’s director for product management, said the company had scanned about 15 million books so far.

Google executives said they were trying to replicate the freedom with which consumers have bought printed books for centuries.

As Abraham Murray, product manager for Google Books, explained in a blog post on Monday, “You can choose where to buy your e-books like you choose where to buy your print books, and keep them all on the same bookshelf regardless of where you got them.”

E-books are a small but rapidly growing part of the book market, making up 9 to 10 percent of trade book sales for many major publishers.

One bookseller, Darin Sennett, the director for strategic projects for Powell’s in Portland, said he did not see the deal as a sign that print books were dying.

“People do love bookstores and they’re an important part of our culture,” Mr. Sennett said. “Print books are not dead. People will continue to want them and love them. But their desires and the way they want to read are evolving. I can see print and e-books living nicely together.”
181 2010-12-07 “The Fed’s purchasing program is proceeding largely as expected,” said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott. “And the markets appear to have priced in the effects already.”

On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average ended down 19.90 points, or 0.2 percent, at 11,362.19. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 1.59 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,223.12, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.46 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,594.92.

The price on the benchmark 10-year note rose 21/32 to 97 13/32. The yield fell to 2.93 percent from 3.01 percent late Friday. The 30-year yield was also lower, at 4.24 percent.

Thomas L. di Galoma, head of fixed-income rates trading at Guggenheim Partners, said that Mr. Bernanke’s assessment of the economy and jobs was “rather bleak” but seemed warranted.

Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company, said the Fed purchases should drive prices higher and yields lower. “They may work their way up the curve,” Mr. Giddis said. The Fed is scheduled to meet for the last time this year on Dec. 14.

A disappointing jobs report on Friday showed that hiring by businesses slowed to a crawl in November with an addition of just 39,000 jobs.

In spite of the report, the three major indexes ended last week up more than 2 percent, their best week since the one ended Nov. 5. Analysts said that was mostly because the jobs report came after an array of data suggesting improvements in the economy.

David Kelly, the chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, said that the market might receive more clarity this week with reports on international trade and weekly figures for unemployment benefits. He said investors would welcome greater certainty over impending tax policy.

The dollar barely rose against a range of currencies. Energy shares gained slightly, and technology companies were slightly higher, led by Cisco Systems, which rose 36 cents, or 1.9 percent, to close at $19.43.

Google shares rose $5.36, or nearly 1 percent, to $578.36 after the company started its e-book venture on Monday.

News about the sovereign debt struggles of some euro zone countries has contributed to market volatility, even after European Central Bank purchases of debt from Ireland and Portugal. “We are seeing a risk aversion bid in Treasuries emerge pretty strongly this morning, based on the growing conception that the E.C.B. can’t solve fiscal imbalances,” said Mr. LeBas from Janney Montgomery Scott.

Shares closed mixed in Europe. The FTSE 100 in London rose 24.96 points, or 0.4 percent, to 5,770.28. The DAX in Frankfurt gained 6.66 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,954.38. France’s CAC 40 fell 1.32 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 3,749.23.
182 2010-12-07 In what it calls a “rough estimate,” Amnesty claims that as many as 10,000 people are caned each year in Malaysia, many of them foreigners who violate immigration laws. That estimate is based on “statistical sampling” compiled by Amnesty through interviews with prisoners, the report states.

The group did not investigate caning carried out under Shariah, or Islamic law, which only covers Muslims, who make up 60 percent of Malaysia’s population.

In neighboring Singapore, where about 30 offenses are punishable by caning, 6,404 men were sentenced to be caned in 2007, according to the U.S. State Department.

The Amnesty report found that the number of people caned under Malaysian criminal law has increased since 2002, when the government made more immigration offenses, like illegal entry, punishable by caning.

A refugee from Myanmar, who was sentenced to three months in prison and two strokes of the cane after being found guilty of entering Malaysia illegally, said he was left bleeding and could not sit down for three weeks after he was caned on the buttocks last year.

In an interview in Kuala Lumpur, the man, who did not want to be identified because of fears for his family’s safety in Myanmar, described how he was taken from a detention center to a nearby prison. He waited in a hall with about 70 other men until his name was called.

“We could hear them screaming. When they came out they were very weak,” he said of the prisoners caned before him. “When my name was called, I was very afraid.”

The man, aged 28, said he had to strip off his clothes, and his hands were tied to a bar. He believed he blacked out for a couple of minutes after the second stroke. “I cannot describe how painful it was,” he said.

The man has since been granted refugee status by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

He is awaiting resettlement in another country, and said he had been shocked to discover that Malaysia practiced caning.

“I feel that Malaysia is a democratic country and they have better human rights compared to Burma. In this kind of country, they should not have this kind of punishment,” he said.

A statement issued by the prime minister’s office said that the government could not comment on the accuracy of the report because it had not had adequate time to review its findings.

“Caning sentences are carried out in Malaysia, as they are in other countries, in connection with serious offenses, including violent crimes, rape and drug trafficking,” the statement said. “These judicial canings are sentenced, alongside prison terms, at the discretion of the presiding judge.”

Malaysia restricts caning to men aged 18 to 50, although men older than 50 may be caned for sexual offenses. Women are only subject to caning under Shariah.

“We regularly review our criminal justice system practices to ensure that punishments are effective and fit the crime,” the statement said.

The Amnesty report states that prison officers were paid bonuses to carry out caning and that some officers took bribes to intentionally “miss strokes.”

Amnesty argues that doctors involved in the process — who certify prisoners as being eligible for caning and resuscitate them if they lose consciousness — are violating medical ethics.

In calling on the government to abolish the practice, the report states that “caning violates the absolute prohibition against torture and ill-treatment under international law.”
183 2010-12-07 William A. Ackman has never been shy about swooping into situations others would shy away from. But on Monday, his hedge fund proposed one of its boldest offers, homing in on the besieged bookselling industry.     His firm, Pershing Square Capital...
184 2010-12-07 The back seat of a New York City yellow cab may be one of the city's final redoubts of solitude, but anyone who took a taxi in the last two weeks of November found himself or herself joined by an uninvited guest: David Yassky, the city's newly ins...
185 2010-12-08 Emily Lloyd steps into the shoes of Tupper Thomas, who brought Prospect Park back from the brink....
186 2010-12-08 The agency brought charges against investors who bought Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods shares in the days before PepsiCo agreed to buy a gig stake in the Russian beverage company....
187 2010-12-08 The Beatles were business-savvy, a new book says, offering this goal: "Baby, you're a rich man."...
188 2010-12-08 Billing rates at law firms rose less than 3 percent this year, the National Law Journal found in its annual survey....
189 2010-12-08 A group of Internet activists took credit for crashing the Visa.com Web site on Wednesday afternoon, hours after they launched attacks on MasterCard....
190 2010-12-08 With states in fiscal trouble, the possibility of a default exists. But unlike municipalities, states cannot turn to Chapter 9 bankruptcy to restructure their debts....
191 2010-12-08 All three indexes show annual gains of about 7 percent....
192 2010-12-08 The big investment firm, which has bought up 30,000 patents, is suing nine companies for patent infringement....
193 2010-12-08 Investors are betting that the British luxury apparel retailer could receive a bid for as much as 15 pounds a share....
194 2010-12-08 Mr. Tambor, a star of "Arrested Development" and "The Larry Sanders Show," will take over the role of Georges from Kelsey Grammer in February....
195 2010-12-08 Looking for a pyrrhic challenger to Obama in 2012....
196 2010-12-08 In the absence of rapid international action, the institution will invest millions in helping developing countries pay for clean energy projects and slow the destruction of forests....
197 2010-12-08 The chip giant Intel has formed a new business group dedicated to tackling nontraditional PCs....
198 2010-12-08 Avery DiUbaldo, a theater major, laments that his "acceptance into a college hinges on 10 to 20 precious minutes in an L.A. conference room."...
199 2010-12-08 “Breaking Away From Coal” (Business Day, Nov. 30) highlights technological advancements that provide access to more United States natural gas than Saudi Arabia has oil.

So it’s disappointing that New York lawmakers acted to forgo considerable economic and clean energy advantages by passing a natural gas drilling ban.

It’s a myth that to safeguard the environment we must stop economic opportunity. Natural gas is routinely produced safely, and it emits half the carbon of coal and virtually no mercury, sulfur dioxide or particulate pollution. Its development creates hundreds of thousands of well-paying jobs and is breathing economic life into communities across America.

Now none of those jobs will be in New York. The state will send its energy dollars to Pennsylvania. New York was a net importer of 95 percent of its natural gas. Now it will import 100 percent. Too bad.
200 2010-12-08 Mr. Parker’s sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 27, and he could face as many as two years in prison, prosecutors said, though it was not clear if they would seek jail time.

“It’s not quite the determination I was hoping for,” Mr. Parker told reporters after the verdict. “I have always maintained my innocence.”

He was arrested in May 2009 after chasing down and confronting Mr. Lopez, who was on assignment to take pictures of him. Mr. Lopez was treated at a hospital for a bruised and swollen finger, which apparently became caught in a camera strap during the fracas, the police said.

Mr. Parker was charged with felony assault, criminal mischief and grand larceny, as well as misdemeanor charges of assault and criminal mischief. The jury returned guilty verdicts on two misdemeanor counts of criminal mischief.

One juror, Barry Keenan, 38, a vitamin salesman from Greenpoint, Brooklyn, said that the deliberations were calm and that the main debate among jurors revolved around whether Mr. Lopez’s camera was worth enough to merit a grand larceny charge against Mr. Parker.

“We were just concerned with the facts, the evidence, and that the prosecution couldn’t prove that it was a camera worth over $3,000,” Mr. Keenan said.

The special prosecutor assigned to the case, District Attorney Daniel M. Donovan Jr. of Staten Island, said in a statement that the verdict demonstrated that “no one is above the law.”

As a result of his arrest, Mr. Parker was stripped of his leadership positions in the Senate, costing him a $22,000 stipend on top of his $79,500 annual salary. But unlike Mr. Monserrate, who earned the enmity of his party for joining a coup effort that paralyzed the chamber for a month in 2009, Mr. Parker is close to the Senate Democratic leadership, and it was unclear how severely his colleagues would seek to punish him.

John L. Sampson, the Senate Democratic conference leader, said at a news conference on Tuesday that he was not inclined to pursue expulsion because the crimes for which Mr. Parker and Mr. Monserrate were ultimately convicted — criminal mischief versus misdemeanor assault — were different.

“You’re talking about the heinous crime of domestic violence demanding a tougher standard,” Mr. Sampson said. “Acts of domestic violence will not be tolerated at all. There’s really no comparison if you look at the two circumstances. I’m not thinking that this warrants expulsion.”

A spokesman for Senate Republicans, who are all but certain to hold a majority in the chamber next year, would not comment on whether the incoming leadership would seek to punish Mr. Parker.

But an ally of Mr. Monserrate’s, Senator Rubén Díaz Sr., a Bronx Democrat, challenged his colleagues to be consistent, taking particular aim at Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat, who led the effort to expel Mr. Monserrate and is now the attorney general-elect.

“I’d like to know if my colleagues in the New York State Senate, especially those who consider themselves purists, plan to do something to Senator Kevin Parker now that he has been convicted of two misdemeanors,” Mr. Díaz said. “Will Senator Schneiderman be consistent and show us what a true hero he thinks he is by starting the same kind of Senate action he organized to kick Hiram Monserrate out for his one misdemeanor?”

A spokesman for Mr. Schneiderman said he “will look into any cases meriting attention.”

Mr. Parker was first elected to the State Senate in 2002 and has been known for occasionally losing his temper. He was arrested in 2005 after, the police said, he punched a traffic agent in the face. The charges were dismissed, reportedly after he agreed to enroll in an anger management course.

Mr. Parker also erupted at a Republican colleague, Senator John A. DeFrancisco, during a hearing in April after Mr. DeFrancisco, who is white, questioned an African-American nominee to the New York Power Authority on statements the nominee had made about racial discrimination.
201 2010-12-08 Margaret Thatcher once said the markets can’t be bucked; Angela Merkel, by contrast, believes in the “primacy of politics.” Who’s right depends on whether politicians have the will to change the unpleasant reality that markets can reflect. The euro crisis is a test for these two approaches.

In one sense, Mrs. Thatcher was right. Markets are messengers — sometimes of doom, other times of glad tiding. Actions like restricting short-selling of financial stocks, Mrs. Merkel’s bad idea, are pointless. They don’t change reality. Even intervention in the markets, like the European Central Bank’s sovereign bond-buying program, which restored calm late last week, buys only time.

Germany’s leader is also right that politicians can prevail, but only so long as they change what markets are worried about. The euro zone’s volatility is largely a result of a lack of clarity over whether the authorities have the will to tackle excessive debt loads and uncompetitive economies. Solutions are available, but there are multiple actors with competing visions.

Take the European Central Bank. Mere bond-buying won’t save the situation. But if the central bank was prepared to take big risks with its own balance sheet, or abandon its policy of not creating inflation, that would be a different matter. It could then sop up a few trillion euros of debt and allow the money supply to expand commensurately by not “sterilizing” the operation.

Such a move, similar to what the Federal Reserve did after Lehman Brothers went bust in 2008, might change the reality. Insofar as it drove down the cost of borrowing for governments and reduced the risk of deflation, it would make debt burdens easier to bear; insofar as it pushed down the euro, it would help raise the euro zone’s competitiveness.
202 2010-12-08 Harney & Sons has opened its first retail store in Manhattan (below). Over 200 loose teas are sold by the ounce, or prepacked in tins, and in whole-leaf mesh bags for convenient brewing. Among the more alluring blends is a citron-flavored green tea. Teapots and other equipment, books and jams are sold in the big airy store that has a cafe for light food.

A glass of Champagne is not out of place at afternoon tea. With that in mind, Jacques Doassans opened the Tea Set, a combination tea room and Champagne and wine cafe, with a shop selling items like a BPA-free plastic 12-ounce travel cup for brewing and drinking tea (top). Mr. Doassans’s 120 teas are all his own custom organic blends, including a mix of white, green and black teas scented with vanilla that he calls West Village Breakfast Tea. The food, mainly salads and sandwiches, was devised by Jean-Louis Dumonet.

Harney & Sons, 433 Broome Street (Broadway), So Ho, (212) 933-4853. Teas start at $4 an ounce. Teapots are $20 to $120. Gift wrapping is free. From the cafe, sweet and savory items are $2.50 to $6.

The Tea Set, 235 West 12th Street (Greenwich Avenue), Greenwich Village, (646) 894-0511, the-tea-set.com.. Teas start at $9.90 for 3.5 ounces. The cup is $19.90. Food e is $3.90 to $23.90, and afternoon tea for two is $29.90 to $49.90.
203 2010-12-08 Last December, some in the Olympic world cringed when South Korea’s president, Lee Myung-bak, pardoned Lee Kun-hee, the chairman of Samsung and a member of the I.O.C., for a conviction for tax evasion with the express wish that the pardon would aid Pyeongchang’s chances of Olympic success. Because Lee Kun-hee is an I.O.C. member and chairman of Samsung, a major sponsor of the Olympics, he has taken a limited role in promoting Pyeongchang, a Samsung spokesman said.

The other leaders with convictions in South Korea include Cho Yang-ho, the chairman of the bid committee and of Korean Air, who was charged with tax evasion in 1999 and received a three-year prison term, although he appealed and later settled with the government for $12 million. Park Yong-sung, the head of the Korean Olympic Committee and a former member of the I.O.C., was convicted of embezzlement but was later pardoned by the South Korean president. And Lee Kwang-jae, the senior vice chairman of the bid committee and governor of the province where Pyeongchang is located, was convicted of taking bribes, which he is appealing.

Three I.O.C. members and several Olympic observers said the South Korean officials’ personal pasts would have little effect on the bid’s chances. The vote is decided by the members of the I.O.C., a group of about 100 sports leaders, business executives and dignitaries from around the world.

Richard Pound, the I.O.C. member who led the investigation into the Salt Lake bid scandal, said some could argue that the South Koreans had been punished enough. “If you do something wrong,” he said, “and you’re convicted and there’s a sentence, and after you’ve served your sentence, you’re entitled to be welcomed back into society.”

Pyeongchang is not the only bid committee whose leaders have tarnished pasts. Katarina Witt, the figure skater and chairwoman of the Munich bid, has faced criticism in Germany for having too friendly a relationship with the Stasi, the once-feared East German secret police.

And the French I.O.C. member Guy Drut, the Olympic hurdler who has helped to promote the Annecy bid, was suspended in 2005 by the I.O.C. after being convicted in a corruption case. He was reinstated after he was pardoned by then-president Jacques Chirac.

Robert Livingstone, the producer of the Web site Gamesbids.com, which chronicles the Olympic bid process, noted that the South Korean leaders were respected in their country and abroad.

“It doesn’t necessarily tarnish what they’re trying to do,” he said. “If you’re the head of Samsung and you’re a business leader — and a lot of the people are very involved and very integrated into the sports world — those things will outshine the others.”

Pyeongchang has made its case by emphasizing its beautiful scenery and its ability to energize the Asian public, an estimated one billion of whom live within a short plane ride of a winter sports destination.

Munich is also a favorite, given the popularity of winter sports in Germany and the fact that a German, Thomas Bach, is a possible successor to the I.O.C.’s president, Jacques Rogge.

Annecy, in southeastern France, lags its competitors, but Livingstone and others noted it was too early to predict a winner.

It is unclear what effect North Korea’s recent shelling of a South Korean island, which killed four people, will have on Pyeongchang’s chances, given that tensions in the region have persisted for decades.

“Most people are not really sure whether to take these things seriously or not,” Pound said.

Asked whether the crisis would affect his vote, he said, “If I were keen on taking the Winter Games to Asia again, it wouldn’t, no. And that’s probably the way most people will vote.”

Shin Muchol, a spokesman for the Pyeongchang bid, described the convictions as politically motivated.

“The next administration pardoned their conviction, so that is already in the past, and everything is clear already,” Shin said. In the case of Lee, the governor, “he is elected by the people,” Shin said, and “he is under the process of appealing.”

Korean Air has agreed to postpone its sponsorship of the skating federation until after the vote. The I.O.C. also looked into a sponsorship deal that Samsung recently signed with FISA, the international rowing federation, but decided that it did not violate ethics rules. Denis Oswald, the head of the rowing federation and an I.O.C. member from Switzerland, has said he will abstain from voting in July.

Mark Adams, an I.O.C. spokesman, said in a statement that the committee suspended Lee and Park from the committee while the inquiries were under way in South Korea. But because both were pardoned, he said: “The I.O.C. had to take this into account. We are not a judicial body and have no jurisdiction over any national court ruling.” Park was reinstated by the I.O.C. but later resigned.

Once a member has been reinstated, Adams said, “there is no reason that he/she should be prevented from resuming his/her activities, including being part of a bidding team.”

Some said they saw the charges as a way of doing business in South Korea.

“Korea is a different world, and they play hardball,” said one I.O.C. member who did not want to be identified speaking about the bid before the vote. “My sense is that people in general in the I.O.C. feel that a lot of these cases in Korea have to do more with politics than with anything else.”

Samsung and other large, family-run South Korean companies have often been caught up in corruption and financial scandals over the past decade, but judges have frequently given light sentences to top executives out of concern that harsh penalties could harm the economy.

Lee Keon-hyok, the head of global communications for the Samsung group, said that in South Korea, a pardon erased a conviction. “It expunges the case entirely from the court’s history,” he said. Referring to the pardon of Lee Kun-hee, he said, “It’s a clear recognition of his contribution to his country from the president.”

Some noted that the I.O.C. had been willing to overlook controversies involving host cities, notably in Beijing in 2008, when protests against China’s human rights policies marred the torch relay before the Summer Games.

“The things that went on with Beijing were way worse, and they did everything they could to ignore it — put it under the rug,” said David Wallechinsky, an Olympic historian.

He said that if Pyeongchang was selected, the public would not pay attention until the final days before the Olympics.

“There’s many years to clean things up, to smooth things over,” Wallechinsky said. “And if you really do put on a good Olympics — if you build beautiful venues — all this falls by the wayside the day the competitions begin.”
204 2010-12-08 Aisha’s case came to prominence in August when Time magazine used a picture of her on its cover, with the suggestion that this was what would happen if the West left Afghanistan. A child bride, Aisha (Bibi is an honorific; Aisha asked that her family name be withheld) had fled her arranged marriage to a Taliban fighter, but was captured and returned to the village, where her husband, father-in-law and brother-in-law carried out the mutilation, after approval by the local Taliban mullah. Left for dead, she said, she then fled to the safety of a women’s shelter in Kabul run by Women for Afghan Women, which publicized her plight a year later.

Mr. Gul said Mr. Sulaiman, who like many Afghans has one name, confessed to participating in the disfigurement.

He credited an unusual campaign from higher police officials pressing his department into trying to apprehend the perpetrators. “I had 15 letters and warrants come down for them,” he said.

“This was a case of persistence and diligence by our police,” said Zemarai Bashary, spokesman for the Ministry of Interior. “The M.O.I. was very involved in pushing this case after we received a complaint from the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission.”

The provincial police chief in Oruzgan was scathing in denouncing the crime and its perpetrators. “Sulaiman pointed a gun at her head while the other men, his sons, sliced off her nose,” said Brig. Gen. Juma Gul Himat. “Sulaiman then took her amputated nose and proudly showed it off around the village.”

It is rare for the police in Afghanistan to intervene when local villagers impose punishments for social crimes, even severe ones such as flogging and stoning, which are allowed under Shariah law, the legal code of Islam based on the Koran. There is no Shariah law provision, however, for cutting off nose and ears of a runaway child bride.

“This is against Afghan-ism, against Afghan and Shariah laws, against every principle in the world, against humanity, so that’s why we wanted to bring him to justice,” said General Himat. He said that the police knew Mr. Sulaiman well as an associate of what he called terrorists, but that the police had not hunted him down for that.

“He made a big mistake,” the general said. “He disfigured a creature of God, and he was proud of what he had done.”

Aisha’s father, Hajji Muhammed Zai, reached by telephone, confirmed that he had agreed to the betrothal of Aisha and her younger sister to Mr. Sulaiman’s family members, in payment of what is called “baad,” a customary obligation owed by his own family. It is a common practice in rural areas. Both were infants when they were engaged.

He insisted, however, that he had not as yet turned over the younger daughter, who is now 12, to consummate the marriage contract.

“I will never forgive them for what they have committed against my daughter,” Mr. Zai said. “I am serious to punish them so I want her back in the country to testify.”

Aisha, who is now 20, is living in Brooklyn while she gets treatment for emotional problems from her ordeal. Doctors at the Grossman Burn Foundation in California said they felt that was necessary before she could have reconstructive surgery there, according to Manizha Naderi, the head of Women for Afghan Women, which has offices in Brooklyn and Kabul. So far, Aisha has been given a prosthetic nose as a temporary measure.

“She’s not coming back to Afghanistan to testify,” Ms. Naderi said. “We won’t put Aisha in danger like this. Nobody will guarantee her security in Afghanistan if she comes back.”

In addition, she added, Aisha’s father was himself responsible for returning her to her in-laws after she ran away. “He should have known that she would either be killed or injured when she was given back.”

Ms. Naderi expressed satisfaction that some arrest had been made, but added, “It’s definitely not the end. The end would be when her husband and brother-in-law are also arrested.”

“This arrest gives hope to all Afghan women that their perpetrators will be brought to justice, that sooner or later criminals will be punished,” she said.

“I regret what I did now, sending her back,” said Mr. Zai, Aisha’s father. “I only wanted to try to have good relations with their family despite their bad behavior, so I sent her back to them.”

Like his daughter, Mr. Zai, too, is a refugee now, in Tirin Kot, the capital of Oruzgan Province. After the Sulaiman arrest, which took place in mid-November, “I left our village because I was afraid of retaliation,” he said. “We are very tired, we have left everything behind, land, orchards and home.”
205 2010-12-08 “The amount is going to be the subject of discussion, inevitably,” Mr. Reynders said.

Germany has so far ruled out any expansion of the fund. Diplomats say that, in order to change course, the German government has to be able to persuade a skeptical public that intervention is vital to save the euro.

“They need a crisis,” said one diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. Domestic political resistance in Germany, the diplomat added, explains much of the euro zone’s failure to control the market turmoil.

Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary union, gave a clear hint Tuesday that Portugal — seen as the next most vulnerable economy in the euro zone — would be required to take new steps to curb its budget deficit.

“We welcome the recently passed ambitious budget for 2011, and we expect that this step will be followed by the substantiation of consolidation measures to reach the 4.6 percent fiscal deficit target for next year,” Mr. Rehn said.

He referred to the need for Portugal to stimulate more economic growth, fueling suggestions that the European Commission was pressing for more labor market or other structural changes.

“If we are not addressing the long-term and midterm solutions as well, the markets will never be able to completely restore the confidence they have into the euro zone,” the Dutch finance minister, Jan Kees de Jager, said.

Mr. Rehn also promised “a new round of even more rigorous and even more comprehensive bank stress tests,” beginning in February. Banking weakness was at the heart of the Irish crisis, leading to criticism that previous stress tests were insufficient to spot problems.

“One of the lessons learned is that we will need to have a liquidity assessment in these stress tests next time around,” he added.

An effort by Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg — who is chairman of the group of 16 euro-zone ministers — to start a debate on the creation of common euro-zone bonds failed after receiving a dismissive response from Berlin on Monday. Mr. Juncker said Monday night that the idea had not been discussed by his colleagues.
206 2010-12-08 On Tuesday, it rapidly crossed a psychological threshold of 3.08 percent. The yield on the 10-year note was 3.13 percent, up significantly from 2.93 percent late Monday. Its price dropped 1 23/32, to 95 22/32.

Higher yields, if sustained, will mean costlier home mortgage rates. The jump in rates has taken place even as the Federal Reserve has acted to contain borrowing costs to aid the recovery.

Anthony G. Valeri, a market strategist for LPL Financial, said the bond market performance also demonstrated anticipation that the Fed might raise interest rates sooner. “We had a pretty violent reaction to the passage of the tax cut extension,” he said.

In addition, the bond sell-off made investors timid before auctions this week of 10-year and 30-year notes. “As if today’s selling wasn’t enough, we have got fresh supply coming in tomorrow,” Mr. Valeri said.

The effect could also signal that the government will have to sell more bonds to finance the deficit, said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott.

But the tax deal could have positive implications for the economy, which spurred investors to reconsider the allocation of their assets. Consumer spending, business investment and corporate profits could increase, Wells Fargo economists said in a research note.

Stocks rallied on the news, but lost some steam at the end of the day. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.03 points, or 0.03 percent, to 11,359.16. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index hit a two-year high during the day but closed up just 0.63 points, or 0.05 percent, at 1,223.75 while the Nasdaq composite index was up 3.57 points, or 0.14 percent, at 2,598.49.

Analysts said investors were primed to leave havens and return to riskier equities because of upbeat trends in economic data — Friday’s jobs report notwithstanding — and signs of some calm in the European markets.

The CRB commodities index ended down but copper rose more than 1 percent on prospects of a recovery. Financials, which are affected more by interest rates, were weaker. But Citigroup was up more than 3.8 percent at $4.62 after the United States Treasury said late Monday that it had sold its remaining stake in the bank.A report from the Federal Reserve said total consumer credit outstanding rose at an annual rate of 1.7 percent to reach $2.39 trillion in October as nonrevolving accounts climbed.
207 2010-12-08 AGL Resources agreed on Tuesday to buy a fellow power company, Nicor, for $2.4 billion in cash and stock, in a bid to create a big new natural gas distributor.     The merger of AGL and Nicor will create a natural gas company with about 5.5 millio...
208 2010-12-08 Fortune Brands, owner of Jim Beam whiskey and Titleist golf balls as well as other consumer brands, plans to split itself into three, a person with knowledge of the plans told DealBook on Tuesday.      The breakup will leave Fortune as a liquor co...
209 2010-12-08 KABUL, Afghanistan -- When Bibi Aisha's nose and ears were cut off by her husband and her in-laws, no one ever expected much to be done about it, especially because it happened in a remote area under Taliban control.     Thanks to support from aid...
210 2010-12-08 KRISSEL--Robert. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Santa Fe Opera note with sadness the death of Robert Krissel, member of the Board from 1994 until 2008, and President from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Krissel was an enthusiastic advocate for the Oper...
211 2010-12-09 The Third Point hedge fund manager questions the Fed's policies....
212 2010-12-09 Financial stability and government privatization has attracted Wall Street banks to Poland....
213 2010-12-09 Dior's sprawling 57th Street flagship has been given a glamorous face-lift by Peter Marino....
214 2010-12-09 The commodities regulator wants to limit banks' donations to municipal officials - but similar rules already exist....
215 2010-12-09 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has proposed a plan that would exempt commercial companies like manufacturers and airlines from clearing their swaps....
216 2010-12-09 Sergey Aleynikov, a former programmer accused of stealing computer code when he left the firm, awaits the verdict....
217 2010-12-09 Some sellers don't have to swallow deep discounts on their stakes anymore, said the advisory firm Triago....
218 2010-12-09 Air Products raised its offer to draw its long-running hostile takeover bid to a close. The Deal Professor has some thoughts on why the new bid came now....
219 2010-12-09 Ferrari says Pit Stop is an entirely new store concept, which the automaker plans to expand all over the world....
220 2010-12-09 European officials seek to show that they have an open mind on the potential for harm from genetically modified crops....
221 2010-12-09 Guillermo del Toro and three partners have opened a boutique studio in Marina del Rey, Calif., that they hope will help the business of "transmedia" storytelling. Called Mirada, the new company "will look beyond what the market is doing right now ...
222 2010-12-09 Bank of Ireland has offered to exchange junior debt worth 1.5 billion euros for government-guaranteed senior debt....
223 2010-12-09 Among the worries of Michael Campbell, a high school senior in Denver, is that colleges will see only "transcript-test-scores-class-rank-me,'' and not "human me.''...
224 2010-12-09 The deal would extend for two years the Bush-era tax cuts at all income levels, not just on income up to $250,000 per couple as President Obama had sought. In exchange, Republicans agreed to the administration’s demands for a 13-month continuation of jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed, a one-year reduction in the payroll tax for nearly all workers, and other steps aimed at lifting the economy.

The plan also includes an agreement to reduce the estate tax, which lapsed completely this year but is set to return on Jan. 1 with an exemption of $1 million per person and a maximum rate of 55 percent. The deal will set the exemption, or unified credit, at $5 million per estate, and the maximum rate at 35 percent — a higher exemption and lower tax than many Democrats want.

The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, excoriated Democrats for trying to bring up several other issues, including an immigration bill and a Pentagon policy measure that includes authorization to repeal the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” ban on open service by gay men and lesbians. Mr. McConnell urged the Democrats to bring the tax plan to the floor.

“Are we here to perform or to legislate?” Mr. McConnell asked.

The majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, struggled on Wednesday to chart a path on several major items, including the tax proposal. Votes were tentatively scheduled for Thursday morning on the immigration measure, which would create a path to citizenship for certain illegal immigrants brought to the United States as young children, and on the military bill.

As attention focused mainly on the tax issue, House Democrats muscled through a stripped-down spending bill that would finance the federal government through Sept. 30 of next year, freezing the budgets of most agencies but including money for the war in Afghanistan.

The bill cuts nearly $46 billion from the president’s requested budget, and includes provisions for a two-year pay freeze for non-military federal employees.

The vote was 212 to 206, with 35 Democrats and all 171 Republicans in opposition.

With the president on the defensive with his own party, the White House marshaled an offensive that included circulating dozens of private-sector economic analyses and endorsements from public officials.

But the big gun was the economic warning from Mr. Summers, the soon-departing director of the White House National Economic Council.

“Failure to pass this bill in the next couple weeks would materially increase the risk that the economy would stall out and we would have a double-dip” recession, Mr. Summers told reporters at a briefing.

Mr. Obama, in a brief appearance with the president of Poland, rebutted a reporter’s question alluding to Congressional Democrats’ sense of betrayal.

“It is inaccurate to characterize Democrats writ large as feeling ‘betrayed,’ ” Mr. Obama said. “I think Democrats are looking at this bill, and you’ve already had a whole bunch of them who said this makes sense. And I think the more they look at it, the more of them are going to say this makes sense.”

The fight over the Bush-era rates would resume in the coming two years, Mr. Obama said, adding that he would make the case for “tax reform, that we’ve got to simplify the system.”
225 2010-12-09 Fortune Brands has found an antidote for its poison pill. The odd combination of liquor, golf clubs and faucets never made sense. The conglomerate structure also dissuaded specialist rivals from making takeover bids. Carving up the company should solve the problem.

Fortune says it has been considering the merits of a breakup for years, but it took the arrival of the activist investor William A. Ackman to spark action. Each of the three pieces of the business will be more attractive on its own. The spirits business, in particular, should now attract a bid from Diageo.

The company says it will take a few more months to execute its plan. But the blueprint looks well drawn. The home and security division is to be spun off. The golf unit, maker of Titleist gear, will be sold or separated. And the arm that owns beverage brands would then stand alone as a listed company.

Not surprisingly, Wall Street supported the idea. Fortune’s shares are up 19 percent since Mr. Ackman’s stake in the company became known. Golfing and home products may find interested buyers or do well alone. But the alcohol business represents the biggest chunk of Fortune’s value. It accounts for about two-thirds of profit and has a logical buyer. Jim Beam and Maker’s Mark would fit snugly inside the drinks powerhouse Diageo, which has long had a taste for bourbon.

There would be a residual, though smaller, conglomerate problem. Fortune also owns midshelf liquor brands such as Aftershock cinnamon schnapps and Old Overholt rye, which Diageo presumably could live without. Yet this is an easier problem to work around than dismantling the entire company.
226 2010-12-09 In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here
227 2010-12-09 BEIJING — It was just before Christmas 2009, and Ding Xiaowen was not happy.

The United States ambassador had just written China’s foreign minister expressing concern for Liu Xiaobo, the Beijing intellectual imprisoned a year earlier for drafting a pro-democracy manifesto. Now Mr. Ding, a deputy in the ministry’s American section, was reading the riot act to an American attaché.

Mr. Ding said he would try to avoid “becoming emotional,” according to a readout on the meeting that was among thousands of leaked State Department cables released this month. Then he said that a “strongly dissatisfied” China firmly opposed the views of the American ambassador, Jon Huntsman, and that Washington must “cease using human rights as an excuse to ‘meddle’ in China’s internal affairs.”

On Friday, exactly one year after Mr. Huntsman wrote his protest, Mr. Liu, now serving an 11-year prison sentence for subversion, will receive the Nobel Peace Prize in a ceremony that he is unable to attend. And if anything is clear, it is that China no longer resists becoming emotional.

In the two months since the Nobel committee honored Mr. Liu, China has waged an extraordinary and unprecedented campaign, domestically and internationally, to discredit the award and to dissuade other governments from endorsing it.

It sent diplomats to capitals worldwide, sometimes to two and three offices, to warn that attendance at the awards ceremony in Oslo would be a black mark on relations with China. It staged a briefing for its neighbors, the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, to make clear its unhappiness with the award. It has punished Norway, the site of the ceremony, by suspending trade negotiations.

On the Chinese island of Hainan last month, State Councilor Dai Bingguo, China’s most powerful foreign policy figure, bluntly told Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that his government regarded the Nobel award as an American conspiracy to embarrass Beijing.

Perhaps most strikingly, China’s media and spokespeople have trained a stream of vitriol on the award and its sponsors. The prize is “an anti-China farce” and its sponsors are “clowns,” a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said this week at a briefing. Honoring Mr. Liu is “a crazy act,” “a political tool” and “a trick that a few radical people use to entertain themselves,” the Communist Party tabloid Global Times reported Wednesday.

On Oct. 15, after the award was announced, the state-run news service Xinhua called the Nobel decision “a desecration of the rule of law” and Mr. Liu an opportunist who had “tried his best to maintain the Western hegemony of his Western masters and make China a vassal of the West.”

And on Tuesday, a somewhat murky Beijing group announced a counter-Nobel, the Confucius Peace Prize, apparently in response to a Global Times commentary last month that called for an Eastern alternative to prizes based on values it said were Western.

At least 19 governments, most of them staunch China allies like Myanmar, North Korea and Russia, have decided to boycott the Nobel ceremony on Friday. But the list also includes the Philippines, whose president, Benigno S. Aquino III, has been an advocate of human rights in places like Myanmar, where China holds great influence.

Philippine press reports quoted diplomats on Wednesday as saying that Manila opted out of the ceremony because it did not want to annoy China, already angered over a bungled hostage rescue in August that left eight Hong Kong residents dead.

But a senior adviser to Mr. Aquino, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the matter, said that Foreign Secretary Alberto G. Romulo “did it without telling us.” The adviser called the move “a clumsy attempt to balance the administration’s more distant stance on China.”

“This administration will be a voice for human rights in this part of the world,” the official said, “and now, this.”

Why China’s leaders have made Mr. Liu’s award a foreign policy red line is far from clear. Political analysts and scholars variously suggested that Mr. Liu’s manifesto, Charter 08, was too radical and represented a threat, that China’s newfound global prominence had given it an oversize impression of its influence and that party leaders were toeing a hard nationalist position as jockeying began for a new leadership in 2012.

Dozens of leaked State Department cables made it apparent that American diplomats closely followed the travails of Mr. Liu and other activists and regularly pressed Chinese officials to honor international norms for basic freedoms, even as Washington muted its public position on Chinese behavior.

Embassy officials also met frequently with Mr. Liu’s wife, Liu Xia, and friends to monitor his case and the increase in repression of political dissidents.

As early as two weeks after Mr. Liu was first detained, President George W. Bush’s ambassador, Clark T. Randt Jr., “urged the Chinese government to release him and stop harassing peaceful dissidents,” a Dec. 29, 2008, cable stated.

The next June, as the Chinese government announced Mr. Liu’s formal arrest on subversion charges, embassy officials expressed “grave concern” and again called for his release. On Dec. 9, 2009, shortly before Mr. Liu was convicted, Mr. Huntsman met with five Chinese human rights lawyers; he sent a letter to the foreign minister the next day calling on the government “to respect those rights it had itself guaranteed in the PRC constitution and to protect internationally recognized freedoms for all Chinese citizens.”

That letter led to Mr. Ding’s dressing-down of the attaché 11 days later. According to the cable, Mr. Ding said then that Mr. Huntsman’s letter contained “inappropriate comments” on Mr. Liu’s case and that “certain ‘so-called’ human rights lawyers and dissidents had sought to advance their ‘selfish interests’ ” by attacking the Beijing government.

“In a lengthy and disjointed digression,” the cable added, Mr. Ding said that regardless of rights to speak and assemble freely, the most fundamental human rights were to food and shelter. And “in this area it was ‘a basic fact’ that the PRC had made huge progress.”

The American attaché’s response, the cable stated, was that “U.S. concerns over abuses of internationally recognized human rights norms remained.”
228 2010-12-09 BRUSSELS — The European Commission imposed fines Wednesday on five South Korean and Taiwanese companies for fixing the prices of liquid-crystal display panels in popular devices like flat-screen televisions, computers and notebook devices.

The fines, totaling 649 million euros ($859.6 million), were related to violations dating to 2001, when the companies started meeting to fix prices of LCD screens. Although most of the illegal activity took place in Taiwan, the Brussels regulator said European action was necessary because the activities of the companies raised prices on goods sold to European consumers. The value of the goods was more than 7 billion euros, the commission said.

“Foreign companies, like European ones, have an obligation to respect competition rules when they do business in Europe,” the European competition commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, told a news conference. “The fact that the cartel meetings took place outside the E.U. is no excuse.”

Chimei Innolux, a Taiwanese company, was ordered to pay almost $400 million, the largest fine. The other Taiwanese companies ordered to pay fines were AU Optronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes and HannStar Display.

Samsung of South Korea, the largest maker of LCD screens in the world, was not fined because it had reported the cartel to the authorities.
229 2010-12-09 The suggestions to criminalize the most serious cases are part of a broader set of proposals intended to strengthen laws on banking, insurance and securities trading, where fines are considered too low, or penalties too weak, to deter wrongdoing.

Sony Kapoor, an adviser to a special European Parliament committee on the financial crisis, said Wednesday that raising “the costs of financial malfeasance, including through mandatory prison terms, is necessary to counterbalance the astronomical rewards financial market actors can potentially reap by bending laws to the breaking point.”

European officials said there was a risk that weak enforcement in one of the bloc’s 27 member states could undermine the stability and functioning of the financial system in another member, and that the severity of penalties and fines for market abuses varied widely across the bloc.

In the case of insider dealing, the maximum fines imposed by some countries, like Spain, Poland and Sweden are capped below 1 million euros, or $1.3 million, while only 12 countries impose sanctions corresponding to the amount earned from the violation, according to European officials.

Echoing Mr. Barnier’s call for tougher treatment for market violators, Günther Oettinger, the European commissioner for energy, made a separate proposal on Wednesday for more effective ways of detecting insider trading and other abuses aimed at gouging electricity and gas consumers.

Under those plans, monitors from the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, which starts operating next year, would have the authority to investigate whether, for example, power companies had taken bets on the prices of electricity and gas before letting other traders know that they planned to restrict supplies by shutting down plants for maintenance or other reasons.

But decisions on whether jail terms would apply to traders or employees rigging energy markets would be left to national governments, according to a spokeswoman for Mr. Oettinger.

Mr. Barnier’s call for tougher action mirrors a similar debate in Europe over how best to stamp out cartels and price fixing.

Although some European countries have introduced criminal sanctions and prison terms for cartel offenses, enforcement has been patchy. Without the threat of jail terms in their arsenal, European Union regulators already are butting up against the maximum it can reasonably fine a company without driving it out of business.

But Mr. Almunia added that he wanted to encourage civil litigation that could further penalize companies by enabling consumers and companies hurt by cartels to recover damages.

On Wednesday, Mr. Barnier also addressed so-called dark-pool trading, where the price of a deal is published only after it has happened. He said additional restrictions were required to improve transparency.

Describing as “scandalous” the speculation that had pushed up food prices, Mr. Barnier said regulators should be able to intervene in commodity markets to prevent undue volatility.

More rules also were needed, he said, on the number of orders that high-frequency securities traders can place.
230 2010-12-09 The international flair of the Securities and Exchange Commission continued on Wednesday when it filed suit against unnamed investors who bought Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods, in the days before the PepsiCo agreed to buy the Russian beverage maker.      As...
231 2010-12-09 I got all twitchy (it's a good thing) when I saw the new ''Really?'' ad campaign for Windows Phone 7. It features people carrying on life's routines -- walking, running, playing with children, preparing for bed -- absorbed in their smartphones and...
232 2010-12-09 With Kelsey Grammer preparing to depart the Broadway production of ''La Cage aux Folles'' in February, is there another television star who can bring to the role of Georges an equal level of erudition and dignity that's begging to be chipped away?...
233 2010-12-10 With seven straight 30-point games, Amar'e Stoudemire matched a personal record and a Knicks record, but he's a long way from Wilt Chamberlain's N.B.A. mark....
234 2010-12-10 Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe.
235 2010-12-10 Earlier this week, we promised you more details about the hacks submitted at our TimesOpen Hack Day. Here they are to help kick off your weekend....
236 2010-12-10 The mayor preaches to an audience of peers, which is to say business titans, about the need for broader immigration policies....
237 2010-12-10 Professor Joel R. Reidenberg of Fordham University explains why the government may have put so much effort into prosecuting Sergey Aleynikov for allegedly stealing computer code from Goldman Sachs.
238 2010-12-10 After serving as the Mets' version of Woody Allen, Pedro Feliciano looms this off-season as his team's Derek Jeter....
239 2010-12-10 The F.D.A. had rejected applications to market Pfizer's Thelin in the United States....
240 2010-12-10 Computer-animated videos produced in Taiwan, mixing fact, rumor and fantasy, seem to be evolving into a new form of political cartoon for the Internet age before our eyes....
241 2010-12-10 Five years after applying to college, the author's daughter is once again writing letters, going to interviews and researching where she'd like to be next year....
242 2010-12-10 Mr. Harris, the "How I Met Your Mother" star, will play another famous perennial bachelor in a production of a Stephen Sondheim musical this spring....
243 2010-12-10 The capital markets veteran succeeds Stuart Gulliver, who is taking over as chief executive of Europe's biggest bank....
244 2010-12-10 Mr. McCartney performs a unique version of "Yesterday" as well as "Here Today," a tribute to his former bandmate John Lennon....
245 2010-12-10 The complete text of a statement by Liu Xiaobo, the Chinese dissident, which was read in his absence at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony on Friday....
246 2010-12-10 No. 1 Florida (29-1) vs. No. 16 Purdue (23-10), 6 p.m.; No. 9 Texas (25-5) vs. No. 8 Illinois (24-8), 8 p.m. The skinny: The top-seeded Gators survived a wake-up call from rival Florida State, overcoming a 13-11 deficit in the decisive fifth set to advance. Kelly Murphy kept them on pace with her seventh triple-double of the season, tops in the nation.

Missouri (22-10) vs. No. 12 Duke (26-6), 5 p.m.; Oklahoma (23-10) vs. No. 4 Penn State (28-5), 7 p.m. The skinny: Three-time defending national champion Penn State has won 92 straight matches at home, including first- and second-round victories over Niagara and Virginia Tech, respectively, in which the Nittany Lions hit well over .300.

Indiana (23-11) vs. No. 6 Southern California (27-4), 4 p.m.; No. 3 Stanford (26-3) vs. Ohio State (24-11), 6 p.m. The skinny: Indiana reached the first Round of 16 in its history the hard way, knocking off Miami and No. 11 seed Tennessee in five-set thrillers. Stanford continues to ride the hot hitting of the three-time all-American and Pacific-10 player of the year, Alex Klineman (5.5 kills per set).

No. 7 California (27-3) vs. No. 10 Minnesota (26-8), 8 p.m.; Washington (23-8) vs. No. 2 Nebraska (29-2), 10 p.m. The skinny: Washington and Nebraska have a history. In 2008, the last time the Huskies advanced this far, they squandered a two-set lead and the Huskers erased a 9-3 deficit to win the decisive fifth set. The match’s back-and-forth rallies have become a YouTube favorite of volleyball fans.
247 2010-12-10 A bigger question is this: How will the Longhorns’ poor performance affect the university’s $3 billion capital campaign?

University officials anxiously await the answer as they brace for state-mandated budget cuts. Early indications are that higher education will bear the brunt as legislators begin hacking chunks out of a budget that has an anticipated shortfall of at least $20 billion. In the fall, when state leaders asked for 5 percent to be trimmed from the current biennium’s budget, more than 40 percent of those cuts came out of higher education.

The upshot is that all university operations will be increasingly reliant on private donations — and that potentially ties back to sports, football in particular.

“There’s no question that donors get more excited about winning, but I don’t think this past season will have any effect on fund-raising,” said Red McCombs, a billionaire and former owner of the Minnesota Vikings who is one of the Longhorns’ biggest boosters. (Mr. McCombs is a $50,000 donor to The Texas Tribune.) Enough confidence remains in the program, he said, to allow it to weather what he assumes will be a brief trip to the bottom of the Big 12.

Of course, that could change, he said.

Discussing the generosity of donors like him who made possible the $176.5 million project that recently added more than 13,000 seats to Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium, he asked, “Would that have been the same if we had gone 3 and 8 the five years prior to that? Probably not.”

Mr. McCombs, who said he was far more concerned about the stature of the University of Texas business school named for him than that of the football team, said he believed that athletic success “definitely translates” to gifts to the university.

Others do not agree. “Historically, we have not seen a correlation with a bad football season and the general giving to a capital campaign or the academic side to the university,” said John McCall, U.T.-Austin’s associate vice president for development.

In a 2009 report commissioned by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, Jonathan Orszag, an economist, came to a similar conclusion, finding no significant correlation between athletic success and giving to a university.

Still, universities throughout Texas view football as an ingredient of institutional improvement.

“I don’t think you have to have an athletic program to be a national research university, but having a good one validates you in some way,” said Diana Natalicio, president of the University of Texas at El Paso, which is currently in a seven-way race to be the state’s next Tier One university.

Victor J. Boschini Jr., chancellor of Texas Christian University, currently the state’s most successful football team, the Rose Bowl-bound Horned Frogs, agreed that the benefits of a strong athletic program were indirect.

“If presidents and boards were honest at every school,” Mr. Boschini said, “they would say you cannot go into athletics to make money. I just don’t think, nowadays, that it’s possible.”

But in good times, he said, the money comes back in many intangible ways like increased applications and private donations. “My gut, from working at 11 schools, is that it makes a difference,” Mr. Boschini said.

The Cardinals of Lamar University in Beaumont just finished their first season of gridiron play (5-6) since the team was dismantled in 1989 due to lack of interest. The enhancements that Lamar officials attribute to the sport’s return include record enrollments and the growth of the music program to accommodate a marching band. The number of vendors licensed to produce Lamar merchandise has doubled, and sales of Lamar gear rose 550 percent in the last year. All of that money currently goes back into the athletics department.

“That may change once we start making more,” said Larry Acker, Lamar’s assistant director of public relations.

Or it may not. In August, the N.C.A.A. released a report on revenues and expenses in Division I programs around the country that found that athletic departments were increasingly reliant on university subsidies.

U.T.-Austin is the exception, with one of the few self-sustaining athletic departments in the nation. Anyway, Mr. McCall said, the sense among Longhorns is that “people aren’t jumping off the ship” just yet, despite a disappointing season.

“This is a blip at this point,” he said. “It’s not a trend.”
248 2010-12-10 In Georgia, voters have been worried about unlicensed illegal immigrants whose driving skills are untested and who often lack insurance, including some who caused well-publicized accidents. Lawmakers have tightened requirements to keep illegal immigrants from obtaining licenses and license plates, and have increased penalties for driving without them.

“There are certain things you can’t do in the state of Georgia if you are an illegal immigrant,” said State Senator Chip Rogers, a Republican who was a prime mover behind some of the traffic measures. “One of them is, you can’t drive.”

Many Georgia counties have begun to cooperate formally with the Department of Homeland Security, so that illegal immigrants detained by the local police are turned over more consistently to federal immigration authorities.

Still, according to The Times’s analysis, 200,000 illegal immigrants in Georgia are driving to work daily. For them, the new laws mean that any police stop, whether for a violation that caused an accident, or for a broken taillight or another driver’s mistake, can lead to deportation. Since 2006, thousands of immigrants, mostly from Latin America, have been deported from Georgia after traffic violations, often shaking up long-settled families.

The stepped-up enforcement has been applauded by many citizens. It has also antagonized the fast-growing Hispanic communities in and near Atlanta, where residents say the police are singling them out for traffic stops.

Illegal immigrants say they continue to risk driving without a license in order to keep their jobs.

“We have to work to support our kids, so we have to drive,” Ms. Valencia said in Spanish, after she was released on a $7,500 bond in late October from an immigration detention center in Alabama to begin her legal fight against deportation. “If we drive, we get stopped by the police. The first thing they ask is, ‘Can I see your license?’ ‘Don’t have one? Go to jail.’ And from jail to deportation.”

Not a few unlicensed Hispanic drivers are traveling the chronically congested roads here in Gwinnett County, a commuter destination northeast of Atlanta. Years of growth resulted in spreading subdivisions and state highways that converge at vast intersections. Public bus routes are few. To get around the county, you have to go by car.

After several high-profile crimes committed by illegal immigrants, the sheriff, Butch Conway, a blunt-spoken lawman who rides motorcycles and breeds horses in his spare time, made it his goal to reduce their population in his jail and his county.

“Just the fact that these people committed serious crimes when they should not have been in the country to begin with,” Sheriff Conway said, “I think that was an insult to the people of Gwinnett.”

He enrolled the detention center here in Lawrenceville, the county seat, in a program with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency known as ICE. Under the program, known as 287 (g), 18 of his deputies were trained to question suspects about their immigration status when they arrive at the jail. The deputies place holds, known as detainers, on immigrants they determine to be here illegally, so when the inmates are released from the jail they can be turned over directly to ICE.

The agreement with ICE specifies that Sheriff Conway is to focus on removing “criminal aliens who pose a threat to public safety or a danger to the community.” The sheriff says that should include those stopped for driving without a license.

“I find it offensive that they just thumb their nose at our laws and operate vehicles they are not licensed to operate,” he said, “on top of the fact that they are here illegally.”

When some Gwinnett County residents explain why they support a crackdown on illegal immigrants, one case they cite is that of Celso Campos Duartes. Mr. Campos, a Mexican, accumulated at least five moving violations in five years, including a hit-and-run accident, before he was turned over to ICE for deportation last month through the county jail 287(g) program.

One afternoon in October 2005, Mr. Campos was driving his Ford compact down a county road just as Aubrey Sosebee, an 82-year-old retiree, reached the black mailbox at the end of his driveway.

“The house sits way off the road, and that was his exercise every day, to walk up to get the mail and then walk back,” said Rusty Sosebee, 59, one of Mr. Sosebee’s sons.

Mr. Campos struck Mr. Sosebee, knocking him to the pavement. Witnesses told the police that Mr. Campos tried to turn his vehicle and leave but several drivers blocked his path. Mr. Campos sprinted into nearby woods, where police search dogs found him hours later.

Three of Mr. Sosebee’s children, who gathered recently to recount the accident, could not recall the events without breaking down.

“He knows all of the illegal actions that he has taken,” Rhonda Neely, 49, Mr. Sosebee’s daughter, said of Mr. Campos. “He’s more concerned with getting away and not getting caught than with my dad’s life, laying there on the road, the person he just ran over.”

Mr. Campos, though sober, was driving without a license and with plates from another vehicle. Although insurance is mandatory in Georgia, he had none. Mr. Sosebee received no compensation from Mr. Campos for his medical care.

Mr. Sosebee never recovered from the head injury he suffered in the fall, his son Rusty said. He remained disoriented, his son said, and four months later he died.

Convicted of leaving the scene of an accident, Mr. Campos served 26 months in the county jail. But at the end of his sentence, he walked away. He was arrested two more times for traffic offenses.

After the Sosebees learned in May, to their disbelief, that Mr. Campos was still in the country, they contacted the news media. The furor ensured that ICE would not let Mr. Campos slip away again.

In an interview in October in the Gwinnett County Detention Center, Mr. Campos, now 37, was impassive and unapologetic. “I ran to protect my life,” he said, speaking in Spanish at a jailhouse visiting booth. “The accident had already happened, there was nothing I could do to avoid it.”

But Mr. Campos did not dispute his eventual deportation. The residents of Georgia “have every right to object to people who drive without a license.”

While traffic deaths involving illegal immigrants like Mr. Campos have galvanized public opinion, it is not clear that they are increasing, even as the illegal immigrant population has surged during the last decade.

There has been no surge in the percentage of Hispanic drivers killed in accidents in recent years, federal highway safety data show. What the data do show is that Hispanics who are involved in fatal crashes are far less likely than other drivers to have a valid license.

About 80 percent of illegal immigrants are Hispanic, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group.

Looming over cases like Mr. Campos’s is the question of whether illegal immigrants should be allowed to have driver’s licenses in the first place.

Highway safety and auto insurance experts argue that licensing requires drivers to pass tests and creates an official record of their performance on the road. Licensed drivers can also be made to buy insurance.

“When you are licensed, you have proven you have some ability to drive and know the basic safety rules,” said David Snyder, vice president of the American Insurance Association.

Opponents focus on a different set of issues, arguing that a license is an identity document that allows unauthorized immigrants to move about the country freely and to gain public benefits.

“Giving someone here illegally a driver’s license is much more than giving them the privilege of driving,” said D. A. King, president of the Dustin Inman Society, a group created in the name of a Georgia teenager who was killed in 2000 by an illegal immigrant driver. “It is giving them the keys to the kingdom.”

Mr. King’s side is winning. Since 2006, six states that once allowed illegal immigrants to obtain licenses have changed their laws, leaving only three. Susana Martinez, the Republican governor-elect of New Mexico, has pledged to revise license laws there to deny licenses to illegal immigrants.

Georgia has never given licenses to immigrants who are here illegally. In 2008, state legislators increased the penalties for driving without a license, starting with 48 hours of mandatory jail time for a first offense and fines amounting to $700.

Now, many more unlicensed immigrants are going to jail — and from there are being detained by immigration authorities. Some are offenders like Mr. Campos. Many others are average drivers like Ms. Valencia.

“I would like to be able to get a license, but I am unable to do so,” Ms. Valencia told a state judge, speaking through an interpreter in Spanish, when she appeared on Oct. 6 in a Lawrenceville courtroom for the no-license citation she received at the accident scene.

On March 11, the day the speeding Chevy hit Ms. Valencia’s vehicle, she was barely a mile from the home she owns in a Gwinnett County development. She was on her way to pick up her daughter, Crystal, 16, at high school to take her to a doctor’s appointment.

Ms. Valencia’s 2000 Jeep Cherokee was legally registered, inspected and insured. She had a driver’s license she had obtained in North Carolina in 2003, when that state still granted them without proof of United States residency. It expired in 2008.

After coming to Georgia from an ox-and-plow farming village in Mexico, Ms. Valencia had a 12-year career at a fast-food restaurant in a suburban mall, rising from hamburger flipper to cashier to assistant manager. Among her most carefully preserved possessions are two diplomas for the company’s management training courses.

Ms. Valencia, a single mother, has raised Crystal, an American citizen born in Atlanta, and an American niece, now 7, whose mother died in childbirth.

With the help of a lawyer, Ms. Valencia navigated the court hearing and was ready to pay her fine and go home. But at the last minute, the judge ordered her to be fingerprinted at the Gwinnett County Detention Center.

“Oh, no, my God, that’s it,” she thought. “I’m going to jail.”

When she arrived to give her fingerprints, a 287(g) deputy asked for her immigration papers. When she had none to offer, she was sent to immigration detention in Gadsden, Ala.

Crystal was distraught, frantically texting her mother and scouring the county court Web site for information.

“She is the only person that’s been there for me,” Crystal said, dazed, at a relative’s house one night while her mother was in the county jail. “She shows me what decisions to make, like keep going to school, do good in school, don’t drop out.”

Crystal has been preparing to go to college to study medicine, and she could not conceive of moving to Mexico. “To begin with,” she said, “I really don’t know that much Spanish.”

“I think there’s some sad stories out there, no doubt,” Sheriff Conway said. “But my job is not taking action on sad stories.”

To date, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has signed agreements for 287(g) programs with 72 communities across the country. It is also rolling out a more ambitious program called Secure Communities, giving local police nationwide access to the Department of Homeland Security’s database of fingerprints. Immigrants are checked for their legal status when they are booked.

Senior ICE officials have established priorities for these programs, with the highest being deportation of criminals convicted of major drug offenses and violent acts. Traffic violations are not among the top priorities.

Sheriff Conway takes a different position: “If they’re here illegally in the United States, they should be deported regardless of the charge.”

The results of the Gwinnett County 287(g) program reflect the sheriff’s view. During its first year, which ended Nov. 16, immigration detainers were placed on 3,034 inmates, 93 percent of them Latino. Of a total of 6,662 charges those inmates faced, 21 percent were for ICE’s high-priority crimes, like aggravated assault and child molestation. But 45 percent were for traffic violations other than driving under the influence, including 469 detainees held only for driving without a license.

The impact in this area has been deep. Vanessa Kosky, the defense lawyer who represented Ms. Valencia, said her young practice has been overwhelmed with cases of Hispanic immigrants arrested for driving without a license. To avoid deportation, they have clogged the courts to fight charges they once would have dispatched by paying a fine.

“These are not horrific drivers,” Ms. Kosky said. “These are not D.U.I.’s. These are not people who are putting people in danger.”

Hispanic leaders said immigrants are learning to avoid the police. Latino restaurants have lost business as their patrons choose to stay home. Attendance at Catholic churches dropped when police set up traffic checkpoints nearby.

“It’s like a persecution,” said Bishop Luis Rafael Zarama, the auxiliary bishop of Atlanta. “These laws only affect one group: the Latino community.”

Law enforcement officials point to a sharp drop this year in arrests for driving without a license. Some unlicensed immigrants are car-pooling, and some are moving elsewhere in Georgia.

“I mean, that’s success,” Sheriff Conway said. “That’s the point of the program, to remove illegal aliens from Gwinnett County.”
249 2010-12-10 This last bit of information emerges piecemeal, through a scrim of family denial and addict dissembling, but as soon as we see Dicky, played by a gaunt and antic Christian Bale, we know something is wrong. His eyes dart, his mouth draws back into a nervous rictus, and his shuffling, splayed walk conveys neurological damage. Dicky is also amusing, sensitive and quick witted, a ball of comic charm able, just barely, to juggle his addiction with his commitment to his brother and their mother, Alice (Melissa Leo).

Mr. Bale’s performance is astonishing, in part because he so completely conquers a daunting set of physical and psychological challenges. Dicky is not only an addict but also an athlete in his own right, a former boxer who clings to, and endlessly relives, a single moment of glory. He tells everyone who will listen that he once knocked down Sugar Ray Leonard, and while the facts of the episode are in dispute, his pugilistic skill and intelligence are never in doubt.

In a crucial scene, having attempted a remarkably stupid caper, he finds himself fleeing the Lowell police, his long limbs flapping like a cartoon character’s as he high-tails it down the street. Then, as Dicky stops and squares off to throw an ill-advised punch, he snaps suddenly from clown to gladiator. You see that his core of talent and discipline has not been completely destroyed by drugs, even if his judgment and self-respect have. You also see that this funny, exasperating character is really a walking, flailing tragedy, for himself and just about everyone around him.

It is this rhythm — the light, syncopated footwork of comedy setting up stinging jabs of pathos — that makes “The Fighter” so lively, so surprising and so moving. At least since “Flirting With Disaster,” his breakthrough comedy from 1996, Mr. Russell has exhibited a bracingly kinetic directing style, for better and for worse: “Three Kings” flies like a bullet aimed at the contradictions of American global power, while “I Heart Huckabees” spins manically like a hamster’s wheel, blurring its provocative ideas into tiresome intellectual attitudes.

Mr. Russell came late to “The Fighter,” hired on after other directors had fallen through, and the project seems at once to have unleashed and reined in his extraordinary energies. He and the cast are confident enough to plunge into the richest contradictions and deepest complications of Micky Ward’s life and milieu. (The Ward-Eklund family cooperated with the filmmakers, and one of their friends, Mickey O’Keefe, plays himself on screen.)

The American working class, in its Northern and Southern Caucasian manifestations, tends to be portrayed in movies either with glib mockery or with an equally condescending solemnity. Micky and Dicky and their clan — seven sisters and that powerhouse of a mother — are vulgar, vicious, loyal, hilarious and a hundred other things, that is, entirely and sometimes embarrassingly human. To say that this family is dysfunctional would be both to understate its troubles and to narrow the film’s scope, which encompasses ethics, sociology and economics as well as psychology.

Alice, flanked by those seven Fury-like daughters — and occasionally, weakly challenged by her husband (Jack McGee) — stands out in an increasingly crowded field of monstrous movie matriarchs. (See also Mo’Nique in “Precious,” Barbara Hershey in “Black Swan” and Mother Gothel, voiced by Donna Murphy, in “Tangled.”) She and Dicky, her obvious favorite, are supposedly supporting and promoting Micky, but they always seem to undermine his chances for success, which may be their deeper intention. He can never be allowed to surpass his brother, or to think that he’s better than the rest of the family.

And “The Fighter,” while it persuasively details Micky’s travails in the ring, is more centrally about the fight between Alice and Charlene, his girlfriend, over control of his destiny. Ms. Leo, smoking and raging, as if preparing either to burn Lowell down or kick it to pieces, is a formidable presence, but she is matched by Ms. Adams, whose soft, sweet features disguise a will of steel. The best and hardest punch in a movie full of flying fists is thrown by her.

Mr. Wahlberg, for his part, leans back against the ropes and watches, underplaying so gracefully and with so little vanity that you almost forget that the movie is supposed to be about Micky. Everyone else seems to do a lot more fighting than the ostensible title character. But the brilliance of Mr. Wahlberg’s quiet performance is that it so effectively mirrors the deep logic of the story, which is finally about the paradox of a man in a violent profession who is fundamentally passive and who must learn how to find some distance from the people who love and need him the most without abandoning them or betraying himself.

“The Fighter” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has violent boxing sequences, drug use, obscenity and a bit of sex, though not enough to sap its strength.

Directed by David O. Russell; written by Scott Silver, Paul Tamasy and Eric Johnson, based on a story by Keith Dorrington, Mr. Tamasy and Mr. Johnson; director of photography, Hoyte Van Hoytema; edited by Pamela Martin; music by Michael Brook; production design by Judy Becker; costumes by Mark Bridges; produced by David Hoberman, Todd Lieberman, Ryan Kavanaugh, Mark Wahlberg, Dorothy Aufiero and Mr. Tamasy; released by Paramount Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes.
250 2010-12-10 Still, the yield is up sharply this month. It was at 2.6 percent in late November.

Most of the increase in the risk premium on bunds was simply a reaction to a similar movement in U.S. Treasuries, analysts said. U.S. Treasury prices, which move in the opposite direction as yields, reacted to the tentative deal between President Barack Obama and congressional Republicans to extend tax cuts.

Expectations that the tax cuts could bolster the U.S. economy, and raise the risk of inflation while stretching the budget, caused investors to demand a greater premium on Treasury bonds.

“We take much of the lead from U.S. Treasuries,” said David Schnautz, a bond analyst in London for Commerzbank. “They are still seen as the bellwether for the U.S. economy.”

Still, German bonds seem to be losing a little of their appeal as a haven from the turmoil elsewhere in Europe. Even if investors see a slight risk that Germany, which has the largest economy in Europe, will bear the burden of yet more support for the highly indebted countries, this risk will show up in the price of bunds.

“Despite what the German government is saying, Germany will step in to bail out countries if needed,” said Marie Diron, an economist in London who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young.

“It’s in Germany’s interest to keep the monetary union going forward. That is going to require some fresh money,” she said. “Most people still see this as not the most likely scenario,” she added. “But it is the nature of markets to price in less likely but plausible scenarios.”

The selling of bunds may also have been driven by the European Central Bank’s intervention in the market during the past week. The E.C.B. has been buying Irish, Portuguese and Greek bonds, traders said, which helped stabilize prices for those bonds but also may have drawn some demand away from bunds.

The E.C.B. does not say which bonds it is buying, and will not disclose the amount of purchases during the past week until Monday.

But Vítor Constâncio, the vice president of the E.C.B., said Thursday that the intervention was having the desired effect. “Developments speak for themselves in the last few days,” Mr. Constâncio said in Frankfurt. “In general I think the situation has stabilized.”
251 2010-12-10 The opening ceremony for the World Festival of Black Arts and Cultures, which runs from Friday through Dec. 31 in Dakar, Senegal, will feature performances by Angelique Kidjo, Youssou N'Dour, Carlinhos Brown and the Mahotella Queens.     ''The fir...
252 2010-12-10 Leah Abraham opened her cafe on Lenox Avenue in 2001 with a track record in business and a determination to chalk up another success. It never occurred to her to court the local elected officials and business and church leaders -- the Harlem estab...
253 2010-12-10 7:40 p.m. | Updated Dell may have lost the fight over 3Par, but it has found a consolation prize in another data storage company: Compellent Technologies.     The two companies announced on Thursday that Dell was in talks to buy Compellent for $27...
254 2010-12-10 Adam Lach for The International Herald TribuneLudiwk Sobolewski, president of the Warsaw Stock Exchange.     WARSAW - It may come as a surprise to some people that the upstart Warsaw Stock Exchange has surpassed the venerable Vienna exchange in tr...
255 2010-12-11 In a Marist poll, President Obama's approval rating has declined among liberals and Democrats, but the data should be interpreted cautiously....
256 2010-12-11 No player entered the N.H.L. season facing more pressure than Montreal goaltender Carey Price....
257 2010-12-11 A new paper finds that divorce rates tend to rise during recessions, but only for couples that have been married for more than five years and less than 10 years....
258 2010-12-11 Stoudemire also committed 11 turnovers, which tied another Knicks mark, set by Micheal Ray Richardson in 1981. He also had 10 rebounds, for an awkward triple-double.

The Verizon Center crowd was about evenly split between disheartened Wizards fans and energized Knicks fans, who serenaded Stoudemire with “M.V.P.” chants throughout the second half.

“It’s like we were at home,” Stoudemire marveled.

Wall, the top pick in the June draft, had only 8 points in his first game back from a foot injury and looked as if he was still ailing. Landry Fields, who was picked 38 spots after Wall but has joined him in the rookie of the year discussion, had 11 points, including a big 3-pointer in the fourth quarter.

Wilson Chandler and Danilo Gallinari had 16 points each for the Knicks. Gilbert Arenas led the Wizards with 20 points.

Having made the most of the N.B.A.’s easiest schedule for the past three weeks, the Knicks now must face the statistical consequences. Ten of their next 14 opponents have winning records, a stretch that begins with the Denver Nuggets, the Boston Celtics and the Miami Heat next week at Madison Square Garden. By the end of the month, the Knicks will also face the Oklahoma City Thunder, the Heat again and the Orlando Magic.

“You can’t negate the fact that our schedule’s been good,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said, “but now it gets hard.”

Over the last three weeks, the Knicks have shown a knack for winning fourth quarters, making timely defensive stands and learning how to get the ball to Stoudemire and stand back. Most critical, they have learned how to win, something no Knicks team has done consistently for 10 years.

“We think we can do it against anybody,” D’Antoni said.

Raymond Felton, who has been as important as Stoudemire to the turnaround, shrugged at the coming challenge.

“Yeah, we’re playing against Boston, Miami — the quote-unquote best teams in the league, so they say,” he said. “But we’re going to be ready.”

NUGGETS 123, RAPTORS 116 George Karl earned his 1,000th coaching victory as Al Harrington scored a season-high 31 points and Nene added 26 to help Denver hold off host Toronto.

The seventh coach in N.B.A. history with 1,000 wins, Karl also notched his 900th in Toronto, a 114-107 victory on Dec. 31, 2008. He shook hands with fans next to the Nuggets bench in the final seconds and was hugged by Denver’s players and assistant coaches at the final buzzer.

“He’s all about winning,” said the Nuggets’ Chauncey Billups, who scored 21 points. “He’s all about playing the right way and sharing the basketball and everybody having their opportunities out there.”

Gary Forbes had 15 points in place of the injured Carmelo Anthony as the Nuggets ended a two-game losing streak. (AP)

BULLS 88, LAKERS 84 Derrick Rose had 29 points and 9 assists, and host Chicago held off a late rally by Los Angeles for its first victory over the Lakers in nearly four years.

The 84 points marked a season low for the Lakers, the two-time defending N.B.A. champions. They were led by Kobe Bryant’s 23 points, though he shot 9 for 23 from the floor. (AP)

T’WOLVES 109, PISTONS 99 Kevin Love had 27 points and 18 rebounds and Darko Milicic blocked a career-high seven shots to lead host Minnesota. Richard Hamilton scored 26 points and the rookie Greg Monroe grabbed 15 rebounds in his first career start for Detroit, which is 2-12 on the road. (AP)

THUNDER 97, HORNETS 92 Russell Westbrook had 29 points and 10 assists and Kevin Durant scored 25 points for Oklahoma City (16-8). Westbrook scored 16 points in the second half, including an 18-foot jumper as he was fouled by Chris Paul of host New Orleans to give the Thunder a 93-87 lead with 1:41 to go.

David West had 24 points and 13 rebounds for the Hornets. (AP)

PACERS 100, BOBCATS 92 Danny Granger scored 18 points to lead Indiana at Charlotte. Roy Hibbert had 13 points, 14 rebounds, 6 assists and 3 blocks for the Pacers.

JAZZ 117, MAGIC 105 Deron Williams scored a season-high 32 points as host Utah sent Orlando to its fourth straight loss. Jameer Nelson scored 19 for the Magic. (AP)

TRAIL BLAZERS 101, SUNS 94 Marcus Camby had 16 points and 18 rebounds and Brandon Roy added 26 points to help visiting Portland win its fourth straight. Steve Nash had 24 points for Phoenix, which lost its third straight. (AP)

BUCKS 97, ROCKETS 91 Andrew Bogut had 24 points, 22 rebounds and 5 blocked shots as Milwaukee finished a homestand 3-1. Houston could not rally in the final minute despite 23 points from Kevin Martin. (AP)

SPURS 108, HAWKS 92 Richard Jefferson and Manu Ginobili scored 18 points each for host San Antonio, which won its fourth straight and improved to 19-3. Jamal Crawford scored 23 for Atlanta, which has not won in San Antonio since 1997. (AP)

AROUND THE LEAGUE Guard Stephen Curry, Golden State’s No. 2 scorer, sat out against Miami and will likely miss more time because of a sprained right ankle, sustained Wednesday. ... Los Angeles Clippers center Chris Kaman will miss at least three weeks because of an aggravated bone bruise and ligament sprain of his left ankle. (AP)
259 2010-12-11 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog, and other drawings are available on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.      What I'm about to relate is a story I suspect man...
260 2010-12-11 The drug company Pfizer is withdrawing the blood pressure drug Thelin from Europe, Canada and Australia and halting clinical trials it was conducting in a years-long quest to gain approval in the United States, the company said on Friday.     Thel...
261 2010-12-11 Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg NewsSamir Assaf     HSBC said Friday that it had named Samir Assaf as head of its global banking and markets business, in a second round of senior management appointments ahead of Stuart Gulliver's taking on the role of ...
262 2010-12-12 The bankruptcy filing by the operator of A.&P. and Pathmark supermarkets is among the biggest in a year that has seen relatively few multibillion-dollar cases....
263 2010-12-12 Banks’ influence over this market, and over clearinghouses like the one this select group advises, has costly implications for businesses large and small, like Dan Singer’s home heating-oil company in Westchester County, north of .

This fall, many of Mr. Singer’s customers purchased fixed-rate plans to lock in winter at around $3 a gallon. While that price was above the prevailing $2.80 a gallon then, the contracts will protect homeowners if bitterly cold weather pushes the price higher.

But Mr. Singer wonders if his company, Robison Oil, should be getting a better deal. He uses derivatives like swaps and options to create his fixed plans. But he has no idea how much lower his prices — and his customers’ prices — could be, he says, because banks don’t disclose fees associated with the derivatives.

“At the end of the day, I don’t know if I got a fair price, or what they’re charging me,” Mr. Singer said.

Derivatives shift risk from one party to another, and they offer many benefits, like enabling Mr. Singer to sell his fixed plans without having to bear all the risk that oil prices could suddenly rise. Derivatives are also big business on Wall Street. Banks collect many billions of dollars annually in undisclosed fees associated with these instruments — an amount that almost certainly would be lower if there were more competition and transparent prices.

Just how much derivatives trading costs ordinary Americans is uncertain. The size and reach of this market has grown rapidly over the past two decades. Pension funds today use derivatives to hedge . States and cities use them to try to hold down borrowing costs. Airlines use them to secure steady fuel prices. Food companies use them to lock in prices of commodities like wheat or beef.

The marketplace as it functions now “adds up to higher costs to all Americans,” said , the chairman of the , which regulates most derivatives. More oversight of the banks in this market is needed, he said.

But big banks influence the rules governing derivatives through a variety of industry groups. The banks’ latest point of influence are clearinghouses like ICE Trust, which holds the monthly meetings with the nine bankers in New York.

Under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, many derivatives will be traded via such clearinghouses. Mr. Gensler wants to lessen banks’ control over these new institutions. But Republican lawmakers, many of whom received large campaign contributions from bankers who want to influence how the derivatives rules are written, say they plan to push back against much of the coming reform. On Thursday, the commission canceled a vote over a proposal to make prices more transparent, raising speculation that Mr. Gensler did not have enough support from his fellow commissioners.

The Department of Justice is looking into derivatives, too. The department’s antitrust unit is actively investigating “the possibility of anticompetitive practices in the derivatives clearing, trading and information services industries,” according to a department spokeswoman.

Indeed, the derivatives market today reminds some experts of the Nasdaq stock market in the 1990s. Back then, the Justice Department discovered that Nasdaq market makers were secretly colluding to protect their own profits. Following that scandal, reforms and electronic trading systems cut Nasdaq stock trading costs to 1/20th of their former level — an enormous savings for investors.

“When you limit participation in the governance of an entity to a few like-minded institutions or individuals who have an interest in keeping competitors out, you have the potential for bad things to happen. It’s antitrust 101,” said Robert E. Litan, who helped oversee the Justice Department’s Nasdaq investigation as deputy assistant attorney general and is now a fellow at the Kauffman Foundation. “The history of derivatives trading is it has grown up as a very concentrated industry, and old habits are hard to break.”

Representatives from the nine banks that dominate the market declined to comment on the Department of Justice investigation.

Clearing involves keeping track of trades and providing a central repository for money backing those wagers. A spokeswoman for , which is among the most influential of the group, said this system will reduce the risks in the market. She said that Deutsche is focused on ensuring this process is put in place without disrupting the marketplace.

The Deutsche spokeswoman also said the banks’ role in this process has been a success, saying in a statement that the effort “is one of the best examples of public-private partnerships.”

Established, But Can’t Get In

The ’s origins go back to 1784, when it was founded by . Today, it provides administrative services on more than $23 trillion of institutional money.

Recently, the bank has been seeking to enter the inner circle of the derivatives market, but so far, it has been rebuffed.

Bank of New York officials say they have been thwarted by competitors who control important committees at the new clearinghouses, which were set up in the wake of the financial crisis.

Bank of New York Mellon has been trying to become a so-called clearing member since early this year. But three of the four main clearinghouses told the bank that its derivatives operation has too little capital, and thus potentially poses too much risk to the overall market.

The bank dismisses that explanation as absurd. “We are not a nobody,” said Sanjay Kannambadi, chief executive of BNY Mellon Clearing, a subsidiary created to get into the business. “But we don’t qualify. We certainly think that’s kind of crazy.”

The real reason the bank is being shut out, he said, is that rivals want to preserve their profit margins, and they are the ones who helped write the membership rules.

Mr. Kannambadi said Bank of New York’s clients asked it to enter the derivatives business because they believe they are being charged too much by big banks. Its entry could lower fees. Others that have yet to gain full entry to the derivatives trading club are the , and small brokerage firms like and Newedge.

The criteria seem arbitrary, said Marcus Katz, a senior vice president at Newedge, which is owned by two big French banks.

“It appears that the membership criteria were set so that a certain group of market participants could meet that, and everyone else would have to jump through hoops,” Mr. Katz said.

The one new derivatives clearinghouse that has welcomed Newedge, Bank of New York and the others — Nasdaq — has been avoided by the big derivatives banks.

Only the Insiders Know

How did big banks come to have such influence that they can decide who can compete with them?

Ironically, this development grew in part out of worries during the height of the financial crisis in 2008. A major concern during the meltdown was that no one — not even government regulators — fully understood the size and interconnections of the derivatives market, especially the market in , which insure against defaults of companies or . The panic led to the need to bail out the , for instance, which had C.D.S. contracts with many large banks.

In the midst of the turmoil, regulators ordered banks to speed up plans — long in the making — to set up a clearinghouse to handle derivatives trading. The intent was to reduce risk and increase stability in the market.

Two established exchanges that trade commodities and futures, the InterContinentalExchange, or ICE, and the , set up clearinghouses, and, so did Nasdaq.

Each of these new clearinghouses had to persuade big banks to join their efforts, and they doled out membership on their risk committees, which is where trading rules are written, as an incentive.

None of the three clearinghouses would divulge the members of their risk committees when asked by a reporter. But two people with direct knowledge of ICE’s committee said the bank members are: Thomas J. Benison of JPMorgan Chase & Company; James J. Hill of Morgan Stanley; Athanassios Diplas of Deutsche Bank; Paul Hamill of ; Paul Mitrokostas of ; Andy Hubbard of ; Oliver Frankel of Goldman Sachs; Ali Balali of ; and Biswarup Chatterjee of .

Through representatives, these bankers declined to discuss the committee or the derivatives market. Some of the spokesmen noted that the bankers have expertise that helps the clearinghouse.

Many of these same people hold influential positions at other clearinghouses, or on committees at the powerful International Swaps and Derivatives Association, which helps govern the market.

Critics have called these banks the “derivatives dealers club,” and they warn that the club is unlikely to give up ground easily.

“The revenue these dealers make on derivatives is very large and so the incentive they have to protect those revenues is extremely large,” said Darrell Duffie, a professor at the Graduate School of Business at , who studied the derivatives market earlier this year with Federal Reserve researchers. “It will be hard for the dealers to keep their market share if everybody who can prove their creditworthiness is allowed into the clearinghouses. So they are making arguments that others shouldn’t be allowed in.”

Perhaps no business in finance is as profitable today as derivatives. Not making . Not offering credit cards. Not advising on mergers and acquisitions. Not managing money for the wealthy.

The precise amount that banks make trading derivatives isn’t known, but there is anecdotal evidence of their profitability. Former bank traders who spoke on condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements with their former employers said their banks typically earned $25,000 for providing $25 million of insurance against the risk that a corporation might default on its debt via the swaps market. These traders turn over millions of dollars in these trades every day, and credit default swaps are just one of many kinds of derivatives.

The secrecy surrounding derivatives trading is a key factor enabling banks to make such large profits.

If an investor trades shares of or or any other company on a stock exchange, the price — and the commission, or fee — are known. Electronic trading has made this information available to anyone with a computer, while also increasing competition — and sharply lowering the cost of trading. Even corporate bonds have become more transparent recently. Trading costs dropped there almost immediately after prices became more visible in 2002.

Not so with derivatives. For many, there is no central exchange, like the or Nasdaq, where the prices of derivatives are listed. Instead, when a company or an investor wants to buy a derivative contract for, say, oil or wheat or securitized mortgages, an order is placed with a trader at a bank. The trader matches that order with someone selling the same type of derivative.

Banks explain that many derivatives trades have to work this way because they are often customized, unlike shares of stock. One share of Google is the same as any other. But the terms of an oil derivatives contract can vary greatly.

And the profits on most derivatives are masked. In most cases, buyers are told only what they have to pay for the derivative contract, say $25 million. That amount is more than the seller gets, but how much more — $5,000, $25,000 or $50,000 more — is unknown. That’s because the seller also is told only the amount he will receive. The difference between the two is the bank’s fee and profit. So, the bigger the difference, the better for the bank — and the worse for the customers.

It would be like a real estate agent selling a house, but the buyer knowing only what he paid and the seller knowing only what he received. The agent would pocket the difference as his fee, rather than disclose it. Moreover, only the real estate agent — and neither buyer nor seller — would have easy access to the prices paid recently for other homes on the same block.

Two years ago, Kenneth C. Griffin, owner of the giant hedge fund Citadel Group, which is based in , proposed open pricing for commonly traded derivatives, by quoting their prices electronically. Citadel oversees $11 billion in assets, so saving even a few percentage points in costs on each trade could add up to tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars a year.

But Mr. Griffin’s proposal for an electronic exchange quickly ran into opposition, and what happened is a window into how banks have fiercely fought competition and open pricing. To get a transparent exchange going, Citadel offered the use of its technological prowess for a joint venture with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which is best-known as a trading outpost for contracts on commodities like coffee and cotton. The goal was to set up a clearinghouse as well as an electronic trading system that would display prices for credit default swaps.

Big banks that handle most derivatives trades, including Citadel’s, didn’t like Citadel’s idea. Electronic trading might connect customers directly with each other, cutting out the banks as middlemen.

So the banks responded in the fall of 2008 by pairing with ICE, one of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s rivals, which was setting up its own clearinghouse. The banks attached a number of conditions on that partnership, which came in the form of a merger between ICE’s clearinghouse and a nascent clearinghouse that the banks were establishing. These conditions gave the banks significant power at ICE’s clearinghouse, according to two people with knowledge of the deal. For instance, the banks insisted that ICE install the chief executive of their effort as the head of the joint effort. That executive, Dirk Pruis, left after about a year and now works at Goldman Sachs. Through a spokesman, he declined to comment.

The banks also refused to allow the deal with ICE to close until the clearinghouse’s rulebook was established, with provisions in the banks’ favor. Key among those were the membership rules, which required members to hold large amounts of capital in derivatives units, a condition that was prohibitive even for some large banks like the Bank of New York.

The banks also required ICE to provide market data exclusively to Markit, a little-known company that plays a pivotal role in derivatives. Backed by Goldman, JPMorgan and several other banks, Markit provides crucial information about derivatives, like prices.

Kevin Gould, who is the president of Markit and was involved in the clearinghouse merger, said the banks were simply being prudent and wanted rules that protected the market and themselves.

“The one thing I know the banks are concerned about is their risk capital,” he said. “You really are going to get some comfort that the way the entity operates isn’t going to put you at undue risk.”

Even though the banks were working with ICE, Citadel and the C.M.E. continued to move forward with their exchange. They, too, needed to work with Markit, because it owns the rights to certain derivatives indexes. But Markit put them in a tough spot by basically insisting that every trade involve at least one bank, since the banks are the main parties that have licenses with Markit.

This demand from Markit effectively secured a permanent role for the big derivatives banks since Citadel and the C.M.E. could not move forward without Markit’s agreement. And so, essentially boxed in, they agreed to the terms, according to the two people with knowledge of the matter. (A spokesman for C.M.E. said last week that the exchange did not cave to Markit’s terms.)

Still, even after that deal was complete, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange soon had second thoughts about working with Citadel and about introducing electronic screens at all. The C.M.E. backed out of the deal in mid-2009, ending Mr. Griffin’s dream of a new, electronic trading system.

With Citadel out of the picture, the banks agreed to join the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s clearinghouse effort. The exchange set up a risk committee that, like ICE’s committee, was mainly populated by bankers.

It remains unclear why the C.M.E. ended its electronic trading initiative. Two people with knowledge of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s clearinghouse said the banks refused to get involved unless the exchange dropped Citadel and the entire plan for electronic trading.

Kim Taylor, the president of Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s clearing division, said “the market” simply wasn’t interested in Mr. Griffin’s idea.

Critics now say the banks have an edge because they have had early control of the new clearinghouses’ risk committees. Ms. Taylor at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange said the people on those committees are supposed to look out for the interest of the broad market, rather than their own narrow interests. She likened the banks’ role to that of lawmakers who look out for the interests of the nation, not just their constituencies.

“It’s not like the sort of representation where if I’m elected to be the representative from the state of , I go there to represent the state of Illinois,” Ms. Taylor said in an interview.

Officials at ICE, meantime, said they solicit views from customers through a committee that is separate from the bank-dominated risk committee.

“We spent and we still continue to spend a lot of time on thinking about governance,” said Peter Barsoom, the chief operating officer of ICE Trust. “We want to be sure that we have all the right stakeholders appropriately represented.”

Mr. Griffin said last week that customers have so far paid the price for not yet having electronic trading. He puts the toll, by a rough estimate, in the tens of billions of dollars, saying that electronic trading would remove much of this “economic rent the dealers enjoy from a market that is so opaque.”

“It’s a stunning amount of money,” Mr. Griffin said. “The key players today in the derivatives market are very apprehensive about whether or not they will be winners or losers as we move towards more transparent, fairer markets, and since they’re not sure if they’ll be winners or losers, their basic instinct is to resist change.”

In, Out and Around Henhouse

The result of the maneuvering of the past couple years is that big banks dominate the risk committees of not one, but two of the most prominent new clearinghouses in the .

That puts them in a pivotal position to determine how derivatives are traded.

Under the Dodd-Frank bill, the clearinghouses were given broad authority. The risk committees there will help decide what prices will be charged for clearing trades, on top of fees banks collect for matching buyers and sellers, and how much money customers must put up as collateral to cover potential losses.

Perhaps more important, the risk committees will recommend which derivatives should be handled through clearinghouses, and which should be exempt.

Regulators will have the final say. But banks, which lobbied heavily to limit derivatives regulation in the Dodd-Frank bill, are likely to argue that few types of derivatives should have to go through clearinghouses. Critics contend that the bankers will try to keep many types of derivatives away from the clearinghouses, since clearinghouses represent a step towards broad electronic trading that could decimate profits.

The banks already have a head start. Even a newly proposed rule to limit the banks’ influence over clearing allows them to retain majorities on risk committees. It remains unclear whether regulators creating the new rules — on topics like transparency and possible electronic trading — will drastically change derivatives trading, or leave the bankers with great control.

One former regulator warned against deferring to the banks. Theo Lubke, who until this fall oversaw the derivatives reforms at the , said banks do not always think of the market as a whole as they help write rules.

“Fundamentally, the banks are not good at self-regulation,” Mr. Lubke said in a panel last March at . “That’s not their expertise, that’s not their primary interest.”
264 2010-12-12 “Juárez is open for business,” said Toby M. Spoon, the executive vice president of Tecma, an outsourcing company based in El Paso that will celebrate 25 years in business next year.

A shelter operation that provides factory space, employees and legal expertise to businesses with a manufacturing presence in Mexico, Tecma had one of its best years in 2009, Mr. Spoon said. The company signed five new clients and netted an estimated $45 million in profits.

“I have discovered maybe an unsavory part of human nature: If we can make money, and it’s not just too bad, then we are going to go for it,” Mr. Spoon said.

Yet it is not business as usual in Juárez. The jobs added in the last year and a half are only a quarter of what was lost during the height of the recession, said Bob Cook, the president of the El Paso Regional Economic Development Corporation. But Mr. Cook echoed his fellow business leaders in arguing that drug-related violence posed no real threat to commerce.

The job loss “is in the manufacturing and distribution side,” Mr. Cook said. “You absolutely see a complete tie-in with the economy and not with the violence.”

All of the development corporation’s clients are concerned about the violence, Mr. Cook said, and all are conducting “due diligence.” Yet 15 companies have notified the corporation of their intent to expand or move their operations to Juárez since 2008. Only one potential newcomer opted out of setting up shop in the area, and two have chosen El Paso instead. The trend, Mr. Cook said, will help restore the region to prerecession levels, when more than 50,000 jobs in El Paso, in retail or manufacturing, were the result of Juárez’s manufacturing industry.

Companies in the United States realized they had very thin inventories, “and so producers began to arrive to Mexico’s maquila plants very fast, and the well turned around very strongly,” said Roberto Coronado, an economist in the El Paso branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. “That happened in the summer of last year. The maquilas grew very strong in the first few months, and what we’re seeing is that they’re still growing but at a much slower pace.”

As of August, there were 338 maquiladoras in Juárez, up from 336 in December 2009.

The violence has had some effect on the way business leaders conduct their daily affairs. Mr. Spoon said he tried not to take the same route to Tecma’s Juárez factories from one day to the next. Traveling in an armored vehicle or with an entourage, he said, would be too flashy and would only draw the attention of people who might wish him ill, so instead, he simply does not share his schedule with anyone, even his colleagues. If someone called Mr. Spoon’s Juárez office and asked what time he would arrive for work, he said, the receptionist would be telling the truth if she said she did not know.

“The more fuzzy you can make the details, the better,” he said.

The government-mandated aguinaldo — the lump-sum savings deducted from maquila workers’ paychecks and then distributed during the holiday season — has also been affected. Mr. Spoon said there were discussions about disbursing the money quarterly after criminals were rumored to have threatened factory supervisors into handing over the savings or face retribution.

“It used to be given on a certain day — now we don’t announce it,” he said of distributing the savings, which equal about 15 days of wages.

Despite the precautions, Tecma’s employees have suffered the consequences of the chaos in Juárez. Some of their relatives have died, and others have been extorted. Mr. Cook and his colleagues at the development corporation have a 49-slide presentation, called “Conducting Business in the Current Security Environment in Ciudad Juárez,” that highlights the retail gains, commercial movement, real estate occupancy and migration issues, as well as the territories for which the cartels in Mexico are vying — and killing one another.

“It’s not our job to convince a company that it’s safe to operate there,” Mr. Cook said. “Our job is to make sure that if a company is evaluating the potential of locating in the City of Juárez, they have all the information they need to make an informed decision.”

Inside the gates of the maquilas, the precautions, the analysis and the concerns are hidden from the majority of the factory workers — if not forever, then at least for the duration of their shifts, said Blanca Estela Prieto, a supervisor at Portage Electronic Products.

“We live in a different world here,” she said. “The violence exists outside for us. I feel the fear when I leave, but inside, no.”
265 2010-12-12 Rachel Penski and Ryan Fissell were married Saturday evening at Studio 450, an event space in New York. Megan Bess, a friend of the bride’s who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.

Mrs. Fissell, 33, is a litigation associate at the New York law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley, McCloy. She graduated from Cornell University and received a law degree from Vanderbilt.

She is the daughter of Patti and Frank Penski of New York. Her father is a senior partner in the New York law firm Nixon Peabody. Her mother is a guidance counselor at the Henry Street School for International Studies, a public high school in New York.

Mr. Fissell, 38, was until October a product manager for LimeWire, an online file-sharing service in New York. He graduated from Providence College.

He is a son of Patsy and Michael Fissell of Weston, Conn. His father is vice president for sales of Connecticut Business Systems, a supplier of printers, copiers and other office equipment in Newington, Conn. His mother retired as the registrar for Weston High School.
266 2010-12-12 Credit: Kirsten Luce for The New York Times
267 2010-12-12 In the early 19th century, the United States Navy and Marines played a small but significant part in the demise of the Barbary corsairs, the pirates who terrorized the Mediterranean from their bases in Algiers, Tunis, Tripoli and Morocco. As a result, we Americans have tended to view this history through the lens of our own past. Adrian Tinniswood’s dramatic narrative, “Pirates of Barbary,” reminds us that the corsairs had preyed on Europeans long before the United States arrived on the scene. Indeed, they reached the height of their power in the 17th century, not long after the pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock.

Because the Barbary states were Islamic, and their victims predominantly Christian, the conflict was understood on both sides as a clash of civilizations. In the Islamic world, the corsairs were hailed as “mujahedeen” who had devoted themselves to “sea-jihad” against Christian encroachments. Europeans deplored “Mahometan tyranny” and conflated Islam and piracy as if they were one and the same — “the present terror of the world.” But once the veneer of religious purpose was stripped away, Barbary piracy was a commercial enterprise, offering a handsome livelihood to those dusty, sun-drenched city-states for the better part of three centuries.

The four seaports were well situated to prey on passing ship traffic. Their harbors, enclosed by perilous shoals on a lee shore, could not be blockaded except at great risk and expense. Their small, heavily manned, fast-sailing vessels could sally out, attack unprotected merchant ships and retreat to safety behind their shore guns. Ships and cargoes could be seized and sold, but the most fantastic profits lay in slave-raiding for men, women and children, who were stripped, beaten and transported back to port in chains, where they were put to hard labor, ransomed for extravagant sums, conscripted into private harems or sold at auction. When captured ships did not produce the desired head counts, the corsairs descended like latter-day Vikings on defenseless coastal communities in Italy, Greece, France, Spain and even as far away as Ireland and Iceland.

Tinniswood, the author of several works of English history, explains that for all the talk of a confrontation between Christianity and Islam, the most notorious corsairs were European renegades who had learned the trade on “privateers,” or private warships commissioned by a government to prey on enemy merchantmen. European wars tended to drag on for decades, providing a stable living to privateersmen — but whenever peace arrived, as it periodically did, it threw thousands of these professional sea warriors on hard times. Not surprisingly, many turned pirate. In the early 17th century, the Mediterranean swarmed with pirate ships manned by blue-eyed Caucasians who spoke English, Dutch or Cornish. In Barbary, they found convenient bases to outfit their ships, as well as ready markets for their booty and slaves. Tunis, especially, was an international rogues’ gallery in which Arabs, Berbers and other African nomads assimilated with Turks, Greeks, Spaniards, Italians, Dutchmen, Englishmen and ethnically Greek or Balkan Janissaries, elite soldiers who owed allegiance to the Ottoman throne. In mid-17th-century Tunis, the lofty posts of pasha and dey were variously occupied by a Greek, a Venetian, a Genoan, a Corsican and an Albanian. The supreme admiral of the Tunisian fleet was often a European outcast. Their descendants were born into Islam, and their bloodlines ran together. Who were these people?

Fatefully, the European outcasts brought previously unknown seafaring expertise to the business of Barbary piracy. In the prior century, the corsairs had gone to sea in galleys propelled by oars. The renegades fit out state-of-the-art sailing ships that could spread terror well beyond the Strait of Gibraltar, and they often returned to the waters they were familiar with — off Ireland, Britain and Northern Europe — where the sea lanes offered no shortage of fat, opulent targets. They even found bases of support in western Ireland, where stolen cargoes could be bartered for weapons and provisions and the seaports offered “a good store of English, Scottish and Irish wenches.”

A few pirates grew homesick and tried to bribe their way back into the law’s good graces. One almost sympathizes with the English pirate Richard Bishop, who declared, “I will die a poor laborer in mine own country, if I may, rather than be the richest pirate in the world.” King James I of England, despairing of stopping the corsairs’ marauding along his shores, issued a blanket pardon to all his subjects who returned to the fold. Whatever their crimes, the pirates possessed coveted skills, and it was better they should serve their country as privateersmen or naval officers than remain corsairs or (worse) auction their services to a rival crown. One pardoned ex-pirate, Henry Mainwaring, became a pillar of English society. He was knighted, elected to Parliament, appointed vice admiral of the navy and hired onto the Oxford faculty as a “doctor of physic.”

Piracy is as old as seafaring, but it was these pirates — the salt-stained desperadoes of the 17th century — who first inflated a literary-cultural bubble that has yet to burst. Poets, playwrights and pamphleteers regarded them with equal parts horror and fascination, blended with a telling dollop of admiration. Tinniswood approaches these sources with healthy skepticism, warning the reader when he suspects dramatic embellishment — but he also allows his pirates to shine through the narrative in all their roguish glory. John Ward, an English “arch-pirate” based in Tunis, is described by a contemporary as “bald in front, swarthy face and beard. Speaks little, and almost always swearing. Drunk from morn till night. Most prodigal and plucky.” Reading Ward’s alleged declaration, “Here’s a scurvy world, and as scurvily we live in it,” one imagines the words on the sneering lips of Geoffrey Rush.

Refreshingly, Tinniswood does not tell us that the Barbary corsairs were the original Islamic terrorists, a recurring marketing hook for books on this topic. He acknowledges the more plausible analogy between the corsairs and modern-day Somali pirates, but even here he is commendably skeptical. It is too easy to say that nothing has changed. A lot has changed. The Somali pirates are not working hand in glove with renegade foreign naval officers; they do not sign treaties with foreign governments in exchange for lavish annual payments of tribute; they do not descend on faraway shores and carry away hundreds of innocent civilians at a time. “Pirates are history,” Tinniswood writes, and whatever lessons that history has to offer are best extracted with a surgeon’s scalpel, not a bulldozer.

Above all, “Pirates of Barbary” reminds us that history, whatever else it is, is also a genre of literature. It always has been, ever since it was first written down by the ancient chroniclers. You can scour it all you like for insights, arguments and conclusions. But it’s still worth reading if only because it’s bloody good ­entertainment.
268 2010-12-12 ONE telling moment on “Michael,” the first full album of posthumous Michael Jackson songs, is a snippet that might never have appeared during his life: a backstage glimpse of a performer who always strove to appear perfectly polished.

It must be an excerpt from a demo. At the beginning of “(I Like) The Way You Love Me,” Jackson’s staticky voice announces, “Hey, this is the tempo, and this is the melody.” He sings a line, then switches to vocal beat-boxing. As the fully arranged track segues in, he reappears singing the melody, unchanged but now hi-fi: a studio version of the song that was in his head. Like “This Is It,” the 2009 documentary of rehearsals for his 50 comeback shows at the O2 arena in London — the ones he did not live to perform — it’s a chance to see the human being, the skillful and driven trouper, behind the superstar.

Is that how Jackson would have released the song had he lived? It is, of course, impossible to know. That question hangs over all of “Michael,” which is the first full album in a seven-year deal between the Jackson estate and Sony Music, reportedly worth $250 million, to put out previously unreleased material, probably video as well as music.

There have been reports that Jackson left behind hundreds of unreleased songs. Yet if “Michael” is any indication, his posthumous career will not be a matter of simply revealing what was in his archives, but also of transforming the material into a current commercial product: finishing songs he started while he was alive, guessing at his intentions and hoping to live up to his inspirations. He danced with zombies in the video for “Thriller”; now he returns, reanimated. “Michael,” frankly, is not a great start.

The album has just 10 songs and 42 minutes of music, a half-hour shorter than his previous CD-filling studio albums. Jackson had been working with hit making producers like Rodney Jerkins, Lady Gaga’s collaborator Red One and Will.i.am of Black Eyed Peas; none of those tracks are on “Michael.”

The album doesn’t include “This Is It,” the song reconstituted for the documentary. It was, apparently to the surprise of the Jackson estate at the time, originally called “I Never Heard,” written by Jackson and Paul Anka and recorded by Safire. Nor does it unveil the long-rumored “Thriller” outtake “Don’t Be Messin’ Around,” or other songs attributed to Jackson that have surfaced online. What “Michael” does include is more reiteration than revelation. Nearly a year and a half after his death it comes across as a rush job — or just leftovers.

“Michael” isn’t shy about exploiting morbid thoughts. The first words on the album are “This life don’t last forever,” in “Hold My Hand,” an Akon song that gives Jackson about a verse and a half before Akon takes over lead vocals. Yet recording technology defies the finality of death, and now there’s always the possibility of another remix, another arrangement. Particularly for a musician like Jackson, whose solo albums were slowly and painstakingly worked over, posthumous releases occupy an eerie artistic limbo. They are treasured as new relics from a voice silenced forever. Yet they are also suspect because the artist cannot have the final say. Pop careers are built, among many other factors, on quality control, on a musician’s instincts about what to reveal to the world and what to hold back. And Jackson, who had not released a studio album since “Invincible” in 2001, was notoriously perfectionistic.

Now other people have sorted through the discards, the rough drafts, the fragments, the songs that could have interrupted the flow of an album, the songs that might be forgotten gems or embarrassing dead ends. And other people have decided how those songs will be heard.

Jackson has started a stunning posthumous career. He was the best-selling act of 2009, with sales of more than 8.2 million albums that year alone. And the bigger the performer, the more temptation there is to market the archives. Elvis Presley’s music has been reissued album by album, collected in volumes of hits, compiled chronologically, resifted by style and, lately, remixed as electronic anachronisms. Jimi Hendrix’s unreleased recordings have been alternately ravaged (with original backing musicians replaced by overdubbing) and respected. Tupac Shakur’s first four posthumous albums were million sellers.

Even a finished album can receive a posthumous remake; Yoko Ono has overseen “Double Fantasy Stripped Down,” a radically different 2010 mix of “Double Fantasy,” the album she shared with John Lennon in 1980. Less extreme revisions take place every time an old album is remastered. In the digital era authenticity is pretty much a lost cause.

“Michael” has already had one authenticity crisis. “Breaking News” — yet another song about media plotting to destroy him, with a rhythm track like a warmed-over “Smooth Criminal” — was released before the album, and some Jackson family members immediately asserted the lead vocal was an imitation. It is indeed odd to hear a pop singer repeating his own name: “Everybody wanting a piece of Michael Jackson/Reporters stalking the moves of Michael Jackson.” Sony Music produced a rebuttal with statements from many producers and musicians who had worked with Jackson, saying that the voice was indeed his.

In “(I Like) The Way You Love Me,” the vocals are unquestionably by Jackson, who released a different version — “The Way You Love Me,” now described by Sony as a demo — as bait for collectors in the 2004 boxed set “The Ultimate Collection.” That version incorporated the beat-box rhythm, a brisk double time, as part of its beat, and accompanied him with electric-keyboard chords.
269 2010-12-12 On the third Wednesday of every month, the nine members of an elite Wall Street society gather in Midtown Manhattan.      The men share a common goal: to protect the interests of big banks in the vast market for derivatives, one of the most profit...
270 2010-12-12 Originally, I was going to write a quick post on how the Environmental Protection Agency has named the Bugatti Veyron the biggest gas guzzler on the market. The agency recently released its 2011 fuel economy list, and smack dab at the top of the l...
271 2010-12-13 Masayoshi Son, the billionaire founder of Softbank, owns big chunks of Yahoo's most valuable investment stakes: Yahoo Japan and the Alibaba Group, one of China's largest Internet companies....
272 2010-12-13 Microsoft intends to announce new tablet computers at the Consumer Electronics Show, the latest attempt in its decade-long quest to popularize the mobile computers....
273 2010-12-13 Pfizer, the drug giant, selects a chairman with experience in the global floor and ceiling business....
274 2010-12-13 Prosecutors face considerable obstacles in proving criminal charges if they have only sketchy evidence of an executive's involvement in questionable decisions and the applicable legal standards are vague....
275 2010-12-13 Watch for signs of tension between the three new directors and the rest of the board....
276 2010-12-13 Seeking readers' stories on this year's early-admission notifications....
277 2010-12-13 One thing you can do: Price it right....
278 2010-12-13 Shell, Chesapeake Energy and others are pushing regulators to go easy in crafting new derivatives rules....
279 2010-12-13 The outlook for gas prices, do-it-yourself jobs for college graduates and other consumer-focused items from Monday's Times....
280 2010-12-13 Huntington Bancshares says it will use the proceeds to buy back the preferred shares it issued to the Treasury Department under the Troubled Asset Relief Program....
281 2010-12-13 A longtime partner of the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison discovered the body of Mark Madoff, who committed suicide on Sunday....
282 2010-12-13 Could your family members work together for 100 years?...
283 2010-12-13 JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are among the members of a secretive club that holds the keys to essentially running the lucrative derivatives market....
284 2010-12-13 Peter Nachtwey, who helped take the Blackstone Group public, is leaving three and a half years after he joined Carlyle....
285 2010-12-13 Still, many passengers profess to hate the screens, deeming them squawking irritants. But the impulse to hit the off button may be a myth: the televisions stay on 85 percent of the time that cabs have passengers inside, according to data that the screens’ operators have provided to the Taxi and Limousine Commission.

Such statistics have helped persuade skeptical businesses to embrace a medium that got its start in 2007, when New York became the first major city to require that cabs have televisions.

“When they first approached me, I said, ‘You have got to be kidding me,’ ” said Joe Barron, the owner of Definitions, a high-end Manhattan fitness chain that has advertised in taxis since last winter. Mr. Barron assumed that passengers would simply shut off the screens or ignore them, until he ran a test campaign and found his phone ringing with clients.

He has renewed his account six times since then, he said, and he is prepared to spend half a million dollars next year on taxi commercials, at the expense of advertising on the Internet or in magazines.

“Even if they are not watching the entire ad, they see our name up there,” Mr. Barron said. “They see our brand. They know we’re out there.”

Agencies are looking to expand taxi advertising into markets like Boston, Chicago and Miami.

In New York, taxi passengers are shown a mix of news, weather and light cultural fare on a single channel provided by either WABC or WNBC. Next year, the city plans to add a second channel of government-produced programming, including shows like “$9.99” and “NYC4Free,” which point viewers to inexpensive goings-on in the city.

The second channel is intended to provide passengers with a greater range of entertainment options, city officials said. “With two channels, there’s a better chance for content you’re happy with,” said David S. Yassky, the taxi and limousine commissioner.

But the new channel will not add to the city’s coffers: New York receives none of the advertising revenue from taxicabs. The profits are split between the sales agency and the channels that provide programming. In some cases, cab owners receive a cut, although drivers almost invariably do not.

It remains difficult to track sales of taxi-screen advertising. The agencies that oversee the sales would not release specific revenue figures, and industry observers like the Nielsen Company do not keep detailed statistics on the emerging field.

But VeriFone Media Solutions, which handles advertising sales for about 12,000 yellow cabs — nearly the entire fleet — said its revenue was up 60 percent in the past year. In November, the company had 105 active campaigns, compared with 67 a year ago. About two-thirds of its sales are from national brands, with a heavy concentration in financial services, fashion and retail companies, and tie-ins to films and television shows.

“Like anything, people had to get used to it,” said Chris Polos, the company’s vice president of sales and marketing.

To lure advertisers, agencies promote taxis as a closed, uncluttered environment that allows for direct engagement with an audience.

“Taxi riders are young, educated and upscale,” reads a promotional pamphlet sent to potential clients by WABC, which provides programming for about half of the city’s taxicabs.

The pamphlet claims that taxi passengers skew slightly female and that nearly half earn more than $100,000 a year. A 30-second advertisement running in half of the city’s taxi fleet could be seen more than 200,000 times a day — at a weekly cost of about $20,000.

The city is finalizing a two-year contract extension with Creative Mobile Technologies and VeriFone Systems, the vendors that install and operate the screens, and the revenue arrangement is not expected to change. (VeriFone Systems is the corporate parent of VeriFone Media Solutions.)

Taxicab owners must pay fees to the vendors in exchange for providing the screens, which also allow passengers to pay by credit card. Since owners must enter into individual contracts with the vendors, some have arranged for a cut of the advertising revenue, although this is not common across the industry.

Mr. Yassky, the taxi commissioner, said the televisions improved the quality of the taxi experience for passengers. There have been other benefits, too: the ability to pay by credit card, for example, has been credited with a rise in ridership despite the recession.

Mr. Yassky said that in lieu of demanding advertising revenue, the city hoped that the additional income for vendors might encourage them to lower the fees they charge to cab owners, which could in turn reduce the pressure to increase fares.

“I don’t think advertising is so much an opportunity for city revenue,” he said, “so much as an opportunity to keep fares down.”
286 2010-12-13 The proposal is tougher than tax cap efforts in some other states, allowing only “narrow, limited exemptions” to the cap, like for large legal settlements and extraordinary capital expenditures. It could, however, be overridden by local communities with a 60 percent vote.

School districts say a cap would have a devastating effect on their budgets, prompting layoffs, school closings and program cuts. The Democratic-controlled State Assembly and the powerful state teachers’ union have opposed attempts to impose caps.

But in recent weeks, Mr. Cuomo and his staff have started promoting the cap in meetings and conversations with the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver; the Senate Democratic and Republican leaders, John L. Sampson and Dean G. Skelos; and New York State United Teachers. The talks have not focused on specifics, but all parties involved have told Mr. Cuomo or his aides that they are “committed to finding common ground,” according to legislative aides and union leaders.

By broaching the subject even before he picks his full cabinet or explains how he expects to close the state’s budget gap, Mr. Cuomo is signaling the importance he places on a property tax cap.

“The property tax cap is a centerpiece of the governor-elect’s agenda,” said Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo. “And he will move aggressively to see it implemented upon taking office so New Yorkers can finally receive relief from skyrocketing property taxes that are driving them from their homes and out of the state.” Mr. Vlasto declined to elaborate on how the cap would work.

A cap would not directly affect New York City, where property taxes are relatively low because of revenue from the city’s personal income tax, and where the schools are financed through the general city budget. But outside the city, New York is among the most heavily taxed states in the country. A 2010 report by the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group in Washington, found that the median property tax in New York was $3,755, compared with $1,917 in the United States.

Broken down into counties nationwide, Westchester and Nassau topped the list with $9,044 and $8,940, respectively, while Rockland was fifth with $8,542.

But Mr. Silver, a Democrat from Manhattan, said last week that his members, many of whom represent New York City, recognized the tax burden faced by homeowners. “While this is a complex issue,” Mr. Silver said in a statement, “I believe that we’ll be able to come to a meaningful agreement with Governor-elect Cuomo.”

Advocates for reining in the state’s property taxes say that a cap would force school districts to spend less and bring long-term tax relief to homeowners. But opponents contend that a cap would squeeze school budgets in a year that already promises to be the toughest financially in recent years, and would force the most drastic cuts in programs and services in two decades.

They also say that it would take away local control of school finances, and only deepen inequities between middle- or low-income districts and affluent districts, where residents are more likely to override the cap.

In recent years, taxpayers throughout the state have been pressuring school and municipal officials to trim costs and consolidate services to stifle the rate of property tax increases. Similar developments have occurred in New Jersey, where the property tax burden also ranks high.

As such, Mr. Cuomo’s cap would hit suburban schools at a time when many districts have already shed attractive offerings like Advanced Placement courses and art and music electives. Many districts have also laid off staff members, tapped into reserves and used up federal stimulus money, which had helped them avoid further cuts in the face of fast-rising pension, health care, utilities and special education costs.

Edmund J. McMahon, a frequent critic of New York’s tax structure and a senior fellow at the Empire Center for New York State Policy in Albany, conceded that a cap would force districts to cut programs and services, but he said that would then pressure the State Legislature to undertake “sweeping mandate relief.”

“School districts are past pros at crying wolf,” Mr. McMahon said. “But I think in this case they really would have to make significant cuts because they’re locked into these costs, and because their state aid is probably also going to be cut.”

Mr. Cuomo has pledged to review all current state mandates and propose a “sunset” bill requiring that “all unnecessary unfunded mandates” be re-evaluated and eliminated unless affirmatively renewed.

A tax cap proposal surfaced as early as 1997 as part of Gov. George E. Pataki’s School Tax Relief, or STAR, program, but it was dropped after opposition by legislators. It was later backed by Govs. Eliot Spitzer and David A. Paterson, who supports a 4 percent cap. This year, the Senate, which was narrowly controlled by Democrats, passed legislation for a 4 percent cap, but it has stalled in the Assembly.

Some fiscal experts say property tax caps simply shift the burden of paying for schools to other sources: income tax, sales tax, school fees and private fund-raising.

Critics have also noted that a cap would not lower taxes, only slow the rate of increase. “Look, I’m a Long Islander who pays property taxes, so I understand what everyone is looking for,” said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers. “It’s just that they’re looking at something that doesn’t provide real property tax relief.”

The teachers’ union and Assembly Democrats have instead advocated a so-called circuit-breaker, a state-financed program that would give tax breaks to people based on need. The Assembly even passed a bill in 2008. But, given the state’s fiscal condition, some critics say it is unrealistic to expect more state financing for schools.

Frank Gerace, a Long Island financial adviser who pays $10,000 in property taxes on his 1970s-era four-bedroom house on a half-acre, said school districts could not keep asking for more from homeowners. Mr. Gerace was a founder of a citizens group, SchoolWatch, in 2006 that helped defeat a nearly 13 percent tax rate increase in the East Islip district.

“It will wake up districts and let them know they have a limited amount of funds they can work with,” Mr. Gerace said. “Right now some of them are run like country clubs.”
287 2010-12-13 “We have taken this difficult but necessary step to enable A.&P. to fully implement our comprehensive financial and operational restructuring,” Sam Martin, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement.

This is a low point for A.&P., once the nation’s dominant supermarket company. Founded in 1859 in New York City as a tea seller, A.&P. spread rapidly through the nation, operating as many as 16,000 stores.

But beginning in the 1970s, it began running into tougher competition, from regional chains to big-box retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and Costco, forcing a retrenchment. As of this year, it operated 395 stores along the East Coast.

The company also suffered from the recession, which helped spur consumers to seek lower-priced groceries elsewhere.

The company, based in Montvale, N.J., has struggled of late, notably after buying Pathmark in 2007 for $679 million, a deal that left A.&P. with significant debt.

Other supermarket chains, including Bi-Lo, have filed for bankruptcy in recent years.

A.&P.’s filing came as little surprise, as the company’s prolonged financial difficulties prompted speculation about a potential bankruptcy case. Shares in the company plunged 67 percent on Friday, to 93 cents, before trading in the stock was halted.

The company has secured an $800 million debtor-in-possession loan from JPMorgan Chase to keep operating under bankruptcy protection. It also named Frederic F. Brace, who helped run the United Airlines bankruptcy filing, as its chief restructuring officer.

Among A.&P.’s biggest shareholders is Aletheia Research & Management, a money manager based in California that owns 27 percent of the company’s stock and has recently come under regulatory scrutiny over its bookkeeping practices.

Aletheia gained notoriety for its tendency to invest alongside the supermarket mogul Ronald W. Burkle — who as Pathmark’s largest shareholder helped engineer its sale to A.&P.

Barnes & Noble, in its effort to defend itself against a proxy challenge by Mr. Burkle, accused the billionaire of secretly teaming with Aletheia to take control of the bookseller without paying a premium. Mr. Burkle and Aletheia denied the charge.

Mr. Burkle’s investment vehicle, the Yucaipa Companies, owns a 4 percent stake in A.&P.’s common stock, according to a bankruptcy court filing. Yucaipa also owns a significant amount of preferred shares, having invested in A.&P. last year.

A.&P.’s major shareholders supported the company’s decision to file for bankruptcy, the retailer said in its statement.

The company’s largest unsecured creditor is Wilmington Trust, which is representing several classes of investors owning nearly $677 million in bonds.

Unlike many other big debtors in recent years, A.&P. did not announce what is known as a “pre-arranged” or “prepackaged” bankruptcy filing, in which a company reaches some agreement with its creditors over a reorganization plan. Such filings tend to be shorter in duration, sparing companies time and potential legal headaches.

A.&P. is being advised by Lazard and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis.
288 2010-12-13 Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo has a full plate awaiting him when he is inaugurated next month, including a gaping budget deficit. But Mr. Cuomo is already making clear to legislative leaders that one of his priorities is to cap local property tax...
289 2010-12-13 Intel has formalized its interest in the new crop of computing devices that have the caught the attention of consumers and even office workers.     The chip giant has created a new business unit that it calls the netbook and tablet group. The unit...
290 2010-12-13 10:03 p.m. | Updated The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, the troubled supermarket operator, filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday to reorganize its finances after suffering under its big debt load and from stiff competition.     A.&P., w...
291 2010-12-13 LETO--Bridget Mary "Bridie" (nee: McCabe), 81, of Glen Rock, NJ, died December 11, 2010. Beloved wife of the late Anthony R., who predeceased her in 1976. Loving mother of Richard C., David G., and Brian A. Leto. Adoring grandmother of Aimee and H...
292 2010-12-14 Credit: Francesco Tonelli for The New York Times
293 2010-12-14 A white handkerchief comes out as the Republican leader bids farewell to Senator Judd Gregg....
294 2010-12-14 The two highest ranked players, Humpy Koneru and Hou Yifan, have qualified, as has Zhao Xue. The final qualifier will be determined after tie-breaker games on Wednesday....
295 2010-12-14 Katie Holmes is eyed for "Extremities" on Broadway....
296 2010-12-14 Ukraine will open the sealed zone around the doomed Chernobyl nuclear reactor to visitors beginning next year, the country's Emergency Situations Ministry declared. The nuclear reactor exploded nearly 25 years ago....
297 2010-12-14 The Chapter 11 filing of A.&P. may be among this year's largest, but it pales in size to those during the financial crisis....
298 2010-12-14 The Detroit Pistons are sliding to the bottom of the Eastern Conference, thanks so some listless losses....
299 2010-12-14 David Seidler and Tom Hooper, the screenwriter and director of "The King's Speech," discuss their excitement over Tuesday's award nominations....
300 2010-12-14 A look at some of the nominees for the 2011 Golden Globe Awards....
301 2010-12-14 A 2005 F.B.I. memo reveals how much Google says a hacker's attack cost the company....
302 2010-12-14 WINNER Annette Bening, "The Kids Are All Right"

Julianne Moore, "The Kids Are All Right"

"Lisa Cholodenko and Stuart Blumberg, "The Kids are All Right"

"How to Train Your Dragon"

"There's a Place For Us," "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader"

WINNER "You Haven't Seen the Last of Me," "Burlesque"

Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Drama

Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series - Drama

Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series - Comedy

Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Comedy

Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television

Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television

Best Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television

Best Performance by an Actress in a Mini-Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television

Best Performance by an Actor in a Mini-Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television
303 2010-12-14 For more than five seasons in Phoenix, Steve Nash and Amar’e Stoudemire renovated the pick-and-roll, the league’s most-often-used play, and created one of the league’s most devastating tandems.

With Stoudemire departing for the Knicks, their separation created a chicken-and-egg conundrum. Did Nash make Stoudemire better, or was it the other way around? Did each simply benefit from the other? How would their games evolve without the other?

The N.B.A. season is more than a quarter over, and the answers are filtering in because of an analysis provided by Synergy Sports Technology, which logs each N.B.A. game.

The most significant change in Stoudemire’s game this season is the increase in his isolation plays — up to 33.9 percent of his total offense from 19.8 percent last season with Nash. As the focal point of the Knicks’ offense — a role Stoudemire argued that he should have held more in Phoenix under Coach Mike D’Antoni — point guard Raymond Felton often dumps the ball into Stoudemire at the wing instead of going into the pick-and-roll. That strays from common practice in Phoenix, where Nash was often the sole decision maker.

In those situations, Stoudemire’s points per possession are down slightly this season, from 0.948 to 0.862, according to the analysis. The decrease may be a result of teams focusing more on Stoudemire in his increased position as a decision maker in the Knicks’ offense. In that role, Stoudemire’s turnovers are also way up. His 96 turnovers were second in the league behind only Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook’s 104 entering Monday’s games. Stoudemire, LeBron James and Dwight Howard were the only nonguards who ranked among the top 10.
304 2010-12-14 The answers are filtering in on how would Steve Nash and Amar'e Stoudemire, one of the league's top tandems in Phoenix, are faring since Stoudemire left for the Knicks....
305 2010-12-14 No country is immune from terrorism in today’s world, not even Sweden, with its unusually open society, traditional commitment to peace and wariness of military alliances.

On Saturday night, Stockholm had a narrow brush with catastrophe when a man tentatively identified as an Iraqi-born Swede (who had studied in Britain) detonated an explosives-laden car on a busy downtown street at the height of the Christmas shopping season. As in New York City’s Times Square seven months ago, hundreds of innocent bystanders might have been killed. Fortunately, the would-be terrorist was the only fatality.

The bomber appears to have acted alone, incensed by the publication of Swedish cartoons he considered blasphemous and the sufferings of fellow Muslims in Afghanistan, where 500 Swedish soldiers serve under NATO command.

Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt has responded in keeping with Sweden’s finest traditions. Denouncing the attacks as “unacceptable,” he urged Swedes to “stand up for tolerance,” not jump to premature conclusions and “let the justice system do its job.”

Mr. Reinfeldt’s firm and timely championing of traditional Swedish tolerance showed political courage. In elections three months ago, his center-right coalition fell short of an absolute majority as a result of alarming gains by the misleadingly named Sweden Democrats, an anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim party of the extreme right.

Center-right politicians elsewhere in Europe — France and the Netherlands, for example — have been quick to pander to similar xenophobic parties and their supporters. Mr. Reinfeldt declared defiantly on Monday that Sweden’s open society is worth defending. We couldn’t agree more.
306 2010-12-14 As the baseball world awaited word on where Cliff Lee was going to pitch next year, the man conducting negotiations on Lee’s behalf was approaching the biggest moment of his professional career.

The agent Darek Braunecker, a former minor league pitcher from Effingham, Ill., once came close to becoming an executive with the Cleveland Indians. He does not have the list of clients that Scott Boras has, with Lee and A. J. Burnett as the biggest names, and because of that he has been largely unknown to the sporting public.

As the pursuit of Lee — which ended late Monday night when it was announced that Lee passed on the Texas Rangers and the Yankees and agreed to a five-year deal with the Philadelphia Phillies — gained attention around the country, Braunecker’s profile was on the rise. With a deal for Lee now in place, Braunecker should find more young players eager to hire him.

Braunecker, 41, has been described by baseball executives who have dealt with him as cocky or amenable, usually depending on whether they were able to get one of his players. But all seem to agree that throughout the negotiations, Braunecker did what all agents do when they have the kind of leverage he had with Lee — he wielded that leverage like a mighty hammer, pounding out the promise of millions of dollars.

Lee’s deal is thought to be for five years and $100 million.

Braunecker secured for Burnett a five-year, $82.5 million contract from the Yankees before the 2009 season after Burnett exercised an opt-out clause in his previous contract with the Toronto Blue Jays. The Toronto deal was for five years and $55 million, but included the opt-out clause after three years. Braunecker then steered Burnett to the Yankees, where he owns the team’s fourth-largest contract.

Lee, who pitched for the Phillies in 2009, had just concluded a four-year deal he signed with the Cleveland Indians before the 2006 season that was worth $15 million when he signed it.

Braunecker pitched in college for Arkansas-Little Rock, where both he and Lee reside, and later pitched for the Class A Jamestown Expos.

He made 20 appearances in 1991 before a shoulder injury ended his hopes of becoming a major league pitcher. He was released in 1993. In 1996, he attempted a comeback in the Indians organization, but they offered him a job on the player-development side. He turned it down to become an agent with Stevens Sports Management in Little Rock in 1997.
307 2010-12-14 But recent studies suggest that these obscure organisms are among the closest living single-celled relatives of animals. In other words, choanoflagellates are cousins to all animals in the same way that chimpanzees are cousins to humans. Just as the study of great apes has been vital to understanding human evolution, biologists are now scrutinizing choanoflagellates for clues about one of the great transitions in history — the origin of the animal kingdom.

For most of the first 2.5 billion years of life on Earth, most species were microscopic, rarely exceeding one millimeter in size, and unicellular. Many different kinds of larger life forms, including fungi, animals and plants, subsequently evolved independently from separate single-celled ancestors.

The evolution of multicellularity was a critical step in the origin of each of these groups because it opened the way to the emergence of much more complex organisms in which different cells could take on different tasks. And the emergence of larger organisms drove profound changes in ecology that changed the face of the planet.

Scientists are eager to understand how transitions from a unicellular to multicellular lifestyle were accomplished. Reconstructing events that happened more than 600 million years ago, in the case of animals, is a great challenge. Ideally, one would have specimens from just before and immediately after the event. But the unicellular ancestor of animals and those first animals are long extinct. So information has to be gleaned from living sources.

This is where comparisons between choanoflagellates and animals come into play. The close kinship between choanoflagellates and animals means that there once lived a single-celled ancestor that gave rise to two lines of evolution — one leading to the living choanoflagellates and the other to animals. Choanoflagellates can tell us a lot about that ancestor because any characteristics that they share with animals must have been present in that ancestor and then inherited by both groups. By similar logic, whatever animals have but choanoflagellates lack probably arose during animal evolution.

There are striking physical resemblances between choanoflagellates and certain animal cells, specifically the feeding cells of sponges, called choanocytes. Sponge choanocytes also have a flagellum and possess a collar of filaments for trapping food. Similar collars have been seen on several kinds of animals cells. These similarities indicate that the unicellular ancestor of animals probably had a flagellum and a collar, and may have been much like a choanoflagellate.

But even more surprising and informative resemblances between choanoflagellates and animals have been revealed at the level of DNA. Recently, the genome sequence of one choanoflagellate species was analyzed by a team led by Nicole King and Daniel Rokhsar at the University of California, Berkeley. They identified many genetic features that were shared exclusively between choanoflagellates and animals. These included 78 pieces of proteins, many of which in animals are involved in making cells adhere to one another.

The presence of so many cell adhesion molecules in choanoflagellates was very surprising. The scientists are trying to figure out what all of those molecules are doing in a unicellular creature. One possibility is that the molecules are used in capturing prey.

Whatever the explanation, the presence of those genes in a unicellular organism indicates that much of the machinery for making multicellular animals was in place long before the origin of animals. It may be that rather than evolving new genes, animal ancestors simply used what they had to become multicellular. There may be selective advantages to forming colonies, like avoiding being eaten by other small predators. And in fact, some choanoflagellates do form multicellular colonies at stages of their life cycle.

Dr. King and her colleagues Stephen Fairclough and Mark Dayel investigated one such species to determine whether colony formation occurred by dividing cells staying together, the way animal embryos form, or by individual cells aggregating together, as some protists like slime molds do.

The scientists found that colonies formed exclusively by dividing cells staying together. They suggested that the ancient common ancestor of choanoflagellates and animals was capable of forming simple colonies and that this property may well have been a first step on the road to animal evolution.

The world is full of microbes, and we spend a lot of worry and effort trying to keep them off and out of our bodies. It is humbling to ponder that still swimming within that microscopic soup are our distant cousins.
308 2010-12-14 On the fifth day of the stay at the mosque, Mr. Baksh said, one of the imams found out that the affable new member was quietly, carefully, preaching “rebellion against Muslim rulers, and talking about the oppression of Muslims. It was nothing violent, but it was extremist.” And it disturbed many of the congregants, who guard vigilantly against any revival of the mosque’s past links to extremists like the banned cleric Sheik Omar Bakri Mohammed.

The next day, when the congregation gathered for dawn prayers just after 5 a.m., the imam gave a lecture to those present, directed subtly at Mr. Abdaly, on the dangers of such extremist views.

“He got up and stormed out halfway through,” said Mr. Baksh, “and we never saw him again. He seemed very emotional, very confused, very frustrated. Normally when someone is challenged they can present arguments from the Koran, but he didn’t have the knowledge or the understanding to communicate, so he just left.”

Mr. Abdaly, said Mr. Baksh, was subsequently informed that he was not welcome to return.

In photographs, Mr. Abdaly appears as a tall, stern-looking and smartly dressed man, his black hair and beard cropped short. In one image he is seen posing in sunglasses and a sharp black jacket. Tariq Rasul, a friend while Mr. Abdaly studied in England, said in an interview Monday that the Swede wore only Western clothes despite his devoutness.

Mr. Abdaly, according to a profile he posted on an online dating Web site, Muslima.com, was born in Baghdad and moved to Sweden with his family in 1992, when he was 10 years old. His childhood friends in the small and prosperous town of Tranas, three hours by car from Stockholm, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that he arrived with a big sister and his mother and father.

As a child he was “above average,” according to a teacher quoted by Aftonbladet. But “Taimour got himself into a lot of trouble,” said one unidentified friend, “and fought a lot.” Later, the friend said he “wondered if he didn’t actually have a hard time finding his place in Swedish society.”

Mr. Abdaly’s Facebook page contains hints of that apparent conflict. He posted several videos dedicated to Islamic fighters around the world, and his profile picture showed hooded figures waving the black flag of Al Qaeda. But among his listed interests were “National Geographic” and “I love my Apple iPad.”

The Facebook profile also indicates he studied “sports therapy at the University of Bedfordshire.” In a statement Monday, the university said that Mr. Abdaly, going by the name of Taimour Abdalwahab, attended the college between 2001 and 2004.

British news media reports suggest that he may have stayed in Luton, home of one of the university’s campuses, after earning his degree until as recently as three weeks ago. According to reports in the Swedish news media on Monday, Mr. Abdaly’s wife and three small children are still in Britain. Little is known, so far, of his immediate family, and the media accounts could not be verified.

But on the undated Muslima.com profile, he said he had been “married since 2004,” according to a translation from Arabic. He described himself as “very religious” and said two of his daughters were 3 and 1. Little is known of Mr. Abdaly’s final weeks in Sweden, and his last steps toward the attack. But in recorded messages, made in English and Arabic and sent by e-mail to the Swedish police and the news agency Tidningarnas Telegrambyra just minutes before the bombings, he made reference to “the Islamic state, may Allah protect it, and its people.”

“I have no doubt he’s talking about the Islamic State of Iraq, which is what Al Qaeda in Iraq calls itself,” said Evan Kohlmann, an expert on Al Qaeda communications and recruitment who consults for the Department of Justice. “Other groups do not use this language — it’s a quite specific reference.”

In 2007 Al Qaeda in Iraq, which intelligence agencies say is a mostly Iraqi militant group with some foreign leadership, issued a threat against Sweden, in response to a drawing published in a Swedish newspaper that depicted the head of the Prophet Muhammad on the body of a dog. No group has yet claimed responsibility for Mr. Abdaly’s attack, and the authorities have released no information on any affiliations he might have had. But Swedish investigators said Monday that they did not believe Mr. Abdaly had acted alone.

In the final sections of one of the recordings, Mr. Abdaly turns to address his family. “Tell the children that I love them,” he said, tenderness in his voice, “and their dad couldn’t sit back and watch the pigs humiliate our beloved Prophet Muhammad.”

Mr. Abdaly died, lying on his back in a pool of blood on a Stockholm street, just a few hours before his 29th birthday.
309 2010-12-14 Officials attending the meeting are expected to agree to create a permanent backstop facility for the euro after 2013, when the current mechanism expires, without requiring authorizing votes in member countries. Private investors could take losses in debt crises after 2013.

European Union leaders have been criticized for adding to market uncertainty by not communicating clearly their intentions regarding bailouts — a criticism that Philippe Maystadt, president of the European Investment Bank, echoed Monday.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany “was totally right to ask for the private sector to contribute to a future permanent crisis resolution mechanism after 2013,” he told the French publication Les Échos in an interview published Monday. “But the way in which it was presented created total confusion.”

“The message was not clear enough,” he added. “The markets hate uncertainty; they need to be given an unequivocal message. I hope the lesson has been learned for the European summit meeting at the end of this week.”

The scale of the problems facing the euro zone was highlighted Monday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which warned that the economic shocks of the last few years might put a permanent crimp on growth in the euro area.

As a result, the expansion of gross domestic product among the 16 countries in the euro zone “may never catch up to its precrisis expected trajectory,” the report said. Estimates suggest a peak reduction throughout the euro area “of about 3 percent in the level of potential output.”

For countries that continue to struggle, even after receiving emergency loans, a formal mechanism to manage an orderly rescheduling of debt should be put in place, said Pier Carlo Padoan, the chief economist for the O.E.C.D., speaking in Brussels. Debt rescheduling needed to be “part of that broader tool kit” of policies including fiscal measures and banking sector reforms.

So-called collective action clauses, which allow a majority of bondholders to agree to a debt restructuring, should be part of that tool kit, Mr. Padoan said.

Underlining opposition to the idea in Germany, young entrepreneurs and German family-run businesses on Monday wrote an open letter to Mrs. Merkel, asking her to stand firm in her opposition to introducing euro zone bonds because they could “quickly turn into inflation.”

The O.E.C.D. survey stopped short of recommending that solution, though Mr. Padoan cautiously supported the idea of a common bond, saying that “imagining that there is a European dimension to financial markets, including bond markets, is a good idea.”

Much discussion now concerns the bailout fund for the euro zone, the European Financial Stability Facility. Allowing it to buy bonds from vulnerable euro zone countries most likely would require a politically complicated change to the framework agreement that set it up.

The fund was backed by guarantees from euro zone countries of 440 billion euros, but to secure a triple-A rating, the actual amount of loans it can make is much lower, perhaps closer to 250 billion euros.

This could be increased without altering the framework agreement, but that would probably involve national governments putting in capital — which would be difficult for some to agree to do.

Some diplomats hope that the markets will be satisfied simply by an agreement to make the fund permanent. Under the plans, its shape will be decided by March 2011 and national governments will ratify its creation in time for it to enter into force on Jan. 1, 2013.

This change “does not increase the competences” of the union, according to a draft of the summit conclusions — a sentence aimed at excluding the necessity for referendums.

However, Britain, which does not use the euro, may press for additional guarantees that, once the new permanent fund is created, Britain will not be dragged into any future mechanism.

A separate, tighter set of rules for the euro zone should be put in place by June 2011.

The O.E.C.D. argued that money used to rescue euro area countries needed to be made highly conditional to ensure that countries actually overhauled their finances. Euro zone nations also need to do more to embrace more centralized economic governance, like meting out much swifter punishments than in the past for spendthrift member states, according to the organization.

The report praised plans by the European Union to institute semiautomatic sanctions on nations that broke their deficit pledges. Even so, it warned that those plans could still be too vague to be properly enforced and that they risked being as ineffective, as in the past, because of complicated voting rules. “How those rules would enforce surveillance maybe requires a little bit more attention,” Mr. Padoan said Monday during a news conference.

The O.E.C.D. report also noted that austerity measures being adopted by governments as a response to the sovereign debt crisis, including spending cuts and higher taxes, would also weigh on the economic growth of the region.

“Recovery is now under way but will be muted,” the report said.

In a review of what had gone wrong in the euro area, the O.E.C.D. said problems of mismanagement, including high levels of debt and large trade imbalances, began “during the upswing,” in the years before the financial crisis, and will be even more difficult to address now.

The worst recession of the postwar era, followed by sovereign debt crises in several countries, “has been the first major test of the resilience of the euro area since monetary union,” according to the report.

The debate about how to restore confidence remains fraught. While Luxembourg and Italy have proposed a big leap in European economic integration through the creation of common euro zone bonds, the idea has been rejected by Germany and is not favored by France.
310 2010-12-14 WEISSBACH--Herbert Israel, DDS, 91, of The Watermark, Philadelphia, PA. Formerly of New Hyde Park, NY, died on December 12, 2010. Beloved husband for 63 years of Lorraine (nee Hodes), devoted father of Debra Weissbach, MD (Neil Cohen, MD) and the ...
311 2010-12-14 WEINSTOCK--Rita, (Mrs. Irving Weinstock) died on December 12, 2010 in Sarasota, FL. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Stephen Weinstock (Susan), Joan Breiner (Bruce) and Teri Weinstock (Michael). Devoted grandmother of Robert, Eric...
312 2010-12-14 ''I shouldn't make a comment on that,'' said Masayoshi Son, the usually voluble serial entrepreneur who is one of the richest men in Japan. ''It's too delicate a question. Too sensitive right now.''     We had been chatting for some time on the 26...
313 2010-12-15 Get behind the scenes of Hollywood’s awards season, with close-up looks at Oscar-nominated films and exclusive red-carpet access to the hottest actors, actresses and directors.
314 2010-12-15 The contents of Rahm Emanuel's basement took center stage in a Chicago election board hearing to determine whether he can run for mayor....
315 2010-12-15 Richard Cordray, denied re-election as Ohio's attorney general, is named to oversee enforcement at the new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection....
316 2010-12-15 Florida fruit growers say they have so far emerged relatively unscathed....
317 2010-12-15 According to a new study, the financial burden of college falls more heavily on students with divorced parents or remarried parents....
318 2010-12-15 Representative Mike Rogers is also a former F.B.I. special agent and Army officer....
319 2010-12-15 The organization, Save Ellis Island, was on the brink of extinction last spring....
320 2010-12-15 The famed money manager who bet against subprime mortgages is trying to lure large European institutions with a new share class of his flagship fund....
321 2010-12-15 The firm's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein; its president, Gary Cohn; and other top executives are set to receive $111 million in deferred compensation, Bloomberg News reports....
322 2010-12-15 The revival of Alfred Uhry's play, starring Vanessa Redgrave and James Earl Jones, will continue through April 9, 2011....
323 2010-12-15 Twitter has opened its doors to businesses that want to advertise, as the company focuses on making money after building a huge user base....
324 2010-12-15 The agency lists several products and ingredients that it considers harmful....
325 2010-12-15 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
326 2010-12-15 A long-forgotten painting leads a man to uncover the prominent role his grandfather played in the struggle for civil rights....
327 2010-12-15 Republican members of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission don't blame Wall Street for the near-collapse of the financial system....
328 2010-12-15 Deregulation? What's that?...
329 2010-12-15 The rapper, who is serving a prison sentence for a parole violation, saw his new album "No Mercy" reach No. 4 in its first week of release....
330 2010-12-15 The Senate Republican leader says the Democrats' spending bill is a yearlong "binge," and suggests just passing something to last until his party strengthens its grip on Congress....
331 2010-12-15 Senator Jim DeMint wants the entire text of the New Start treaty to be read aloud in hopes of keeping it from being approved in the lame-duck session....
332 2010-12-15 On his way into a meeting with business leaders, President Obama pledges fiscal discipline and calls for tax reform -- while urging Congress to approve a big tax cut right away....
333 2010-12-15 Having a lot of ideas is the gift. Having those ideas distract you from what you need to get done can be stressful....
334 2010-12-15 The proposed reduction in payroll taxes should reduce unemployment, but lowering the minimum wage might do more, an economist writes....
335 2010-12-15 The Republican members of the commission appointed by Congress to investigate the causes of the financial crisis plan to release on Wednesday a document that assigns government housing policies substantial blame for the origins of the 2008 financi...
336 2010-12-15 WASHINGTON — The Republican members of the commission appointed by Congress to investigate the causes of the financial crisis plan to release on Wednesday a document that assigns government housing policies substantial blame for the origins of the 2008 financial crisis.

The release of the 13-page document is an indication of a major partisan division within the 10-member Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which was required to deliver its report on Dec. 15 but has pushed that deadline back to January. Two people close to the work of the commission provided copies of the document to The New York Times on Tuesday.

The Republican members of the panel were angered last week when the commission voted 6 to 4, along partisan lines, to limit individual comments by the commissioners to 9 pages each in a 500-page report that the commission plans to publish next month with Public Affairs, an imprint of the Perseus Books Group, one Republican commissioner said.

The Government Printing Office will publish an official version of the report that will contain the full comments of each commissioner, but the commercially available version — which represents the view of the Democratic majority — is the one likely to get the most visibility, said the commissioner, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he feared being deluged by calls if he were identified.

The commission has loosely modeled its work on the Pecora hearings, which the Senate held in the 1930s to investigate the causes of the Depression, and on the 9/11 Commission, whose 2004 report, published by W. W. Norton, became a best seller.

While the many causes of the financial crisis are likely to be dissected by economists and other scholars for decades, some of the causes can be arranged along a partisan spectrum.

Democrats have emphasized factors like fraudulent practices by mortgage lenders and reckless risk-taking by Wall Street banks and other financial institutions, while Republicans have focused on poor oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the entities that supported the secondary market for mortgages, and decades of government efforts to encourage homeownership.

“While the housing bubble, the financial crisis, and the recession are surely interrelated events, we do not believe that the housing bubble was a sufficient condition for the financial crisis,” the document states. “The unprecedented number of subprime and other weak mortgages in this bubble set it and its effect apart from others in the past.”

The document was signed by Bill Thomas, the vice chairman of the commission and a former congressman from California; Keith Hennessey, a former adviser to President George W. Bush; Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office; and Peter J. Wallison, who was White House counsel to President Ronald Reagan and is now a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.

Citing several government agencies, the document argues that “the government subsidized and, in some cases, mandated the extension of credit to high-risk borrowers, propagating risks for financial firms, the mortgage market, taxpayers, and ultimately the financial system.”

The document also examines the unappreciated risks that accompanied the transformation of mortgages into complex securities — like collateralized debt obligations — that could be sold to investors. “Put simply, the risk of a housing collapse was simply not appreciated,” the document states. The document also examines how the crisis intensified after the government allowed Lehman Brothers to collapse in September 2008, an event that caused bondholders to panic. It argues that the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department acted appropriately to stanch the crisis.

“While we believe that the government deserves quite a lot of the blame for getting our financial system and our nation into trouble in the first place, we applaud the quick and decisive actions taken by our nation’s leaders during the panic,” it states.

The commissioner who discussed the document emphasized that it did not represent the full Republican perspective. “It is solely for the purpose of laying down a marker on Dec. 15 and laying out some of the basic questions that we believe must be answered in the final report,” he said.
337 2010-12-15 The dispute between the military and intelligence agencies reflects how much the debate in Washington over the war is now centered on whether the United States can succeed in Afghanistan without the cooperation of Pakistan, which despite years of American pressure has resisted routing militants on its border.

The dispute also reflects the longstanding cultural differences between intelligence analysts, whose job is to warn of potential bad news, and military commanders, who are trained to promote “can do” optimism.

But in Afghanistan, the intelligence agencies play a strong role, with the largest station since the Vietnam War located in . C.I.A. operatives also command an Afghan paramilitary force in the thousands. In Pakistan, the C.I.A. is running a covert war using .

Both sides have found some areas of agreement in the period leading up to Mr. Obama’s review, which will be made public on Thursday. The intelligence reports, which rely heavily on assessments from the C.I.A. and the , conclude that C.I.A. drone strikes on leaders of in the tribal regions of Pakistan have had an impact and that security has improved in the parts of Helmand and Kandahar Provinces in southern Afghanistan where the United States has built up its troop presence. For their part, American commanders and Pentagon officials say they do not yet know if the war can be won without more cooperation from Pakistan. But after years and billions spent trying to win the support of the Pakistanis, they are now proceeding on the assumption that there will be limited help from them. The American commanders and officials readily describe the havens for insurgents in Pakistan as a major impediment to military operations.

“I’m not going to make any bones about it, they’ve got sanctuaries and they go back and forth across the border,” Maj. Gen. John F. Campbell, the commander of NATO forces in eastern Afghanistan, told reporters last week in the remote Kunar Province of Afghanistan. “They’re financed better, they’re better trained, they’re the ones who bring in the higher-end I.E.D.’s.” General Campbell was referring to , the military’s name for the insurgent-made bombs, the leading cause of American military deaths in Afghanistan.

American commanders say their plan in the next few years is to kill large numbers of insurgents in the border region — the military refers to it as “degrading the ” — and at the same time build up the Afghan National Army to the point that the Afghans can at least contain an insurgency still supported by Pakistan. (American officials say Pakistan supports the insurgents as a proxy force in Afghanistan, preparing for the day the Americans leave.)

“That is not the optimal solution, obviously,” said Bruce O. Riedel, a former C.I.A. official and now a senior fellow at the , who led a White House review of Afghan strategy last year that resulted in Mr. Obama sending the additional forces. “But we have to deal with the world we have, not the world we’d like. We can’t make Pakistan stop being naughty.”

Publicly, American officials and military commanders continue to praise Pakistan and its military chief, Gen. , if only for acknowledging the problem.

“General Kayani and others have been clear in recognizing that they need to do more for their security and indeed to carry out operations against those who threaten other countries’ security,” Gen. , the top American commander in Afghanistan, said last week.

But many Afghan officials say that the United States, which sends Pakistan about $2 billion in military and civilian aid each year, is coddling Pakistan for no end. “They are capitalizing on your immediate security needs, and they are stuck in this thinking that bad behavior brings cash,” said Amrullah Saleh, the former Afghan intelligence chief, in an interview on Tuesday.

The Pakistan intelligence report also reaffirms past American concerns about Pakistan’s nuclear stockpile, particularly the risk that enriched uranium or plutonium could be smuggled out of a laboratory or storage site.

The White House review comes as some members of Mr. Obama’s party are losing patience with the war. “You’re not going to get to the point where the Taliban are gone and the border is perfectly controlled,” said Representative Adam Smith, a Washington Democrat who serves on the Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, in an interview on Tuesday.

Mr. Smith said there would be increasing pressure from the political left on Mr. Obama to end the war, and he predicted that Democrats in Congress would resist continuing to spend $100 billion annually on Afghanistan.

“We’re not going to be hanging out over there fighting these guys like we’re fighting them now for 20 years,” Mr. Smith said.
338 2010-12-15 Then, in an illuminating 2002 article in The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, the historian Edward Lawler Jr. mapped out the house and its probable dimensions, and pointed out the irony that just steps from the new Liberty Bell Center was a site that had once sheltered Washington’s slaves.

The Park Service contested some of his conclusions and refused to outline the footprint of the lost President’s House in its designs for the center. But the issue was soon taken up by scholars, including Gary B. Nash, author of the new book “The Liberty Bell,” as well as by political activists like the lawyer Michael Coard and his Avenging the Ancestors Coalition, who argued that the existence of slave quarters adjacent to the city’s paean to liberty demanded major commemoration.

There was a cascade of events, chronicled by The Philadelphia Inquirer, including Congressional legislation and financing, city oversight and funds, an expansion of the Liberty Bell exhibition, the establishment of an oversight committee and the solicitation of redesigns. In 2007 an archaeological dig began, revealing the foundation and the remains of a tunnel once used by servants and slaves. The dig, viewed by the public, ignited debate.

Washington ultimately took nine slaves to Philadelphia from Mount Vernon, where more than 200 slaves were held. And they were part of a household staff that may have numbered two dozen, including white indentured laborers and servants. Though the slaves were part of a population of nearly 4,000 others in Philadelphia, there were also more than 6,500 free blacks in the city in 1790, and Washington’s slaves were exposed to the experience of liberty.

We know some astonishing details about the effects. Ona Judge (here called Oney), a servant to Martha Washington, and Hercules, the household cook, both escaped to freedom.

Some of Washington’s most unattractive characteristics also emerge. He and Martha Washington pursue Judge for years, though she later establishes herself with her own family in New Hampshire. And though Washington expressed his opposition to slavery, and freed his own slaves in his will, he went through bizarre machinations to ensure that the slaves he took to the nation’s capital would not be subject to local laws granting them freedom after six months. He exchanged them with others at Mount Vernon, issuing instructions: “I wish to have it accomplished under pretext that may deceive both them and the public.”

So here we not only have the father of our country showing his darkest side, we also see the foundations of the nation at their darkest. Yet here is where Washington invented the executive branch, conducting affairs of state. Here is where it became clear that a democratic ruler was no king, had no claim on his dwelling place and was himself meant to serve the people.

How, then, should such a site be developed? A 2005 call for designs stressed that it would have to pay attention to many themes: the house, its workers, the executive branch, African-American Philadelphia, escapes to freedom. In addition, it noted that community discussions led to five “cultural values” that should be clear: identity, memory, agency, dignity, truth. There was also a requirement that the site be open 24/7 to visitors.

As ultimately designed by Kelly/Maiello, the site is a space bounded by a low wall roughly outlining the footprint of the house (but often departing from it), marked by protruding rectangular slabs into which are inserted mock fireplaces and video screens. In the house’s heart, a transparent wall allows visitors to view the archaeological work in progress. And attached to the walls are either long panels surveying historical themes — the executive branch, slavery in the President’s House — or rudimentary illustrations. A few show the escape of Judge, a few give some glimpse of foreign policy in the house (protests over the Jay Treaty with England), and more give some sense of slavery (including Washington’s signing of the Fugitive Slave Act, which put all escaped slaves in danger).

“History is not neat,” we read. “It is complicated and messy. It is about people, places and events that are both admirable and deplorable.” And the President’s House, we are told, “exposes the core contradiction at the founding of this nation: enshrinement of liberty and the institution of slavery.”

But what precisely is being exposed? A few yards away, the Liberty Bell Center discusses abolition and slavery; the park’s visitor center has an exhibition about the Underground Railroad; the nearby African American History Museum has a powerful audio and video history of blacks in Philadelphia. Accounts of slavery are even found at Mount Vernon.

Here, though, we get neither a sense of the place, nor a sense of the issues (and much of the year, the open air will be inhospitable). We don’t learn about the differences between Washington and Adams. We don’t learn much about the pictured events. There is no real narrative. Illustrations can also be melodramatically contentious: we see a seemingly disdainful Washington dangling a “peace medal” before a suspicious Seneca Indian leader

As for slave life, it is also difficult to piece together. The video screens that come to life above the fake mantels give the impression of a half-finished 21st-century home. The videos themselves (with scripts by Lorene Cary), in which slaves and servants provide first-person accounts of experiences, at least provide some sense of life. But how do we put these experiences in context? What was Philadelphia’s free black community like? How did white workers and black slaves live together here?

We are told that the President’s House “offers an opportunity to draw lessons from the past.” But what lessons? That Washington was flawed? That slavery was an abomination? Are these revelations? A memorial to the practice of slavery is mounted here, inscribed with the names of African tribes from which slaves derived, but it has no particular relationship to Philadelphia or this site. The need for some such memorial is keen, but here it seems thumped down as an intrusion.

So what is learned? Not what makes this site special, but what makes it ordinary; not the foundations of what led to the overcoming of slavery, but a sense of its enduring presence. Would this display be any different if presidents had not lived here? And would our understanding be any different without it?
339 2010-12-15 What is not obviously on the business standards agenda, though, is Goldman’s own governance. While governance is ultimately a board decision, its absence seems odd given the intensity of the soul-searching going at the firm. Goldman’s financial performance has not suffered in any obvious way from having Lloyd C. Blankfein hold both the chief executive and chairman roles.

But Goldman, and specifically Mr. Blankfein, have taken quite a beating in the public arena of late. Though some of the opprobrium was undeserved, the experience should have underlined the merits of separating duties at the top of the firm. The skills that brought Mr. Blankfein the top job at a competitive securities firm that consciously avoids the retail end of the market are not necessarily the same ones that are effective in the unwanted glare of political and Main Street scrutiny.

Having a seasoned chairman would have given the firm someone to navigate the shifting political and regulatory tides while Mr. Blankfein focused on the firm’s operations and employees and, most important, on its big corporate and institutional customers. Executives at banks that did separate the top two jobs — a list that includes Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America — say the move paid off at the height of the recent crisis and in efforts to shape the regulatory reform bill passed by Congress.

Of course, a division of responsibilities is not a substitute for strong leadership. A chairman who does a poor job of working with politicians or the media won’t be able to offer a chief executive much cover. And it is critical that the chairman and the chief executive have a consistent vision for the company, a good working relationship and complementary skills.

That’s not always the case, as the British energy giant BP amply illustrated during the months it spent trying to stanch the flow of oil — and the attendant negative press coverage — from its leaking Gulf of Mexico well. Carl-Henric Svanberg earned the sobriquet of “invisible chairman” for his low profile during the fiasco. And when Mr. Svanberg did speak publicly, he did little to help the gaffe-prone chief executive, Tony Hayward, who referred to the oil leak’s victims in the gulf as “the small people.”

Mr. Blankfein is no Mr. Hayward. He has the confidence of shareholders, his board and his staff, and he survived antagonistic political hearings in much better shape than Mr. Hayward, if not completely unscathed. Having steered Goldman through the financial crisis and the annus horribilis the bank’s image endured in 2010, his job looks secure.

But that makes the timing right for a change in governance. The Business Standards Committee itself offers one possible candidate to step in alongside Mr. Blankfein in the form of Mr. Corrigan, a former president of the New York Federal Reserve. By proposing to add a chairman now, Goldman would avoid the common stigma of separating the two top jobs at a time of weakness. Doing so from a position of strength would set another example for its rivals. ROB COX
340 2010-12-15 The initial volumes on the Russian exchange, though, are expected to be tiny. And they will be tailored to serve Russian banks with clients doing business in China, rather than speculators wishing to build up a portfolio in renminbi, anticipating that its value will appreciate. The United States is among Western nations that have pressured China to let the renminbi appreciate.

Initially, the Micex renminbi-ruble session will last one hour each morning, timed for trading with banks in Russia’s Far East near the Chinese border, many time zones ahead of Moscow.

Exchange officials say they expect only several million renminbi, or about half a million dollars, to change hands daily. The trade is reciprocal, as China in November opened an exchange for rubles and renminbi in Shanghai.

“It has symbolic value,” said Peter Westin, the chief economist at Aton, a brokerage firm in Moscow.

The development coincides with the opening of a trans-Siberian oil pipeline that is expected to expand Russia’s trade with China by freeing up railroad capacity for exports of coal, metals or other commodities, and could make it easier to do business along the remote border.

Cutting the dollar out of this emerging bilateral trade has been a policy goal of the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who wants to establish the ruble as a reserve currency held by central banks, to diminish its volatility.

“If China places some part, even a small part, of its reserves in rubles, this is a major boost to the global fortunes of the ruble,” Yaroslav Lissovolik, chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Moscow, said in an interview.

“Clearly the dollar will remain the key pillar of the global financial architecture,” Mr. Lissovolik said. “But this is one of the ways some of the emerging markets want to raise the profile of their currencies.”

The initial daily trading session is mostly intended to test the market and the settlement systems for the Chinese currency, whose export is restricted by Chinese capital controls, the Micex spokesman, Mr. Bekasov, said.

Renminbi are hard to obtain outside China, because of Beijing’s anticipation that their value will rise if China succumbs to American pressure to liberalize its currency. Several banks from China, which will be identified at the opening session on Wednesday, have agreed to support liquidity on the Russian market by providing renminbi, Mr. Bekasov said.

The Micex has a history of establishing market rates between currencies: It opened in January 1992, just a few weeks after the collapse of the Soviet Union, as a trading platform for banks wanting to create a market-based exchange rate between the dollar and ruble.

To mark Wednesday’s occasion, the Chinese ambassador to Russia, Li Hui, plans to strike the opening bell at Micex and then attend a celebratory brunch.

“We thought about trying to make Chinese food,” Mr. Bekasov said of the planned festivities, “but instead decided to make Russian food because it would be more interesting for the Chinese.”
341 2010-12-15 Paul McCartney played the Apollo on Monday and was demonstrably proud to do so. “It’s the holy grail,” he muttered early in the set. “I dreamed of playing here for many a year.” Then he touched the Lucky Log, the hunk of elm that’s long been placed onstage as a charm for the theater’s Amateur Night performers.

Luck had little to do with it. The show, a special event and a live broadcast for subscribers to Sirius XM radio in recognition of its 20 millionth subscription, ran two hours and a bit — not quite the epic length of his stadium-and-festival shows over the last decade, but longer than a few “secret” club gigs he played in 2007. And nearly all of it amounted to a serious mission of pleasing: a trail of aesthetic breakthroughs, rave-ups and singalongs, from the beginning of the Beatles through the end of Wings, with one recent solo-album cut (“Dance Tonight”), one very early Lennon-McCartney composition known to most as a late Beatles tune (“One After 909”) and one Christmas song (“Wonderful Christmastime,” with singers from the Choir Academy of Harlem).

There are some listeners curious about, and genuinely interested in, Mr. McCartney’s loose moments and toss-offs, who feel that “Hey Jude” has penetrated deeply enough into the world’s culture, who admire the intuitive outtake-i-ness of records like “Ram” and “McCartney II,” and who wouldn’t mind a little more texture in his shows. They may yet have their day, but this concert was not for them.

Mr. McCartney’s band is the same as it’s been for most of the last decade, with the guitarists Rusty Anderson and Brian Ray, the keyboardist Paul Wickens and the drummer Abe Laboriel Jr.; in a way, their canned grimaces and corny gestures seem perfect because they illustrate how much of the audience might dream of playing if given the chance to get onstage with Mr. McCartney, showing off but hitting all the marks. It’s a machine that doesn’t change arrangements from year to year, mostly replicating the original versions, down to the string parts on “Eleanor Rigby” as recreated by Mr. Wickens’s synthesizer. It’s also a loud, clear, efficacious and sometimes bashing band, aiming not just for the celebrities in the front but also at the back rows.

The Concord label recently reissued Mr. McCartney’s 1973 album, “Band on the Run,” and the set got relatively deep into it: “Jet,” “Let Me Roll It,” “Nineteen Hundred and Eighty-Five” and the title track. And this was where the concert hit its stride: songs with huge melodies and many sections. The Beatles part of the show felt more typical and predictable, stretching from “I Saw Her Standing There” to “All My Loving” to the “White Album” catalog of “Back in the U.S.S.R.,” “Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da” and “Blackbird.” And with “Let It Be” and “Hey Jude,” anthem fatigue set in.

In the middle of the set, out of respect for the stage, Mr. McCartney introduced a song by an old Apollo star, Marvin Gaye. It was “Hitch Hike,” which the Beatles played during the “Let It Be” sessions but never recorded, and it was going pretty well, with six women dancing on a platform behind the stage, “Ready Steady Go!” style. Then the house speakers turned off; only the stage monitors were audible; and a screech of feedback made Mr. McCartney recoil. After some delay the sound system was righted, and the band, with the dancers, took it again from the top. On the one hand: that would have been hard to hear in the car. On the other hand: texture!
342 2010-12-15 1. Put the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat and cook until some of the fat has been rendered and it begins to brown on the edges, 6 to 8 minutes. Pour off all but 1 tablespoon of the fat from the pan and sprinkle the bacon with 1 to 2 tablespoons of the sugar. Turn the heat to low and cook, turning the bacon pieces occasionally, until the sugar begins to melt and coat the bacon, about 5 minutes. Adjust the heat as necessary to prevent the sugar from burning. When the bacon is dark, remove it with a slotted spoon and let it cool on paper towels.

2. Add the apples to the remaining bacon fat in the skillet, and cook until just beginning to soften on the edges, about 6 to 8 minutes. Add the remaining sugar and continue cooking until the sugar melts and the apples are very tender, 5 to 10 minutes more. Serve the apples over ice cream along with any pan juices and a sprinkle of the candied bacon.
343 2010-12-15 Repelling a hacker attack can be costly as PayPal, Visa and MasterCard undoubtedly found out last week as they tried - with mixed success - to keep their Web sites from being knocked offline by supporters of Wikileaks.       How much money exactly...
344 2010-12-15 HAUBENSTOCK--Eleanor Prell, 86, of Boynton Beach, FL, formally of Fair Lawn, NJ, passed away December 13, 2010. Born in Paterson, NJ to Herman and Bertha Prell. Graduated from Beaver College in 1945. She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Eug...
345 2010-12-16 DealBook has put together a brief field guide on the five defendants, culling information from previous employers, federal documents, local records and personal LinkedIn profiles....
346 2010-12-16 Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, will undergo surgery on Monday for prostate cancer, potentially denying Democrats a crucially needed vote at the end of busy lame-duck session....
347 2010-12-16 Amy Herzog's "4000 Miles" gets an LCT3 production....
348 2010-12-16 A high-school student polls friends to determine the most in-demand apps among the 13- to 18-year-old set....
349 2010-12-16 Apple's new Mac App Store, with downloadable software for Mac computers, will open for business on Jan. 6....
350 2010-12-16 The science fiction thriller "Source Code" will open the South by Southwest Film Festival....
351 2010-12-16 The real-estate mogul will be the next guest of honor at a Comedy Central roast, planned for broadcast in the spring....
352 2010-12-16 Vikram S. Pandit led the ceremonies at Citigroup's new retail bank -- a "smart bank," as he put it -- in Union Square in Manhattan....
353 2010-12-16 John Paulson, Nelson Peltz and Daniel S. Och were among the 1,100 members of New York's Jewish community at the group's annual Wall Street gathering on Wednesday....
354 2010-12-16 Why consumers should expect a refinancing to take longer than they think to close and what they should do to prepare....
355 2010-12-16 The delay to February is to provide more time to stage a new final number, make further rewrites to the dialogue and perhaps inserting new music from the composers, U2's Bono and the Edge....
356 2010-12-16 Older people with the highest levels of "good" HDL cholesterol were 60 percent less likely to develop Alzheimer's than those with the lowest HDL levels....
357 2010-12-16 Prosecutors say an expert network firm paid more than $400,000 to techology company employees who provided confidential information....
358 2010-12-16 Over two decades, Arthur B. Newman helped develop Blackstone's restructuring practice into one of the major players in the industry....
359 2010-12-16 Hailee Steinfeld, 14, attended her first movie premiere and red carpet as the star of the new Coen brothers film "True Grit."...
360 2010-12-16 A UBS study concludes that during the last month the bank's hedge fund clients have bought stocks on the Continent at the most frenzied pace in five years....
361 2010-12-16 At the start of a bail hearing for Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, on Thursday in London, High Court Justice Duncan Ouseley barred reporters from using Twitter to file updates from the courtroom....
362 2010-12-16 HAUBENSTOCK--Eleanor Prell, 86, of Boynton Beach, FL, formally of Fair Lawn, NJ, passed away December 13, 2010. Born in Paterson, NJ to Herman and Bertha Prell. Graduated from Beaver College in 1945. She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Eug...
363 2010-12-16 On the brink of extinction last spring, the nonprofit organization charged with restoring Ellis Island will benefit from a $100,000 gift from American Express, the credit card company is to announce on Thursday.     ''It's an enormous boost,'' sai...
364 2010-12-16 T. I. may be impeded from many things while he serves a prison sentence after a recent parole violation, but not from cracking the Top 10 on the album sales chart. This rapper's latest release, ''No Mercy,'' sold 159,000 copies in its first week, ...
365 2010-12-17 Despite increasing regulatory pressure and weaker trading profits, banks increased the amount of derivatives on their books by $11.3 trillion in the third quarter, according to the O.C.C....
366 2010-12-17 The New York senator takes offense at the Arizona senator's description of work on a bill to aid rescue workers who responded to terror attack....
367 2010-12-17 One of the new members is Michele Bachmann of Minnesota....
368 2010-12-17 The city reversed course and agreed to reopen two public launches on the Brooklyn side of the polluted creek....
369 2010-12-17 The 2011 Nissan Murano CrossCabriolet materializes in a Manhattan gallery space....
370 2010-12-17 Links from around the Web....
371 2010-12-17 American Express and Citigroup are getting rid of some credit card currency conversion fees. Will more companies follow?...
372 2010-12-17 The criminal complaint on Thursday offers insight into the direction of the investigation and potential developments....
373 2010-12-17 The musical is now scheduled to "absolutely" open on Feb. 7, to provide more time for its creators to make changes in the $65 million show before theater critics review it....
374 2010-12-17 If the American people like what they are seeing in Congress this week, says the Republican leader in the Senate, more is on the way....
375 2010-12-17 Bloomberg, ICE, TradeWeb and others want approval to become derivatives trading platforms, which are emerging as a central component of the Dodd-Frank overhaul....
376 2010-12-17 Ballet companies across America have plenty of "Nutcracker" merchandise, but are they missing a few tricks?...
377 2010-12-17 British banks should build up a cushion against financial contagion by gradually retaining earnings rather than paying them out as dividends and remuneration, the Bank of England said in a stability report published Friday....
378 2010-12-17 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said Thursday that the $700 billion financial bailout would end up costing taxpayers less than Congressional analysts had estimated....
379 2010-12-17 “I told him, Win the draw, let’s get a shot on net, and let’s crash the net,” said Stepan, who scored his eighth goal of the season and his first at the Garden. “Sure enough, that’s exactly what he did. That’s what he brings to this team, his leadership and his face-offs.”

His leadership was evident less than six minutes into the first period. Martin Biron, the No. 2 goalie, playing only his 10th game in place of Henrik Lundqvist, had allowed two soft goals. The Garden fans were unhelpfully chanting, “Henrik, Henrik.”

“You hear everything in this building, the good things and the bad things,” Biron said.

“After that second goal, Dru skated by me and slapped me on the pad and said, ‘Show them what you got,’ ” said Biron, who finished with 30 saves. “I felt pretty good that the captain skated by me and gave me a vote of confidence. That helped me a lot to get back in the game.”

With Biron settled down, the Rangers clawed back from deficits of 2-0 and 3-1 and sent the game to a shootout, where Erik Christensen scored and Biron allowed nothing. By that point, the Garden fans were chanting, “Marty, Marty.”

This was the Rangers’ first game since losing Ryan Callahan, the young wing who exemplifies their gritty, dynamic and increasingly successful style.

Callahan will be out six to eight weeks after breaking his left hand while blocking a shot early in Wednesday’s come-from-behind 4-1 win at Pittsburgh. No surgery is scheduled for the fracture, which Coach John Tortorella said was nondisplaced.

Drury played in Callahan’s spot and provided much of the same kind of competence and grit.

“While I was hurt, sitting in the press box over 30 games, I saw how hard they would play every day,” Drury said of the Rangers, who have a record of 20-13-1. “No matter what the score is, who we’re playing, what building we’re in, we stick to the game plan and keep trying and keep grinding things out.”

The Rangers’ next test is Saturday afternoon’s road game against the Philadelphia Flyers, who are No. 1 over all in the N.H.L.

The Coyotes’ backup goalie was Tom Fenton, an administrator in the athletic department at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. Fenton, 26, was signed Thursday after the Coyotes’ No. 1 goalie, Ilya Bryzgalov, came down with flulike symptoms too late for them to summon a backup from one of their farm teams, in San Antonio, Las Vegas and Prescott Valley, Ariz. Fenton played four years at American International College in Springfield, Mass. In his last season in 2008-9, he went 1-12-1 with an .886 save percentage. The Coyotes knew about Fenton through Frank Effinger, their director of pro scouting, who lives in Larchmont, N.Y., and used to coach at Rye Country Day and Iona College.

“They tracked some people down, and I guess I was the first to call back,” Fenton said. His reaction to stepping onto the Garden rink before the game in front of thousands of people: “Good ice! I wasn’t expecting that, to be honest with you.”
380 2010-12-17 General Mills posted lower-than-expected second-quarter results, hurt by higher commodity costs and the effect of aggressive discounts.

The results are the latest to show how the nation’s food industry is being squeezed by rising prices for ingredients like wheat and cocoa, and a fear that recession-weary consumers will resist the price increases needed to help cover those costs.

“Consumers are now accustomed to reduced prices and getting them to pay a higher price may not be easy,” said Erin Swanson, an analyst at Morningstar.

General Mills, usually one of the industry leaders in keeping its costs down, also faced a difficult comparison with strong earnings growth a year earlier.

Still, the company stood by its full-year forecast, saying that new products and cost-cutting, as well as price increases and a shift to more profitable products, should help the back half.
381 2010-12-17 Prime Minister Hashim Thaci said Thursday that a report suggesting that he was the head of a criminal gang that trafficked in the kidneys of executed prisoners was “monstrous” and “scandalous.” Mr. Thaci said the allegations in the Council of Europe report made public on Tuesday were aimed at undermining Kosovo’s statehood. “The world knows who was the aggressor and who were the victims in Kosovo,” he said, referring to crimes committed by Serbia against ethnic Albanians during the 1998-9 war. “These tendencies to change history, to equate the aggressor and the victim will fail again.”
382 2010-12-17 Bad enough that any senior White House official would, without prodding, raise the grotesque specter of Jews once again being herded into gas chambers. But it was unbearable for some to hear that language come from Mr. Kissinger, a Jew who as a teenager fled Nazi Germany with his family, in 1938. Had he not found refuge in this country and in this city — the Kissingers settled in Washington Heights — he might have ended up in a gas chamber himself.

“Despicable,” “callous,” “revulsion,” “hypocrite,” “chilling” and “shocking” were a few of the words used this week by some leaders of Jewish organizations and by newspapers that focus on Jewish matters.

Conspicuously, however, many groups and prominent individuals stayed silent. They include people who would have almost certainly spoken up had coldhearted talk of genocide come from the likes of or , neither a stranger to provocative comments about Jews.

Even some who deplored Mr. Kissinger’s remarks tempered their criticism. The called the recorded statements “outrageous,” but said they did not undermine “the important contributions and ultimate legacy of Henry Kissinger,” including his support of . The described the remarks as “truly chilling,” but suggested that anti-Semitism in the Nixon White House might have been at least partly to blame.

“Perhaps Kissinger felt that, as a Jew, he had to go the extra mile to prove to the president that there was no question as to where his loyalties lay,” the committee’s executive director, David Harris, said in a statement.

There was no hedging in editorials by Jewish-themed newspapers like The Forward and The Jewish Week. Separately, in a Jewish Week column, Menachem Z. Rosensaft, a New York lawyer who is active in Holocaust-related issues, dismissed Mr. Kissinger as “the quintessential court Jew.” And J. J. Goldberg, a Forward columnist, wrote, “No one has ever gone broke overstating Kissinger’s coldbloodedness.”

Now 87, Mr. Kissinger confined himself this week to a brief statement that said his taped comments “must be viewed in the context of the time.”

Back then, American Jewish groups strongly supported legislation that would have made any improvement in American-Soviet trade relations contingent on freer emigration by Soviet Jews. The president and Mr. Kissinger rejected that approach, which was rooted in human rights concepts not suited to their power politics, or realpolitik. They were bluntly angry at Jewish organizations for pushing hard on the issue.

In his statement, Mr. Kissinger said of Jewish emigration that “we dealt with it as a humanitarian matter separate from the foreign policy issues.” That approach, he said, led to a significant rise in the number of Jews permitted to leave the Soviet Union. In fact, it did, for a while anyway.

Still, that “gas chamber” line is about as ugly as it gets. It seems unlikely to change many views of a man who is both widely admired and widely hated, but there is one word that just might haunt Mr. Kissinger to his final days.

Genocide is “not an American concern,” he said, but “maybe a humanitarian concern.”

Maybe, the man said.
383 2010-12-17 Stoudemire committed to the Knicks days before James picked the Heat, but at a team practice on Thursday, he said he did not spend much time during that period wondering if James might join him in New York.

“To be honest with you, I wasn’t too concerned with LeBron at that time,” Stoudemire said. “I made the correct decision on my behalf and my family situation and I went from there.”

Still, Stoudemire expressed surprise on Thursday that his name did not register a little more than it did when he decided to leave Phoenix. The pending availability of James, Wade and Bosh seemed to overshadow everything else — even though, as Stoudemire was willing to note to reporters, “I’ve been in a winning situation my whole career and it’s been somewhat opposite for Chris.”

“But he’s playing well this year,” Stoudemire added diplomatically. “He’s been playing well his whole career.”

Indeed, after some early-season turbulence, the Heat is riding a 10-game winning streak and resembles the all-conquering conglomerate first envisioned over the summer.

Stoudemire, who might have been part of it all had the recruiting turned out a little differently, will instead try to get the Heat out of its rhythm on Friday night. And maybe he can. It’s just one more what-if scenario as the game approaches.

REWINDING THE CLOCK A day later, you could still hear the ticking of the clock.

After Paul Pierce’s jumper gave Boston a 118-116 lead with four-tenths of a second left in Wednesday’s game at Madison Square Garden, Amar’e Stoudemire received an inbounds pass and immediately hit a 3-pointer, igniting a momentary celebration.

But Knicks 119, Celtics 118 didn’t last very long. Officials consulted instant replay and quickly confirmed that Stoudemire’s shot came after the buzzer sounded.

Stoudemire didn’t disagree. “I saw enough replays to last a year,” he said at Thursday’s practice.

But that wasn’t the issue. What intrigued fans and spread from blog to blog on the Internet via screen grabs was that there were still six-tenths of a second remaining when Pierce’s shot cleared the net, the point at which the clock is supposed to stop.

Could those two extra tenths of a second have made the difference for Stoudemire? Maybe. But the elapsed time between the ball going through the hoop and the clock stopping was normal and accounts for human reaction by the timekeeper.

In a twist, the Knicks would have benefited had the timekeeper reacted more slowly after Pierce hit his shot. If the final buzzer had sounded after Pierce’s shot, the referees would have had the option to consult video replay and put time back on the clock. In this instance, that would have meant six-tenths of a second for the Knicks to run a final play.

But because the clock stopped with four-tenths of a second to go, the referees did not have the option to do a video review. So four-tenths was all the Knicks had when they inbounded the ball, and it proved too small of a window for Stoudemire to catch a pass and get a shot off.

Of course, any inbounded shot with four-tenths of a second left is highly unlikely to succeed. The N.B.A. imposed a rule in 1990 that a player needs at least three-tenths of a second to catch the ball and shoot, a rule imposed after the Knicks’ Trent Tucker caught an inbounds pass and beat Chicago with a 3-pointer, all with one-tenth of a second on the clock.
384 2010-12-17 Numerous people in the gay community pointed fingers at Michael C. Cook, who was the chief executive of Howard Brown. Mr. Cook’s 2005 appointment was hailed as a fresh start for the center, which was reeling from the arrest of a senior development officer on drug possession charges, followed quickly by the previous chief executive’s forced resignation. Mr. Cook, who could not be reached for comment on this story, was widely credited with boosting the center’s visibility and recruiting more minorities and women.

Mr. Cook and Mark Joslyn, the chief financial officer, were placed on administrative leave in April after the N.I.H. investigation was made public. A few weeks later, Mr. Cook resigned and Mr. Joslyn was fired. Mr. Edwards, meanwhile, had been appointed to the Howard Brown board in March as a nonvoting member. Formerly a litigator at Kirkland & Ellis, he also briefly served as the center’s pro bono general counsel. He was named chief executive and president in June.

His first six months on the job have been eventful. In August, the N.I.H. compelled Howard Brown to turn over the balance of an ongoing federal AIDS study grant to Northwestern University, its longtime research partner.

The $539,000 transfer was a substantial blow to the center’s roughly $12.5 million annual operating budget. Howard Brown’s management eliminated 10 positions and curtailed employees’ health benefits earlier this year, then decided to replace the lost money through the $500,000 donation drive. As of Wednesday, the total raised was just over $400,000, and Editha Paras, the chief financial officer, said she was confident they would reach their goal by Thursday’s deadline.

That leaves Mr. Edwards free to identify additional revenue sources, including one tried and true option: shopping. The recession has slowed charitable giving, but the center has seen one benefit — an increase in traffic and donations at its three Brown Elephant resale shops, which attract 250,000 visitors and net about $1 million annually. That money pays for services not covered by grants, Mr. Edwards said.

Other plans for reviving the bottom line include expanding pharmacy services and attracting more insured patients to the center’s clinic and to Triad, its newly acquired private practice at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center. Patients with insurance, regardless of sexual orientation, can support the center’s mission by using its services, Mr. Edwards said. “For every two or three insured patients we treat,” he said, “we can treat one person for free.”

For Danny Jones, 36, visiting Howard Brown’s clinic was a form of activism. “I have insurance,” Mr. Jones said Monday as he waited for a prescription at the clinic’s in-house pharmacy. “I choose to come here, because this is a place I want to support.”

Mr. Jones, who drives 30 minutes to the clinic from his home in Bridgeport, said he had not seen a doctor in 10 years before hearing about the center from a friend. “I haven’t found anyone else who has made me feel this comfortable,” he said. “I don’t have to explain myself, or my sexuality or why I want to be referred to in a certain way.”

This is an example of the “culturally competent, affirming care” Mr. Edwards referred to repeatedly in an interview — the care that may be compromised if the center doesn’t improve its finances.

Financial analysts say that because Howard Brown depends primarily on private donations, which may slow during recessions but rarely dry up altogether, its balance sheets should be in better shape than agencies that rely more heavily on depleted state coffers. But an examination of the organization’s amended tax returns for fiscal years 2007 and 2008 revealed deeply seated troubles.

The returns show an organization unable to capitalize on its assets, stretched beyond its financial limits and making some questionable decisions. In 2008, faced with rising debt, the board approved a $55,000 raise and a $25,000 discretionary bonus for Mr. Cook, the former chief executive, boosting his total compensation to $272,690 from $197,708. During that same year, Dr. David Blatt, one of Howard Brown’s two full-time physicians, took a $6,000 pay cut, to $165,676 from $171,761.

Mr. Edwards, whose compensation package is reportedly more than $250,000, said he would not comment on past actions, but said, “I can assure you that going forward we are committed to fiscal health and responsibility, including compensating our talented staff fairly and responsibly.”

In six months, Mr. Edwards said, “we’ll need another $500,000 — not because there’s a big shortfall, but because we can’t count on being able to raise enough to pay our debts.”

Which leads to the half-million dollar question: In a competitive climate for charitable contributions, how far will donors go for Howard Brown?

Amy Gudgeon, a senior consultant at Fiscal Management Associates, a firm that provides financial advice to nonprofit organizations, said the answer depends largely on an agency’s willingness to engage in candid conversations with its donors and constituents.

“You have to emphasize transparency and a renewed commitment to financial accountability,” said Ms. Gudgeon, who added that she is not familiar with the specifics of the Howard Brown case.

“And you need to do a deep-dive assessment of internal controls,” she said. “Why did the fraud or mismanagement happen? How are you going to keep it from happening again?”
385 2010-12-17 McALESTER, Okla. (AP) — Oklahoma executed a convicted killer on Thursday using a drug combination that included a sedative common in euthanizing animals after a nationwide shortage of a main ingredient forced the state to tinker with its usual formula.

The inmate, John David Duty, died at 6:18 p.m. at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary.

Mr. Duty, 58, executed for strangling his cellmate nearly a decade ago, was believed to be the first person in the United States whose execution included the use of the drug, pentobarbital. He and two others lost a federal challenge arguing that using pentobarbital could paralyze a person but still leave him aware when a painful third drug was administered to stop the heart.
386 2010-12-17 There will be no serenades, no crowds and few other elected officials.

The Jan. 1 inauguration of Andrew M. Cuomo as New York’s 56th governor will be a muted affair, the governor-elect said on Thursday, in tune with the economic uncertainty wracking New Yorkers, their unease about state government and Mr. Cuomo’s own preference for a more private occasion.

Instead of addressing a throng of New Yorkers from the steps of the Capitol, as Eliot Spitzer did four years ago, Mr. Cuomo will address a smaller gathering inside, in a chamber near the governor’s office known as the War Room for its murals depicting New York’s participation in military conflicts through the years. (The choice of room was not intended to carry any symbolism, aides said, but was merely the right size for the event.)

About 200 guests will be invited, aides said, most of them close friends and members of Mr. Cuomo’s large extended family, as well as his lieutenant governor, Robert J. Duffy. Mr. Cuomo’s father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, will be there. Mr. Cuomo’s transition team said that the guest list had not been completed and could not say whether Gov. David A. Paterson or his predecessor, Mr. Spitzer, would attend.

Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general-elect, and Thomas P. DiNapoli, the comptroller, who was re-elected in November, will also be sworn in at the ceremony.

“This is not a time for the grand and expensive celebrations of the recent past,” Mr. Cuomo said in a news release, “it is the time to return dignity, integrity, and performance to state government and begin making real progress for the people of this great state.”
387 2010-12-17 Patricia Walsh says she is 58, but her sinewy appearance and the absence of gray hair make her look younger, as if the aging process has been frozen in its tracks by the many stone-cold mornings she has spent collecting cans.

“I am not a morning person,” she said, petting her 1 ½-year-old pit bull, Miss Ariel Westcock. “I hate to get up. I literally drag myself out of bed, but I do it.”

In addition to Miss Westcock, six cats and Ginger, a 15-year-old pit bull-Weimaraner mix, jockey for space in Ms. Walsh’s two-room basement apartment in the Port Richmond neighborhood of Staten Island. Furnished almost entirely with objects found while picking the trash clean of recyclables — “It’s amazing what people throw out,” including money and digital cameras, she said — the space feels more like a 1980s East Village thrift store than a domicile. Her collection includes vinyl records, VHS tapes, mismatched dinner plates, stereos with cassette decks and an eight-track player. Trash bags full of cans at the center of the apartment give it an odor of stale beer.

Ms. Walsh did not spring fully formed into adulthood as a can collector. She has been a nurse’s aide and a hotel maid, and has worked at delis, restaurants and bars. That she takes to the streets every day at 7 a.m. despite a severe case of agoraphobia suggests a bravery behind her choice of work.

“It’s here, and it’s here,” Ms. Walsh said, gesturing to her head and her chest. “I just think something bad is going to happen to me.”

It started after her 6-week-old son succumbed to sudden infant death syndrome in 1981, she said.

“I fight it,” she said quietly. “I have bad days.”

Ms. Walsh, whose father was in the Army Corps of Engineers and whose family often moved as a result, left home at 14, landing on East Ninth Street during its bohemian zenith. She said she saw Bob Dylan and Iron Butterfly at the Electric Circus and watched Janis Joplin knock herself in the head with a microphone at the Fillmore East.

“I had a ball,” she said. “If you had to be a runaway, that was the time.”

She hitchhiked from New York to Sacramento and back, and had a daughter, now 38. In 1974, she moved to the New Brighton neighborhood of Staten Island and helped a friend raise eight children. In 1993, laid off from a restaurant that is now out of business, she said, “I just started picking up cans to make a living.”

She removed the back seat of her 1974 Chevrolet Nova and replaced it with crates that she filled with glass bottles. Cans went into the trunk. She made about $100 a day.

Nowadays, though, after cashing out at her neighborhood Pathmark, she pockets about $25. She blames competition from the newly emigrated Mexican population.

“Some days I don’t go at all because I don’t make enough,” she said. A monthly disability benefit of $770 on account of her agoraphobia helps pay her $800 rent.

Though she gives the impression of having been born on the streets, Ms. Walsh has had a roof over her head for all but 27 days of her life, she said.

Last summer, she arrived at the abandoned, stripped-out house she had been squatting in for nearly a year to find it sealed by the authorities. She began sleeping in someone’s car in the neighborhood, she said, and wherever else she could find shelter. Finally, she found the place where she is now living.

One morning on her rounds, she spotted a flier advertising Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, printed entirely in Spanish. She had managed to salvage her smaller items from the sealed house, but she contacted the agency — one of the seven beneficiaries of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund — and received $529 for a new bed and dresser.

“I never had a new bed in my life,” she said. “It’s a weird feeling.”

Ms. Walsh has never been on the Internet, but each day she reads The Daily News, The New York Post and The Times, looking for work. She was hit by a car several years ago, and a busted arm means her bartending days are behind her. She would like to go back to school, she said, maybe to “learn computers.”

“I don’t know if I can do a sit-down job,” she said. “I’m not a very sit-down person.”

But she knows one thing.

“I don’t want to do cans forever,” she said. “That’s crazy.”
388 2010-12-17 Worried that New York City is not spawning enough technology-based start-up companies with the potential to become big employers like Google, city officials are inviting universities around the world to create an engineering campus on city-owned land.

Despite being home to more college students than any other city in the country, New York does not have a top-rated graduate school of engineering on a par with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology or Stanford University. Without one, the city has fallen far behind San Francisco, Boston and other metropolitan areas in the competition to attract new technology companies and the jobs they create, city officials said.

On Thursday, Robert K. Steel, the deputy mayor for economic development, announced that the city would seek a “top caliber academic institution” as a partner in building a school for applied science and engineering. Hinting that there might be more interest among institutions based in other cities or countries, Mr. Steel cited the establishment of Cornell University’s medical school in Manhattan as a precedent.

The city is willing to consider locating the new facility on one or more of its properties, including the old hospital campuses at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and on Roosevelt Island. Mr. Steel said city officials were open to suggestions about other locations for the school and would be willing to make a significant investment in the project. He did not provide an amount, but another city official said the value of the city’s contribution, including real estate, could reach $100 million.

The announcement came in Mr. Steel’s first public speech since he joined the Bloomberg administration this summer as a successor to Robert C. Lieber, who returned to private work. Mr. Steel said the city’s economy had recovered stronger and faster from the recession than the rest of the nation had.
389 2010-12-17 ATLANTA — A United States Customs agent was charged Thursday with trying to smuggle large quantities of drug money and guns through Atlanta’s busy airport in a case that led undercover federal investigators to millions of dollars’ worth of the drug Ecstasy.

Fourteen people were charged in a suspected scheme to transport drugs, cash and weapons between Jamaica and suburban Atlanta. Federal investigators said a federal Customs and Border Security employee, Devon Samuels, 45, acted as the group’s insider, using his badge to bypass security and avoid screening at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in Atlanta.

A three-month investigation also led to the discovery of $2.8 million worth of Ecstasy, one of the largest seizures of the drug ever, the United States attorney Sally Quillian Yates said.

“The law enforcement community here in Atlanta and around the country are committed to weeding out those whose acts tarnish the image of the many officers and agents who work tirelessly to keep our communities and country safe,” said David P. D’Amato, a special agent with the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Mr. Samuels was charged with accepting more than $90,000 from undercover agents to launder drug money, smuggle cash by plane to Jamaica and try to bring weapons onto an aircraft. His wife, Keisha Jones, a Delta Air Lines employee in Atlanta, was also charged with money laundering and smuggling.

Their defense lawyers could not be reached for comment.
390 2010-12-17 There’s exactly one thing about the misbegotten big-screen “Yogi Bear” that might make you think back with any fondness to the Hanna-Barbera cartoons on which it’s based. That would be Justin Timberlake’s charming performance as the voice of Boo-Boo Bear, a fitting tribute to the original Boo Boo, Don Messick (who also voiced Scooby-Doo and the Jetsons’ dog, Astro).

Otherwise this mostly live-action film is a bland 21st-century family comedy without a single moment that captures the wit, energy or sophistication of the original, which by now dates back more than 50 years. After some early picnic-basket stealing, the story expands into a battle to save Jellystone Park from loggers and corrupt politicians, with a romantic subplot involving Ranger Smith and a cute documentary maker.

We’ve seen this kind of talking-animal ecological parable quite a few times already, and this one is so generic, it wouldn’t pass muster on Saturday-morning television.

Dan Aykroyd gives a glum and largely personality-free reading of Yogi, while the human actors who signed on to fill the space around the computer-animated bears — including Tom Cavanagh as Ranger Smith, Anna Faris as the environmentally minded filmmaker and Andrew Daly as the nasty mayor — are pretty much helpless.

It’s especially painful to watch Ms. Faris, so perversely funny in films like “Smiley Face” and “The House Bunny,” reduced to big smiles and false heartiness.

The director, Eric Brevig, is a visual-effects specialist, and he and his crew have done an excellent job of integrating their animated bears into some majestic scenery (filmed in New Zealand).
391 2010-12-17 “Let’s just hope it gets ugly, and then we’ll all have fun,” Conan O’Brien privately joked about his future at “The Tonight Show” back in 2004, never imagining just how ugly — and how far from amusing — his clash with Jay Leno would become. But who could have predicted that, instead of passing him the baton, Mr. Leno would beat him about the face and neck with it? Or at least that was the reigning narrative as this strange battle unfolded in January 2010.

But in his new book, “The War for Late Night,” Bill Carter, a television reporter for The New York Times, demonstrates that the flanking maneuvers made by crucial warriors on the late-night battlefield were far more complicated and far less malevolent than onlookers assumed. Through exhaustive research and interviews with the major players in this battle Mr. Carter demonstrates that, while the usual oversize Hollywood egos were forming secret alliances and stockpiling armaments, it was NBC that fired the shots that sank the Lusitania.

Even as Mr. Leno felt attacked and Mr. O’Brien felt betrayed, and an unruly army of handlers spit invective into their cellphones, the real problem was simple: Unable to decide between Mr. Leno or Mr. O’Brien and fearful of losing either to the competition, NBC executives made a series of short-term moves to try to keep them both.

Those moves — promising Mr. O’Brien “The Tonight Show” five years in the future and promising Mr. Leno his own nightly 10 p.m. spot to prevent him from competing in the “Tonight Show” slot elsewhere — not only sparked the war, but also kept the battles raging until the bitter end. Mr. O’Brien abandoned NBC and “The Tonight Show” in a very public huff in January, and Mr. Leno returned to the show in March with the sheepish humility of a five-star general disguised in a Little Bo Peep costume.

Despite its title, “The War for Late Night” is anything but incendiary. Just as he took a balanced approach to Mr. Leno’s early-’90s clashes with David Letterman in “The Late Shift” (1994), Mr. Carter refuses to locate an evil mastermind or villain here. Instead he traces the strategies and motives of all parties with remarkable empathy.

Although Mr. Leno has been characterized by others as a no-nonsense workhorse willing to sacrifice his edge for the sake of broadening his appeal, Mr. Carter moves beyond such presumptions, pointing out that Mr. Leno’s upbringing as a townie in Andover, Mass. — home of the prep school Phillips Academy — made him suspicious of elitism. Rather than cynically choosing jokes that play to the lowest common denominator, Mr. Leno has a deep desire, Mr. Carter contends, to “be a comic for every audience,” like Bob Hope. And, the book asserts, Mr. Leno isn’t simply hardworking; he’s a man who feels utterly lost outside of his work routine and abhors “the very idea of vacation.”

Mr. O’Brien, on the other hand, viewed “The Tonight Show” as a sacred institution that needed to be protected from the corrupting influences of network executives bent on maximum ratings. In rejecting pressure to broaden his show’s appeal, Mr. O’Brien saw himself as fighting an honorable fight, offering higher quality and smarter laughs rather than rolling out the terrorist jokes and ugly-sister jokes of his predecessor.

Caught between these two very different personalities, NBC executives became fixated on preventing either host from departing. A true affinity for the peculiar challenges of late night television was remarkably rare, after all. Throw in Mr. O’Brien’s appeal with younger viewers and Mr. Leno’s sustained popularity in the 11:35 p.m. slot, and it’s clear why, for NBC’s chief executive, Jeff Zucker, and its entertainment chairman, Jeff Gaspin, losing either to ABC or Fox was unthinkable. Given the dismal state of NBC’s prime-time programming, such a blow would be considered devastating for the network and — not incidentally — for the executive who failed to prevent Mr. Leno’s or Mr. O’Brien’s defection.

Mr. Leno wasn’t all that flexible, though: In all of Mr. Zucker’s attempts to find a place for Mr. Leno at NBC, Mr. Carter writes, “Jay always had the same reply: ‘I tell jokes at 11:30 at night.’ ”

And thanks to an uncommon pay-and-play clause in Mr. Leno’s contract, which forced NBC not only to pay him but also to keep him on the air for two years, NBC was wedged into a tight corner when Mr. Leno’s 10 p.m. show failed. “This demanded serious legal interpretation, and the one Gaspin got from NBC’s legal team left him with little doubt: NBC faced risk — big risk,” Mr. Carter writes. Looking for an out, they found one in Mr. O’Brien’s contract, which lacked any stipulation that would keep his “Tonight Show” locked into the 11:35 p.m. time slot.

As thorough and detailed a story as he tells, Mr. Carter entertains us every step of the way, peppering the page with more rich comedic details than your average late-night monologue — from the agent James Dixon’s habit of referring to male clients as Baby Doll to the unnamed NBC executive who asserts that top entertainment leaders “share a common genetic trait: ‘They have narcissistic personalities. Almost every conversation will eventually be about them.’ ” And buried amid pages of carefully reconstructed executive strategies are giddily descriptive sentences like this one about Jimmy Kimmel: “Not really overweight but always slightly puffy, Kimmel looked less like a leading man than a relaxed-fit jeans model.”

With “The War for Late Night” Mr. Carter presents an unexpectedly engrossing tale that should engage readers with even the mildest interest in this latest Hollywood battle of wills. He resists getting too ugly, but he still has plenty of fun, providing a nice lesson on restraint for entertainment reporters everywhere.
392 2010-12-17 Here, James — whose limited scoring options between the rim and the 3-point line tend to crystallize in the playoffs — can become the facilitator, Magic of Miami, by deferring to the dazzling shotmaking skills of Wade. That’s what he did, more or less, in the fourth quarter of the Heat’s 101-95 victory over the Cavaliers on Wednesday night.

In hindsight, we can guess that James would never have left Cleveland had the Cavaliers acquired Stoudemire when he was on the trading block last season. But how could James have known that Stoudemire was capable of providing star cover for him in New York when so few had any idea of how ready Stoudemire was to break free of Steve Nash’s shadow, as opposed to relishing being in it?

Did Mike D’Antoni, who coached Stoudemire in Phoenix before leaving for New York, have a clue? Did Donnie Walsh, the Knicks’ team president, realize that for a robust $100 million he was getting a transcendent talent who would rapidly demonstrate such extreme comfort in the role of leading man?

Doubtful on both accounts, and the Knicks’ brain trust would be the first to admit that one does not necessarily beget the other.

Before and after the Heat won its 10th straight game Wednesday night, James was asked how much consideration he actually gave the Knicks last summer. Would his decision have been more complicated had he known that Stoudemire had the potential to become even greater than the sum of his parts?

Inoculated after the brutal overreactions to his relocation choice, James answered as if reading from a teleprompter. He said he had paid serious attention to all six of his suitors (fabrication alert: that would include the Los Angeles Clippers) and that process convinced him to bring his talents to South Beach.

On some level, he had to have been intrigued by Madison Square Garden, as most N.B.A. stars tend to be, according to Wade.

“It’s not loaded with any of the amenities of today’s arenas, but there’s something special about it,” Wade said. “It’s all history.”

Stepping into the charged atmosphere of the self-proclaimed world’s most famous arena twice a season is one thing. Being asked to lift a franchise that has invested more money than even James and Wade can imagine in pursuit of its first championship since 1973 is another.

“Winning appeals to me,” James said. “I’m not about saving franchises or saving this or that.”

With one title registered in Miami, and his hometown Bulls trying to lure him to Chicago, Wade said “it was no secret” which teams were his top choices. That he welcomed James so willingly speaks to levels of maturity and security that have too often eluded contemporary N.B.A. stars.

In the post-Jordan years, the league was rocked by high-profile divorces of those unwilling or incapable of sharing the ball and the glory. Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant couldn’t co-exist when they were winning three straight titles.

It’s a tricky business, matching young men who get used to having everyone in their orbit and gravitational pull. The Knicks should be thinking long and hard about how well Carmelo Anthony’s trigger-happy persona would fit before blowing up the promising nucleus of young talent that appears to be growing behind Stoudemire.

Unless you’re from Cleveland, the summer’s free-agent chaos has worked out just fine for David Stern’s league and its television partners. Yes, James’s decision was way overdone, but who can say it was the wrong one for him? Talk to those who knew James growing up in Akron, and they’ll tell you he was never the leader of his club or high school teams, just the best player.

Maybe he is too self-absorbed to lead; maybe too insecure or shy. It was easy for the legends of yesteryear to pan his teaming up with Wade. But Magic Johnson and Larry Bird had multiple Hall of Fame teammates. Michael Jordan had a supporting cast that won 55 games without him one season.

Now James gets booed everywhere he goes, and he can expect the Garden derision to be cacophonous. But he knows Wade has his back and the Knicks-Heat rivalry is about to be back. Wade concluded, “We look forward to being on that stage.”
393 2010-12-17 BERLIN — In the latest salvo of a protracted legal battle, Nokia sued Apple on Thursday in Britain, Germany and the Netherlands, alleging that the U.S. technology company used 13 of its patents, including a basic touch-screen maneuver, without its permission.

The lawsuits filed by Nokia are the most recent demands for royalty payments from its archrival Apple, the computer and device maker based in Cupertino, California, which entered the mobile phone business in 2007 with the iPhone, a device that redefined the smartphone.

“The Nokia inventions protected by these patents include several which enable compelling user experiences,” said Paul Melin, a Nokia vice president in charge of intellectual property.

Two of the patents that Nokia is claiming are the familiar finger “wiping gesture” used to navigate content on a cellphone touch screen, and the technology that enables access to the real-time services of an applications store.

Mr. Melin said Nokia had filed patents protecting both technologies more than 10 years ago. Nokia said it sued Apple in the High Court in London, district courts in Düsseldorf and Mannheim, Germany, and district court in The Hague. The suits claim that Apple is improperly using Nokia technologies in the iPhone, iPad and iPod devices.
394 2010-12-17 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said Thursday that the $700 billion financial bailout would end up costing taxpayers less than Congressional analysts had estimated.

The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that taxpayers will lose $25 billion on the rescue of banks, other financial institutions and automakers that came in at the peak of the crisis in the fall of 2008.

Mr. Geithner told a hearing by a Congressionally appointed panel that it would cost less than that.

“Those estimates are now around $25 billion,” Mr. Geithner said. “They are too high, in my judgment. Ultimately, they’ll be lower.”

Mr. Geithner did not provide another estimate.

Measured in cost, he said, the bailout “will rank as one of the most effective crisis-response programs ever implemented.”

The most important fact, he said, is that the government’s combined investments in banks, financial institutions, automakers and credit markets “will show a positive return,” he said. “The losses will be limited to the amount we spend on our housing programs.”

Mr. Geithner said the nation’s financial system today “is in a much stronger position than it was before the crisis.”

Still, he acknowledged, with unemployment hovering at an average 10 percent, “Our work is not done.”
395 2010-12-17 BEIJING — An ethnic Mongolian dissident who completed a 15-year prison sentence last week for political crimes has been confined to a luxury hotel in Inner Mongolia along with his wife and son, according to a family member who spoke with the police earlier this week.

The dissident, Hada, has been missing since last Friday, when he was reportedly released from the detention center where he served his time for espionage and “splitting the nation.” A day later, photographs were anonymously published on the Internet showing Mr. Hada and his family sharing a meal together and wanly toasting the camera.

Like many ethnic Mongolians, Mr. Hada, his wife and their son use one name.

Human rights advocates have expressed concern that the authorities have summarily extended Mr. Hada’s punishment by preventing his return to Hohhot, the provincial capital of Inner Mongolia, which is officially known as an autonomous region.

“The Chinese authorities must immediately clarify Hada and his wife and son’s current status and whereabouts,” Catherine Baber, deputy director of Amnesty International, said in a statement Wednesday. “They cannot simply hide people they find embarrassing or inconvenient.”

It appears that the authorities are doing just that. According to Mr. Hada’s sister-in-law, Naraa, a high-ranking police official summoned her to the Public Security Bureau on Tuesday and explained that the family was staying at an unidentified five-star hotel “for their own good.” She said the official would not reveal the name of the hotel or set a limit on how long Mr. Hada and his family would be held.
396 2010-12-17 MOSCOW -- Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin on Thursday said that an outburst of nationalist violence in Moscow proved that Russia could not allow its law enforcement bodies to weaken, despite the arguments of ''our liberal intelligentsia.''     In...
397 2010-12-17 Getty ImagesMark Madoff in 2005, at his father's firm in New York.     Last Friday, the publisher of a promising real estate newsletter called Sonar Report rose before dawn, scoured the news to gather items for that day's edition and, at 9:04 a.m....
398 2010-12-17 Confirming recent speculation, the Broadway production of ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' starring Vanessa Redgrave, left, James Earl Jones and Boyd Gaines, will extend through April 9, 2011, the producers of the show announced Wednesday. All three actors...
399 2010-12-17 The lead producers of the new Broadway musical ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark'' have decided again to delay its opening night, now scheduled for Jan. 11, until sometime in February, two people involved with the musical said on Thursday. With prev...
400 2010-12-17 On May 22, 2009, an unnamed investment professional rang up James Fleishman, a salesman at the consulting firm Primary Global Research.     The anonymous executive was seeking a very particular type of service: an expert who could provide specific...
401 2010-12-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
402 2010-12-18 The new Marriott in Pune and the Leela Palace Kempinski in New Delhi signal India's rising popularity among the jet-set....
403 2010-12-18 Re “Reviving a Ritual of Tending to the Dead” (news article, Dec. 13):

One reason for the growing interest among nontraditional Jews in the traditional rituals of preparing a Jew for burial stems from the women’s movement.

As I found in my research on feminist funerals for Lilith magazine, as Jewish women who were so profoundly influenced by the women’s movement grow older, we realize that funerals are the final ritual to be addressed. Women preparing other women for burial are both following the dictates of traditional Judaism and carrying out a final act of sisterhood.

The writer is a founder of Lilith, the Jewish feminist magazine.
404 2010-12-18 Houston Rockets center Yao Ming will miss the rest of the season because of a stress fracture in his left ankle.

The Rockets announced the decision Friday, a day after the injury was found in an M.R.I. exam. The team physician Walter Lowe said surgery was the usual treatment for such an injury, which has sidelined Yao since Nov. 10.

The 30-year-old Yao is still consulting with doctors to determine how he will proceed. If he chooses surgery, it could be up to 10 months before he could return to the court.

Yao, a seven-time All-Star, sat out last season after reconstructive surgery to repair a broken left foot. Lowe said this injury was related to last year’s injury. He said that the reconstructive surgery on Yao’s foot did not put him at a greater risk of stress fractures, but that Yao had always been prone to them.

Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey said he was hopeful that Yao would recover and play for the team in the future, despite the latest setback.
405 2010-12-18 Two seamen cast overboard when a Vietnamese cargo ship sank in waters between China and Vietnam were rescued Friday, although 25 others remain missing, the Chinese media reported. According to the Xinhua news agency, a Chinese maritime rescue team found the two men in the South China Sea more than 30 miles from where the vessel sank Thursday in what Vietnamese officials described as gale-force winds. The ship, Phu Tan, was traveling between two Vietnamese ports when it capsized in rough seas about 115 miles off the coast of Hainan Island, China.
406 2010-12-18 His lawyers also asked the judge, Lewis A. Kaplan, to dismiss a separate jury finding; if he does so, that could reduce Mr. Ghailani’s maximum sentence to 20 years.

The charge Mr. Ghailani was convicted of carries a sentence that can vary, depending on whether a defendant’s conduct is found to have caused deaths or injuries.

The jury, in its verdict on Nov, 17, said the government had proved that Mr. Ghailani’s conduct “directly or proximately caused death to a person,” a finding that made him eligible for a life sentence.

But Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers argued that there was not enough evidence to support that finding, according to the motion, submitted by one of those lawyers, Michael K. Bachrach.

A spokeswoman for Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, had no comment on the defense’s arguments. Mr. Bharara’s office is expected to respond in court papers, and he has said the government will seek a life sentence.

The verdict in Mr. Ghailani’s trial has deepened the debate over whether terrorist detainees should be tried in civilian courts, with some critics charging that the overwhelming number of acquittals for Mr. Ghailani shows how risky civilian trials can be.

Mr. Ghailani, who was captured in 2004, was held for nearly five years, first in a secret overseas prison run by the Central Intelligence Agency and later at the naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. He was moved into the civilian system last year.

At his trial, prosecutors argued that he had played a key role in Al Qaeda’s plot to bomb the American Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The bombings killed 224 people and wounded thousands.

Prosecutors said Mr. Ghailani had helped in the logistical preparations for the Tanzania attack, including buying the truck that was used to carry the bomb and gas tanks that were placed inside it to increase the force of the blast. Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers contended that he was duped into assisting in the conspiracy.

The government has also said Mr. Ghailani later trained with Al Qaeda and worked as a bodyguard for Osama bin Laden, but those accusations were not included in the criminal charges, and the jury was not told about them.

In seeking the dismissal of the conviction, Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers described what they called “the overwhelming statement of the jury acquitting” him on the other counts. As an alternative, the lawyers asked Judge Kaplan to grant Mr. Ghailani a new trial on the conspiracy count.

But Daniel C. Richman, a Columbia University law professor, said that attacking a conviction as inconsistent with acquittals of the same defendant was rarely successful.

“The bottom line is that inconsistent verdicts make us uncomfortable but we completely wrap our doctrine around them and accept them,” said Professor Richman, who is a former federal prosecutor.

“In large part because the government is unable to complain about inconsistent acquittals,” he added, “the Supreme Court has made clear that inconsistent convictions will generally pass muster.”
407 2010-12-18 Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan asked a federal judge on Friday to dismiss the Justice Department’s antitrust lawsuit accusing it of driving up prices for patients and other insurers. The Justice Department filed the suit Oct. 18, saying the company’s clauses with health care providers guaranteed that competing health care plans could not obtain better rates and, as a result, discouraged competition. Blue Cross said Friday its antitrust exemption served the public goal of providing health coverage at reasonable cost and was supported by previous Supreme Court decisions. Michigan Blue Cross’s vice president and chief lawyer, Jeffrey Rumley, said the suit failed to recognize that the Michigan Blue Cross plan was enabled by state law to provide health care across the state at reasonable costs. The Justice Department said it would file a response to the motion.
408 2010-12-18 Some scientists praised the new guidelines. “I think they represent several steps in the right direction,” said Albert H. Teich, director of science and policy programs at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington.

But others were disappointed that the four-page document did not provide more specifics. “The guidelines are substantively quite thin,” said Roger A. Pielke Jr., a professor of environmental studies at the University of Colorado.

The guidelines have their roots in a series of scientific controversies that erupted during the administration of President George W. Bush.

Officials were repeatedly accused of suppressing or even altering research findings, particularly on climate change, to match the political views of the White House. So in March 2009, when Mr. Obama overturned Bush administration limits on stem cell research, he set out several principles to “guarantee scientific integrity throughout the executive branch” and added, “We make scientific decisions based on facts, not ideology.”

But though the president called on Dr. Holdren to come up with recommendations within four months, the guidelines did not emerge for over a year and a half.

Dr. Pielke said on Friday that considering the guidelines were merely “a starting line for agencies to consider these issues, what is surprising is how long it took to get these out.”

Dr. Holdren told a House panel in February that the process took longer than expected because of “the difficulties of constructing a set of guidelines that would be applicable across all the agencies and accepted by all concerned.”

With the delay, some Republicans have charged that the Obama administration was manipulating scientific data in the same way it said the Bush administration had done — to justify policy decisions on climate change, fuel mileage standards, nuclear waste disposal and other issues.

“In fact, what I see from this administration, seems to me they’re holding on to the idea that the world is flat,” Representative Paul Broun, Republican of Georgia, said at the panel hearing.

Francesca T. Grifo, director of the scientific integrity program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, praised the guidelines but cautioned, “A lot of the details are left to the agencies.”

The document states, “Federal scientists may speak to the media and the public about scientific and technological matters based on their official work,” but then adds a caveat: “with appropriate coordination with their immediate supervisor and their public affairs office.”

“That could mean so many different things,” Dr. Grifo said — for example, that a scientist should keep their colleagues informed, or that a supervisor could prohibit appearances.

Dr. Grifo said the language would not prevent a recurrence of the kind of situation that arose in 2006, when James E. Hansen, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York, accused White House officials of trying to keep him from talking about findings that connected emissions of carbon dioxide with rising global temperatures.

“I don’t like the ambiguities,” Dr. Grifo said. “I don’t like the discretion it gives to the agencies.”
409 2010-12-18 Ms. Popkin is nothing like that. To a casual observer, the articulate and groomed Ms. Popkin seems perfectly fine. She is in the vanguard of a new generation of Alzheimer’s patients, given a diagnosis after tests found signs of the disease years before actual sets in.

But the new diagnostic tests are leading to a moral dilemma. Since there is no treatment for Alzheimer’s, is it a good thing to tell people, years earlier, that they have this progressive degenerative brain disease or have a good chance of getting it?

“I am grappling with that issue,” Dr. Rafii said. “I give them the diagnosis — we are getting pretty good at diagnosis now. But it’s challenging because what do we do then?”

It is a quandary that is emblematic of major changes in the practice of medicine, affecting not just Alzheimer’s patients. Modern medicine has produced new diagnostic tools, from scanners to genetic tests, that can find diseases or predict disease risk decades before people would notice any symptoms.

At the same time, many of those diseases have no effective treatments. Does it help to know you are likely to get a disease if there is nothing you can do?

“This is the price we pay” for the new knowledge, said Dr. Jonathan D. Moreno, a professor of medical ethics and the history and sociology of science at the .

“I think we are going to go through a really tough time,” he added. “We have so much information now, and we have to try to learn as a culture what information we do not want to have.”

Some doctors, like Dr. John C. Morris of in , say they will not offer the new diagnostic tests for Alzheimer’s — like M.R.I.’s and spinal taps — to patients because it is not yet clear how to interpret them. He uses them in research studies but does not tell subjects the results.

“We don’t know for certain what these results mean,” Dr. Morris said. “If you have amyloid in your brain, we don’t know for certain that you will become demented, and we don’t have anything we can do about it.”

But many people want to know anyway and say they can handle the uncertainty.

That issue is facing investigators in a large federal study of early signs of Alzheimer’s. The researchers, who include Dr. Morris, have been testing and following hundreds of people aged 55 to 90, some with normal memories, some with problems and some with dementia. So far, only investigators know the results. Now, the question is, should those who want to learn what their tests show be told?

“We are just confronting this,” said Dr. Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging. “Bioethicists are talking with scientists and the public about what is the right thing to do.”

Dr. Rafii learned about the new tests and how to use them because he is an investigator in that large federal study. But many who come to the memory disorders clinic at the University of California, San Diego, where Dr. Rafii works, are not part of that study, the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, and simply want to know what is wrong with their brains.

So Dr. Rafii sometimes offers the study’s diagnostic tests: spinal taps and M.R.I.’s to look for shrinkage in important areas of the brain; PET scans to look for the telltale signs of Alzheimer’s in the brain. He calls it “ADNI in the real world,” referring to the study’s acronym. Others, too, offer such tests, although doctors differ in how far they will go.

Dr. Mony J. de Leon of , for example, takes a middle ground. He is studying people at increased risk for Alzheimer’s or other dementias, especially those whose mothers had Alzheimer’s. That sort of family history, he has found, makes the disease more likely.

Many who come to his clinic have no memory problems, but are worried. So Dr. de Leon enrolls them in a study and regularly subjects them to an array of tests — ones that probe their memory, and ones like spinal taps and brain scans that look for signs of Alzheimer’s. But he only provides people with a sort of general assessment, telling them they are at increased risk, decreased risk or somewhere in the middle.

“We do not reveal their scores,” Dr. de Leon said.

Some are satisfied with that.

Enzo Simone, for example, learned that, at age 43, his tests results do not indicate an increased risk. He was glad to know, but is not convinced he has escaped what he sees as a family fate. His mother, grandmother and great-grandmother had Alzheimer’s. They got the disease in their 60s. Mr. Simone, who lives in Amawalk, N.Y., reasoned that he had 20 years before it was likely to strike. And he intends to continue being tested as part of Dr. de Leon’s study.

And for those who demand more details than just a “yes,” “no” or “maybe,” Dr. de Leon refuses.

“We say, ‘It is a statistical exercise, it is a proof of concept, it is a baby test,’ ” Dr. de Leon said. “Some say: ‘That’s not good enough. I come back to you every year, and if you want me to continue I need more than that.’ ”

But Dr. de Leon said he was constrained by his hospital’s ethics board, which has to approve his studies. It is extremely difficult, he says, to convince the board that giving out uncertain information about risk can help people, given that there is no effective treatment. And so, he says, he tells patients, “You are here to do an experiment.”

Others, like Dr. Lawrence Honig of , say they sometimes see patients with no symptoms of who are nonetheless worried about their risk. Some of them have already gotten one of the early diagnostic tests, like a spinal tap or brain scan, from a neurologist in private practice, and have been told they were on their way to developing Alzheimer’s. They come to Dr. Honig, hoping he will say it is not true.

That situation, Dr. Honig says, “has become more and more common over the last few years.” He says that when test results are consistent with Alzheimer’s, he is honest about it, telling patients that the results are “suggestive of Alzheimer’s” but adding that all he can say for sure is “at some point in the future, you might be faced with that condition.”

He agonizes, though, over telling people news like that.

“I think it’s pretty terrible,” Dr. Honig said. “It is psychologically invasive.”

But for neurologists like Dr. de Leon, the future is fast approaching, as patients increasingly demand to know.

“The floodgate is about to open,” Dr. de Leon said.

At , Dr. Robert Green faced an ethical dilemma. He wanted to test people for a gene, APOE, that has three variants. People with two copies of one of the variants, APO e4, have a 12- to 15-fold increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease. People with even one copy of the gene variant have about a threefold increased risk.

Five different published consensus statements by ethicists and neurologists had considered the question of whether people should be told the results of APOE tests. And every one of those committee said the answer is no, do not tell.

Dr. Green wondered if that answer was right.

“It seemed rather strange to be in a position where family members are coming to you and saying, ‘I really understand APOE genotyping and the idea of a risk gene, and I want to know my genotype,’ and then to say to them, ‘I could tell you that, but I’m not going to.’ ” After all, he said, “Part of what we do in medicine is to inform.”

He knew what it meant to tell people they were at high risk.

“Alzheimer’s is a fearsome disease,” he said. “You can’t get much more fearsome than Alzheimer’s.” And yet, he said, “People still wanted to know.”

He decided to do a study to see what would happen if he told.

The first surprise was how many people wanted to know. To be in the study, a person had to have a first-degree relative who had had Alzheimer’s, making it more likely that they would have an APO e4 variant. Dr. Green thought maybe a small percentage of the people he approached would want to have the genetic test. Instead, nearly a quarter did.

“Frankly, we were terrified in early days of this study,” Dr. Green said. “We did not want to harm anyone. We were very, very thoughtful and intense. We sat with people beforehand and asked if they were really sure they wanted to do this.”

But his subjects were fine with the testing. After they gave the subjects their test results, researchers looked for psychological effects, observing participants in conversations and administering standardized questions designed to detect anxiety or or suicidal thoughts. They found nothing.

The main difference between those who found out they had APO e4 and those who found out they did not have that gene variant is that the APO e4 subjects were more likely to buy long term care , were more likely to start exercising and were more likely to start taking and nutritional supplements, even though these practices and products have never been shown to protect against Alzheimer’s.

For many, though, the news was good — they did not have APO e4.

That is what happened with Alan Whitney, a 66-year-old radio astronomer at the , whose mother and mother’s father both had Alzheimer’s. He wanted the test, he said, knowing what it meant to have APO e4.

“That was a gamble I took,” he said.

And he was lucky. If he had had an APO e4 gene, he said, he might have taken early and traveled.

“Now I feel I have some time.” Dr. Whitney said.

Robert Stuart- , an 83-year-old retired columnist for his local newspaper in Lincoln, Mass., was not so lucky. He found out he has one copy of the APO e4 gene. His father had Alzheimer’s and so did his wife, who died from it, so he knows full well what the disease entails

“I wanted to know,” Mr. Stuart-Vail said. “I wanted to be able to tell my children.”

When he told them, though, they did not say much, Mr. Stuart-Vail said.

“I don’t think it meant that much to them. Alzheimer’s — that’s something that happens to old people.” Mr. Stuart-Vail’s children are middle-aged.

As for Mr. Stuart-Vail, he believes staying active will help stave off the disease if it is in his future. And he has come to terms with his .

“You play the cards you are dealt,” he said.

In , Marjie Popkin said her memory problems had gotten steadily worse in the year since she first saw Dr. Rafii.

For example, she says, she has two cats. “I have to remember when I walk out that door that they can’t come with me.”

She used to read “all the time.” Now, she says, reading is difficult. She depends on a friend, Taffy Jones, who took her to her appointment with Dr. Rafii, and who visits often and calls her every day.

But that is hard for Ms. Jones.

In many respects, Ms. Jones said, Ms. Popkin is perfectly normal. She remembers to feed her cats, she changes their litter box every day, she showers.

“Other things she is not able to deal with at all,” Ms. Jones said. Getting dressed has become a problem, and Ms. Jones has to call Ms. Popkin every morning and every night to remind her to take her pills. Ms. Popkin can no longer drive and relies on Ms. Jones to help with routine things, like getting groceries. Helping Ms. Popkin has become a time-consuming chore.

Ms. Popkin is all too aware of the situation she is in, dependent on the kindness of neighbors and Ms Jones.

“I am trying to adjust, but it’s not easy,” Ms. Popkin said in a telephone conversation. “I am pretty pragmatic. I know what the score is.”

Sometimes she sits in her apartment and just cries and cries. She has no family, and Ms. Jones is her only remaining friend; the others have drifted away.

The diagnosis of early-stage Alzheimer’s disease was a shock, Ms. Popkin said, like “a punch in the stomach.”

“This brain’s been with me since I was born — how can it change like that? Sometimes I have to think, ‘Is this really happening to me?’ ”

Her only consolation, she says, is that her father, her last remaining family member other than a cousin in , died a few years ago, before she got the diagnosis. “He would have been devastated.”

And Ms. Popkin — is she glad now that she found out what is wrong?

“I wish I didn’t know,” she said.
410 2010-12-18 Is there such a word as “presponse?” Perhaps we should coin it to describe what took place this week at the F.C.I.C.

It would all be pretty laughable if it didn’t have serious consequences. But it does. First, with the commission’s Republican members having now issued this public, partisan smoke signal, the final product, no matter how rigorous, will be inevitably dismissed as a Democratic document. As a result, it will have little impact and, once Bill O’Reilly has finished mocking it, will be consigned to the dustbin of history. By creating this partisan rift, the Republicans have succeeded in tarring the entire enterprise.

That is a genuine shame. When the commission was formed last year, there were high hopes that it could act as a modern-day Pecora investigation — which rooted out Wall Street corruption in the wake of the crash of 1929, and helped create the political groundswell for such key reforms as the Glass-Steagall Act. That investigation was led by Ferdinand Pecora, who held the country spellbound through some two years of nonstop investigations. Clearly, this effort isn’t going to come close to that one.

“I think we can officially stop comparing these guys to the Pecora Committee,” said Michael Perino, author of an engaging recent book about Pecora, “The Hellhound of Wall Street.” Mr. Perino added, “It is disparaging to Pecora.”

The second consequence is even more important. Next year, the House of Representatives will be in Republican hands. High on the agenda for the new majority is its own version of financial reform. The Republicans hope to minimize the impact of the Dodd-Frank bill while at the same attacking — and fixing — what they see as the “true” culprit of the financial crisis.

To fix a problem, though, it helps to know what the problem is. The F.C.I.C., with all those witnesses and documents, could have really helped here. But the paper released by the commission’s Republicans this week reads as if they couldn’t be bothered. It simply reiterates longstanding Republican dogma that could have been written without a $6 million investigation. None of which bodes particularly well for the next two years of “financial reform.”

The problem the Republicans want to fix is the two government-sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without question, Fannie and Freddie need fixing. A week before Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008, both entities were so troubled that they had to be taken over by the federal government. Since then, the G.S.E.’s, as they’re called in Washington, have cost the taxpayer around $150 billion in losses, far more than, say, the American International Group.

They have also, though, served a critical purpose. With the private mortgage market essentially broken, virtually every mortgage made in America, postcrisis, has required a guarantee from Fannie, Freddie or the Federal Housing Administration. With the banks unwilling to make mortgage loans on their own, you simply cannot buy a house in America today without Fannie and Freddie’s help.

The F.C.I.C. commissioner who has complained loudest about Fannie and Freddie is Peter Wallison, a former Reagan-era Treasury official who for the last two decades or so has been a fellow at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. Long before it was popular to criticize Fannie and Freddie, they were Mr. Wallison’s bugaboo. Back then, he was a lonely — indeed a brave — voice arguing that the enormous portfolios of mortgages of the G.S.E.’s — combined with their quasi-governmental status — created systemic risk.

He was right about this, though it’s worth nothing that his precrisis prognosis of Fannie and Freddie’s ills was wrong in a number of key ways. Like most Fannie and Freddie critics at the time, he believed the risk they posed was interest-rate risk, rather than credit risk, which is what actually brought the two companies low. He also argued that Fannie and Freddie were consistently ignoring their mission to help make affordable housing available to Americans.

As he wrote in 2004, “Study after study have shown that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, despite full-throated claims about trillion-dollar commitments and the like, have failed to lead the private market in assisting the development and financing of affordable housing.”

After the crisis, his tune changed considerably — as did that of many other Republicans, who tended to follow his intellectual lead on this issue. Now, he said, it was government policy aimed at increasing homeownership that essentially forced the private sector to make bad subprime loans.

And Fannie and Freddie, with their enormous power in the securitization market, were the government’s vehicles in leading Wall Street and the other market participants down this garden path. “Fannie and Freddie were in competition to reduce underwriting standards,” Mr. Wallison told me when I spoke to him this week. This of course directly contradicts his criticism of six years ago, but never mind.

It is easy enough to understand why Mr. Wallison and his fellow Republicans would find this a comforting prism through which to view the financial crisis. If government housing policy is the chief culprit, it means that the market itself is off the hook. See, it was all the fault of wrong-headed government policy! Blaming it all on Fannie and Freddie also gives the Republicans a nice cudgel with which to beat Democrats, who for years defended the G.S.E.’s from even the most muted criticism.

The Republican document issued earlier this week did little more than regurgitate this theory of the case. “Subsidizing mortgages through the G.S.E.’s was a particularly expedient way to increase the homeownership rate,” they write at one point. At the same time, they tread lightly over the culpability of other nongovernmental culprits like the credit ratings agencies and Wall Street itself.

The only problem with Mr. Wallison’s theory is that it’s not, as they say, reality-based. Anyone who has looked at the role of Fannie and Freddie will discover they spent most of the housing bubble avoiding subprime loans, because those loans didn’t meet their underwriting standards. (Indeed, for most of their existence, Fannie and Freddie didn’t so much meet their affordable housing goals as gamed them.)

When Fannie and Freddie finally did get into the business, it was very late in the game. But the motivation wasn’t pressure from the government; it was pressure from the marketplace. You see, the subprime companies and Wall Street had long used subprime loans as a way to do an end-run around Fannie and Freddie. By the mid-2000s, subprime underwriting and securitization had become so profitable — and such a large part of the overall mortgage business — that Fannie and Freddie felt they had no choice but to dive in. In other words, the G.S.E.’s were reacting to the realities of the market, not to the government. They were worried about losing market share.

Mr. Wallison said he had seen documents, not yet made public, as part of his work with the financial crisis commission that would prove that he’s right and I’m wrong. Well, we’ll see.

What is most troubling is that the Republicans are going to try to create new policy based on Mr. Wallison’s analysis. The incoming chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, has vowed to make reform of the G.S.E.’s his top legislative priority, ending “once and for all the disastrous government experiment in privatized profits and socialized losses.”

Without question, this is a laudable goal. But the diagnosis put forth by Congressional Republicans reads as if Mr. Wallison wrote it. Fannie and Freddie, they say (implausibly) in a recent position paper, “were the proximate cause of the financial crisis” and “at the forefront of a relentless push to drive down lending standards,” etc. etc.

The solutions they offered were nice-sounding but impractical — “Re-establish a housing financial market that has long-term stability in which private capital is the primary source of mortgage financing” — and utterly in denial about the fact that it’s the private market that has gone AWOL. Just as the market failed during the bubble, so it is now failing again.

I’m all for reforming Fannie and Freddie. Who isn’t? But at this stage of the game, you can’t reform the G.S.E.’s without reforming the private market too. That may not be where the Republicans’ theory of the case takes them. But it happens to be true.
411 2010-12-18 Stocks ended flat on Friday as investors shrugged off encouraging economic signs and a tax-cut package expected to lift economic growth. Trading ended shortly before President Obama signed a tax bill into law.

The $850 billion package extends Bush-era tax cuts for another two years and expiring unemployment benefits through next year.

In a hopeful sign for the economy, the Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators rose 1.1 percent in November, the fastest rate since March. The index, which tracks data like orders for new goods and materials, rose 0.4 percent in October.

Stocks wavered in a tight range Friday, a day after major indexes hit two-year highs. The Dow Jones industrial average edged lower on Friday, but added 82 points over the week. The index of 30 large company shares has now gained 400 points, or 3.6 percent, over the last three weeks.

The Dow fell 7.34 points, or 0.06 percent, to close at 11,491.91.

The broader S.& P. 500-stock index set another 2010 high. The index rose 1.04 points, or 0.08 percent, to close at 1,243.91. The Nasdaq composite rose 5.66 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,642.97.
412 2010-12-18 FRANKFURT — The German economy continued to defy the sovereign debt crisis, data released Friday indicated, as renewed willingness by Germans to shop helped push a closely watched index of business expectations to its highest level in at least two decades.

The December business climate index, based on a survey of companies by the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich, rose to 109.9 from 109.3, more than analysts had forecast. Indexes of how companies view their current circumstances and their expectations for the future also rose.

More optimism among Germany’s long-suffering retailers helped drive the increase. Growth in Germany is typically led by exports, while domestic demand has often failed to gain momentum. But that seems to be changing because of falling unemployment.

“The moderate development of consumer demand has been the main brake on the dynamism of the economy for the last decade,” Rolf Schneider, an economist at the insurer Allianz, wrote in a note. “It’s looking more favorable in this recovery.”

Mr. Schneider cautioned, however, that demand could suffer if fuel prices rose.

Economists expect German growth to slow next year from about 3.7 percent in 2010, but remain solid. Allianz forecasts growth of 2.6 percent in 2011, while Commerzbank raised its forecast Friday to 3 percent for next year. So far, German growth has continued to outpace expectations, providing some hope that the country can help lift southern Europe out of stagnation.

Germany has Europe’s largest economy, and stronger domestic demand there could help create a stronger market for goods and services from countries like Greece and Ireland. The Irish economy grew 0.5 percent in the third quarter, the Central Statistics Office said Thursday, as exports helped offset declines in consumer spending and construction.
413 2010-12-18 A number of institutional investors like pension funds are forced by internal rules to shift out of bonds when they are downgraded to a certain level. The biggest exodus would come if Ireland’s debt ratings fell below investment grade.

Moody’s rating for Ireland remains investment grade, but if it dropped three more notches, it would be classified as junk, like that of Greece.

“The Irish government’s financial strength could decline further if economic growth were to be weaker than currently projected or the cost of stabilizing the banking system turn out to be higher than currently forecast,” Moody’s said in a statement.

Another agency, Fitch, made a similar downgrade last week. Standard & Poor’s still has Ireland rated as A, the top band, but on review for a possible downgrade.

Just before its downgrade of Ireland, Moody’s said it had put Greece’s Ba1 rating on review for a possible downgrade, citing uncertainty over the country’s ability to cut debt to sustainable levels.

Market reaction was mixed to the moves. The euro slipped to $1.3178 on Friday from $1.3215 late Thursday. European stock indexes were lower and the benchmark bond yields for the most vulnerable countries in the zone edged up. The yield on the 10-year Irish bond surged 18 basis points, to 8.3 percent.

European leaders hoped to help calm markets by agreeing late Thursday to create a permanent support fund for the euro after 2013.

“We are ready to do everything that is necessary to ensure the financial stability of the euro area,” José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said at a news briefing.

The draft declaration said that European leaders would ensure “the availability of adequate financial support” through their existing bailout fund of 440 billion euros ($582 billion), a hint that they may be prepared to increase it if necessary.

With a bailout of Ireland recently completed, and concern that contagion will spread to Portugal and perhaps Spain, leaders have been divided on whether to increase the size of the fund or to allow money from it to be used to buy government debt.

They also are far from agreement on longer-term financial issues, like whether to create common bonds backed by the entire euro zone.

Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council, said the leaders had not discussed increasing the value of the fund or making it more flexible but had agreed more generally that they would “do whatever is required to ensure the stability of the euro.”

Leaders did agree to create a bailout mechanism that would operate after 2013, when the mandate of the current fund expired. Yet even here, vital questions on the size and scope of the fund were left until the spring.

For the first time, bondholders could be asked to shoulder some losses in future debt crises on a case-by-case basis, a measure that the euro zone countries supported when they met several weeks ago to approve the bailout of Ireland and seek ways to support troubled economies in the future.

To set up this facility, the European Union will have to revise its governing treaty, but it plans to do so in a way that would avoid requiring referendums in any of the 27 member countries, all of which would have to ratify the revision.

At the meeting on Thursday, Germany and Britain agreed to compromises on the future rescue fund. The German government modified its efforts to win a clear declaration that the fund would be used only as a last resort.

Britain, which has not adopted the euro, accepted assurances that it would not be required to take part in any future euro zone bailout funds set up under a catch-all clause in European treaties intended to deal with emergencies.

One issue that had threatened to overshadow the meeting disappeared Thursday when the European Central Bank said it had decided to almost double its capital reserves.

In addition, the central bank and the Bank of England announced Friday the establishment of a temporary swap line “to enable the E.C.B. to provide liquidity in pounds to its counterparties.” Under this, the Bank of England would provide the central bank with pounds in exchange for euros up to a limit of £10 billion. The agreement will expire Sept. 30 next year.

No further details were provided in the statement, but the arrangement appears aimed at providing Ireland’s central bank with pounds to finance the obligations of the countries’ troubled lenders.
414 2010-12-18 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao arrived in Islamabad on Friday for a three-day visit that Pakistani officials said was aimed at strengthening the strategic partnership and economic cooperation between the two neighboring countries.

Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani and members of his cabinet welcomed Mr. Wen at Chaklala Air Base in neighboring Rawalpindi on Friday afternoon. A red carpet was rolled out and elaborate ceremonies were held to signify the importance Pakistan attaches to China, which is considered a close ally.

“Friendship with China is a matter of pride for our nation,” Mr. Gilani was quoted as saying by local media as he welcomed his Chinese counterpart.

Apart from holding meetings with Mr. Gilani and President Asif Ali Zardari, Mr. Wen was scheduled to address a special joint session of the Parliament on Sunday.

Pakistan’s military ties with China are strong and China has assisted Pakistan in tank production, fighter aircraft manufacturing and naval technology. But since the late 1990s, economic concerns have gained increased importance. Trade and energy have taken precedence in Pakistan’s relations with China.
415 2010-12-18 The BMO Financial Group, parent company of Bank of Montreal, said Friday that it had agreed to buyMarshall & Ilsley, a bank based in Milwaukee, for $4.1 billion - the latest acquisition of a troubled United States firm by an international bank.   ...
416 2010-12-18 GABEL--Faye You are missed, loved, and remembered, Happy Birthday. Iris, Michele, Suzy, Monica, Randi and all your Great-grandchildren....
417 2010-12-19 The food company's talks to sell itself to JBS of Brazil have fallen short of a completed deal so far because of a disagreement over price....
418 2010-12-19 The Buchanan presidency unravels, and South Carolina detaches....
419 2010-12-19 Live analysis of the Giants game against the Eagles in Week 15....
420 2010-12-19 SACRAMENTO (AP) — Business owners will have more time to comply with California’s tough diesel emission standards for trucks, school buses and construction equipment under relaxed rules that air quality officials adopted on Friday.

The Air Resources Board passed the new regulations unanimously, saying businesses struggling during a recession needed more time to replace or upgrade aging equipment. In addition to extending the time for compliance, they offer businesses various options to meet the standards.

The rules amend earlier ones passed for construction vehicles, trucks and buses and off-road and other diesel vehicles.

Clean-air advocates said the move ensured only that more harmful soot would be emitted into California’s air.

“The board is trying to balance the needs of our citizens for cleaner air with the state of the economy,” said Mary Nichols, the board chairman.

The board has acknowledged that its staff overestimated pollution created by construction equipment, buses and trucks. It said there were about 200,000 fewer construction vehicles in California than it initially thought, mostly because the recession had left fewer vehicles in use.
421 2010-12-19 Not all Japanese-Americans were opposed to serving in the military. After the War Department, at the urging of Japanese-American leaders, decided in 1943 to allow detainees to volunteer for an all-Japanese-American unit, many signed up. Their unit, the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, went to Europe under the rallying cry “Go for broke.” The 442nd would become one of the most highly decorated regiments in United States history, earning 9,486 Purple Hearts and 21 Medals of Honor.

But when the government decided to start drafting Japanese-Americans in January 1944, scores of internees saw it as the last straw.

“Many of the internees took the reopening of the draft as an unwarranted test of their patriotism,” Eric Muller, a professor of constitutional law at the University of North Carolina and the author of “Free to Die for Their Country” (2001), said in an interview. “Some young men decided they had had enough. Why should they and their families, who had lost all of their rights and privileges of citizenship, be asked to shoulder its greatest burden?”

Mr. Emi and six other internees at Heart Mountain formed the Fair Play Committee. They held meetings in mess halls, distributed fliers throughout all the camps and sought to initiate a court case to re-establish their rights as citizens.

To those who believed that they were doing harm to Japanese-Americans over all, the resisters became known as the “no-no boys.” Some, particularly those so proud of the volunteers in the 442nd Regiment, called them cowards and traitors. But as far as Mr. Emi was concerned, he told The Los Angeles Times in 1993, “We could either tuck our tails between our legs like a beaten dog or stand up like free men and fight for justice.”

Charged with draft evasion, all of the more than 300 resisters were sentenced to prison terms of approximately three years.

In separate indictments, Mr. Emi and six other leaders of the Fair Play Committee were charged with conspiracy to counsel draft evasion. Four, including Mr. Emi, were sentenced to four years; two received two-year sentences, and the seventh was acquitted. They were sent to the federal penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kan., where they were surrounded by hardened criminals.

“Frank was a black-belt judo expert,” Professor Muller said. “The first thing they did at Leavenworth was stage a judo exhibition in which the little guys threw the big guys. After that nobody bothered them.”

Three months after the war, the convictions of the committee leaders were overturned by a federal appeals court; they were released after serving 18 months. The 300 charged as draft resisters lost their appeal, but on Christmas Eve 1947, President Harry S. Truman pardoned them all.

Frank Seishi Emi was born in Los Angeles on Sept. 23, 1916. His parents owned a food market. When his father was injured in a car accident, Mr. Emi dropped out of college to run the business.

He was married and had one child when Executive Order 9066 was issued. The business and the family home were never recovered after the war. He later worked as a postal clerk.

Besides his daughter, Mr. Emi is survived by his second wife, Itsuko; another daughter, Eileen Tabuchi; a stepdaughter, Rie Nishikawa; a sister, Kaoru Sugita; nine grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.

For decades, Mr. Emi and other draft resisters faced disapproval from other Japanese-Americans. During the war, the Japanese American Citizens League had called for them to be charged with sedition. But in 2000, at its national convention in Monterey, Calif., the league formally apologized.

And two years later, at a league ceremony honoring the resisters, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, a veteran of the 442nd Regiment and a Medal of Honor recipient, addressed the crowd in a videotaped message.

“Some young men answered the call to military service,” Mr. Inouye said, “and they did so with honor and with great courage. Some young men chose to make their point by resisting the government’s order to report for the draft. They too were honorable and courageous.”
422 2010-12-19 The New York Fed originally asked major derivatives dealers to establish clearinghouses for credit default swaps to better manage the risks in the market. This effort began more than a year before the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation was enacted and was completed under the direct and close supervision of the New York Fed.

It’s important to remember that derivatives dealers who are clearinghouse members put significant capital at risk to guarantee clearinghouse obligations. If one member fails to perform, other members have to make good. With so much at stake, members must take an active role in managing a clearinghouse’s risks. Moreover, risk committees do not set derivative prices or establish trading practices.

Tim Ryan

 President and Chief Executive

 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association

 Washington, Dec. 14, 2010
423 2010-12-19 The Roberts court, which has completed five terms, ruled for business interests 61 percent of the time, compared with 46 percent in the last five years of the court led by Chief Justice , who died in 2005, and 42 percent by all courts since 1953.

Those differences are statistically significant, the study found. It was prepared by Lee Epstein, a political scientist at Northwestern’s law school; William M. Landes, an economist at the University of Chicago; and Judge , who serves on the federal appeals court in and teaches law at the University of Chicago.

The Roberts court’s engagement with business issues has risen along with the emergence of a breed of lawyers specializing in Supreme Court advocacy, many of them veterans of the solicitor general’s office, which represents the federal government in the court.

These specialists have been extraordinarily successful, both in persuading the court to hear business cases and to rule in favor of their clients. The Supreme Court’s business docket has stayed active in the current term, which began in October. In a single week this month, the court heard arguments in a case brought by the chamber challenging an law that imposes penalties on companies that hire illegal workers, and it agreed to hear two cases that could reshape class-action and environmental law.

The chamber had urged the court to hear both cases. It said one of them, an enormous sex-discrimination class-action lawsuit against , posed “grave risks for American business.” It said the other, a suit by eight states against power companies over carbon dioxide emissions, “has potentially disastrous implications for the U.S. business community.”

The court’s docket is studded with other important business cases as well, including ones concerning consumer class-action suits and claims of employment discrimination and securities fraud. The chamber has filed supporting briefs in all of them. In Mobility v. Concepcion, for instance, the chamber urged the court to allow companies to use standard-form contracts that in essence forbid consumers who sign them from pursuing class-action suits. In Thompson v. North American Stainless, the chamber asked the court to forbid some employment discrimination claims, saying that “it costs, on average, over $120,000 just to defend a wrongful-discharge claim.”

Next month, the court will hear arguments in 11 cases. The chamber says it will file briefs in seven of them.

The Chamber of Commerce spent tens of millions of dollars in the recent midterm elections, mostly to help Republican candidates. It says that it has 300,000 members, businesses and organizations “of every size, sector and region,” and that its spending furthered the interests of some three million businesses, most of them small ones.

But the chamber’s mission is by no means limited to the elected branches of government. “A central function of the chamber,” it told the Supreme Court in a recent brief, “is to represent the interests of its members in important matters before the courts.”

The vehicle for that is the litigation unit that was envisioned by Mr. Powell, the National Chamber Litigation Center, which says it is “the voice of business in the courts on issues of national concern to the business community.”

Its board includes executives from some of the nation’s biggest companies, including , , , and .

On the center’s 30th anniversary in 2007, Carter G. Phillips, who often represents the chamber and has argued more Supreme Court cases than any active lawyer in private practice, reflected on its influence. “I know from personal experience that the chamber’s support carries significant weight with the justices,” he wrote. “Except for the solicitor general representing the United States, no single entity has more influence on what cases the Supreme Court decides and how it decides them than the National Chamber Litigation Center.”

A study prepared by the Constitutional Accountability Center, a liberal group, examined the center’s success rate in the Supreme Court. It found that the positions supported by the chamber prevailed 68 percent of the time in the Roberts court, compared with 56 percent in the last 11 years of the Rehnquist court, a period without changes in the court’s membership. Robin S. Conrad, executive vice president of the chamber’s litigation unit, said the center’s analysis was flattering but superficial, and she questioned its comparisons.

The chamber does not participate in all business cases, she said. The mix of cases before the court has changed over time. And the chamber has become more active. But Ms. Conrad acknowledged her group’s exceptional track record. “Why have we been successful?” she asked. “I’d like to think it’s because of the quality of the arguments and the briefs we present to the court.”

“The court is looking for reliable voices to confirm its decisions, and I’d like to think it’s looking to the chamber because it tells a straight story, and we try not to be shrill or ideological,” Ms. Conrad said. “The chamber has earned a reputation for being a credible voice of business.”

Doug Kendall, president of the Constitutional Accountability Center, drew a different conclusion, saying the numbers proved that the Roberts court increasingly sided with corporate interests. He also said the study documented “a sharp ideological divide that did not exist before 2005.” In the last 11 terms of the Rehnquist court, the five more conservative justices voted for the chamber’s position 61 percent of the time, while the four more liberal justices voted for it 48 percent of the time.

In the first five terms of the Roberts court, the corresponding bloc of five more conservative justices voted for the chamber’s position 74 percent of the time, and the four more liberal justices 43 percent of the time.

But counting votes is not the same thing as assessing results, Ms. Conrad said. “Our research has shown that the vast majority of business decisions are decided by a lopsided majority of 7 to 2 or more,” she said.

Over the Roberts court’s first five terms, Ms. Conrad said, only 10 percent of the business docket was decided by the classic 5-to-4 split, with Justice joining the court’s four more conservative members in the majority.

The idea that the Supreme Court reflexively rules for the chamber and other business interests is too simplistic, many legal scholars and practitioners say. If the court favors business, they say, it is as part of a broader orientation toward free markets and a wariness of many kinds of lawsuits.

“The Roberts court appears to be a mainstream, traditional, modern Republican, conservative court,” said Bradley W. Joondeph, a law professor at Santa Clara University and a former law clerk to Justice . “Part of its constellation of commitments is against the regulation of business and, in particular, the regulation of business through litigation.”

A prominent Supreme Court advocate who often represents businesses, Maureen E. Mahoney, chose her words carefully when asked at a chamber news briefing in September whether the Roberts court was especially receptive to the kinds of arguments pressed by corporations.

“The best court for getting a fair hearing on those issues,” she said, “is the Supreme Court.”

An additional explanation for the recent successes of business interests in the Supreme Court may lie in the rise of specialized practice groups at major law firms led by veterans of the solicitor general’s office.

Turning service as United States solicitor general into a career at a commercial firm is a relatively new phenomenon, according to a recent article by Matthew L. Sundquist in The Law Review.

From 1952 to 1981, he wrote, former solicitors general usually became judges, joined law schools or worked as public servants. In the next 15 years, they split their time between academic and legal work, often consulting with law firms with specialized Supreme Court practices.

Starting in 1996, every former solicitor general, with one exception, has gone on to supervise a Supreme Court practice at a major law firm, earning as much as $5 million a year. The exception is Justice , who joined the court in August.

These specialists make their livings representing business interests, and they have used the skills they honed in government service to achieve notable successes in the Supreme Court. They had a particularly good run, for instance, in environmental cases in the term that ended in 2009.

“For the first time, a series of industry clients last term turned repeatedly to the expert Supreme Court bar for assistance in a host of cases arising under federal pollution control laws,” Richard J. Lazarus, a law professor at Georgetown, wrote in The Law Journal Online last February. “The result was palpable and formed the basis of the best term that industry has ever enjoyed before the court in environmental cases.”

Among these lawyers were some of the most prominent members of the specialized Supreme Court bar. Though the odds of obtaining Supreme Court review are about one in 100, these lawyers persuaded the court to hear four cases that “would not have seemed to have a remote chance of review,” Professor Lazarus wrote. They won every time.

In one of the cases, , who had served as solicitor general in the administration of President , persuaded the court not only to hear the case but also to rule for his client, making it easier to dump mining waste into an Alaskan lake.

In another big environmental case, Miguel A. Estrada, also a veteran of the solicitor general’s office, persuaded the Supreme Court not to hear a case, though the lower courts were split on the question it presented and the federal government had implored the justices to resolve it.

Mr. Estrada’s client, McWane Inc., a pipe manufacturer in , had been convicted of discharging untreated industrial pollutants into a creek. An appeals court threw out the conviction and a $5 million fine, saying the creek was not covered by the Clean Water Act. Mr. Estrada’s skill in persuading the court to let that decision stand was the term’s coup de grâce, Professor Lazarus wrote.

But a broader look at the Roberts court’s environmental cases by Jonathan H. Adler, a law professor at Case Western Reserve University, found no pro-business trend. “The Roberts court’s environmental decisions issued to date suggest neither a disposition toward business nor a hostility toward environmental regulation,” Professor Adler wrote in his article, published last year in The Santa Clara Law Review. “The ‘pro-business’ position has prevailed in some cases, and lost in others. If the relative magnitude of the cases is taken into account, it is even more difficult to argue that the Roberts court has been ‘pro-business’ in this area.”

There has been less dispute about the victories business groups have recently enjoyed in other areas of the law.

David L. Franklin, a law professor at , wrote in another article in The Santa Clara Law Review last year that the chamber had been quite successful in the Roberts court in four of what he considered five main categories of cases — punitive damages, arbitration of consumer and other disputes, the standards for early dismissal of lawsuits, and federal pre-emption of state laws governing injury and other suits. The “conspicuous exception,” he said, was employment discrimination.

The numbers support Professor Franklin’s conclusions, but they are small and not statistically significant.

Even in employment discrimination cases, however, the available numbers are subject to two interpretations. True, the Roberts court’s 16 decisions have been evenly divided, according to an analysis by Professor Epstein at Northwestern. But the Rehnquist court ruled in favor of people claiming discrimination more often — 64 percent of the time.

All of this is to say that determining whether the Supreme Court is “pro-business” or “anti-business” can be difficult. There will always be exceptions.

“The story of a conservative, activist, pro-corporatist Roberts court may sound compelling at first blush, particularly with its repetition and regrettable distortion of the cases involved, but it is just a story — and a fictional one at that,” Robert Alt, a lawyer with the , a conservative group, testified at Justice Kagan’s confirmation hearings last summer.

He listed several major cases in which the Roberts court had ruled against business interests, including a drug maker and a tobacco company. He also noted that some of the court’s more important pro-business cases, including ones casting doubt on the conviction of an executive and cutting the punitive damages in the , were written by liberal justices.

It is clear, though, that the Supreme Court these days is increasingly focused on business issues. “The fraction of business cases on the docket has grown from 21 percent in the last five years of the Rehnquist court to 27 percent during the Roberts years,” Professor Epstein said. “This isn’t a small jump.”

Ms. Conrad, of the chamber, said part of her group’s role was to keep its agenda before a court that is deciding about half as many cases as it did in the 1980s.

One way to do that, she said, is by filing briefs urging the court to hear particular cases, an effort that is ordinarily a 1-in-100 long shot. But the chamber has succeeded about 30 percent of the time in persuading the Roberts court to take its cases, Ms. Conrad said.

“There has been a return on , not to sound too crass,” she said.
424 2010-12-19 When young people are weighing the pros and the cons of another job opportunity, I tell them to be careful about believing that the grass is always greener somewhere else. On the other hand, if it’s going to be a life-changer or a career-changer move, with some reasonable amount of security or success, then I think it’s worth a shot. I’ve always thought that if you’re passionate about something, then you should just be bold in your ambitions.

Q. You mentioned that you felt as if you were in “repeat mode” after a while in a job. When you’re hiring and looking at résumés, what’s the right amount of time for somebody to have been in a job?

A. I used to look for a two- to three-year tenure somewhere, because it meant that you had come into an organization, you had inherited someone’s work plan and then you had your own ideas. If you leave too quickly, you actually have no idea whether your strategy was the right one, and you’re still blaming your predecessor. When it’s your plan, and you’ve been there for another year, can you execute? Was your plan the right one?

Of course, if you talk to a young person today, if they’ve had a job for 11 months, they’ll say, “Why haven’t I been promoted?” Or, “What’s next?” It’s really quite amazing. They want to be on a path for a new position.

We have to learn to take chances on people who are a little bit younger than we would have hired in the past. You’re always weighing experience versus enthusiasm. Are you willing to take a chance on someone who has all of the enthusiasm going for them, but perhaps they don’t have much experience? I think that’s particularly relevant in the digital space today.

Q. Many of the C.E.O.’s I’ve interviewed talk of a period in their lives when they really faced adversity. Is that something that you’ve dealt with, professionally or personally?

A. My father lost his eyesight at age 50 and died at 63. The last 10 years or so of his life were not easy at all. An awful lot of people in that situation wouldn’t have encouraged me to leave Chicago, where I grew up, and go to college in Washington, D.C. And my mother wasn’t in the best of health, either.

That shaped me a lot, in the sense of the gift he gave me, which was that I had to be my own person. He said, “You absolutely should do your year abroad.” I’m sure their friends said to them, “You are crazy.” Here’s this blind man, and my mother’s not very well, and he said, “Go, honey, go ahead, you’re only young once.” So I think it was that sense of just rise above, muscle through and have a good sense of yourself, where you’re from, and what your roots are.

A. I’m very direct. I don’t really lose my temper, but if I’m upset about something I don’t want to show that in front of seven people and humiliate whoever it is. You do it five minutes afterward and then you say: “Look, this is what I observed. You were out of order or you shut somebody down.” The point is to solve it right now, and don’t let stuff simmer overnight. Don’t let it linger, and you don’t need 25 e-mails back and forth.

Q. If you could ask someone only two or three questions in a job interview, what would they be?

A. How will you judge your success here? And what would be the first things you would do in the first 30 days?

Q. What do you want to hear in their answers?

A. What I don’t want to hear is: “Well, I’ve thought of seven people that I want to bring in. I really don’t agree with your strategy.” I think you want somebody who is very excited. I mean, how much do you want this job? I always say to people: “Ask for the job. It’s not my job to get you excited. It’s my job to hear from you what you really want to do here and how excited you are to come to this company or to this position.”

Q. What’s it like to work for you?

A. I am direct and I’m decisive. I think being decisive for an executive is important. It doesn’t mean that if it’s not my idea, then it’s a bad idea. But I believe that most people want clarity from their boss or their manager, and they want decisiveness.

So we don’t need to debate something endlessly. Maybe we can talk about it more than once, maybe more than twice, if it’s something really important. But let’s make a decision and move on.
425 2010-12-19 John W. Bickel II, a co-founder of Bickel & Brewer in Dallas, represented the investors in the case. Because he represents an additional 1,450 investors whose loans were serviced by Silar, he said more suits like this one would follow soon.

Loan servicers act as intermediaries between borrowers and their lenders, collecting monthly payments and real estate taxes and forwarding them to the appropriate parties. As long as borrowers meet their payments, such operations typically run smoothly.

Defaults and foreclosures, however, complicate servicers’ duties. As the Silar matter shows, borrower difficulties also open the door to improprieties.

Because loan servicers operate behind the scenes, it’s hard for investors who own these mortgages to monitor fee-gouging. In addition, the servicing contracts make it difficult to fire administrators — under a typical arrangement, investors holding at least 51 percent of the loans must agree on termination.

In short, loan servicing is a perfect setup for administrators who want to take advantage of both borrowers and lenders.

Troubles for investors in the Silar matter began back in 2006 when the USA Commercial Mortgage Company went bankrupt. Founded in 1989, the company had underwritten and serviced short-term commercial real estate loans. It sold them to private investors, typically older people who hoped to live off the income generated by the loans. At the time of its bankruptcy, USA Commercial serviced 115 loans worth almost $1 billion.

After the company collapsed, a small firm called Compass Partners bought the servicing rights to these assets for $8 million. A short time later, Silar Advisors, a company overseen by Robert Leeds, a former Goldman Sachs executive, got involved by financing Compass. Compass/Silar began servicing the loans for the investors.

Almost immediately, the plaintiffs in the suit contended, Compass/Silar started siphoning off money owed to investors holding the loans. Among the servicer’s tactics, the plaintiffs said, were improperly charging default interest, late fees and loan origination fees that reduced amounts due to investors.

The investors also said that when borrowers tried to pay off or otherwise resolve defaulted loans, Compass/Silar refused to negotiate. In other cases when Compass/Silar urged the investors to modify troubled mortgages, the servicer reaped undisclosed fees in the deals.

THE jury affirmed every claim the plaintiffs had brought against Compass/Silar, including conspiracy, as well as breach of contract, of fiduciary duty, and of good faith and fair dealing. The jury found improper actions by Compass/Silar on eight loans.

A Silar spokesman said the firm was pleased that the jury awarded only $79,000 in compensatory damages to the plaintiffs but was disappointed by the punitive-damages assessment. “The jurors are to be commended for their careful consideration of the facts in a very lengthy trial,” the spokesman said. He declined to comment as to whether Silar was currently servicing any loans.

One loan history, on a defaulted asset known as Standard Property, indicates what these investors were up against with their servicer.

In March 2007, immediately after Compass/Silar took over administration of the investors’ loans, the Standard Property mortgage had a principal value of $9.64 million. The borrower wanted to repay the loan at that time, but instead of directing it to pay principal and the accrued interest to the holder of the loan, as required by the servicing agreement, Compass/Silar arranged for the borrower to refund only the principal.

At the same time, court papers show, Compass/Silar quietly took in almost $860,000 in late fees, default interest and other costs from the Standard Property borrower. This ran afoul of the servicing agreement governing the Standard Property mortgage. The agreement stated that such fees could go to the servicer only after investors had been paid principal and accrued interest on a loan.

“No one really knows what is in the black box known as loan servicing, and most investors don’t even think of their servicer taking advantage of them,” Mr. Bickel said in an interview. “There’s not a lot of transparency, and I think this case is going to bring to the forefront the potential for abuse.”

It is obvious that we are in the litigation stage of the financial debacle of 2008. That usually means shining the light on dark corners and watching what scurries away. The view may not be pretty, but at least in this case, investors got some recompense in addition to an education.
426 2010-12-19 WASHINGTON — The Senate on Saturday struck down the ban on gay men and lesbians serving openly in the military, bringing to a close a 17-year struggle over a policy that forced thousands of Americans from the ranks and caused others to keep secret their sexual orientation.

By a vote of 65 to 31, with eight Republicans joining Democrats, the Senate approved and sent to President Obama a repeal of the Clinton-era law, known as “don’t ask, don’t tell,” a policy critics said amounted to government-sanctioned discrimination that treated gay and lesbian troops as second-class citizens.

Mr. Obama hailed the action, which fulfills his pledge to reverse the ban. “As commander in chief, I am also absolutely convinced that making this change will only underscore the professionalism of our troops as the best led and best trained fighting force the world has ever known,” Mr. Obama said in a statement after the Senate, on a 63-33 vote, beat back Republican efforts to block a final vote on the repeal bill.

The vote marked a historic moment that some equated with the end of racial segregation in the military.

It followed a comprehensive review by the Pentagon that found a low risk to military effectiveness despite greater concerns among some combat units and the Marine Corps. The review also found that Pentagon officials supported Congressional repeal as a better alternative than an court-ordered end.

Supporters of the repeal said it was long past time to end what they saw as an ill-advised practice that cost valuable personnel and forced troops to lie to serve their country.

“We righted a wrong,” said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the independent from Connecticut who led the effort to end the ban. “Today we’ve done justice.”

Before voting on the repeal, the Senate blocked a bill that would have created a path to citizenship for certain illegal immigrants who came to the United States at a young age, completed two years of college or military service and met other requirements including passing a criminal background check.

The 55-41 vote in favor of the citizenship bill was five votes short of the number needed to clear the way for final passage of what is known as the Dream Act. The outcome effectively kills it for this year, and its fate beyond that is uncertain since Republicans who will assume control of the House in January oppose the measure and are unlikely to bring it to a vote.

The Senate then moved on to the military legislation, engaging in an emotional back and forth over the merits of the measure as advocates for repeal watched from galleries crowded with people interested in the fate of both the military and immigration measures. “I don’t care who you love,” Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said as the debate opened. “If you love this country enough to risk your life for it, you shouldn’t have to hide who you are.”

Mr. Wyden showed up for the Senate vote despite saying earlier that he would be unable to do so because he would be undergoing final tests before his scheduled surgery for prostate cancer on Monday.

The vote came in the final days of the 111th Congress as Democrats sought to force through a final few priorities before they turn over control of the House of Representatives to the Republicans in January and see their clout in the Senate diminished.

It represented a significant victory for the White House, Congressional advocates of lifting the ban and activists who have pushed for years to end the Pentagon policy created in 1993 under the Clinton administration as a compromise effort to end the practice of banning gay men and lesbians entirely from military service. Saying it represented an emotional moment for members of the gay community nationwide, activists who supported repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell” exchanged hugs outside the Senate chamber after the vote.

“Today’s vote means gay and lesbian service members posted all around the world can stand taller knowing that ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ will soon be coming to an end,” said Aubrey Sarvis, an Army veteran and executive director for Servicemembers Legal Defense Network.

The executive director of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay group that challenged the policy in federal court, thanked Republicans senators for participating in a historic vote. The director, R. Clarke Cooper, who is a member of the Army Reserve, said repeal will "finally end a policy which has burdened our armed services for far too long, depriving our nation of the talent, training and hard won battle experience of thousands of patriotic Americans. "

A federal judge had ruled the policy unconstitutionial in response to the Log Cabin suit, but that decision had been stayed pending appeal.
427 2010-12-19 Nicola Marie DeAntonio and Anthony J. Casale Jr. were married Saturday by the Rev. Leo Murray at Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church in Washington.

Mrs. Casale, 26, is studying for a master’s degree in interior design at the Corcoran College of Art and Design in Washington. She graduated from West Virginia University. She is the daughter of Bonnie DeAntonio and Pasquale F. DeAntonio of Garnet Valley, Pa. Her parents own and operate a State Farm Insurance agency in Glen Mills, Pa.

Mr. Casale, also 26, is the vice president of BlueFront Strategies, a communications and public affairs firm in Alexandria, Va. He graduated from George Washington. From June 2007 to January 2009, he served as the associate director of political affairs at the White House.

He is a son of Theresa Casale and Mr. Casale Sr. of Cooperstown, N.Y. The bridegroom’s mother is an administrative assistant with Bassett Medical Center there. His father served nine terms (1978 to 1995) in the New York State Assembly.
428 2010-12-19 ON Christmas morning, some people find their stockings stuffed with practical gadgets: toothbrushes, penknives, flashlights, batteries. Others discover more whimsical fare: popguns, fake tattoos, ZhuZhu Pets, kazoos.

Both camps have their followers, but if you ask me, the best stocking stuffers are edible. Little salamis, bottles of capers, tangerines and, of course, chocolates. Scouting around Westchester County, I turned up a few goodies, most of them produced locally, all of them meant to delight a child or warm the cockles of a foodie’s heart.

Tradition runs deep at Topps Bakery, in Bronxville, where I found charming custom chocolates made from antique German and Austrian molds, in an assortment of milk and dark chocolate ($5 to $9). There were stern-faced Santa Clauses, evergreen trees, dolls with bobbed hair and, especially popular, locomotives with coal cars. (All of the molded chocolates are made in a nut-free kitchen.)

For nonchocoholics, Topps packs four jolly sugar-cookie snowmen — dipped in white fondant and decorated with light blue mufflers — into a paper sleigh ($7).

At Plum Plums, in Pound Ridge, I picked up a jar of Bobbysue’s Nuts, made in Chappaqua. Just a little sweet, these are the luxury version of beer nuts, rich in protein and just plain delicious. A portion of every sale ($10 for eight ounces) goes to building local animal shelters. Plum Plums also had a small tub of Cinnamon Toast Butter ($4.50 for eight ounces) from Ronnybrook Farm Dairy, in Ancramdale, in Columbia County.
429 2010-12-19 It is not alone. Brookstone offers its own line of “Cold Weather Gear,” which includes jackets and fleeces with “built-in heating” — basically thin, battery-powered heat bundles that can reach up to 113 degrees and last up to five hours, according to the company Web site. There are also heated sock liners, complete with a battery strap that seems disconcertingly like an ankle bracelet Lindsay Lohan might wear.

And then there is WarmX, the family-run, Germany-based business that stumbled upon its heating line after “some experimentation with fabrics for the German government,” said Keith McCoy, the company’s distributor for the United States and Canada. Their clothes have silver threads woven into the fabric that, when hooked up to a battery pack, create a current that runs along the threads and into the clothes. “It’s like your whole body is immersed in a warm bath,” Mr. McCoy said.

As someone who is perpetually cold — I’ve been known to use a space heater by my desk in the summer — I endeavored to sample the warming wear myself. First up was a beige WarmX long-sleeve shirt ($433.50 for the shirt and the complete battery kit).

The shirt looked a bit like long underwear, with a little pocket on the front in which to nestle the power pack, and a crisscross of silver threads around the middle that resembled a crude battery circuit. Let’s just say you wouldn’t want to try to get it past the Transportation Security Administration’s new airport security measures.

I had a little trouble finding an appropriate top to wear over it — my first choice, a simple black blazer, exposed too much of the bland WarmX shirt itself, and it seemed too bulky to go under a thin sweater — but I finally settled on a button-down shirt.

“Don’t you think you might want to wear something that’s easy to rip off?” my boyfriend asked. “Just in case you, uh, catch on fire?”

I did feel very ... fiery. The shirt has three temperature settings, and I accidentally set it for the hottest one. I felt as if I were wrapped in an electric blanket, a great sensation when I was outside, but a little stifling back in the office. Still, I loved basking in a halo of warmth, switching the shirt to off when I got too hot, and flipping it back on as a chill crept over my cubicle. (I thought I managed all of my temperature control maneuvers fairly discreetly, though I still caught a couple of wayward glances when, in the middle of a Congressional hearing, I tried to adjust the switch on the battery pack around my waist.)

I then pulled together a complete outfit from the Heattech line. Their dark blue skinny jeans ($39.90) fit me snugly and looked like a standard pair of trendy jeans. The long-sleeve shirt I opted for was made out of a thin, almost Spandex-y material and came in a variety of colors. I ended up in black, with thin purple stripes. The shirt was hardly outerwear, but it was so lightweight that I could wear anything over it and it looked reasonably work-appropriate (or so I told myself) under a blazer or cardigan.

Unlike WarmX or any of the other brands that actually heat up, leaving you with a warm pulse circling your body or radiating down through your socks, Uniqlo just promises to keep you warm, which is a little more difficult to gauge. Sure, I stood outside waiting in line at a food cart on a blustery November afternoon, and my torso did feel oddly immune to the cold, but I wasn’t sure if it was the shirt itself, or my pre-emptive excitement for a spicy Korean taco. Either way, I liked the result, and the price ($19.90 for the shirt and $8 for three kimchi tacos).

I had liked the WarmX shirt, too, but it struck me as more of a gimmick. After all, how often was I really going to don a battery pack and head off to work or a night out with friends, like some sort of superhero toaster? Mr. McCoy, the distributor, told me that the clothes are popular with his motorcycle-riding friend, and that he personally wears them when he goes bow hunting.

“I’ll wear the tights and the top, with a pair of jeans and flannel shirt, in the 30s, and I’ll be comfortable with that application, without all of the bulk,” he said. “It’s a really nice way to hunt or fish.”

I don’t hunt, but I did find myself continually eyeing the WarmX shirt. It’s not fashionable, like some of the other brands, but it gets the job done. And there’s just something about snapping a battery pack in place and waiting for your shirt to heat up that’s starting to feel a lot like Christmas.
430 2010-12-19 Most political activism requires some simplification of the issues to garner public support. The question is whether John Prendergast’s simplifications undermine the causes to which he is dedicated. I think they do. They understatethe scale of the interventions neededto effect change, even as they exaggerate the potential of American clout, and they understate the complexity of the problems facing these countries, which can lead him to champion potentially disastrous ideas. Underlying these simplifications is a deeply American faith in our own capacity — for doing good, for getting things done — a faith that Hollywood has always been happy to indulge. I wish that Prendergast would focus more on the capacity of local people, many of whom are working at extraordinary personal risk to bring peace to their lands. The question shouldn’t be “What can we do to end the suffering in these countries?” but rather “What can we do to help people within their societies overcome the enormous political and economic challenges they face?” The difference is all in where you place the emphasis.
431 2010-12-19 To the Sports Editor,     Re ''By One Measure, a Rotation Second Only to the '76 Mets,'' Dec. 15: I was shocked and dismayed that the list of the greatest four-man rotations did not include perhaps the best of all, the 1971 Baltimore Orioles' staf...
432 2010-12-19 AVRIN--Melissa Rose. Dec. 21, 1989 - May 6, 2009 We should be celebrating your 21st birthday but you have already changed countless lives in the battle against eating disorders. Your movie is almost finished. Love you forever, Mom www.SomedayMelis...
433 2010-12-19 WHITNEY--Corliss Fyfe, 83, December 13, 2010. Radio City Rockette 1945-1953; Unofficial Rockette Historian. Famous for "A Rockette Remembers" book and lectures, her store "Corliss on the Bay" of Fire Island, "The Seasoned Steppers" senior dance tr...
434 2010-12-19 India's growing popularity among jet-setters continues to translate into new hotels. Marriott Hotel and Resorts, for example, decided to open its 500th property  in the historic city of Pune last month. Nightly rates at the hotel, which includes 4...
435 2010-12-20 The intricate legal history that connected slavery to states' rights - and how it led to secession....
436 2010-12-20 A set of puzzles on tricks that can help you do calculations in your head and appear smarter....
437 2010-12-20 Goldman Sachs is sticking to its growth strategy of being "Goldman in more places,'' Glenn Schorr says....
438 2010-12-20 Taking a cue from fitness, LearnVest.com and RealSimple.com are offering a financial boot camp for women....
439 2010-12-20 The British office that regulates television is looking into risqué performances by Christina Aguilera and Rihanna drew more than 4,000 complaints from viewers....
440 2010-12-20 The Eagles' rally gave Coach Andy Reid a victory and saved his some postgame second-guessing from Philadelphia fans....
441 2010-12-20 Are you feeling more optimistic -- or just less depressed?...
442 2010-12-20 After a five-year absence, American Express will announce on Monday that it has again become the official charge card of the N.B.A.

The deal, which is for three years, will also include USA Basketball, the W.N.B.A. and the N.B.A. Development League.

As with its sponsorships in golf and tennis, American Express will give its cardholders exclusive access to game tickets and to events like the N.B.A. draft and musical performances during All-Star Game weekend, as well as opportunities to meet players and coaches.

“We’ll provide access to largely hard-to-get tickets,” said Courtney Kelso, the vice president for global media and sponsorship marketing at American Express.

Kelso said that a significant jump in requests from cardholders for tickets prompted American Express to seek a sponsorship with the league.
443 2010-12-20 “I do think of computers as augmenting people, not replacing them,” said Irene Greif, the director of the research center. “We need help with the limits of the brain, but there are some things that our brains can do that computers can’t do.”

The researchers essentially create programs that find patterns (and outliers) in the “fire hose” of information. Once patterns are revealed, it becomes easier to decide who or what is worth our undivided attention.

A literal example of fast-forwarding through the clutter of government is a public Web site created by I.B.M. researchers, Many Bills. Relying on sites that collect and format federal legislation, the I.B.M. project uses textual analysis to summarize and display Congressional bills as they move through the legislative process. This often reveals material that would seem to be unrelated to the business at hand (and probably was inserted as part of the bargaining process), like a provision on guns in a financial regulatory bill.

The added material isn’t necessarily a secret — someone had to insert it, and often the deal making is quite public — but a computer trained to see patterns and to highlight in bright colors can often spot it instantaneously.

The creators of the program stress that all of its features are intended to allow people to dig deeper — the entire text is there to be read. In an academic paper on the project, its creators, Yannick Assogba, Irene Ros and Joan DiMicco, described other “open government” visualization techniques that seem to allow “only a few number of interpretations.” By contrast, they wrote: “Our belief is that for citizens to become meaningfully engaged with government data, they need to be able to draw their own conclusions about it.”

Then there is the problem of searching for expertise, not necessarily Web page results. One tool for I.B.M. employees, SaNDVis, does this by showing a web of relationships around a search term to reveal who within I.B.M. has expertise on a topic. It uses writings, meetings attended, personal profile information and previous work experience to map these connections with lines showing who is closest to whom.

Like many of the center’s other projects, SaNDVis takes advantage of 400,000 I.B.M. employees who write reports, contribute to internal wikis, share bookmarks and blogs, or communicate via internal versions of Twitter or Facebook.

The implication is that in such a huge global company, there will not be a single center of expertise. And true to form, when Adam Perer, the creator of SaNDVis, typed in “visualization” — the expertise of many of his colleagues at the Cambridge lab — he saw familiar faces, including his own, but also people from around the world whom he didn’t necessarily know.

Ido Guy, a manager at the I.B.M. office in Haifa, Israel, where the data for SaNDVis is compiled, described the mission. “This is about unlocking — or unleashing — the value of information,” he said. “You cannot tie together the connections as well as a computer program can do it — that these two people are commenting on the same blog that they have a lot of similarities and maybe should know each other.”

And as for Mr. Perer’s way of displaying search results through people, Mr. Guy said: “When the Web and intranet become more social, people become more central. It is more than a document search.”

With its huge employee base, I.B.M. also performs the kind of data mining on its own employees that Google or Facebook still can’t dream of applying to the public — with access to the entire range of internal social networking tools linked to an employee ID number.

Projects like SaNDVis, which builds off a collection of information called Social Networking and Discovery, work as well as they do because employees’ professional lives are all on the record and are fodder for analysis.

In many ways, the I.B.M. lab can seem like the anti-Google. Its research frequently stays in house, and its goals are very different. Google projects can seem like confections put before the public to keep them participating in the all-seeing Google data-collection project: that participation helps Google learn more about you and give better search results. The ads can be directed to you more effectively, as well.

I.B.M. doesn’t serve ads, and thus collects information for its sake and for the sake of the businesses it is working with.

“People who come here know that the end goal is to help our company help our clients,” Dr. Greif said. “We think we have also educated the company that some playful, consumer-oriented ideas” can end up “helping this corporation.”

The goal is to tame the wondrous flow of information that has become part of normal life, while remaining engaged in the broader world, as you would expect from a multinational corporation. (The WikiLeaks material is an exception; Dr. Greif said she had been told that her researchers shouldn’t mine that particular trove of data.)

For simple business reasons, I.B.M. is trying to break out of the standard way people use social networks to navigate the flood information. Typically, people interact with generally like-minded friends and thus create an “echo chamber” where prejudices are reinforced.

Such a posture also helps flatten the culture — reduces the culture to memes, if you will; we float from one “trending topic” to another. Pass along the same YouTube clip everyone else is passing along. Treat serious news as gossip, and vice versa.

Of course, life is not the same as working at a conglomerate. Many people are perfectly happy seeing the same faces, learning the news from the same sources, seeing the most popular movie that week.

Thinking beyond those safe parameters can make your head hurt.
444 2010-12-20 Before million-dollar condominiums, fancy boutiques and coffee shops began to sprout along Lenox Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, Harlem was a struggling neighborhood of mom-and-pop shops, soul food restaurants and other small businesses that operated largely with a small-town exclusivity that is rarely replicated in other parts of the city.

Business deals were brokered over meals at places like Sylvia’s or in the pews of black churches, where local elected officials and other community leaders offered their blessings. It was there that new owners established relationships that often brought in business, as well as grants and financing.

Senior business owners said the meetings were as much about making intentions known as they were about showing respect — “kissing the rings,” many said.

“There were people in the community that you had to sell your ideas to: the politicians, the business organizations and churches, the nonprofit organizations,” said Londel Davis Sr., a former police officer who opened his first business, a deli, in 1983 and Londel’s, a bar and restaurant on Frederick Douglass Boulevard near 140th Street, in 1994. “They would support you with their business, and in return you supported them however you could.”

But with Harlem’s gentrification has come an unintended side effect: tensions between the neighborhood’s established business and political class and new business owners, some of whom view the old ways as patrimonial sentiment that is obsolete.

The schism seems to be as much about the old guard’s slowly losing its grip on power as it is about a perceived lack of respect shown by newcomers — a tension that many have said also exists in local politics.

Some say the rift is another indication of how much Harlem is changing.

“Today, I think instead of Harlem being viewed as a community, as a village, it is viewed as just another” business venture, said Walter J. Edwards, who opened his first business, a dry cleaner, in 1960, and later Full Spectrum, a real estate development company. “But how will those that opened the door be protected and taken care of?”

The old guard is still very active and, for the most part, still holds access to the purse strings to government loans and grants. At the top of the power heap is the Greater Harlem Chamber of Commerce, which has had a presence in the neighborhood for 114 years.

The chamber, as well as other business associations, including the Harlem Business Alliance, where Mr. Edwards is the chairman, have long-established relationships with Harlem’s older political leaders.

Those groups have long been vehicles for “money coming in and power,” which were scarce in times when banks and other institutions did not widely lend to blacks, said Van DeWard Woods, president of Sylvia’s restaurant and the son of its matriarch, Sylvia Woods.

In contrast, many of the new business owners come in better financed and operate with a casual indifference for neighborhood rituals. They say they are more concerned with handling their business than coddling egos.

Nikoa Evans-Hendricks, an owner of N Boutique on Lenox Avenue, which opened in 2005, said that she, like many of the “young and progressive” business owners, respected those who came before them, but that the climate was right for fresh blood and ideas.

“The old guard doesn’t have as much influence on the new guard,” Ms. Evans-Hendricks said. “There isn’t that same sense of indebtedness.”

Longtime business owners argue that respect is due because it was their sacrifices that led to the gentrified Harlem the newcomers now enjoy.

“They have a lot of fear, fear of ‘we’ve put up these fights and you don’t know our fight,’ ” said Ms. Abraham, who is something of a bridge between the old and new generations, and who is both admired and resented as a pioneer of the new Harlem. “They have a sense of ownership, that this was their Harlem.”

Eugene Giscombe, who opened a real estate business in 1982, described the scene as very “clubby” in the 1970s and ’80s, but doors were opened for young people who “wanted to go places and get somewhere in life.”

He said the old relationships were a necessity. For instance, he said, new business owners often needed politicians or prominent businesspeople to vouch for loans and rental agreements and to secure permits and licenses.

“I guess because things were so tough on us years ago that we looked inward to ourselves for support and encouragement and the ability to get things done through each other,” Mr. Giscombe said. “Back then we needed all the help we could get, and we looked around and we knew our neighbors and we went to them for support.”

Mr. Davis, owner of Londel’s, said, “We survived on the strength of the relationships that we built over the years.”

Many of the newcomers said that their independence did not come without consequences: Harlem’s institutions continue to support the businesses that came up the traditional way.

Both new and old Harlemites list businesses that they say opened with fanfare, but without local involvement. Word was spread that they were not interested in longtime Harlem residents or their patronage, the stories go, and eventually the businesses were forced to shut their doors.

Councilwoman Inez E. Dickens, whose district includes Harlem and whose family has operated businesses there for over half a century, cites her own support for a restaurant on Fifth Avenue near 116th Street. She said she held a couple of meetings there and invited colleagues to do the same. But the owners failed to welcome them, she said, and business dried up. The restaurant has since closed.

“The reality is that if you don’t do it, they will let it be known that you didn’t come into the community the right way,” Ms. Evans-Hendricks, of N Boutique, said. “You will most certainly be shunned.”

Some of the new business owners say they have turned to Mr. Edwards’s Harlem Business Alliance for advice. Others said, though, that the large, historic business associations, particularly the chamber, were too bureaucratic and slow-moving for the rapidly changing landscape.

The older institutions also appear to be focused on the large-scale development going on in Harlem, like the addition of Target, Applebee’s and upscale hotels and cultural centers.

“Being a member of one of these organizations in and of itself doesn’t guarantee success,” said Karl Franz Williams, owner of 67 Orange Street, a bar, and Society Coffee, a coffee shop, both of which opened within the past three years. “In the past maybe it was that way, that you couldn’t be successful without being a member, but that obviously is not the case anymore.”

A group of mostly newer Harlem business owners including Ms. Abraham, Ms. Evans-Hendricks and Mr. Williams last year formed Harlem Park to Park, a business alliance in south Harlem. The organization, with a mix of more than 50 old and new businesses, formed to offer an alternative to the established networks.

Councilwoman Dickens said there were risks in abandoning the old conventions.

“The new people come in and try to do business the way they would in some other place,” she said, “without any understanding of the culture here, and so many of them fail because they don’t extend themselves in the community.”

“They come in with great ideas and beautiful places that they invested their money in to build,” she added, “beautiful commercial storefronts, bars, restaurants, but there’s not enough of the new people coming in yet today to keep them alive.”

“Unless they are able to survive for another 10 years,” she said, “they will have to introduce themselves to not just the new who are coming in, but to those of us that have been here all along.”
445 2010-12-20 “I think of them as disintermediaries because they stand between a nonprofit and its supporters, and what most of our clients’ value is establishing that direct connection,” said Gene Austin, chief executive of Convio, a company that provides technology to help nonprofits manage relations. “It’s especially concerning if they’re taking a cut.”

To Mr. Austin and others, the new sites operate on a model that evokes memories of the United Way a decade ago. It began to lose ground when donors questioned why they should make donations through United Way — and give it a percentage of the money — when they could give directly to a charity.

“Moving toward a more donor-driven, pass-through model didn’t raise more money,” said Brian Gallagher, chief executive of the United Way of America.

Now, the United Way raises money around three core issues, which it addresses with proprietary programs. Its “pass-through” business, Mr. Gallagher said, has remained stagnant for the last five or six years.

“What we learned is that folks will pay you if they think they’re getting more value for what you’re offering,” he said.

The young entrepreneurs behind the new sites say their organizations are more than middlemen. “Saying the people can donate on an organization’s Web site misses the fact that nonprofits have to advertise to get people there, do marketing in various places to convince them to donate, cover credit card fees and pay for technology associated with their Web site and payment processing,” said Matthew Mahan, a representative of Causes.

Chris Hughes, the founder of Jumo, said his site was primarily about helping people connect with one another and with organizations around social missions, not about fund-raising.

“Jumo makes it easier for people to find an organization and stay in touch with it,” said Mr. Hughes, who is also a founder of Facebook. “That has a value.”

Crowdrise pitches itself as a tool to improve an individual’s fund-raising campaign, whether that is a celebrity like Barbra Streisand, who is raising money for the Cedars-Sinai Women’s Heart Center, or a person like Christine (Crowdrise users usually use only their given name), who is using the site to raise $60,000 for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.

“To us, Crowdrise is a complement or additive to whatever users are already doing,” said Robert Wolfe, a founder. “We don’t see this as a place for a charity to raise money for operational funds. It’s more for projects.”

Several online intermediaries serve as conduits to projects that cannot otherwise be supported directly. For example, United States Artists, a nonprofit that works to raise awareness of artists and their work, recently turned part of its Web site into a social network that allows everyday donors to support specific arts projects. It charges an 18 percent fee, but there is no other simple way to contribute as directly to those projects.

Similarly, GiveLocally, a new donation service started by Andrew Young III, who goes by Bo and whose father is the civil rights leader Andrew Young, allows donors to support people in need by providing money to pay for things like someone’s overdue electric bill.

The business — it is not a nonprofit — does not just transfer money to the recipients featured on its Web site. Rather, it makes payments or purchases using the money that donors offer, taking an 18 percent cut of each donation for what Mr. Young calls “a keep-the-lights-on fee.”

He said none of the company’s executive team receive a salary. “What we’re doing is a lot more personal than what other sites are offering,” he said. “We’re linking individual donors to individual recipients and providing all the necessary vetting.”

Virtually all of the new intermediaries charge 4.75 percent of a donation’s value to cover Network for Good’s administrative charges. The Web site for Causes says that the 4.75 percent fee is “equal to or greater than” what nonprofits pay themselves in credit card processing fees and compares its cost-effectiveness to that of direct mail solicitation.

Experts say, however, that comparisons to direct mail are unfair and that, on average, nonprofits pay 3 percent to 3.5 percent in credit card fees.

Most of the new sites also suggest leaving a “tip” and preselect an amount, though donors can opt out. Jumo, for instance, proposes tipping 15 percent. Thus, a $25 gift would be whittled down to $20.06 once a 15 percent tip and processing charge were deducted, unless the donor decided to add the tip onto the $25. (The donor could still claim a tax deduction for the full amount, however, because Jumo and Network for Good are charities, too.)

Donors to Crowdrise are also asked for a tip, and even if they opt out, fees to cover Network for Good’s charges and Web maintenance would reduce a gift of $100 to $92.75.

Causes also has its hand out, saying, “We’re a small team that relies on the support of generous donors like you to keep the lights on.”

In fact, Causes is a profit-making business, and it recently received $9 million in venture capital financing, bringing its total financing to $16 million. Mr. Mahan of Causes, said, “The purpose of our recent funding round and other revenue streams — including tipping — is to help us deliver more innovative solutions at a faster pace in order to grow activism online, incite more giving and deliver scale efficiently and effectively.”

Mr. Hughes of Jumo said, “I think there’s probably a good conversation to be had about how these sites self-fund.”
446 2010-12-20 Bernard Hopkins, 45, missed a chance to become the oldest boxer to hold a major world title, fighting to a majority draw with the Canadian Jean Pascal on Saturday night in Quebec. The American judge Steve Morrow scored it 114-112 for Hopkins, but the Canadian Claude Paquette (113-113) and Belgium’s Daniel Van de Wiele (114-114) had it even, which made it a majority draw and allowed Pascal to keep his World Boxing Council and International Boxing Organization light heavyweight titles.
447 2010-12-20 Mr. Obama ran for office promising to be a “fierce advocate” for the rights of gay people, and he pledged his support for goals deeply important to them. These included passing a hate crimes bill making it a federal crime to assault someone because of sexual orientation; repealing the don’t ask, don’t tell” ban on gay men and lesbians serving openly in the military; passing the Employment Nondiscrimination Act, which would forbid employers to discriminate against people on the basis of sexual orientation; and overturning the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman for purpose of all federal laws.

Mr. Obama signed the hate crimes bill into law last year, and he is expected to sign the “don’t ask, don’t tell” repeal before he leaves for Hawaii this week, although he and military leaders face additional steps before the actual reversal of the policy.

But the nondiscrimination and marriage bills are stalled on Capitol Hill, and now that Republicans are about to take over the House and increase their numbers in the Senate, it is widely agreed that the political climate for gay rights in Washington is about to worsen.

For the gay rights movement, the right to marry is the holy grail, because so many other benefits — including Social Security and health benefits for gay partners, adoption rights, tax benefits and others — flow from it.

Five states and the District of Columbia allow gay marriage, but those who marry there are “still denied federal benefits” like the Social Security survivor benefit payments automatically paid to widows and widowers in heterosexual marriages, said Joe Solmonese of the Human Rights Campaign, a leading gay advocacy organization. Mr. Solmonese said that he welcomed the new Equality Matters campaign and that he hoped it would help “change hearts and minds.”

Mr. Obama has said he favors civil unions over same-sex marriage, although in an interview in late October with a group of bloggers he hinted that he might be reconsidering his position. “Attitudes evolve, including mine,” he said, in response to a question from Joe Sudbay of AmericaBlog, though he said he was “not prepared to reverse myself.”

While a range of groups are working to advance gay rights, the movement has lacked a national rapid-response war room of the sort that can push back against homophobic messages in the media and the political arena and keep the pressure on elected officials, said David Mixner, a gay author and activist.

“I think the lesson we have learned over the last two years is that you’ve got to be tough,” Mr. Mixner said, “and you’ve got to keep people’s feet to the fire.”

The organizers of Equality Matters say that is their intent. Mr. Socarides and the founder of Media Matters, David Brock, said they began planning Equality Matters several months ago. They quickly persuaded Ms. Eleveld, who covered the Obama campaign and has covered Washington for the last two years, to join them.

“I’ve spent the past two years with a front-row seat to history, and the longer I sat there the more I felt drawn to participating,” Ms. Eleveld said in an interview.

Mr. Brock, a former conservative journalist who is gay — and who broke with the right in the 1990s — has lately been expanding the Media Matters organization. He said in an interview that he had raised $23 million in the last year for the group, which has an operating budget of $13 million. His backers include George Soros, the liberal donor; the Hollywood producer Steve Bing; and gay philanthropists like James Hormel, an ambassador to Luxembourg under Mr. Clinton.

Equality Matters, Mr. Brock said, should “expose right-wing bigotry and homophobia wherever we find it” and “stiffen the spines of progressives.” That, he said, did not change with the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell.” He said Equality Matters was planned long before anyone in Washington had an inkling that repeal might actually succeed.

““We believe the big battle is full equality, which is gay marriage,” he said.
448 2010-12-20 ¶Tourism Toronto selected the Toronto office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, as its lead marketing agency. Spending was estimated at 6 million Canadian dollars a year. The office will handle the creative duties, formerly handled by Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, and the online and interactive duties, formerly handled by USDM.net.

¶Eric Keshin is leaving the McCann Worldgroup, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, where he has been chief executive of EXP, the production services unit, since June. In a memorandum, his departure — the most recent in a series involving senior managers at the McCann Worldgroup and its largest unit, McCann Erickson Worldwide — was described as a mutual decision. Mr. Keshin had worked for McCann Erickson and the McCann Worldgroup since 1980.

¶Joel Ewanick, vice president for United States marketing at General Motors, Detroit, will add duties for worldwide marketing operations and take the new title of global chief marketing officer.

¶Edward J. Reilly, chief executive for the Americas operations of FD, part of FTI Consulting, was named global chief executive, based in New York, and Geoffrey Pelham-Lane, chief executive for the British operations, was named global president, based in London. Mr. Reilly succeeds Charles Watson, who was recently named global chairman. Mr. Pelham-Lane’s post is new.

¶Sean Finnegan and Tony Bombacino joined Geomentum, Downers Grove, Ill., part of the Mediabrands Ventures unit of Mediabrands, in a management shake-up. Mr. Finnegan becomes chief executive, succeeding Dave Walker, who left, Mediabrands said. Mr. Finnegan had most recently been president and chief digital officer at the Starcom MediaVest Group, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Bombacino becomes president and chief marketing officer, assuming duties from Mike Hayes, strategy director, who also left, Mediabrands said. Mr. Bombacino had most recently been chief marketing officer at Restaurant.com. Mediabrands is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Kevin Pfuhl joined BBDO/Proximity Canada, Toronto, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, as senior vice president and managing director, filling a post that had been vacant. Mr. Pfuhl had most recently been managing partner for client development and strategy at GJP Advertising, Toronto, now called Blammo Worldwide.

¶Pizza Hut, Dallas, part of Yum Brands, said it would, for the first time, buy a commercial during the Super Bowl. The spot will appear in Super Bowl XLV on Fox Broadcasting on Feb. 6. For decades, Pizza Hut has advertised in the pregame and postgame shows but has not bought commercial time during the game itself. The many media outlets that review, analyze and report on commercials shown on Super Bowl Sunday typically cover only those spots that are shown during the game. Also, Web outlets like AOL, usatoday.com and YouTube, which give advertisers free exposure by running video clips of Super Bowl commercials after the game, almost never include spots that do not appear during the game.

¶ESPN, Bristol, Conn., part of the Walt Disney Company, acquired most of the intellectual property of PVI Virtual Media Services, Lawrenceville, N.J. Financial terms were not disclosed. PVI, originally called Princeton Video Image, was a pioneer in the digital placement of “virtual” products and other images in television shows and movies.
449 2010-12-20 Mr. Ahmadinejad said that the government was spending $114 billion a year on energy subsidies. “If we can save one-quarter of that, it will amount to a vast economic transformation,” he said. He said that the prices of water, electricity and natural gas would increase “gradually,” and that the subsidy for bread would also be gradually eliminated. He predicted that the bottom 60 percent of income earners would be better off under the new plan while the wealthier 40 percent would “need to economize.”

The reduction in subsidies comes as Iran’s economy is starting to show signs of strain caused by international sanctions. Economic restrictions imposed by the United Nations Security Council and further measures added by Western countries mainly to press Iran on its nuclear program have made it increasingly difficult for the oil-exporting country to conduct international business.

Iranian governments have sought for years to rein in the expensive and unwieldy subsidy system but have feared a strong public backlash. Price supports amount to $4,000 per family per year, a recent International Monetary Fund report found.

The government tried to cushion the blow by making a one-time payment to each household of about $77. Although the funds were deposited in October, Iranians were not allowed to withdraw the money until Sunday, the day the reductions took effect.

Despite Mr. Ahmadinejad’s call for Iranians to refrain from spending the money immediately to help prevent a sharp jump in inflation, witnesses reported that many customers were withdrawing the full amount at once. “I want to spend it on living costs,” said one bank customer quoted by Iran’s semiofficial Fars news agency. “I know that prices haven’t risen yet but I know for sure that they will.”

The gasoline price increase was expected to be the most wrenching of the changes because of the country’s heavy reliance on private vehicles. Iran’s long-distance bus and taxi drivers’ guild predicted that fares could increase by as much as 125 percent.

The new price of about $1.44 a gallon applies to the monthly ration of about 16 gallons per personal car. Gasoline bought over and above the monthly ration will increase to about $2.64 a gallon.

Mr. Ahmadinejad said the government would monitor and control increases in transportation costs that arise from the subsidy cuts. In recent months, his administration has insisted that any price increases above government-ordained limits would be considered part of an “economic conspiracy” and would be dealt with by the police and judiciary.

The political opposition has been skeptical of the plan but seemed to be taking a wait-and-see attitude. “In the dark of night the subsidy targetization plan began, a plan which the government has begun to execute detached from the people, without wisdom or long-term planning,” read an article published on the Kaleme news Web site, which is associated with the opposition leader Mir Hussein Moussavi.
450 2010-12-20 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China praised Pakistan’s efforts to combat terrorism and promised to further advance the two countries’ strategic partnership and economic cooperation in a speech to the Parliament on Sunday.

Mr. Wen’s remarks came a day after China and Pakistan signed $15 billion worth of trade deals, bringing the total value of the agreements signed during his three-day trip to $30 billion over the next five years.

The Pakistani government said the two countries had agreed to widen the Chinese-built Karakoram Highway to facilitate trade, and China said it would give more support in the energy sector.

In a joint communiqué, the two countries pledged to cooperate further on security and military issues, energy, transportation, space technology, banking, infrastructure development, heavy machinery manufacturing, cultural exchange and finance.

Addressing the Pakistan-China Business Summit in Islamabad on Saturday, Mr. Wen noted that the two countries had trade worth just $1 billion in 2002, but $6.8 billion in 2009. He expressed the desire to expand trade between the two countries, which signed a free-trade agreement in 2006, to $10 billion as soon as possible.
451 2010-12-20 Sara Lee's discussions about a potential sale to JBS of Brazil have been delayed so far because of a disagreement over the price of a potential deal, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Sunday.     While the talks have been on and off ...
452 2010-12-21 Private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management will get back much of its troubled bet on the auto industry as a result of Tuesday's sale of Chrysler Financial to Toronto-Dominion Bank for $6.3 billion....
453 2010-12-21 Should Google be allowed to keep making acquisitions? Two lawyers duke it out....
454 2010-12-21 Conventional wisdom holds that the United States is overregulated and private equity's great investment opportunities lie elsewhere, but that oversimplifies the situation....
455 2010-12-21 BrightScope crunches the numbers and ranks the top 30 401(k) plans based on how quickly they prepare workers for retirement....
456 2010-12-21 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi responds to criticism over remarks he made about his hometown during the civil rights era....
457 2010-12-21 Apple confirms that it has taken down an unofficial WikiLeaks iPhone and iPad app because it violates its terms of service, which prohibit putting individuals in harm's way....
458 2010-12-21 Hedgebay hopes to spur trading in these opaque and controversial segregated accounts by trying to value the hedge fund investments....
459 2010-12-21 A “skeptical environmentalist” responds to Dot Earth critics....
460 2010-12-21 Toronto-Dominion Bank on Tuesday agreed to buy Chrysler Financial from the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management for $6.3 billion....
461 2010-12-21 Public health experts differ on whether the levels reported by an environmental group are cause for significant concern....
462 2010-12-21 The Canadian bank has agreed to pay $6.3 billion for the former financing arm of Chrysler....
463 2010-12-21 Why don't more businesses consider employee stock option plans?...
464 2010-12-21 Almost every district of Paris boasts a festive outdoor market around Christmas time....
465 2010-12-21 The states can provide a strong defense against growing federal powers, but the federal government is frequently needed to counter malfeasance at local levels, an economist writes....
466 2010-12-21 The Russian mining company caught in an oligarchs' tug-of-war said Monday that it had agreed to sell shares equal to about 8 percent of its market capital to the commodities trader Trafigura, in a deal valued at more than $3 billion....
467 2010-12-21 States are continuing a trend of executing fewer prisoners and juries are wary of sentencing criminal defendants to die, according to year-end figures compiled by a group that opposes the death penalty.

The 46 executions in 2010 constituted a nearly 12 percent drop from the previous year’s total of 52, according to the group, Death Penalty Information Center, which produces an annual report on execution trends. The overall trend shows a marked drop when compared with the 85 executions in 2000.

Jurors, too, show a continuing preference for the alternative of punishing criminal defendants with sentences of life without parole. Juries handed out 114 death sentences in 2010, slightly higher than the 112 death sentences last year, and 50 percent fewer for the current decade than in the 1990s — before the widespread availability of life without parole sentences for juries in capital cases.

“There’s just a whole lot more concern about the accuracy of the death penalty, the fairness and even the costs — all are contributing,” said Richard C. Dieter, the author of the report and the executive director of the center, which is in Washington. The availability of the alternative to the death penalty, Mr. Dieter said, also means that “prosecutors know it’s going to be a harder sell and are seeking it less.”

The states continue to condemn far more prisoners to death than they actually execute.

There are 3,261 people on death row in the United States; California has the largest population, with 697, while New Hampshire and Wyoming have one apiece. A majority of Americans support the death penalty, with 64 percent of those surveyed by Gallup in October 2010 favoring it and 29 percent opposed.

One contributing factor in the low number of executions nationwide is the shortage of a drug used for executions — they were postponed or canceled in Arkansas, California, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Tennessee.

Hospira, the company that makes sodium thiopental, the drug, has said that it expects to resume production in the first quarter of 2011.
468 2010-12-21 This word has appeared in 401 New York Times articles in the past year....
469 2010-12-21 Jerry Brown will eliminate the inspector general’s office when he takes over as governor in January. His transition team said Monday that the move would help streamline operations and save $700,000. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger created the office to help curb waste and fraud and scrutinize spending of federal stimulus money. The Legislature put the office’s $2.8 million budget under the governor’s office budget, which Mr. Brown has pledged to cut 25 percent. In a letter addressing the cut, the inspector general, Laura Chick, wrote, “Creating this office sent a potent message: We are watching.”
470 2010-12-21 I do not apologize for repealing a burdensome, unfair home energy tax or for forgoing my predecessor’s scheduled 4 percent increase in property taxes in 2011. In fact, I removed a burden of nearly $500 million in total in county taxes over the next four years. I don’t apologize for that either.

I have lowered the county work force to the lowest level since the 1950s and cut spending by more than $140 million. At my direction, the county’s insane guarantee of other governments’ tax assessment liabilities — which accounts for $1.2 billion of county debt — has been repealed beginning at the end of 2012. Residential homeowners will no longer subsidize the use of sewer services by large hospitals and universities.

My predecessor irresponsibly agreed to labor contracts that extend through the end of 2015. Despite that, I am in negotiations with each of the county unions to adopt long-term structural reform to reduce labor costs on a recurring basis.

Nassau’s 2011 budget is balanced and maintains significant contingencies. The Nassau County Interim Finance Authority should focus its efforts on persuading the state to help alleviate unreasonable, wasteful mandates, exploding pension expenses for county workers, and double-digit increases in health care costs.

These are tough times for Nassau County taxpayers, but as I promised last year, I am committed to reducing taxes and costs. I have made substantial progress toward those goals, and taxpayers are already $500 million to the good.
471 2010-12-21 The opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko was charged Monday with misuse of state funds during her tenure as prime minister, her spokeswoman said. Ms. Tymoshenko has dismissed the accusations — that her government misused money raised by selling carbon emission rights — as politically motivated.
472 2010-12-21 The Venezuelan government formally rejected Washington’s nominee as ambassador on Monday. The State Department spokesman, P. J. Crowley, said Venezuela’s government presented a note to an American diplomat in Caracas withdrawing its consent for Larry Palmer to be appointed ambassador. President Hugo Chávez was angered by Mr. Palmer’s remarks that morale in Venezuela’s military was low and that Colombian rebels were taking refuge in Venezuela. Mr. Crowley said that Venezuela’s rejection of Mr. Palmer, who is awaiting Senate confirmation, “has consequences in terms of our relationship with Venezuela.”
473 2010-12-21 Part of the explanation for this perverse behavior is the structure of leases for the land. These drill-it-or-lose-it leases often compel companies to pump gas or say goodbye to their claims — which can cost as much as $30,000 an acre in prime parts of Louisiana or Texas. Involuntary drilling of this kind will only start to die down toward the end of 2011.

Any natural brake on self-destructive activity has also been weakened by a spree of joint ventures. Eager to get a taste of North America’s new energy bonanza, foreign energy companies are bankrolling the cost of drilling in exchange for a share of the spoils.

In Monday’s deal, for instance, South Africa-based Sasol agreed to pay 75 percent of Talisman’s drilling costs in exchange for a 50 percent interest in some of its Canadian shale assets. It’s easier to keep drilling when spending somebody else’s money — even though as many as half of all new wells are uneconomical at current gas prices, according to Tudor, Pickering.

So far much of the pain of collapsing prices has been cushioned by hedging. But the prolonged decline in gas prices means this protection will start to slip away in early 2011. Even so, natural gas supply is expected to climb another 5 percent. And if the gas price moves higher, there are an estimated 1,000 wells waiting to be completed.

Depressed prices would typically draw out more demand as gas displaces coal in electricity generation and, in time, motorists opt for natural gas vehicles. This should happen eventually. After all, while the price of a barrel of oil is hovering around $91, natural gas is offering the same amount of energy for the bargain price of $27. Even traditionally cheap coal is under threat from gas at current prices.

But that demand will take years to emerge. Shifting parts of America’s transport sector to natural gas — as countries like Argentina have done — takes time and investment in infrastructure like filling stations. Meanwhile in the absence of a carbon tax, natural gas is only gradually gaining ground in electricity generation as geriatric coal plants are retired.

With supply shooting higher and demand creeping gently, natural gas prices should remain below $5 per million B.T.U. units through 2011. For those energy producers locked into gas drilling, that makes more joint ventures or asset sales likely. And others will look to beef up on oil-producing shale assets, particularly in the Bakken region of North Dakota and the Eagle Ford shale in Texas. EOG Resources has already blazed a trail, increasing liquid output by about 43 percent against 2009. Chesapeake also has been shifting toward oil, and Sasol may be able to help Talisman do the same.

This may sound like bad news for energy companies awash in cheap gas. But it’s good news for Houston’s sought-after cadre of energy bankers. They will be called upon to broker more deals, joint ventures and capital raisings than ever before.
474 2010-12-21 A spokesman for Mr. Barbour did not return calls and e-mail messages on Monday. Dan Turner, the governor’s press secretary, told Talking Points Memo, “You’re trying to paint the governor as a racist — and nothing could be further from the truth.” The Web site quoted Mr. Turner as saying: “There’s nothing in his past that shows that. If you pick out a sentence or a paragraph out of a fairly long article and harp on it, you can manipulate it.”

Mr. Barbour had little to say in the interview with The Weekly Standard about the broader struggle for civil rights that played out during those years. In the article he recalled once seeing The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. speak in his town, but said he did not remember what Dr. King had said.

“We just sat on our cars, watching the girls, talking, doing what boys do,” Mr. Barbour said, recalling the visit, in 1962, when he was about 15. “We paid more attention to the girls than to King.”

The interview explored Mr. Barbour’s political assets and challenges. He was chairman of the Republican National Committee and spent years as a Washington lobbyist before becoming governor. Within Republican circles, he is known as a savvy political operator and prodigious fund-raiser, who as chairman of the Republican Governors Association this year led the party to big gains in statehouse races across the country.

Race was part of the backdrop to President Obama’s 2008 campaign, and remains nearly as sensitive and nuanced a topic as ever in politics. The response to Mr. Barbour’s remarks indicated that he could face intensive scrutiny in a presidential campaign as a white Southerner who came of age during the height of the civil rights era.

In 1982, as Mr. Barbour ran unsuccessfully against Senator John C. Stennis, an article in The New York Times quoted Mr. Barbour as chiding an aide for a racist comment by saying that if the aide made similar remarks he would be reincarnated as a watermelon and placed at the mercy of blacks. The Times article was cited by Politico on Monday in a blog post exploring the ramifications of The Weekly Standard interview for Mr. Barbour.

More recently, Mr. Barbour came to the defense of Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, who had omitted any mention of slavery in his office’s annual declaration of April as Confederate History Month. Interviewed on CNN, Mr. Barbour dismissed the incident.

“To me, it’s a sort of feeling that it’s a nit, that it is not significant,” he said, adding that it was “trying to make a big deal out of something doesn’t amount to diddly.”

And in September, Mr. Barbour said in an interview with Human Events that the South was largely integrated by the time his generation came of age. That drew a sharp critique from some who accused him of trying to revise history for his own political benefit.
475 2010-12-21 ALBANY (AP) — In a ruling that returns control of the New York State Senate to the Republicans, the state’s Court of Appeals on Monday rejected a Democratic state senator’s request for a full manual recount in his narrow defeat.

The Court of Appeals, the highest state court, unanimously upheld a judge’s certification that the senator, Craig Johnson of Nassau County, had lost to Jack Martins, a Republican, by 451 votes out of almost 85,000 cast. Last week, an appellate court upheld the result but said there were legal questions for review by the Court of Appeals.

Next month, with 32 seats in the 62-seat chamber, the Republicans will regain a Senate majority, which they had for decades until two years ago. The Democrats retain control of the State Assembly.
476 2010-12-21 The revelations three months ago that large were sloppy and negligent in preparing foreclosure documents underscore just how important it is for distressed homeowners to have representation, lawyers and consumer advocates say. Homeowners whose cases were handled improperly have little way of knowing it. Even if they found out, they would be hard-pressed to challenge a lender without a lawyer.

“Consumers just don’t know what is going on,” said Walter Hackett, a former banker who is now a lawyer for a nonprofit service in Riverside. “They get a piece of paper saying they are going to lose their homes and they freak out.”

The problem for lawyers is that even a simple modification, in which the is restructured so the borrower can afford the monthly payments, is a marathon, putting off their payday for months if not years. If the bank refuses to come to terms, the client may file for bankruptcy. Then the lawyer will never be paid.

Alice M. Graham, a lawyer in Marina del Rey, said a homeowner in default recently tried to hire her. When Ms. Graham declined, the despairing owner begged her in vain to accept payments under the table.

“The banks have all the lawyers they want, and the consumers are helpless,” Ms. Graham said.

In some states, including New York and , foreclosure proceedings are overseen by courts. In California, the process is more of a private matter between the bank and the homeowner. Through Sept. 30, lenders filed notices of default on 229,843 homes in California this year, according to the research firm MDA DataQuick.

The length of time California households spend in foreclosure, which was rising as owners pursued modifications, fell in the third quarter to 8.7 months, from 9.1 months in the second quarter. That could indicate that the absence of defense lawyers is beginning to accelerate the process.

While lawyers for nonprofits like Mr. Hackett continue to represent clients, they are too overwhelmed to help everyone. “A homeowner in California is going to have an extraordinarily difficult time finding an attorney,” he said.

That group includes Ms. Bell, who owned two properties free and clear and then gave in to a friend’s urging to “put your money to work.” That friend was an agent, and soon Ms. Bell owned two more properties and was making unsecured loans.

The loans went bad, the went bust, and Ms. Bell is trying to salvage her home. She wants an advocate but is reluctant to respond to any of the solicitations that fill her mailbox. “I know better,” she said.

Many people did not. Defaulting owners saw television commercials or heard radio ads where a lawyer promised relief. They handed over a few thousand dollars and heard no more.

Two years ago, the state bar association had seven complaints of misconduct in loan modifications. By March 2009, there were more than 100 complaints, and a task force was formed to deal with the problem. Soon, there were thousands of complaints.

It was a public relations disaster. The president of the bar association wrote in a column last year that “hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of California lawyers” were victimizing people “at the most vulnerable point in their lives.”

Politicians heard complaints, too. Ron Calderon, a state senator who represents several communities east of Los Angeles, sponsored a bill that prohibits advance payments for modifications and required lawyers to warn clients that they could do the job themselves without professional assistance. Lenders were supportive of the bill, Senator Calderon said.

It passed 36 to 4 in September 2009. The maximum punishment is a $10,000 fine and a year in jail.

The law is working well, Senator Calderon said. “You do not need a lawyer,” he said.

Mark Stone, a 56-year-old general contractor in Sierra Madre, feels differently. A few years ago, he got sick with C. Unable to work full time, he began to miss mortgage payments. The drugs he was taking left him “a little confused,” he said.

Mr. Stone knew that his condition put him at a disadvantage in negotiations with his bank. So he hired Gregory Royston, a real estate lawyer in Redondo Beach. It took Mr. Royston nearly a year, but he restructured the loan.

Without the lawyer, Mr. Stone said, “I’d be living under a bridge.”

The legal bill, paid in advance, was $3,500. “Worth every penny,” said Mr. Stone, who is now back at work.

Mr. Royston said winning modifications was never easy and often impossible. “The banks stymie the borrower, and they really stymie any third party who works on behalf of the borrower,” he said.

A spokesman for the Mortgage Bankers Association said it simply wanted to protect homeowners from fraud. “Be very careful about anyone who wants you to pay them to help you get a loan modification,” said the spokesman, John Mechem.

That advice has never been more true. If any honest lawyers still do modifications, they are lost in a sea of swindles. “This law,” Mr. Royston said, “took the wrong people out of the game.”

Suzan Anderson, supervising trial counsel of the California bar’s special team on loan modification, defended the law, saying that in other types of cases, including personal injury and , the lawyers do not get paid until the end. She acknowledged, however, it was “a very problematical situation.”

As for the swindlers singled out by the law, they appear unfazed. The state bar is investigating 2,000 complaints of modification fraud.

“I wish the law had worked,” Ms. Anderson said.

LOS ANGELES (AP) — Wells Fargo agreed to modify about 14,900 adjustable-rate loans made by banks it acquired, according to filings released on Monday.

The agreement with the state attorney general will result in more than $2 billion in principal write-downs, interest-rate reductions and other concessions through June 2013, said Franklin Codel, chief financial officer of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.

The deal applies to mortgages marketed as “pick-a-payment” loans by Wachovia and World Savings Bank, a subsidiary of the Golden West Financial Corporation.

Wachovia bought World Savings in 2006, and Wells Fargo bought Wachovia in 2008.

The mortgages were so named because their terms allowed borrowers to make payments at various levels each month, including a payment option that increased the loan’s principal by covering less than the monthly interest owed.
477 2010-12-21 Epo has also been used surreptitiously by athletes, most notoriously Tour de France bicycle racers, to increase their endurance. In addition, recent studies have suggested that overuse of the drug can harm patients. Sales, as a result, have declined over the last few years.

While Epo has meant huge profits for drug companies, Dr. Goldwasser, whom colleagues described as quiet and self-effacing, won neither fame nor fortune. Although he notified his university about his accomplishment, it never patented Epo, and Dr. Goldwasser did not follow up.

“One percent of one percent of the drug’s annual revenues would have funded my lab quite handsomely,” he told a university publicist years later.

Eugene Goldwasser was born in Brooklyn in 1922. When his father’s clothing business failed during the Depression, the family moved to Kansas City, Mo., to join a relative in a similar business. After attending high school and a community college there, he transferred as a junior to the University of Chicago on a scholarship, earning a bachelor’s degree and, in 1950, a doctorate in biochemistry.

As far back as 1906, two French researchers had postulated the existence of a substance that prompts the production of red blood cells, which carry oxygen to the body’s tissues. But if that substance did exist, it was in such minuscule quantities that no one could find it.

Dr. Goldwasser began to look for it in 1955 at the urging of his mentor, the noted hematologist Leon O. Jacobson. “I estimated several months should see the task completed,” Dr. Goldwasser recalled in 1996 in an essay in the journal Perspectives in Biology and Medicine.

Instead it took 20 years. In 1957, Dr. Goldwasser and colleagues, by systematically removing different organs from rats to see if they became anemic, concluded that Epo was made in the kidneys. That helped explain why patients with kidney failure became anemic.

Figuring that animals with anemia would produce more Epo, making the protein easier to find, Dr. Goldwasser spent years visiting a slaughterhouse outside Chicago, injecting sheep with a chemical that would make them anemic. He would collect the blood and try to separate out the various components.

But it turned out that Epo would be easier to find in urine than in blood. In 1973, when his search seemed to be at a dead end, Dr. Goldwasser received a letter from Takaji Miyake of Kumamoto University in Japan, who had been collecting urine from people with a disease called aplastic anemia.

At the end of 1975, Dr. Miyake met Dr. Goldwasser in the lobby of the elegant Palmer House hotel in Chicago. He bowed low and held out a foot-square package wrapped in brightly colored silk, according to the book “The $800 Million Dollar Pill” by Merrill Goozner, which recounts the history of Epo.

Inside was the dried concentrate of 2,550 liters, or about 674 gallons, of urine.

From that material, Dr. Goldwasser, his assistant Charles Kung and Dr. Miyake purified 8 milligrams, or about 3 ten-thousandths of an ounce, of Epo, enough to fill a small vial. They published a paper in 1977.

Such a difficult extraction process was not practical for producing enough Epo to use as a drug. But the age of gene splicing was dawning. Knowing some of the protein’s composition, Fu-Kuen Lin, a scientist at Amgen, was eventually able to clone the human gene for Epo. The gene was spliced into hamster cells, which churned out enough Epo to sell as a drug.

The drug was tested first in patients undergoing dialysis, who suffered debilitating anemia. The only treatment at that time was frequent blood transfusions, which exposed patients to infectious diseases and to a dangerous buildup of iron in their livers.

Epo was “a spectacular success,” said Dr. John W. Adamson, who conducted that first trial around 1985 while at the University of Washington. Patients who had so little energy they had to crawl up stairs became fully functional, he said. Nowadays, owing to Epo, such horribly anemic dialysis patients have “essentially disappeared,” said Dr. Adamson, who is now at the University of California, San Diego.

Amgen patented the Epo gene, barely beating out another company, and through litigation has preserved its monopoly for more than 20 years.

Some companies wanting to sell their own versions of Epo have complained that by choosing to work only with Amgen, Dr. Goldwasser, whose research was financed by the National Institutes of Health, had essentially privatized public property. In his 1996 essay, Dr. Goldwasser said he had gotten permission for this from the N.I.H.

Dr. Goldwasser continued research on Epo, retiring from the university in 2002.

He is survived by his second wife, Deone Jackman; three sons from his first marriage, Thomas, of San Francisco, Matthew, of Chicago, and James, of New York; two stepchildren, Tara and Tom Jackman; and seven grandchildren. His first wife, Florence Cohen, died in 1981.

Dr. Goldwasser said in his 1996 essay that when he started his quest he had no idea the results would be so medically useful. “The enormous clinical success of Epo still astonishes me,” he wrote.
478 2010-12-21 The names give focus to an electoral process in which Mr. Maliki’s alliance won fewer than one third of the 325 seats in Parliament, and in which a rival alliance, Iraqiya, finished first, barely. During the protracted negotiating after the March elections, Mr. Maliki was able to form alliances with, or neutralize, long-time antagonists, eventually gaining concessions from Iraqiya’s leader, Ayad Allawi, who until last weekend had maintained that he had the right to form the government.

Throughout the process, Iran and the United States found themselves in the position of unlikely allies, both pressuring Iraqi leaders to resolve differences and get on with the business of governing.

“We won’t know what this all means until we know who got what and what all the deals were,” said Ryan C. Crocker, former United States ambassador to Iraq and now dean of the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University.

“The prolonged bitterness doesn’t tell me much. It may have produced a government that can actually govern,” Mr. Crocker said. “Maliki knows he’s got enough of a base that he’s not subject to any single party.”

The government, once it is formed, faces an array of challenges, including rebuilding an economy, resolving territory disputes between Arabs and Kurds, passing an energy policy, fixing the electrical grid and providing security to a country weary from seven years of war and conflict.

Mr. Maliki brought the partial list of ministers to the speaker of Parliament, Osama al-Nujaifi, after a confusing day. At first his office said he would present the new government to the Parliament on Monday, then the move was delayed. As of Monday night the names were still not public, though Mr. Seneid provided them to The New York Times.

If Mr. Maliki does not present a cabinet to Parliament by Dec. 25, the Constitution calls for the president, Jalal Talabani, to appoint another member of Parliament to form the government.

No progress was made on Monday toward defining the role of a still vague National Council for Higher Policies, whose status has been at the heart of much of the fractiousness since the election. On Sunday, Mr. Allawi announced that he was relinquishing his claim to lead the next government and accepting the role of head of the council, which he has insisted holds executive powers. The Obama administration has supported forming the council as a check on the prime minister’s authority. But its authority remains unspecified.

“I’m worried that checks won’t happen,” said Joost R. Hiltermann, the deputy Middle East program director at the International Crisis Group, a research organization.
479 2010-12-21 The new guidelines call for postponing routine screening for women at average risk to age 50, from 40, and recommend scans every other year instead of every year.

If Dr. Weiss had followed them, she might have skipped this year’s scan, giving the tumor more time to grow undetected; and if she had not had a trail of scans from her 40s, doctors would not have been able to compare the images and notice the tumor’s subtle emergence. (In fact, her risk is above average, because of her dense breast tissue and a family history. But she noted, “Most women who get breast cancer don’t have a family history — that’s a huge myth.”)

Yet even at the American Cancer Society, which continues to advise women to start regular mammograms at 40, experts acknowledge the limitations of screening.

“Most people think mammography is much more beneficial than it actually is,” said Dr. Otis Brawley, the society’s chief medical officer. “Even if you take the most liberal, most pro-mammogram argument, we need something better.”

Dr. Brawley says that on balance, mammography saves lives. But he notes that it misses some cancers, and that radiation from the scans will actually cause some cancers to develop.

In addition, some women will be called back repeatedly for additional procedures, scans and biopsies that ultimately rule out cancer but can be painful and anxiety-provoking. Mammograms also find some cancers that grow very slowly but look the same as any other cancerous tumor, leading to aggressive but unnecessary treatment.

The United States Preventive Services Task Force found that while mammograms saved lives over all — reducing the breast cancer death rate by 15 percent — the benefits fell off rapidly for younger women, who also bore the greatest burden of the harms. While one cancer death is prevented for every 1,339 women in their 50s and every 377 women in their 60s who undergo screening, 1,904 women in their 40s would need to be screened for 10 years to prevent a single cancer death.

The panel also discouraged breast self-exams and even physicians’ breast exams.

But though the recommendations received saturation coverage in the news media last year, little attention was given a month later, when the panel modified its message. Concerned that it had been misunderstood, the panel took the extraordinary step of amending the standard language of its recommendations and removed the critical word “against” as applied to routine mammography of women in their 40s.

It let stand the language recommending that the decision to start screening every other year “should be an individual one” that “takes patient context into account, including the patient’s values regarding the specific benefits and harms.”

“No one had read that second sentence — no one got beyond the words ‘recommend against’ routine screening in women 40 to 49,” said Dr. Bruce Ned Calonge, chairman of the task force, in a recent interview. “We didn’t say, ‘Don’t screen.’ The intent of the task force was to promote shared decision-making between physicians and women in that age interval.”

There are already some indications that primary-care doctors are cutting back on mammography referrals. A recent report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said a third of breast cancer cases were diagnosed at late stages, when treatment is more difficult.

The trend is disturbing to Dr. Weiss, who says she fears that radical changes in the way women live — earlier puberty, rising obesity and alcohol consumption, environmental pollution, long-term use of oral contraceptives, later childbearing and less breast-feeding — could lead to more breast cancer emerging at younger ages.

Her own surgery went well. She did not need radiation or chemotherapy, because the cancer had not spread. She began hormone therapy and was soon back to her crowded full-time schedule.

Dr. Weiss, who lives in Wynnewood, Pa., has made some lifestyle changes since her diagnosis — filtering her tap water, no longer cooking in plastic, and buying hormone-free meat and organic fruit. She lost 15 pounds and became a Zumba dance-exercise enthusiast. She eats lots of leafy green vegetables, has cut down on wine and always tries to get a good night’s sleep.

“I’m sharing my story in order to encourage women to step forward and get that mammogram,” she said. “I’m lucky to have caught this early, and I want to use my situation as an example of the value of early detection.

“The thing is: every woman is at risk. And every woman needs to do everything she can to protect herself.”
480 2010-12-21 Before the price rise, he said, he spent about $1.50 a day for fuel and made about $28 for an eight-hour day. That was enough for a $4 or $5 kebab and rice, he said. But with fuel costing around $10, “I guess I’ll have to give that up and eat yogurt and cucumber.”

Amin, 24, who is studying computer programming, works another taxi route on his way to university. “What’s the effect? You’re looking at it now,” Amin said. “I wasn’t picking up taxi fares yesterday, but look at me today. Now, I’m a taxi driver between classes.”

Though he had heard the president’s announcement, made in a televised speech on Saturday night, Amin was still shocked when he paid nearly $7 for two and a half gallons of fuel that morning while he would have paid about a dollar before.

“I don’t care what happens to the economy, but what happens to the money that they save?” he asked, expressing a common sentiment here. “Are they going to put it in their pockets? Are they going to give $25 million to Lebanon every month?”

At the government-owned Shahrvand Supermarket in central Tehran, Mohammad-Sadegh Ruzbahani, 50, a retired police officer, was filling the trunk of his car with the fruits and nuts that Persians traditionally eat, along with watermelon and pomegranates — the color red symbolizing the glow of life — to celebrate Yalda, the feast of the winter solstice, which falls this year on Tuesday.

“It’s too early to say what the result will be,” Mr. Ruzbahani said. “We should wait one or two months for the effects to be seen. In my opinion this will benefit the lower classes because of the money that the government is giving them. I have two cars, so of course I will have to pay more than those who have no car.”

Not everyone is so complacent about the benefits of a plan that many fear could lead to price increases in a wide range of household items, adding to an inflationary trend that has increased the cost of meat, fruit and bread significantly in recent months.

Zhila Shakiba, 55, a housewife and mother of four children, two of whom still live at home, called the $77 payment woefully inadequate. “Whatever the president says about there being no poor people in this country, that kind of money is no money at all,” she said. “When you go out to buy just a few essential things, the prices blow your mind.”

“That money is meant to be for electricity, water and gas — even if it covers that — but as far as I can tell, we are going to have to add money to that amount to meet the costs,” Ms. Shakiba said, adding that the higher prices would encourage Iranians to curb their often extravagant consumption of energy and water resources.
481 2010-12-21 These easy blini don’t need high-end caviar — lumpfish works just as well....
482 2010-12-21 ROME — Pope Benedict XVI said Monday that the continuing sexual abuse scandal in the Roman Catholic Church had reached a “degree we could not have imagined” this year, and that the church must reflect on its failures, help the victims and prevent abusers from becoming priests.

“We must ask ourselves what we can do to repair as much as possible the injustice that has occurred,” the pope said in a pointed Christmas message to the Vatican hierarchy. “We must ask ourselves what was wrong in our proclamation, in our whole way of living the Christian life, to allow such a thing to happen.”

In recent months, investigations in Ireland, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands have found that clerics had sexually abused children in the past and that the church hierarchy had often covered up the abuse.

Victims have accused the Vatican of not acting decisively and swiftly enough to discipline errant priests and of using complex bureaucracy and uneven application of church law to protect priests over children.

This month, the Vatican published a letter from 1988 that it said showed that Benedict, then Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the head of the Vatican’s doctrinal office in charge of handling abuse, had sought ways for swifter punishment for errant priests. At the time, he was unsuccessful.
483 2010-12-21 A new study suggests that what matters to your health is not how much alcohol you drink, but how and when you drink it.

For the study, in the journal BMJ, French scientists gathered data on the drinking habits of 2,405 men in Ireland and 7,373 in France, and found that the French drank more — an average of 1.2 ounces a day, compared with about three-quarters of an ounce for the Irish. Only 12 percent of the Irish drank every day, compared with 75 percent of the French. But among the Irish the rate of binge drinking was sharply higher: 9 percent, compared with 0.5 percent in France. (A binge was defined as five drinks or more at least one day a week.)

The scientists followed the men for 10 years. After controlling for smoking, cholesterol levels, blood pressure and other risks, they found that compared with regular drinkers, both binge drinkers and teetotalers were almost twice as likely to have had heart problems.

There are cultural differences in drinking habits, said the study’s lead author, Dr. Jean Ferrières, a professor of medicine at Toulouse University.

“In France, fruits, vegetables and wine are consumed at the same meal,” he said. “We think you can protect your heart by drinking daily with a complete meal. But we don’t know how to disentangle the effect of wine from the other things.”
484 2010-12-21 In the 1930s, researchers discovered that when a certain part of monkeys’ brains was removed, the animals became fearless. They approached snakes, started batting them around like sticks and played with their hissing tongues.

This experiment has been repeated in animals numerous times, and the scientific consensus is that when the amygdala is removed, an animal loses any sense of fear.

Now, scientists have confirmed that a missing amygdala results in similar behavior in humans, according to a study in the journal Current Biology.

“There’s not very many humans with this sort of brain damage,” said Justin Feinstein, the study’s lead author and a clinical neuropsychologist at the University of Iowa. “Luckily for us, we had access to a patient, SM, and we studied her different fear behaviors and we read her personal diaries.”

Patient SM, because of a rare condition called lipoid proteinosis, has holes where her amygdala would normally reside. Researchers found that she, like the monkeys, has no fear of creatures like snakes and spiders, which ordinarily alarm most people.

But while this behavior is relatively benign, the researchers also found that SM put her life at risk. In one instance, she walked through a park alone at night and was attacked by a man with a knife.

“The following day, she again walked through the same park,” Mr. Feinstein said.

Mr. Feinstein and his colleagues are trying to coach the patient to behave in a more cautious manner. They also believe that understanding how the mind of a patient like SM works could help researchers develop therapies for individuals who express excessive amounts of fear, like war veterans.
485 2010-12-21 Lush green wreaths and garlands can cost a bundle in Manhattan at Christmastime, but regular users of the Hudson River bike path on the West Side of Manhattan have a better place to gather bounteous boughs by the sack-load for free near 96th Stree...
486 2010-12-21 KANISS--Phyllis C.,Ph.D., December 17, 2010, of Philadelphia. Wife of Paul R. Wheeling. Mother of Joshua and Max Wheeling. Sister of Judy Feder, Harriet (Jean Louis) Tancerman and Alan Kaniss. Relatives and friends are invited to Funeral Services ...
487 2010-12-21 8:22 p.m. | Updated Toronto-Dominion Bank of Canada is near a deal to buy Chrysler Financial for more than $6 billion, people briefed on the matter said on Monday.     A deal with Chrysler Financial's private equity owner, Cerberus Capital Managem...
488 2010-12-21 AVRIN--Melissa Rose. Dec. 21, 1989 - May 6, 2009 We should be celebrating your 21st birthday but you have already changed countless lives in the battle against eating disorders. Your movie is almost finished. Love you forever, Mom www.SomedayMelis...
489 2010-12-21 7:14 p.m. | Updated The Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday accused a former executive at Carter's of securities fraud and insider trading, claiming that he had manipulated discounts to a big customer to make the children's clothing maker...
490 2010-12-22 As confidence returns, some London bankers expect European takeovers to increase more than 15 percent next year from this year....
491 2010-12-22 Despite broad support, the small-business legislation has been delayed -- but it aids in the repeal of "don't ask, don't tell."...
492 2010-12-22 A two-bedroom house in Costa Rica’s rainforest was built in 2004 to resemble the open-air homes popular in Indonesia. It’s on the market for $925,000....
493 2010-12-22 If you're subject to the dreaded alternative minimum tax, there are few ways to reduce your tax bill -- but charitable donations can help....
494 2010-12-22 "Stop 'n' swap" events are taking place in all five boroughs starting on Jan. 8....
495 2010-12-22 Five swap events in New York City give consumers an opportunity simply to unload as well as barter....
496 2010-12-22 Students reflect on a recent gathering aimed at reshaping America's tax system to help curb carbon without hurting the economy....
497 2010-12-22 Igor Poteroba, who tipped off an investor about upcoming health care mergers, is set to be sentenced March 16....
498 2010-12-22 During an interview on Greek television, a Greek Orthodox bishop blamed his country's financial problems on a conspiracy of Jewish bankers and claimed that the Holocaust was orchestrated by Zionists...
499 2010-12-22 A popular feminine hygiene product has been noticeably disappearing from store shelves, without a definite explanation....
500 2010-12-22 Where do you stand on the all-encompassing, retail-sales-enhancing holiday season?...
501 2010-12-22 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
502 2010-12-22 The actors need more time to deal with script changes....
503 2010-12-22 At a stand in Flushing, Queens, chestnuts are not just a holiday comfort snack....
504 2010-12-22 The board says that the revised $70-a-share offer is "inadequate" and contends that Airgas is worth $78 a share "at this time."...
505 2010-12-22 How does a store go from $10 million in sales to close to $400 million?...
506 2010-12-22 The annual huge swell in retail sales each December brings with it many jobs but also demonstrates the inefficiency of spending as a tool to increase employment, an economist writes....
507 2010-12-22 The chef Fergus Henderson and the restaurateur Trevor Gulliver, best known for their "nose-to-tail" dining establishments St John and St John Bread & Wine, are now embracing another approaching with the upcoming opening of their first London hotel...
508 2010-12-22 The man considered Guinea’s first democratically elected leader, Alpha Condé, was inaugurated as president on Tuesday. Mr. Condé, 72, a Sorbonne professor who spent most of his adult life in France, was declared the winner of a runoff vote last month, which was the first democratic election in Guinea, a French colony until 1958.
509 2010-12-22 Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic, who has led Montenegro for almost 20 years, resigned abruptly on Tuesday. Mr. Djukanovic, 49, led Montenegro, a nation of 670,000, through the turmoil of the 1990s Balkan wars and the postwar quest for independence from Serbia, which became final in 2006. He said he was stepping down because he had fulfilled his task of bringing Montenegro closer to membership in the European Union and NATO.
510 2010-12-22 A state oversight board on Tuesday moved a step closer to seizing control of Nassau County’s finances, saying the county had failed to close a $350 million budget deficit despite months of dire warnings.

The board called a special meeting for Dec. 30, two days before the county’s fiscal year begins, at which it plans to impose a formal control period, said a person present at a lengthy closed meeting on Tuesday.

“The sooner you grapple with it, the sooner it can get fixed,” said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the meeting was closed. “The board is pretty united.”

A takeover by the board, the Nassau County Interim Finance Authority, would give it the power to approve or reject not only the county’s budget and financial plan but also labor contracts, borrowings and other major financial commitments. The board also could impose a freeze in wages, which would be a strong club for Nassau, which has been sapped by lucrative wages and benefits for its police and other workers.

It would be a blow for the county, the wealthiest in New York State. The last county taken over by the state government was Erie, the state’s 24th wealthiest, where the median income is half that of Nassau’s. The control period in Erie County ended in June 2009.
511 2010-12-22 In “Nearly 40 Years Later, Kissinger’s Words Stir Fresh Outrage Among Jews” (NYC column, Dec. 17), Clyde Haberman referred to the shock and dismay of some in the Jewish community in response to certain comments by Henry A. Kissinger in a 1973 conversation with President Richard M. Nixon. However, the fuller Kissinger record should be remembered.

Just several weeks before this conversation, Mr. Kissinger and Nixon agreed to provide Israel with 100 advanced aircraft and to remove Israeli issues from the State Department to the White House, something strongly sought by Golda Meir, who was then prime minister.

Earlier, in 1969, when only approximately 700 Jews were allowed to emigrate from the Soviet Union, Mr. Kissinger, then the national security adviser, broached the issue with the Soviet ambassador, Anatoly F. Dobrynin. As a result of this conversation, among others, the Soviets allowed the number of émigrés to increase to almost 40,000 by 1972.

Mr. Kissinger consistently played a constructive role vis-à-vis Israel both as national security adviser and secretary of state, especially when the United States extended dramatic assistance to Israel during the 1973 Yom Kippur War, when Israel’s very existence was at stake.

Over the decades, many of us have heard Mr. Kissinger speak out forcefully on behalf of the security and independence of Israel, and never have we heard him speak in a disparaging way about the Jewish community.

The critics of Mr. Kissinger should remember the context of his entire life and ask whether that judgment is fair. We think the answer is obvious.
512 2010-12-22 Nike topped analysts’ expectations when it posted a 22 percent increase in quarterly income on Tuesday, but its disappointing future orders set off a decline of 5 percent in its share price.

“They didn’t beat rising expectations for future orders and that’s why the stock’s down,” said Jon Fisher, portfolio manager with Fifth Third Asset Management. He said that Wall Street expected orders growth of 12 to 13 percent.

Profit rose to $457 million, or 94 cents a share, from $375 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected 88 cents.

Sales in the period, which ended Nov. 30 and was the second quarter of Nike’s fiscal year, rose 10 percent to $4.84 billion, above the $4.81 billion analysts had expected.

Orders for Nike brand shoes and apparel scheduled for delivery from December 2010 through April 2011 totaled $7.7 billion, up 11 percent from a year ago.

Shares fell to $87.38 in after-hours trading, down 5.3 percent from Tuesday’s closing price of $92.30.
513 2010-12-22 MOSCOW — Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin appeared to offer support to soccer fans on Tuesday in a potentially explosive ethnic conflict with migrants from the North Caucasus region, most of them Muslims who have flooded the country’s major cities in search of work.

Mr. Putin held a formal meeting with representatives of soccer fan clubs, and paid his respects at the grave of a fan who was killed this month in a brawl with migrants from the North Caucasus.

The killing of the fan, Yegor Sviridov, 28, a supporter of the Spartak soccer team, has stoked deep frictions between the sides that the government has struggled to contain. Complicating matters, openly racist Slavic nationalists have allied with the soccer fan clubs, whose members have themselves sometimes used provocative slogans.

Mr. Putin’s visit to the grave — where he placed a bouquet of red roses — seemed to represent a highly symbolic effort to win the favor of the clubs.

Mr. Putin suggested that if tensions were not curbed, the government might be forced to adopt restrictions on migrants settling in Moscow, St. Petersburg and other metropolises. Such a move might signal a return to the types of limits on movement that existed during the Soviet era.
514 2010-12-22 JIM LEIKEN, the executive chef at DBGB Kitchen & Bar on the Bowery, was looking for hearty, rusty garnishes to go with the whole roast suckling pig feasts that the restaurant is known for. “I wanted an impressive presentation, but something that was fun to share for a big table of people,” he said. What he came up with was this potato gratin with Gruyère and Swiss chard. It is a celebratory, filling dish that can easily move in from its satellite role to the centerpiece of a holiday meal.

Mr. Leiken said that making a gratin does not need to be intimidating. If you are afraid of a mandoline, just use a sharp knife and slice the potatoes as thin as you can. Few will notice if each slice is not a uniform one-eighth-inch thick, and even fewer will care.
515 2010-12-22 A recipe for Potato and Swiss Chard Gratin....
516 2010-12-22 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve extended a program set up earlier this year to ease strains from the European debt crisis.

The program, which was set to expire in January, will now run through Aug. 1, the Fed announced on Tuesday.

The Fed is lending dollars to other central banks in exchange for their currencies. The central banks can lend those dollars out to banks in their home countries to ease financial turmoil.

The Fed’s “swap” program was set up in May as fears rose that Greece’s debt crisis could engulf other European countries. European banks need dollars to lend to companies across the Continent. European companies that have operations in the United States pay their employees in dollars and buy raw materials with the United States currency.

The Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the Swiss National Bank all have swap arrangements with the Fed.

“The reality is Europe isn’t out of the woods yet,” said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. “This extends a tool to central banks if they need it.”
517 2010-12-22 Prime Minister said Tuesday that he had offered “military assistance” to the owner of Heathrow Airport, still struggling to clear a backlog of thousands of people left stranded by bad weather and the airport’s inability to deal with the problem.

It was unclear whether the owner, BAA, planned to take Mr. Cameron up on his offer, but BAA did manage to reopen the second of the airport’s two runways on Tuesday. The runway had been closed since Saturday, when a storm left five inches of snow, quickly followed by plummeting temperatures.

Even still, the misery continued for many, with Heathrow managing to send out only about one-third of its scheduled flights on Tuesday, in the midst of the year’s busiest travel week. The airport was wall-to-wall with camped-out passengers wondering when, if ever, their flights would leave; other passengers were denied entry to the terminals at all, and were sleeping in freezing tents outside Terminal One.

BAA said that Wednesday might not be much better, but that things were likely to improve on Thursday.

“We will aim to operate the vast majority of flights from Heathrow on Thursday,” a BAA spokesman said. “However, we now have hundreds of crew and more than 40 planes out of position. Consequently, it will take some days to return to normal.”
518 2010-12-22 Blackpool’s Bloomfield Road stadium is a tiny piece of English heritage. Its capacity a year ago was barely 10,000, and even now, with a section of stands hurriedly built in September, you could fit the entire full house of 16,220 people inside a single section of, say, Manchester United’s or Manchester City’s stadiums.

Again, no problem. Blackpool will take ’em on, and they will know they have been in a good, hard, entertaining match.

The fact that Manchester City’s Middle Eastern owners have spent $500 million buying new players over two seasons while the most Blackpool has ever spent on a player is less than $1 million? No problem.

Holloway believes the way to play is the Barça way, and his players buy into that philosophy.

This, you may gather, is an unusual man, at an unusual club.

A week ago, at one of his prematch news conferences, Holloway was asked what he thought about soccer’s world governing body, FIFA.

“What, that lot who voted for a World Cup in Qatar and now tell us it might have to happen in our winter, not the summer, when it usually happens?” he said. “I think the world has gone completely on its head. It’s crazy.

“I tell you what, I’m going home to tell my turkeys: ‘It’s not Christmas. We’re moving it. It’s all right, you’ve got some respite. I’ve had a word with FIFA, and we’re going to move Christmas. It’s no problem.’ ”

Holloway, or Ollie as he is known, was laughing. But he kind of meant it. Oh yes, he has turkeys. During his year away from soccer, after he left Leicester City in 2008 and before he was hired by Blackpool, the Holloway family opted for self-sufficiency. The upheaval when he, his wife, Kim, and their four children uprooted and moved north was, Holloway says, like something out of the television show “The Beverly Hillbillies.”

They transported 33 chickens, three horses, two dogs and two ducks. And Blackpool’s groundskeeper offered the family a gift of ... seven turkeys.

So there is truth in some of Holloway’s observation concerning the rule of soccer in the world.

There is also, if you watch Blackpool take on the Premier League giants, evidence that his players, drawn from lower leagues, relish passing the ball rather than belting it thoughtlessly.

Charlie Adam, the team captain and its most expensive purchase, is, at 25, performing in top-flight English soccer for the first time in his life. He is a midfield worker who joins in the attack to strike goals.

Adam met four new recruits on the last day possible. After Blackpool gained promotion, reaching the top division for the first time in 39 years, Holloway went shopping. In a 24-hour spree, he obtained players largely unwanted at the back end of last summer’s transfer period, including the striker D. J. Campbell.

The team’s training, sometimes on a Blackpool beach while the practice field is frozen, is a mixture of sea and sand, optimism and hard work.

“My chairman’s got a grip on the money that’s more impressive than a top gymnast doing a high-bar routine,” Holloway told reporters at the start of the season.

But how the players play once they line up in the tangerine shirts that illuminate the Premier League is down to him. Analysts suggested that, unless he conformed and played damage-limitation, defense-oriented soccer, Blackpool could not survive in the world’s richest league.

Thus far its record is six wins, four draws and six losses. It has scored one goal less than Manchester City. And because its ground refurbishment was not finished in time, and now the weather freezes out home games, it has more matches on the road.

This will mean, come spring, Blackpool will be playing catch-up. It has four successive home matches scheduled in April. Its thin resources will be stretched playing three games a week.

But the manager of Stoke City, which Blackpool beat in its last match, suggested that Holloway’s team is playing casino soccer, throwing the dice and seeing how far its fun can stretch.

Holloway has no argument with that. He was told that he would be lucky if his team was not effectively relegated by Christmas. It is comfortably midway in the standings.

“I don’t care if everybody is looking at us as the worst team in the Premier League, or the smallest, or this and that,” Holloway said. “We’re playing against the richest people in the world. Their owners are throwing money at it; we can’t.”

But they can belong. Blackpool is earning its right to be up there, and anyone who supposes, or supposed, that this might be a one-season ride might now kindly revise that presumption.

There is a serious man behind the humorist. Holloway’s wife went through lymphatic cancer. Three of their four children were born deaf. And soccer, even on millionaires’ row, should be put into perspective.

It’s a game. An entertainment. Long may Blackpool, the Las Vegas of England, bear witness to that.
519 2010-12-22 TOKYO (Reuters) — The Bank of Japan kept monetary policy unchanged on Tuesday, but noted weakening factory output and business sentiment in what markets saw as an assurance that it was aware of risks to growth that could require more easing.

The governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, apparently seeking to soothe jittery bond markets, said Tuesday that he would carefully examine how increases in Japanese yields could affect the economy, for example by causing losses on commercial banks’ huge debt holdings.

But he stressed that Japanese bond yields were not rising as much as long-term rates in the Unites States and Europe and were merely taking a cue from American Treasuries.

“In Japan, long-term interest rates have not risen as rapidly as in developed countries in the West,” Mr. Shirakawa told a news conference.

The central bank’s decision to keep its rates at a range of zero to 0.1 percent had been widely anticipated.
520 2010-12-22 The private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management will get back much of its troubled bet on the auto industry as a result of Tuesday's sale of Chrysler Financial to Toronto-Dominion Bank for $6.3 billion.     Toronto-Dominion will acquire about ...
521 2010-12-22 SAN FRANCISCO -- Skype has become one of the Internet's most popular services  --  so much so that it is even used as a verb to describe a phone call over the Internet, as in ''Skype me.''     The seven-year-old company, however, is still a work i...
522 2010-12-22 Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group, is Paris-bound. Mr. Schwarzman will spend the next four to six months in France working on international opportunities for Blackstone.     The timing is propitious. Mr. Schwarzman...
523 2010-12-22 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi  sought Tuesday  to clarify remarks he had made about his hometown during the civil rights era, calling it a ''difficult and painful era,'' especially for African-Americans.     Mr. Barbour, a Republican who is co...
524 2010-12-23 The Apple App store will create an experience similar to the iTunes store for desktop computer software....
525 2010-12-23 We've made a minor fix to the Nominee Details Responses in the Times Congress API....
526 2010-12-23 Karl Motey is said to have recorded telephone conversations with other technology industry executives, who are accused of tipping off hedge funds and others....
527 2010-12-23 Customer satisfaction with credit unions is starting to decline, according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index....
528 2010-12-23 From Easy-Bake Ovens to dishwashing liquid to we-don't-know-what, readers recall the worst Christmas gifts they ever received....
529 2010-12-23 The play is the first on Broadway to turn a profit this season....
530 2010-12-23 Madeleine Sackler's low-budget look at charter schools finds itself facing another education documentary in the documentary race, the 800-pound gorilla "Waiting for Superman."...
531 2010-12-23 Statistically, the Giants and the Packers are among the very top teams in the N.F.C. Unfortunately, it's likely one of the two won't even make the playoff....
532 2010-12-23 The hedge fund settled this year. But a former employee, David Zilkha, is still fighting the S.E.C., which now says he took "hush money."...
533 2010-12-23 A look at basketball players in the Trillion club, so named because they played one minute in a game and posted zeros in every other statistical category....
534 2010-12-23 On Thursday, the agency plans to announce a schedule for issuing rules on emission limits for new power plants and refineries, according to industry executives and environmentalists involved in policy discussions.

With less than two weeks left before the regulations take effect, Texas is the only state that has flat-out refused to enforce the new emissions rules through its state permitting program. It is also the state that produces the most carbon dioxide because it has scores of coal-fired power plants, refineries and factories.

On Monday, Gina McCarthy, the E.P.A. assistant administrator for air issues, told state environmental officials in a letter that if Texas would not regulate carbon emissions from smokestacks, the federal government would seize control of the state’s permitting program on Thursday.

“The unwillingness of Texas state officials to implement this portion of the federal program leaves E.P.A. no choice but to resume its role as the permitting authority,” Ms. McCarthy wrote.

Gov. Rick Perry, a conservative Republican who is a firm ally of business leaders, has railed against the E.P.A.’s attempts to crack down on industrial polluters in his state. He claims the federal government is overstepping its constitutional authority.

Mr. Perry has also disputed the argument undergirding the new rules, that the heat-trapping emissions that contribute to global warming threaten public health. He has argued that the regulations will cost jobs in the energy and agricultural sectors without better protecting health.

“This paints a huge target on the backs of Texas agriculture and energy producers by implementing unnecessary, burdensome mandates,” Mr. Perry’s spokeswoman, Katherine Cesinger, said.

Environmentalists here say the Perry administration has been lax in enforcing the Clean Air Act for years, allowing large refineries and other plants to regularly emit more pollution than allowed under the law.

“The Perry administration is pulling the ostrich act and sticking their heads in the sand,” said Neil Carman of the Lone Star Chapter of the Sierra Club.

The E.P.A. has said the regulatory effort starting Jan. 2 is a prelude to broader regulation of carbon dioxide. In theory it could be one of the most far-reaching environmental regulatory programs in American history.

Since a bill to address global warming and climate change has no future in the next Congress, the Obama administration is betting on invoking the Clean Air Act to reduce emissions that contribute to global warming.

More than a dozen states have joined Texas in lawsuits challenging the E.P.A.’s authority to regulate greenhouse gases, but most states are following the rules while the courts wrestle with the challenges. Across the country, officials are scrambling to get a patchwork of state and federal regulations in place so that large businesses can get the necessary permits starting Jan. 2.

The mechanism being used is a “prevention of significant deterioration” permit. The permit is required each time a refinery, power plant or other large industrial facility is built or refurbished.

In the past, the permits have given environmental officials leverage to force owners to reduce emissions of such pollutants as lead, nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, but under the new regulations, carbon dioxide methane and other gases that contribute to global warming have been added to that list.

In Texas, at least 167 projects are in the pipeline that would require the permits next year, and federal officials say the owners will have to go to the E.P.A.’s Dallas offices to get them. The takeover of the permitting process is necessary, they said, to keep new construction from grinding to a halt, federal officials said.

State officials see it differently. “This is an arrogant act by an overreaching E.P.A. that is trying to implement new, unnecessary controls on American industry,” said Andrea Morrow, a spokeswoman for the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
535 2010-12-23 HENDERSON, Nev. — By any measure, it should have been a cause for celebration in a place that surely needs one. The Census Bureau reported that Nevada grew by 35 percent over the last decade, making it the fastest-growing state in the nation.

Instead, it was another reminder of how bad things have become here, and how exhausting a decade this state has endured. This was the boom capital of the country — which explains the census report — until the economy collapsed in 2007. People started moving out, chasing jobs or escaping a house market with the highest foreclosure rate in the country. Unemployment here is now 14.3 percent, the highest in the country.

“People come for the good jobs and the good life, and if that’s no longer here, they are gone,” said David F. Damore, an associate professor of political science at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “People are just moving out.”

The state demographer, Jeff Hardcastle, estimated that Nevada had lost more than 90,000 people since July 2008, and expects the decline to continue through next year. He said that before 2007, Nevada had been the top-growing state for most of the past 20 years.

People are leaving in search of more prosperous economic climates. But analysts said the state’s population had been hurt by a declining birthrate, not uncommon during tough economic times, and illegal immigrants leaving, or at least avoiding census takers as public attitudes toward them turned harsh.

Here in Henderson, a place of once seemingly unstoppable sprawl, there were banners Wednesday advertising cut-rate deals on homes built where there was desert 20 years ago. Or worse: places like Vantage Lofts on Horizon Ridge Road, a housing complex abandoned in mid-construction. A pile of exposed glass, plywood and cement, surrounded by chain-link fences, gave testimony to the hopes, and unfounded speculation, of developers.

Indeed, many of the abandoned or underused housing, office and retail developments were built by speculators drawn by what once seemed the prospect of endless growth, the lure of Wild West development and the promise of an economic jackpot. “Prior to 2007, the underlying assumption was, build it and they will come,” Mr. Hardcastle said.

Robert A. Fielden, an architect and urban planner in Henderson, said the state has been particularly hurt by real estate speculators who flipped property for profit and then just walked. “We have never faced anything like this before,” he said, reflecting the despair that can be heard in the voices of even Nevada’s biggest boosters.

“What we are living with now is, we let the free market reign without any controls at all. We talk about the United States being built on capitalism. But this wasn’t capitalism. This was greed.”

The population rankings are based on percentages, rather than raw numbers, which gives small states like Nevada an advantage on lists like this: It does not take many people moving in to produce a big percentage. The Census Bureau found the population here had increased from just under 2 million in 2000 to 2.7 million at the end of 2010.

And there was one very obvious benefit of all this: The size of the state’s Congressional delegation grew by one seat to four.

“We’ve had serious economic setbacks,” said Representative Shelley Berkley, a Democrat who represents Las Vegas. “But even that doesn’t begin to dwarf the enormous growth over the last five decades. I think it’s a very positive thing that we qualified for a fourth seat.”

Yet these numbers seem certain to only encourage the fundamental reassessment that has been going on in Nevada about its economic future, amid evidence that the construction boom that produced so many jobs is gone, and that tourism alone will not be able to make up the slack.

“The real big challenge for Nevada is, what’s going to happen to our growth industries,” Billy Vassiliadis, the chief executive of the advertising agency that represents the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. “That to me is why the future is questionable.”

“At this point,” he added, “I wouldn’t be looking for a fifth Congressional seat after the 2020 census.”

Stephen P.A. Brown, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at U.N.L.V., said any future growth in population was directly related to the state’s ability to rebuild its economy — and, of course, an influx of more people who would contribute to the state’s economic growth. “There is no indication that people are moving back into the state at this point,” he said.
536 2010-12-23 “There’s no backing down in us,” Stoudemire said. “We’re not going to back down at all. We’re going to protect the paint by any means. That’s pretty much our philosophy right now.”

The “M.V.P.!” chants at the Garden have become habitual, almost perfunctory. But Stoudemire, who also had 23 points, 7 rebounds and 4 assists, earned every chant, and a spontaneous standing ovation with eight minutes still left in the game.

The victory was the Knicks’ 14th in 18 games, and one of the most impressive, coming against the talented Thunder (20-10) and on the heels of emotional defeats last week by Boston and Miami at the Garden.

Three days off surely helped the Knicks’ health and psyche. It also gave them a chance to practice, a luxury they rarely had for the last several weeks amid a packed schedule. Stoudemire had time to rest a sore neck. Toney Douglas (shoulder) and Ronny Turiaf (knee) also looked more spry.

“I think more than physically it was emotional,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said. “We had to come back down to sea level after the week we had in the Garden.”

Turiaf said it was more about preparation than rest or energy, but he responded with 11 points to lead a resurgent bench. Shawne Williams had 7 points, 3 blocks and 3 big plays in the third quarter. Douglas had 9 points. Wilson Chandler had 21 points, and every starter scored in double figures.

Durant, the N.B.A.’s scoring leader, had 26 points and Westbrook had 23, but the Knicks more than met the assault, holding the Thunder to 39.2 percent shooting.

Despite his pledges to use the bench more, D’Antoni stuck with the usual eight-man crew. The eighth man, Williams, proved invaluable at a critical juncture of the third quarter.

The Thunder had cut the Knicks’ lead from 19 points to 8 and momentarily quieted the building. The momentum was shifting. Then Williams stripped a driving Westbrook and hit two big baskets — including a tip-in of a missed Turiaf free throw — as the Knicks regained control and took a 90-78 lead by the end of the quarter.

“I feel like when I play hard, lucky things happen,” Williams said. “I believe the basketball gods, they reward hustle plays. So, just keep hustling. I feel like the ball will find you and it will find the goal.”

Durant dominated the first quarter with 13 points and put Chandler on the bench with two fouls. His teammates picked it up from there, building an 8-point lead with Durant taking a breather in the second quarter.

The game turned rather quickly, with a barrage of Knicks 3-pointers and hustle plays, all culminating in a 30-10 run. The Knicks scored 11 unanswered points to take the lead, then followed with a 10-0 burst for a 63-51 edge.

The rest of the night was a series of roars and ovations, none bigger than the one given to Stoudemire in the fourth.

“It was great,” he said. “They noticed the hard work and our dedication to playing defense. And that sequence right there in the fourth quarter, we really need to take that step toward closing the game out and get stops.”

The happiest man at the Garden had to be Donnie Walsh, the team president. Walsh was attending his first game in six weeks, since undergoing hip surgery on Nov. 16. “I don’t think I’ve ever been away from an arena that long,” said Walsh, a self-professed gym rat. “I don’t remember missing games in Indiana at all, for 23 years.” When Walsh missed a game, it usually meant he was scouting a college game. “My whole life’s an arena,” he said. “I’ve never had a window that looks out.” Walsh watched last week’s three-game set — against Denver, Boston and Miami — on television. “I knew it was special,” he said.
537 2010-12-23 Officer Del Toro approached Mr. Ventura during a vertical patrol simply after spotting him and without establishing a legal reason to question him, the judge wrote. In testimony at a suppression hearing, the officer never mentioned “whether the building or the area is drug-prone,” the judge wrote.

After Mr. Ventura was arrested for trespassing, a second officer discovered the cocaine.

But in her ruling, Justice Torres wrote: “No matter the location, luxurious or modest, the police must have ‘some objective credible reason,’ to request information about a person’s residency. Officers conducting vertical patrols are not permitted to select individuals for questioning based on presence alone.”

A large volume of all the street stops police officers make in New York are for trespassing, according to an analysis of police data by The New York Times. Officers cited a suspicion of trespassing 369,000 times from 2003 through March 2010, or 12 percent of all stops. But in precincts with large clusters of public housing, up to 30 percent of stops were conducted on suspicion of trespassing.

Critics say the trespassing stops are largely unwarranted. Indeed, the analysis by The Times showed that trespassing stops were far more likely than most stops to result in nothing more than an inconvenient delay. Few moved beyond the questioning stage. Two percent of stops where trespassing was suspected — about 7,000 — yielded drugs or other contraband. A total of 81 trespassing stops yielded a gun.

Fundamentally, when officers stop people to question them, they are supposed to record both a reason for the stop — like the person’s having a weaponlike bulge in his pocket — and the crime that the person is suspected of having committed.

But among all trespassing stops from 2003 through March 2010, two-thirds — more than 257,000 — listed only the vague category of “other” or “furtive movements” as the reason for the stop. In a majority of those cases, the officers indicated that the stop took place in a high-crime area, which would satisfy what Justice Torres said the police needed as a minimum threshold to make a trespassing stop.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said the judge’s decision was “not a setback” because it was consistent with new housing vertical patrol, procedures and training curriculum put in place this year.

Before making a trespass arrest, Mr. Browne said, officers are trained to ask a person: Do you live in the building? Are you visiting someone? Do you have business there? Based on the answers, and on follow-up questions, an officer might establish probable cause for an arrest, or might tell the person to leave or become satisfied that he or she can stay.

“Housing officers are trained that they must establish a reason to approach someone before questioning individuals in a housing development — for example, violations of Housing Authority rules and regulations,” Mr. Browne said. “Furthermore, the judge said the officer in the Ventura case did not adequately establish reasonable suspicion or properly articulate probable cause for a trespassing arrest.”

Mr. Browne said the department’s new guidelines and training grew out of meetings with tenants’ organizations and the city Housing Authority, and did not suggest that officers’ behavior in patrolling public housing prior to the new rules was faulty.

A spokeswoman for Bridget G. Brennan, the special narcotics prosecutor, said the judge’s decision was narrow and “we’re not concerned that it has any precedential value.”

But Steven Banks, attorney-in-chief at the Legal Aid Society, said that what Officer Del Toro “candidly admitted” in his testimony is a “serious daily occurrence.” He said it encapsulated what had led his agency, the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund Inc., and a private law firm to file a federal lawsuit against the city.
538 2010-12-23 A full account of Mr. Magnitsky’s death, the group knew, could restore some confidence in Russia’s legal system. A whitewash, on the other hand, could erode what faith remained.

Investigating the death meant confronting Russia’s security structures — the police, prosecutors, courts, prisons and prison doctors, all links in a self-protective chain. The findings, however decisive, would have to compete with an official inquiry, which would ultimately determine if anyone would be prosecuted.

Even so, they felt oddly hopeful. President Dmitri A. Medvedev, by all accounts genuinely angry over Mr. Magnitsky’s death, insisted that state prosecutors stop dragging their feet and open a case. Two days later, a top prison administrator admitted “obvious violations on our part” to a Kremlin advisory group.

In a country ruled more by commands than by laws, a command had gone out: This time someone would have to be punished.

So the inspectors walked into Butyrskaya with uncommon confidence.

“We could cover ourselves with this comment and say, ‘The president demanded an investigation,’ ” said Lyubov V. Volkova, deputy head of the panel, known as the Public Oversight Commission. “It was like an umbrella. We could go in and say, show us this, show us that. We are under this umbrella.”

Ms. Volkova and her colleagues were hardly detectives. Their group was brand new, approved by Mr. Medvedev after more than a decade of lobbying the government. They were empowered to inspect cells and investigate complaints, but their recommendations were not binding. In their berets and reading glasses, they seemed to pose little threat. But once inside Butyrskaya, the commission members were neck deep in a criminal investigation.

They moved from cell to cell, standing in the last spaces Mr. Magnitsky had occupied, seeing the last people he saw. They paged through sheaves of complaints he made: there were more than 400, as many as three a day, sometimes written by hand. The picture of a man began to take shape before them.

“Every day, in prisons, we see beaten, constrained, terrified people, who don’t complain about anything,” said Ms. Volkova, 62, a brash blonde partial to satin pants and animal prints. “Magnitsky complained. And the more he complained, the worse they made it for him. And then he complained again.”

“He is the only one we’ve seen like this,” she said.

There were signs that something had gone badly wrong. A doctor on the prison’s medical staff who had been treating Mr. Magnitsky for abdominal pain appeared more distraught than others interviewed by the group. Three days before his death, she told them, Mr. Magnitsky complained about vomiting and severe pain on his right side.

That was a Friday, and she went home for the weekend. No doctor saw him again until Monday, and then, she said, he had “acute, belting pain, vomiting every three hours.” It looked to her as if he had acute pancreatitis, which left untreated can lead to organ failure. As the commission members hastily took notes, the doctor described her alarm, saying: “It was necessary to push for an examination. I thought he had a chronic disease.”

At this, the commission members’ ears pricked up. Whom did she have to lobby to get Mr. Magnitsky treated?

But the conversation was cut short. At that moment, Mr. Borshchev recalled, a prison official walked up behind the doctor, grasped her by the shoulders, and took her out of the room.

Mr. Borshchev learned about prisons in the 1970s, when, as a close friend of the Soviet dissident Andrei D. Sakharov, he ferried books and sausages to the outskirts of penal colonies to be passed to political prisoners. From his own interrogations for dissident activities, he knew that a prisoner needed a plan to withstand official pressure. He had his own plan: As soon as the investigator raised his voice, he would stop talking and gaze out the window.

Now 68, Mr. Borshchev has fat streaks of white in his beard, and peers over his glasses as if he is presiding over his own personal Supreme Court.

At Butyrskaya, he walked from one cell to another, tracing eight transfers Mr. Magnitsky underwent in the last three months of his life. The cells were increasingly cramped, dark and dirty.

Though a prison doctor had diagnosed gallstones and pancreatitis and ordered a follow-up ultrasound, Mr. Magnitsky was suddenly transferred to Butyrskaya, which had minimal medical facilities. There he had an attack, writing of pain “so acute that I was not even able to lie down.” In September, Oleg F. Silchenko, lead investigator in the case, refused Mr. Magnitsky’s appeal to advocate for the ultrasound, saying investigators were under no obligation to intervene. The ultrasound never happened.

Mr. Magnitsky was allowed only one visit with his wife and mother for the full 11 months he was in custody; they attended court hearings so they could stare at him from across the room. He passed the time by reading Shakespeare’s tragedies. When overcome with anxiety or despair, a cellmate later said, he would turn his face to the wall, as if he wanted it to swallow him up.

To Mr. Borshchev, there was only one way to interpret this: the prisoner was refusing to cooperate. Indeed, Mr. Magnitsky’s job at a Russian-American law firm drew him into a battle between William F. Browder — once the largest foreign investor in the Russian stock market — and the Interior Ministry, which oversees law enforcement. In 2007, Mr. Browder’s company, Hermitage Capital, based on Mr. Magnitsky’s research, accused police investigators of an immense act of corruption, charging that they had seized three of Mr. Browder’s subsidiary companies and used them to receive a $230 million tax refund.

The next year, the Interior Ministry charged Mr. Browder’s companies with evading $17.5 million in taxes. As soon as Mr. Magnitsky was arrested, investigators were pushing him to testify against someone, presumably Mr. Browder, said his defense lawyer, Dmitri V. Kharitonov. But he refused.

The commission’s narrative flowed with some logic until it reached Nov. 16, 2009, the day he died. The nervous doctor sent Mr. Magnitsky to another prison, which had a hospital. There, the oversight panel met a surgeon named Dr. Aleksandra V. Gaus, who said she noted upon his arrival that he had symptoms of acute pancreatitis and prepared to send him for treatment.

At 7 p.m., Dr. Gaus said, he started to act erratically, and she changed her mind, determining that he was suffering from “acute psychosis and persecutory delusions.” She called a team of eight guards to forcibly subdue him, and they handcuffed him to the bed in an isolation cell to wait for a psychiatric emergency team. An hour and a half later, officials said, he collapsed when the psychiatrist was examining him, and was rushed to intensive care for resuscitation. He was declared dead at 9:50 p.m.

Mr. Borshchev was mulling over this account when he got a startling phone call. A few days earlier, he had left his card for the psychiatrist who was present at Mr. Magnitsky’s death. On the phone was the psychiatrist, Dr. Vitaly V. Kornilov, who told a different story: He and his team had been forced to wait at the clinic’s outer gates for a full hour — roughly from 8 until 9 p.m. — before they were allowed inside.

By the time he entered the cell, as Dr. Kornilov would later tell the official investigators, “we were presented with the fact that we could not carry out a psychiatric examination because of the lack of a patient.”

“The head of the corpse was tilted toward his left shoulder, his eyes were open and wide,” he said, according to official documents. “No heartbeat could be felt, no breath or arterial pressure was felt, his skin was pale and cool. Biological death had occurred 15 minutes before.”

Six weeks after Mr. Magnitsky’s death, Mr. Borshchev published the commission’s report. He was pleased; though there were still gaps and contradictions, he was sure the commission had uncovered enough to show that someone could be charged, if only for negligence. “When undesirable information gets into the case file, it starts working by itself,” he said. “It must be disproved or else unraveled.”

But another inquiry — the official one — was taking place out of public view. Around 12 hours after Mr. Magnitsky died, his body was examined by a coroner who reported that Mr. Magnitsky’s death was as sudden and unpredictable as a lightning strike. In her report, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times, she listed the cause of death as heart failure as a result of dilated cardiomyopathy, a disease that sometimes makes headlines when young athletes collapse in the middle of a game. She found no evidence that he was suffering from pancreatitis.

The autopsy would undergo a series of expert analyses — one of which involved dozens of specialists and was headed by the country’s most famous cardiologist. That panel was confident enough to provide what appeared to be an endpoint to the investigation.

“The drawbacks in medical aid given to Magnitsky,” they wrote, “have no connection to his death.”

Still, the experts did not hide their dissatisfaction. After reviewing accounts from medical staff members, they said the testimony was so contradictory that they could not even determine the time or place of Mr. Magnitsky’s death, official documents show. They were given such paltry documentation that they “couldn’t give an objective assessment of medical care” or determine whether a crime occurred.

They noted that none of Mr. Magnitsky’s doctors had showed concern over his heart, and that diagnostic work done three weeks before his death showed no signs of heart disease.

Moreover, no blood samples were taken when Mr. Magnitsky arrived at the hospital — “the lab only works during the day, and it was night,” Dr. Gaus told a forensic expert — and little toxicology screening was done after his death. So it is difficult to know whether his symptoms were caused by septic shock, an overdose of some agent, or some other form of poisoning. And there was little explanation for the fact that he had been left in a cell for more than an hour in a state of acute distress.

By fall, police officials were so confident that they began to go on the attack. At a ceremony to observe Militia Day, the Interior Ministry bestowed public honors on the investigators who helped put Mr. Magnitsky in prison. On the anniversary of his death, the ministry held a news conference to announce an astounding new accusation: He himself was guilty, said a spokeswoman, of applying for a fraudulent $230 million tax refund. That is the crime Hermitage had reported to prosecutors in 2007.

The inquiry Mr. Medvedev had ordered was extended a second time, but now a new signal had gone out: No arrest was imminent.

“There is no basis to believe that his death was connected to the officials carrying out his prosecution,” Aleksandr Bastrykin, director of the Investigative Committee, the Russian agency that was charged with inquiring into his death, said in September.

Mr. Borshchev had long since stopped waiting for a response to his report. He was at home listening to the radio one day when he heard Aleksei V. Anichin, the head of the Interior Ministry unit that handled Mr. Magnitsky’s case, say that his investigators were “the people who suffered the most from Mr. Magnitsky’s death” — because they lost the opportunity to convict him.

“After this statement,” he said, “it became clear that the investigation is not interested in finding the truth.”

Something had changed during the year, and the members of the Public Oversight Commission felt it as keenly as anyone. When the time came to nominate the new members of the panel — whose single high-profile act had been its damning report on Mr. Magnitsky’s death — the candidates were not well known in human rights circles.

Two were from the Association of Professional Security Guards; two were from the Veterans of the Secret Services; another two were from the Association of Retired Police Operatives; two were from the Association of Police Veterans. The balance on the panel is now so tenuous that Mr. Borshchev fears he will be replaced as the body’s president. One of his critics on the panel, Anton V. Tsvetkov of the Officers of Russia Foundation, complained about “nihilists who disavow everything, who criticize everything,” but said his position had nothing to do with the report on Mr. Magnitsky’s death. “I don’t think anyone read that report,” he said.

Two weeks ago, the state’s lead investigator for the first time asked to interview Mr. Borshchev and Ms. Volkova about their research in the case. They sat together for three hours, meticulously reviewing the findings, which are to be attached to the official file. As they left, Mr. Borshchev said, he clung to the hope that Mr. Medvedev might still press to uncover what really happened.

Ms. Volkova said she was exhausted from the effort of hoping. “I have begun to feel sorry for our president, for Medvedev,” she said. “I look at him and say: ‘Poor, poor boy. Are you really going to clean up all this dirt that they are producing? These hundreds of thousands of corrupt people?’ I am sure that he is the most pitiable person.”

“Nothing was stopping him from giving an order, at least, not to give awards to the investigators,” she said. “Nothing stopped him.”
539 2010-12-23 KABUL, Afghanistan — Government officials expressed alarm on Wednesday about what they described as Iran’s unexplained ban on fuel exports to Afghanistan, asserting that at least 1,400 loaded tankers were parked on Iran’s side of three border crossings.

Abdul Karim Barahwe, the governor of Nimroz Province in western Afghanistan, said the Iranian authorities had started halting tankers bound for Afghanistan about 10 days ago. The effect is driving up fuel prices just as winter is setting in.

“We really don’t know the exact cause of the ban; Iran doesn’t officially say the cause of the ban,” he said. Now, he said, both the Interior and Commerce Ministries, as well as President Hamid Karzai’s office, “are trying to sort out this problem with Iran.”

The governor said that tankers full of fuel were backed up at the border crossings of Nimroz, Farah and Islam Qala.

There has been no word in Iran about a ban on Afghanistan-bound fuel. The restriction may reflect Iran’s own energy problems, caused in part by Western sanctions on the country over its nuclear program, as well as a sharp increase in Iranian fuel prices caused by a government phase-out of subsidies that began this month. Or it could represent an effort to retaliate against the United States for the sanctions, even though the fuel is not supposed to be supporting the American war effort.
540 2010-12-23 Sasol figures that the natural gas needed for a gallon of diesel, plus operating costs, comes to about $1.50 a gallon. In comparison, a gallon of diesel made from crude oil now costs more than $2, even before refining, and many forecasts are for the price of oil to go higher.

But there is a hefty cost of building the chemical plant to do the conversion, which might run over $1.5 billion for a new Canadian plant that would handle 40,000 barrels a day.

The calculations also exclude another cost: greenhouse gas emissions, which may be higher for a conversion plant than a typical refinery, depending on how the work is done.

“Everything ugly is in vogue again,” said Josh Mogerman, an energy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has been fighting a proposed coal-to-liquids plant in Ohio.

From a financial perspective, the technology is far from ugly. A barrel of oil has historically cost one to two times as much as the equivalent amount of energy from natural gas. But right now, vast supplies of natural gas from shale formations in North America have driven prices down, so oil is triple the price of the gas equivalent.

The new ratio creates “a very attractive economic option,” said Lean Strauss, senior group executive at Sasol.

While the operating costs favor conversion, the cost to build the chemical plant is another matter; gas-to-liquids plants are far more capital-intensive than traditional refineries that make the same products from crude oil.

A plant opened by Sasol in Qatar in 2006, in partnership with the national oil company, Qatar Petroleum, cost $37,000 per barrel of daily capacity, but costs in Canada would be higher, Mr. Strauss said. Sasol produces 160,000 barrels a day of its liquids — diesel, naphtha and propane — in South Africa. It also turns out jet fuel, which is routinely blended into fuel for airliners departing from Johannesburg. In August, Sasol supplied 100 percent of the fuel for a Boeing 737 flight from Johannesburg to Cape Town.

In the deal announced Monday, Sasol acquired a 50 percent stake in Farrell Creek shale gas assets, in British Columbia. With the other owner, Talisman Energy, it will begin a feasibility study early next year on building a gas-to-liquids plant, and Talisman will have the option to own 50 percent of that.

Sasol is building a similar plant in Nigeria with Chevron, and last month, it completed a feasibility study in Uzbekistan. It also recently submitted a proposal to Shenhau, the Chinese coal company, for a similar plant.

The Sasol process cooks a hydrocarbon, either coal or natural gas, into a fuel gas made of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Using a patented process that involves cobalt catalysts, it converts that gas into a mix of liquids: 80 percent diesel fuel, 15 percent naphtha and 5 percent liquid propane.

But the process is not 100 percent efficient. In fact, the finished product has only about 62 percent as much energy as the raw material did.

In addition to losing energy, the process creates excess carbon dioxide, compared to burning the natural gas or coal directly for energy. But starting with natural gas, said Mr. Strauss, the amount of carbon dioxide released per finished gallon of liquid fuel was comparable to the carbon footprint of a gallon from a traditional refinery.

Environmentalists are not so sure. “It’s unclear right now,” said Simon Mui, a scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “There hasn’t been a large global experience in natural gas to liquids.”

But, he added, “it’s definitely not a greenhouse gas reduction strategy.” And recovery of gas from shale can itself be energy intensive and environmentally challenging, he said.

The Sasol move comes as Canada is increasing its production of oil from oil sands, which is clearly carbon-intensive. Environmentalists in the United States are trying to stop large-scale imports of oil from oil sands.

Mr. Mogerman, of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that given the historical market prices for oil and natural gas, only countries with no other choice had pursued the conversion process. “The only ones who’ve done it are people with their backs against the wall, and who had no financial considerations,” he said.

But if oil prices stay high and gas prices remain low because of shale gas, that view could be history.
541 2010-12-23 Nina Allen, who imports intriguing oddities through her wholesale company Sweet Bella, seems happy not to be noticed. When she recently decided to open a store, she chose a charming block on Broome Street, between Ludlow and Orchard, that lacks the traffic of the SoHo blocks farther west.

The shop is called Top Hat, and Ms. Allen’s hope is that it can offer “a more interesting version of what we do.” The shop will sell items from six-year-old Sweet Bella’s existing lines; the company’s products include handmade porcelain fruits from England and paper products by the Japanese industrial designer Naoto Fukasawa — as well as “things we can’t wholesale because the company can’t make enough, or it’s old or antique,” Ms. Allen said.

“We can bring in a lot of unusual things and, in winter, have toboggans for rent,” she added. “We might even carry The Times of India.” Prices range from $3.50 for a box of Puntine Colorate pushpins to $710 for a ceramic “bird cage” wall plaque by Royal Tichelaar Makkum.
542 2010-12-23 The Clapper episode was a made-for-the-Web mini-sensation, offering embarrassing video amid the jittery atmosphere of the holiday travel season. Terrorist plots in the United States, many of them unfolding under the monitoring of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have proliferated in the last two years, and the anniversary of the failed bombing of a Detroit-bound airliner is Saturday.

Pre-holiday anxiety probably contributed to the all-day coverage Monday of the arrests in four British cities — London, Cardiff, Birmingham and Stoke-on-Trent — of 12 men accused of plotting attacks.

When Mr. Clapper and the other two officials appeared with Ms. Sawyer, she addressed him with a vague reference to one of the cities where the arrests had taken place: “First of all, London. How serious is it? Any implication that it was coming here?”

Mr. Clapper hesitated, and Mr. Brennan broke in. “You meant the arrests of the 12 individuals by the British early this morning,” Mr. Brennan said. “This is something that the British told us about early this morning when it was taking place.”

Later in the interview, Ms. Sawyer returned to the topic. “I was a little surprised you didn’t know about London,” she said.

Mr. Brennan defended Mr. Clapper, saying to Ms. Sawyer, “You referenced London but you didn’t talk about the arrests.”

ABC’s “World News” broadcast the video of Mr. Clapper’s hesitation Tuesday night and sent out a press release to promote its “exclusive.” As the video spread on the Web, Mr. Clapper’s office issued a statement calling Ms. Sawyer’s question “ambiguous” and saying that “the D.N.I.’s knowledge of the threat streams in Europe is profound and multi-dimensional.”

On Wednesday, however, administration officials suggested that Mr. Clapper had not followed the British arrests closely because of other business. He worked late Sunday night and early Monday morning tracking North Korean threats in response to a South Korean military exercise, the officials said. He participated in the morning intelligence briefing for the president, but Mr. Brennan had already informed Mr. Obama of the British arrests and they did not get much attention in the briefing, they said.

Later in the morning, Mr. Clapper worked on budget negotiations between the Office of Management and Budget and the 16 intelligence agencies he oversees. Then he was summoned to Capitol Hill to speak to senators on an arms control treaty, and he went directly from there to the ABC studios for the interview.

Several current and former intelligence officials who know Mr. Clapper described him as immersed 14 hours a day in his job, and said his momentarily befuddled appearance on ABC was deeply misleading.

“He’s incredibly sharp; he’s incredibly witty,” said Mark M. Lowenthal, a former Central Intelligence Agency assistant director who has known Mr. Clapper since 1995. “Clearly what happened was he was caught off guard and he hadn’t been briefed. I’m sorry, but we’re chasing phantoms here.”
543 2010-12-23 JERUSALEM — Tensions were rising on Wednesday between Fatah and Hamas, the two main Palestinian political factions, over a leaked American diplomatic cable and ongoing accusations by each side regarding the other’s arrests, plans and statements.

Gen. Adnan Damiri, spokesman for the security services of the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, called a news conference and said that Hamas rockets, rocket launchers and automatic weapons had been found in Ramallah and Nablus. This was evidence, he said, of plans by Hamas to attack fellow Palestinians.

“The security institutions are carefully considering the seriousness of the incitements to killing and the chaos that the illegal Hamas militias and leadership are carrying out in Gaza and Damascus,” he said, referring to the movement’s leaders, who are divided between Gaza and Damascus, Syria.

Earlier, Fatah denied the assertions of a cable from 2007 released by WikiLeaks, in which the head of the Israeli Shin Bet security service, Yuval Diskin, is quoted as saying that Fatah forces asked Israel to attack Hamas in Gaza and that the Palestinian Authority shared its intelligence with Israel.

“They are approaching a zero-sum situation, and yet they ask us to attack Hamas,” Mr. Diskin was quoted as saying. “We have never seen this before. They are desperate.”

In a statement, Fatah said that none of its members had ever acted in that way and that the leak was part of a Shin Bet plot to undermine the Palestinian Authority.
544 2010-12-23 LONDON — Conditions improved on Wednesday at delay-plagued Heathrow Airport, where about 70 percent of the scheduled flights were operating after days of weather-related chaos. Still, no one was allowed to enter the airport without a ticket on a confirmed flight, and hundreds of people were left outside in the cold.

A spokesman for BAA, which owns and operates the airport, said the company hoped to be able to return to a normal schedule at Heathrow on Thursday in order to “get people back home for Christmas.”

Other transportation hubs in Europe also took advantage of the brief respite in the snow to try to thin the huge crowds of passengers who had been stranded.

But transportation officials warned that there was more snow to come, and that it might be some time before they could restore full service or even get all airplanes in the right places. Every day that service is curtailed, the number of stranded passengers grows.

BAA has been criticized — by passengers, by unions, by the mayor of London — for being unprepared and then for responding slowly to the storm, which during a single hour on Saturday dumped five inches of snow at Heathrow. On Wednesday, BAA’s chief executive, Colin Matthews, said that he accepted full responsibility for the airport’s problems and that he would give up his bonus this year.
545 2010-12-23 LONDON - Investment bankers advising on mergers and acquisitions from their offices in London are counting on business from China, India and other developing economies to make 2011 a busy year for European takeovers.     This year appeared to have...
546 2010-12-23 Chestnuts roasting on an open fire may be a Christmas tradition in many places, but in Flushing, Queens, they are roasted in hot pebbles and not just for a holiday comfort snack. Hot chestnuts are a wintertime dietary staple for the many recent im...
547 2010-12-23 LONDON -- Investment bankers advising on mergers and acquisitions from their offices in London are counting on business from China, India and other developing economies to make 2011 a busy year for European takeovers.     This year appeared to hav...
548 2010-12-24 With its hand-held gambling devices, a unit of Cantor Fitzgerald, the Wall Street brokerage firm, is expanding its venture into sports betting in Las Vegas...
549 2010-12-24 A New York film production company has sued its former president, claiming "gross lapses in judgment" cost the company millions of dollars in lost revenue and a producer credit on the movie "Black Swan."...
550 2010-12-24 About the data The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has said its database may contain certain errors, including some in the identification of licensees. The New York Times made corrections to eliminate obvious errors.

Some sanctions programs are specific to one country, though each varies in its restrictions.

Other programs are focused on individuals or companies involved in weapons proliferation, narcotics and terrorism. Licenses issued under these programs are often sought by companies that did not realize when they entered into transactions that they involved blacklisted entities. OFAC’s responses in these cases vary. Sometimes a license simply authorizes the company to extricate itself from a transaction. In other cases, the license authorizes the company to return money or, in isolated cases, to proceed.

View details for all programs at the Treasury Department.

This list excludes all licenses granted for religious and educational purposes and for Cuban travel. It also excludes licenses involving Syria, which are processed separately by the Commerce Department.
551 2010-12-24 Two years ago, workers at Republic Windows and Doors gained international attention for occupying the factory on Goose Island and demanding money owed after the business abruptly closed three weeks before Christmas. Richard B. Gillman, Republic’s owner, faces felony fraud-related charges related to alleged schemes including moving equipment that he did not own from the Chicago company to an Iowa window factory he and associates were taking over.

Now, a federal bankruptcy trustee alleges in a lawsuit that the owner of another window factory, Sound Solutions, moved assets — including a contract to soundproof homes near Midway Airport — from Republic Windows to his new factory in what the trustee has labeled a “fraudulent transfer.”

The new lawsuit also alleges that Mr. Gillman and Ron Spielman, the Sound Solutions president, collected roughly $10 million in city tax-increment financing, or TIF, to build Republic Windows’ new factory from 1996 to 2000, then sold the building in 2006 and personally netted $8 million. Mr. Spielman’s father founded the company that became Republic Windows in 1964, and Mr. Spielman led it before transferring ownership to Mr. Gillman in 2005.

The bankruptcy lawsuit alleges that as Mr. Gillman and Mr. Spielman watched Republic Windows fail financially, they made sure to keep it open long enough to avoid TIF penalties and outlast Illinois’s statute of limitations on fraudulent transfers.

Mr. Spielman said the accusations were based on inaccurate information. “I intend to vigorously defend myself in connection to this matter,” he said. “I’m denying all the allegations.”
552 2010-12-24 “He taught my father,” Mr. Sapanara added. “He taught me. He taught my sons. What a piece of work.”

No one called him Julius.

He was Chuck or Chuckie or Chuckles, a nickname picked up during a tough, impoverished childhood in East New York. During World War II, Mr. Geller, a second lieutenant, piloted a B-17 bomber on 34 missions. (In his later years, he would talk about his service, but not much. Many of his friends learned about his record on the Internet.)

He worked as a garment cutter in Manhattan. When that industry declined and he lost his job, Mr. Geller, by then about 60, found work on his favorite place: a fishing boat. He worked first in the galley of a boat called the Tampa, then on other boats that, for a few dollars, took Brooklyn’s anglers to find striped bass in the summer, tuna in the fall and mackerel in winter.

“He used to love fluking,” said his son, Stuart Geller, who recalled watching in awe, as a 5-year-old, as his father expertly filleted a fluke on the kitchen table. Stuart Geller’s mother, Cynthia Geller, served the fluke with spaghetti to him and his two sisters, Barbara and Karen. After Mrs. Geller died in 1992, Mr. Geller spent more and more time at the docks, and brought his catch over to his son’s house, in Coney Island.

“I don’t know why he loved fishing so much,” Stuart Geller said. “Maybe the openness. Being with a bunch of guys. He became friends with their families. They became his second family.”

Mr. Geller was disturbed by the changes to his beloved bay, as the number of fishing boats dwindled, from dozens in the 1970s to seven today, his friends said. Fewer and fewer people seemed to care about fishing. At the same time, the boats had to travel farther and farther out to sea to find their prey.

But Mr. Geller was not really one to gripe, and he kept coming to the Brooklyn VI, said Mr. Sapanara and his co-workers, Phil Salvo and Mike Ardolino, who had all known Mr. Geller since they were children.

He drove a vintage Cutlass that, like its owner, defied age, they said. “It ran like him,” Mr. Salvo said.

When he could no longer fish, Mr. Geller sat at the poker table with his friends, a cast of characters that included a retired police lieutenant, a tailor and Desmond Barrington Forsythe, who said his friend Chuck always insisted on dealing a pure game. “Nothing wild,” Mr. Forsythe said.

Over the last few years, Mr. Geller made fewer visits to the docks. “It was hard for him to walk,” his son said. “He was a very proud man. He didn’t want to show anyone his weakness.”

Mr. Geller had already left his mark on the fishing culture of the bay. The crew of the Brooklyn VI fondly pointed to Mr. Geller’s regular poker seat, beneath a “No Smoking” sign, and leafed through the boat’s photo album, finding a picture of him with a crooked smile, holding up a fish.

Then they left the boat and headed for a cemetery on Long Island, to say goodbye to him.
553 2010-12-24 And yet there was a serious cultural subtext to the debate, beyond the question of whether Mr. Emanuel, a lifelong Chicagoan, is enough of a Chicagoan to run the city. At issue was also the larger question of whether someone who goes to Washington to serve his community and his country, as Mr. Emanuel did as both a congressman and a presidential aide, can be seen as having left his home to take up residence somewhere else.

The diamond-shaped District of Columbia was conceived as a district — and not as a city or a state of its own — for a reason. It is supposed be an amalgam of the 50 states, a place where we send talented emissaries, elected or otherwise, who are willing to serve. In theory, all the people who populate the federal government, whether as senators or midlevel bureaucrats, are on loan from other places, often doing the nation’s business at the cost of more lucrative or convenient opportunities back home.

This is why presidents always make a big show of leaving town when their terms are finished, lustily waving goodbye in an airplane hangar (like Bill Clinton) or whooshing off in a low-flying helicopter (like George W. Bush). The symbolic idea is that their service is complete, and it’s time to return them to where they belong.

This was essentially the argument made by Mr. Emanuel’s lawyer, Kevin Forde, who pointed out that the residency law made allowances for people who were away “on business of the United States,” like soldiers stationed overseas. “If being chief of staff for the president of the United States isn’t in the service of the United States, I don’t know what is,” he said.

Such an argument would have been more self-evident, though, in the age before a series of outsider presidents, beginning with Jimmy Carter in 1976, came to office railing against the culture of Washington, as if it were a foreign country. Ronald Reagan and his conservative revolutionaries built an entire movement around the idea that Washington represented not the assemblage of the country’s various parts, but rather an island of otherness — not the solution to our problems, as Mr. Reagan put it, but the problem itself.

More recently, some of Mr. Emanuel’s own colleagues in the close circle of Obama advisers have perpetrated the same narrative, depicting Washington as estranged from what the rest of America considers normalcy. David Axelrod, the president’s senior adviser, lamented to Politico’s Mike Allen that people in Washington didn’t have the same conversation as the patrons of Manny’s, his favorite Chicago deli.

“In Chicago,” Mr. Axelrod explained, “they’re talking about their kids and how they pay their bills and how their businesses are going and the normal things that people care about.”

Of course, everywhere you go in Washington, people who grew up in Chicago and Texas and everywhere else in America talk about their children and their bills and their prospects for success — just not, perhaps, when talking to a senior presidential aide over lunch at Kinkead’s. But with this kind of rhetoric handed down from one administration to the next, it’s not hard to understand why some Chicagoans might see Mr. Emanuel as a self-serving deserter who relocated to a strange society 700 miles to the east.

Plenty of people don’t like Mr. Emanuel, and plenty more don’t like his politics. But whatever one thinks of the man, it’s indisputable that he has spent most of his adult life doing the people’s work. Had the elections board counted that against him, whether or not he had set foot back in Chicago for months at time, it would have lent credence to the destructive idea that there is Washington and there is the rest of us, and somehow public servants are supposed to choose between the two.

As it is, assuming the decision survives an inevitable appeal, Mr. Emanuel, who is leading handily in public polls, can now look forward to the election. After that, perhaps, he can return to his house and unpack the contents of those disputed storage boxes, the accumulated this-and-that of your average American life.
554 2010-12-24 Gov. David Paterson put New Yorkers first and the banking and debt collection industries second when he signed a bill that increases the value of property that people can retain when they declare bankruptcy or when creditors win judgments against them.

This sensible new law puts New York on a par with the rest of the nation. It allows people who hit hard times to keep at least the roof over their heads and the modest car that gets them to and from work.

New York already has a law that shields some debtor assets from creditors and bankruptcy trustees. But the actual dollar amounts in many provisions had not been updated since the 1980s, which means that the protections had seriously been eroded by inflation. Introduced by State Senator Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat of Manhattan, the new law increases the homestead exemption from $50,000 to either $75,000, $125,000 or $250,000, depending on the county of residence.

People who find themselves in deep financial trouble would also be able to keep one cellphone and one computer. The new law raises the value of an exempted automobile from $2,400 to $4,000 or $10,000 for a disabled debtor. The exemption would not apply in cases where the debt being enforced is for child support, spousal support, maintenance or alimony.

The Bloomberg administration argued that the automobile exemption would prevent them from towing some cars, which would make it impossible to collect outstanding traffic fines. The Senate responded by adding language that would void the exemption in cases where the municipality is the creditor. Members of the assembly have promised to do the same at the start of the next legislative session.

The new law will go a long way toward ensuring that bankruptcy or debt collection do not strip people of all they own, turning them into wards of the state.
555 2010-12-24 For years, Chinese officials have promised to improve their protection of intellectual property. But the infringement of copyrights, patents and trade secrets has, in many instances, gotten worse. Last week, they made some new promises. While we welcome China’s willingness to utter commitments in this area, we remain skeptical of its ability or desire to protect foreign innovation.

At the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade in Washington, Chinese officials promised better protection for foreign software. They promised not to discriminate against foreign intellectual property in government procurement. They even agreed to keep talking about improving how they award patents, a crucial step to prevent the proliferation of parasitic patents of little merit.

Yet for all the new agreements, stringent protection of foreigners’ intellectual property is at odds with China’s development strategy. Foreign companies operating in China complain that Beijing views the appropriation of foreign innovations as part of a policy mix aimed at developing domestic technology.

Bootleg copies of the “Dark Knight” and Shenzen sweatshops churning out fake Louis Vuitton bags are only part of the problem. Last March, the United States International Trade Commission banned imports of cast steel railway wheels made by the Chinese group Tianrui. Tianrui had hired nine employees from the Chinese licensee of Amsted Industries of Chicago, a maker of railway parts. They came with an armful of trade secrets that allowed Tianrui to muscle into the business.

This type of intellectual property theft is increasingly common, according to American companies operating in China. In fact, they say, it is tacitly supported by Beijing, and includes forcing foreigners to disclose their technology in order to gain contracts.

China’s new antimonopoly laws would allow compulsory licensing of foreign technologies in some cases and require foreign companies that wanted to merge with or buy a Chinese company to transfer technology to China. Several foreign companies have found themselves competing against Chinese firms using a slight variation of the foreign technology.
556 2010-12-24 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said Thursday that he would seek new elections if his conservative government lacked a sufficient parliamentary majority in January to be able to carry out its agenda. “If, in contrast to what we expect, we do not have a sufficient majority to govern at the end of January, I think that the best thing would be to have the chance to get a fresh majority in both houses of Parliament,” he said. Mr. Berlusconi narrowly survived a confidence vote in Parliament last week.
557 2010-12-24 The investigation, which began last fall and has gathered steam in recent months, represents the next big wave of scrutiny of the offshore banking world and underscores the interlinked nature of Swiss banks and global financial institutions.

The investigation is also significant because it is the first to examine whether Wall Street banks play a role in global offshore tax evasion schemes that link banks, trust advisers and other intermediaries. The large banks often maintain what are known as correspondent accounts for small foreign banks, accepting deposits and conducting some financial transactions.

There is no indication that the Wall Street banks, which the two people declined to identify, have knowingly engaged in wrongdoing, they said. Under the Patriot Act, American banks are required to take extra efforts to learn about their customers.

The Justice Department is expected to ask Switzerland in coming months to turn over names of clients of certain cantonal banks under an information-sharing agreement with Switzerland, one of the people said. Another option for the Justice Department is to ask the Federal Reserve to shut down their correspondent banking relationships with Wall Street, one of the people said.

Cantonal banks, which date back 100 years or more, are a group of 24 smaller commercial banks, most either entirely or majority-owned by the Swiss local government in the region, or canton, where they operate. In a rare privatization, UBS bought the cantonal bank Appenzell Ausserrhoden, in the northeast of Switzerland, in 1996. Cantonal banks hold about 30 percent of the banking business in Switzerland, with combined assets of 300 billion Swiss francs, or about $313 billion, according to the Association of Swiss Cantonal Banks, a trade group.

The cantonal banks sell private banking services. Basler Kantonalbank says on its Web site that it offers “guaranteed discretion” and “Swiss banking secrecy,” and adds that “this protection applies equally for Swiss and foreign customers.” Some, if not all, of the cantonal banks are in an I.R.S. program known as qualified intermediary, which allows them to streamline their reporting of taxable transactions by foreign clients and not disclose the names of their foreign customers.

Under Swiss banking law, which does not consider tax evasion a crime, disclosure of client names is illegal unless the client is suspected of felonies like money laundering or drug dealing.

Investigators looking at the cantonal banks have been helped in recent months by wealthy Americans who have made detailed voluntary disclosures to the I.R.S. of their hidden offshore accounts in exchange for reduced fines and penalties. The disclosures effectively provide a road map of the banks, trust companies, advisers and other intermediaries who were involved in helping them hide their money.

Large Swiss banks suffered steep outflows in recent years as the United States cracked down on UBS, and much of the American and European client money was assumed to have fled to the Far East. But the two people said on Thursday that perhaps tens of billions of dollars ended up in cantonal banks.

One new technique that emerged during the UBS crackdown was for American clients to open a small account at a cantonal bank and declare its contents to the I.R.S., while keeping the bulk of their money in hidden, undeclared accounts, the two people said. The Justice Department suspects that scores of private bankers who left UBS and other large Swiss banks to work at smaller banks and trust companies sold this technique, the two people said.

Calls to a Justice Department representative were not immediately returned.
558 2010-12-24 In an interview, the Obama administration’s point man on sanctions, Stuart A. Levey, said that focusing on the exceptions “misses the forest for the trees.” Indeed, the exceptions represent only a small counterweight to the overall force of America’s trade sanctions, which are among the toughest in the world. Now they are particularly focused on Iran, where on top of a broad embargo that prohibits most trade, the United States and its allies this year adopted a new round of sanctions that have effectively shut Iran off from much of the international financial system.

“No one can doubt that we are serious about this,” Mr. Levey said.

But as the administration tries to press Iran even harder to abandon its nuclear program — officials this week announced several new sanctions measures — some diplomats and foreign affairs experts worry that by allowing the sale of even small-ticket items with no military application, the United States muddies its moral and diplomatic authority.

“It’s not a bad thing to grant exceptions if it represents a conscious policy decision to give countries an incentive,” said Stuart Eizenstat, who oversaw sanctions policy for the Clinton administration when the humanitarian-aid law was passed. “But when you create loopholes like this that you can drive a Mack truck through, you are giving countries something for nothing, and they just laugh in their teeth. I think there have been abuses.”

What’s more, in countries like Iran where elements of the government have assumed control over large portions of the economy, it is increasingly difficult to separate exceptions that help the people from those that enrich the state. Indeed, records show that the United States has approved the sale of luxury food items to chain stores owned by blacklisted banks, despite requirements that potential purchasers be scrutinized for just such connections.

Enforcement of America’s sanctions rests with Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which can make exceptions with guidance from the State Department. The Treasury office resisted disclosing information about the licenses, but after The Times filed a federal Freedom of Information lawsuit, the government agreed to turn over a list of companies granted exceptions and, in a little more than 100 cases, underlying files explaining the nature and details of the deals. The process took three years, and the government heavily redacted many documents, saying they contained trade secrets and personal information. Still, the files offer a snapshot — albeit a piecemeal one — of a system that at times appears out of sync with its own licensing policies and America’s goals abroad.

In some cases, licensing rules failed to keep pace with changing diplomatic circumstances. For instance, American companies were able to import cheap blouses and raw material for steel from North Korea because restrictions loosened when that government promised to renounce its nuclear weapons program and were not recalibrated after the agreement fell apart.

Mr. Levey, a Treasury under secretary who held the same job in the Bush administration, pointed out that the United States did far less business with Iran than did or Europe; in the first quarter of this year, 0.02 percent of American exports went to Iran. And while it is “a fair policy question” to ask whether Congress’s definition of humanitarian aid is overly broad, he said, the exception has helped the United States argue that it opposes Iran’s government, not its people. That, in turn, has helped build international support for the tightly focused financial sanctions.

Beyond that, he and the licensing office’s director, Adam Szubin, said the agency’s other, case-by-case, determinations often reflected a desire to balance sanctions policy against the realities of the business world, where companies may unwittingly find themselves in transactions involving blacklisted entities.

“I haven’t seen any licenses that I thought we should have done differently,” Mr. Szubin said.

For all the speechifying about humanitarian aid that attended its passage, the 2000 law allowing agricultural and medical exceptions to sanctions was ultimately the product of economic stress and political pressure. American farmers, facing sharp declines in commodity prices and exports, hoped to offset their losses with sales to blacklisted countries.

The law defined allowable agricultural exports as any product on a list maintained by the Agriculture Department, which went beyond traditional humanitarian aid like seed and grain and included products like beer, soda, utility poles and more loosely defined categories of “food commodities” and “ .”

Even before the law’s final passage, companies and their lobbyists inundated the licensing office with claims that their products fit the bill.

Take, for instance, chewing gum, sold in a number of blacklisted countries by , which owns ’s. “We debated that one for a month. Was it food? Did it have nutritional value? We concluded it did,” Hal Eren, a former senior sanctions adviser at the licensing office, recalled before pausing and conceding, “We were probably rolled on that issue by outside forces.”

While was the primary focus of the initial legislative push, Iran, with its relative wealth and large population, was also a promising prospect. American exports, virtually nonexistent before the law’s passage, have totaled more than $1.7 billion since.

In response to questions for this article, companies argued that they were operating in full accordance with American law.

Henry Lapidos, export manager for the American Pop Corn Company, acknowledged that calling the Jolly Time popcorn he sold in and Iran a humanitarian good was “pushing the envelope,” though he did give it a try. “It depends on how you look at it — popcorn has fibers, which are helpful to the digestive system,” he explained, before switching to a different tack. “What’s the harm?” he asked, adding that he didn’t think Iranian soldiers “would be taking microwavable popcorn” to war.

Even the sale of benign goods can benefit bad actors, though, which is why the licensing office and State Department are required to check the purchasers of humanitarian aid products for links to terrorism. But that does not always happen.

In its application to sell salt substitutes, marinades, food colorings and cake sprinkles in Iran, listed a number of chain stores that planned to buy its products. A quick check of the Web site of one store, Refah, revealed that its major investors were banks on an American blacklist. The government of Tehran owns Shahrvand, another store listed in the license. A third chain store, Ghods, draws many top officials from the Corps, which the United States considers a terrorist organization.

The licensing office’s director, Mr. Szubin, said that given his limited resources, they were better spent on stopping weapons technology from reaching Iran. Even if the connections in the McCormick case had come to light, he said, he still might have had to approve the license: the law requires him to do so unless he can prove that the investors engaged in terrorist activities own more than half of a company.

“Are we checking end users? Yes,” he said. “But are we doing corporate due diligence on every Iranian importer? No.”

A McCormick spokesman, Jim Lynn, said, “We were not aware of the information you shared with us and are looking into it.”

Beyond the humanitarian umbrella, the agency has wide discretion to make case-by-case exceptions. Sometimes, political influence plays a role in those deliberations, as in a case involving Senator of Hawaii and a medical-waste disposal plant in Honolulu.

On July 28, 2003, the plant’s owner, Samuel Liu, ordered 200 graphite electrodes from a Chinese government-owned company, China Precision Machinery Import Export Corporation. In an interview, Mr. Liu said he had chosen the company because the electrodes available in the United States were harder to find and more expensive. Two days later, the Bush administration barred American citizens from doing business with the Chinese company, which had already been penalized repeatedly for providing missile technology to and Iran.

By the time Customs seized the electrodes on Nov. 5, waste was piling up in the sun. Nor did prospects look good for Mr. Liu’s application to the licensing office seeking to do an end run around the sanctions. On Nov. 21, a State Department official, Ralph Palmiero, recommended that the agency deny the request since the sanctions explicitly mandated the “termination of existing contracts” like Mr. Liu’s.

That is when Senator Inouye’s office stepped in. While his electrodes were at sea, Mr. Liu had made his first ever political contribution, giving the senator’s campaign $2,000. Mr. Liu says the timing was coincidental, that he was simply feeling more politically inclined. Records show that an Inouye aide called the licensing office on Mr. Liu’s behalf the same day that Mr. Palmiero recommended denying the application. The senator himself wrote two days later.

Mr. Inouye’s spokesman, Peter Boylan, said the contribution had “no impact whatsoever” on the senator’s actions, which he said were motivated solely by concern for the community’s health and welfare.

The pressure appears to have worked. The following day, the licensing office’s director at the time asked the State Department to reconsider in an e-mail that prominently noted the senator’s interest. A few days later, the State Department found that the purchase qualified for a special “medical and humanitarian” exception.

The license was issued Dec. 10. Two months later, Mr. Liu sent the senator another $2,000 contribution, the maximum allowable. Mr. Levey said he could not comment on the details of a decision predating his tenure. But he noted that sanctions against the Chinese company had since been toughened, and added, “Certainly this transaction wouldn’t be authorized today.”

Mr. Liu’s license is hardly the only one to raise questions about how the government determines that a license serves American foreign policy.

There is also, for instance, the case of Irisl, an Iranian government-owned shipping line that the United States blacklisted in 2008, charging that because it routinely used front companies and misleading terms to shroud shipments of banned arms and other technology with military uses, it was impossible to tell whether its shipments were “licit or illicit.”

Less than nine months earlier, the licensing office had permitted a Japanese subsidiary of Citibank to carry out the very type of transaction it was now warning against. Records show that the bank had agreed to confirm a letter of guaranteeing payment to a Malaysian exporter upon delivery of what were described as split-system air-conditioners to a Turkish importer. Though the government had yet to blacklist Irisl, sanctions rules already prohibited dealings with Iranian companies. So when the bank learned that the goods were to be shipped aboard the Irisl-owned Iran Ilam, it sought a license.

The license was granted, even though the Treasury Department’s investigation of Irisl was well under way and the United States had reason to be suspicious of the Iran Ilam in particular; that summer, the ship had attracted the attention of the intelligence community when it delivered a lathe used to make nuclear centrifuge parts from China to Iran, according to government officials who requested anonymity to speak about a previously unpublicized intelligence matter.

Mr. Szubin said that since the blacklisting of Irisl, his agency had forced banks to extricate themselves from such transactions. But at the time the Citibank license was issued, his agency regularly issued licenses in cases like this one, where at the time of the transaction, the bank had no way of knowing that Irisl was involved and where the shipping line would be paid by a foreign third party anyway. To depart from the norm, he said, risked facing a lawsuit charging unfair treatment and tipping Irisl off that it was under investigation.

But if the government has sometimes been willing to grant American businesses a break, some companies have recently decided that the cost to their reputations outweighs the potential profit.

, which has been one of the leading recipients of licenses, says it has stopped all but humanitarian business in countries listed as sponsors of terrorism and has promised to donate its profits from Iran to charity.

As Joshua Kamens, the head of a company called Anndorll, put it, he knew from almost the minute he applied for a license to sell sugar in Iran that “it would come back to haunt me.” Although he received the go-ahead, he decided to back out of the deal.

“I’m an American,” he said. “Even though it’s legal to sell that type of product, I didn’t want to have any trade with a country like Iran.”
559 2010-12-24 Early set at Smalls. Not much action in the house yet, bartender still setting up. Mitch Borden, the club’s founder, sits near the entrance picking out “April in Paris” on a guitar. Every Tuesday evening at 7:30 since September, the pianist Spike Wilner, who manages the club, plays duets with a rotating cast of singers. This week it was Cyrille Aimée, a young French singer who now lives in New York and placed second in last October’s Thelonious Monk competition.

She’s alert and thoroughly engaged in the logic of moving harmony when she improvises, one of those singers whom nonsinging musicians call “a musician.” Her voice is small, light, relaxed at the core and springy, sounding like a muted trumpet when it goes up high, with no fogging or dragging. She has almost become a regular at Smalls in recent years, playing with Mr. Wilner, the saxophonist Joel Frahm and the clarinetist Anat Cohen.

But Tuesday was casual. She’d suggest a song; Mr. Wilner, an excellent accompanist, would hesitate for a beat and say, “Sure.” She’d say, “I have it in the book if you need it.” He’d say, “No, I got it,” moving his hands silently around the keyboard for 10 seconds, transposing it to her key from whatever key he knew it in.

And as long as the song was at least midtempo, they’d improvise together in the middle, quoting fragments of other songs, trading eight bars and suddenly double-timing, entwining two bass lines, hers sung and his played.

There was “Gone With the Wind,” “September in the Rain,” “I’ve Never Been in Love Before” and “Que Reste-t-Il de Nos Amours?” All were amiable, rich and alert, controlled but relaxed, not really about anything else but smart people making music in the early evening.
560 2010-12-24 “How do you like your ‘Messiah’?” should be the refrain of December, when Handel’s perennially popular work is served in interpretations catering to every taste, from rich and indulgent to lean and lithe.

Musica Sacra, said to be the longest continuously performing professional chorus in New York, adheres to the trim aesthetic and offers a lean but wholly satisfying rendition. Kent Tritle, its music director, led the group’s annual “Messiah” concert at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday evening, fresh from conducting the work on Monday at Carnegie with the Oratorio Society of New York (of which he is also music director).

Musica Sacra follows period practice traditions regarding tempos and ornamentation. The orchestra performed beautifully throughout the evening, with transparent textures, a buoyant pulse and expressive phrasing. Its spry and nuanced playing, both soft-spoken and dramatic in turns, was aptly matched by the fleet, cleanly enunciated and radiant singing of the chorus, which performed with immaculate flair in the runs in “For unto us a child is born” and elsewhere. The group’s dynamic shadings added to the effects throughout, as with vivid contrasts in “Glory to God” and gentle pianissimos in “Since by man came death.”

The soloists included the excellent soprano Jennifer Zetlan, who wielded her silvery voice to admirable effect. Her fluid ornamentation and shining top notes were particularly striking in sections like “Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion.” The tenor Colin Balzer sang with warmth and conviction. The countertenor Ian Howell stood in for Matthew Shaw, who withdrew because of illness. Mr. Howell sang expressively and projected well in his upper register, although he sometimes sounded wan in his lower register. The baritone Tyler Duncan delivered the texts with a powerful voice and dramatic conviction, enunciating the words with appropriate bite. The energetic applause after “The trumpet shall sound” was merited by both Mr. Duncan’s passionate singing and the vibrant playing of the trumpeter Scott McIntosh.

It was presumably the oratorio’s length, not displeasure with the performance, that prompted a small exodus toward the exits during the “Hallelujah!” chorus. As is customary, most of the audience stood during that section. Those who remained awarded the musicians a hearty ovation after the conclusion.
561 2010-12-24 Like all of Mr. Dumont’s films, “Hadewijch” conjures the strange electricity (you might call it auras) around people, as if peeling away an outer layer of reality. The movie studies faces and bodies to locate the essence of humanness, especially in the eyes, behind which it finds both bestial and spiritual impulses and locates a primal isolation, as well as a lurking violence. One long-held shot of Céline has the transfixing power of a psychic or spiritual X-ray in which you sense her entire being.

This cosmic view of humanity is so harsh and penetrating that it allows for little if any humor. And viewers who are not on Mr. Dumont’s wavelength tend to dismiss his work as pretentious, glum and boring. Those who follow him, however, will find themselves in the rarefied territory of Ingmar Bergman, Robert Bresson and Carl Dreyer.

Every shot in the movie is an exquisitely rendered tableau that conveys the mysteries of life as contemplated by Céline. A repeated image of a church atop a hill, seen from below, suggests the spiritual distance she must travel without ever reaching it: a lofty, faraway destination in a landscape whose very beauty awakens an ineffable longing. If “Hadewijch” is Mr. Dumont’s most overtly religious film, it is not pro-faith in any specific way, although the director clearly respects the religious impulse.

Céline, having returned to secular life, is befriended by Yassine (Yassine Salime), a young Arab layabout who lives with his older brother, Nassir (Karl Sarafidis), in the projects on the fringe of Paris. Her curiosity about Islam prompts Nassir to invite her to a discussion group on “the notion of the invisible,” and they embark on a protracted dialogue on religious faith in which Nassir speaks abstractly of violence and “the fight.”

Typical of a film by Mr. Dumont, “Hadewijch” makes sudden leaps without filling in the details. After Céline rebuffs the advances of Yassine, who calls her “nuts,” Nassir becomes her spiritual mentor, and they travel to an unidentified Middle Eastern country (the sequence was filmed in Lebanon), where they arrive just after a bombing. Céline is shown having tea with the members of what appears to be a terrorist group and swearing to carry out some unspecified mission. Then she is back in France.

Periodically, the movie focuses on David (David Dewaele), a gaunt young parolee working on the monastery property who observes Céline’s comings and goings. His presence remains mysterious until the very end, when he becomes an ambiguous redemptive symbol who “saves” Céline after she has committed two desperate acts.

“Hadewijch” and the forthcoming “Of Gods and Men” (shown at this year’s New York Film Festival) suggest that for all the talk of France’s metamorphosis into a secular society, powerful religious and spiritual fires still burn there.

Written and directed by Bruno Dumont; director of photography, Yves Cape; edited by Guy Lecorne; art director, Jean-Marc Tran; costumes by Annie Morel Paris and Alexandra Charles; produced by 3B Productions; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Julie Sokolowski (Céline/Hadewijch), Karl Sarafidis (Nassir), Yassine Salime (Yassine), David Dewaele (David), Brigitte Mayeux-Clerget (Mother Superior), Michelle Ardenne (the Prioress), Sabrina Lechêne (the Novice), Marie Castelain (Céline’s Mother) and Luc-François Bouyssonie (Céline’s Father).
562 2010-12-24 A seven-year effort by the Central Intelligence Agency to hide its relationship with a Swiss family who once acted as moles inside the world’s most successful atomic black market hit a turning point on Thursday when a Swiss magistrate recommended charging the men with trafficking in technology and information for making nuclear arms.

The prospect of a prosecution, and a public trial, threatens to expose some of the C.I.A.’s deepest secrets if defense lawyers try to protect their clients by revealing how they operated on the agency’s behalf. It could also tarnish what the Bush administration once hailed as a resounding victory in breaking up the nuclear arms network by laying bare how much of it remained intact.

“It’s like a puzzle,” Andreas Müller, the Swiss magistrate, said at a news conference in Bern on Thursday. “If you put the puzzle together you get the whole picture.”

The three men — Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, Urs and Marco — helped run the atomic smuggling ring of A. Q. Khan, an architect of Pakistan’s nuclear bomb program, officials in several countries have said. In return for millions of dollars, according to former Bush administration officials, the Tinners secretly worked for the C.I.A. as well, not only providing information about the Khan network’s manufacturing and sales efforts, which stretched from Iran to Libya to North Korea, but also helping the agency introduce flaws into the equipment sent to some of those countries.

The Bush administration went to extraordinary lengths to protect the men from prosecution, even persuading Swiss authorities to destroy equipment and information found on their computers and in their homes and businesses — actions that may now imperil efforts to prosecute them.

While it has been clear since 2008 that the Tinners acted as American spies, the announcement by the Swiss magistrate on Thursday, recommending their prosecution for nuclear smuggling, is a turning point in the investigation. A trial would bring to the fore a case that Pakistan has insisted is closed. Prosecuting the case could also expose in court a tale of C.I.A. break-ins in Switzerland, and of a still unexplained decision by the agency not to seize electronic copies of a number of nuclear bomb designs found on the computers of the Tinner family.

One of those blueprints came from an early Chinese atomic bomb; two more advanced designs were from Pakistan’s program, investigators from several countries have said.

Ultimately, copies of those blueprints were found around the globe on the computers of members of the Khan network, leading investigators to suspect that they made their way to Iran, North Korea and perhaps other countries. In 2003, atomic investigators found one of the atomic blueprints in Libya and brought it back to the United States for safekeeping.

Mr. Müller, the Swiss magistrate, investigated the Tinner case for nearly two years. He said Thursday that his 174-page report recommended that the three men face charges for “supporting the development of atomic weapons” in violation of Swiss law.

They are accused of supplying Dr. Khan’s operation with technology used to make centrifuges, the machines that purify uranium into fuel for bombs and reactors. Dr. Khan then sold the centrifuges to Libya, Iran and North Korea and perhaps other countries.

Mr. Müller’s recommendation comes as a new book describes previously unknown details of the C.I.A.’s secret relationship with the Tinners, which appears to have started around 2000.

The book, “Fallout,” by Catherine Collins and Douglas Frantz, scheduled to be published next month, tells how the C.I.A. sent the men coded instructions, spied on their family, tried to buy their silence and ultimately had the Bush administration press Switzerland to destroy evidence in an effort to keep the Tinners from being indicted and testifying in open court.

Ms. Collins is a freelance writer and investigator, and her husband, Mr. Frantz, is a former investigations editor for The New York Times and a former managing editor of The Los Angeles Times. He currently works on the staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

The C.I.A. has never commented on its relationship with the Tinners. But the story has leaked out, in bits and pieces, after news reports of Dr. Khan’s illicit atomic sales forced Pakistan’s government to expose the atomic ring and place Dr. Khan under house arrest. But Pakistan never allowed him to be interrogated by the C.I.A. or international nuclear inspectors, perhaps out of fear that he would implicate other Pakistani senior officials.
563 2010-12-24 7:49 p.m. | Updated A crucial cooperating witness in the most recent round of arrests stemming from the federal government's insider trading investigation pleaded guilty this month, according to court documents unsealed on Thursday.     From 2007 ...
564 2010-12-24 The week before Christmas is usually news-free on Broadway, so the announcement on Tuesday from the producers of ''Driving Miss Daisy'' - that the Vanessa Redgrave-James Earl Jones-Boyd Gaines hit had become the first play of the season to turn a ...
565 2010-12-25 A year after trailing only the Lakers in road attendance, the Cavaliers have fallen to the lowest in the league....
566 2010-12-25 The police are investigating the death of a woman whose body was found Sunday in the suburban St. Louis home of a former Anheuser-Busch chief executive, August Busch IV. The woman was identified as Adrienne N. Martin, 27, of St. Charles. The St. Louis County forensic administrator, Suzanne McCune, said there were no signs of illness or trauma. An autopsy was conducted but results could take several weeks. Art Margulis, a lawyer for Mr. Busch, said that Ms. Martin was a friend of Mr. Busch’s and that there was “absolutely nothing suspicious” about her death. Mr. Busch, 46, was chief executive at Anheuser-Busch from 2006 until it was purchased by InBev in 2008.
567 2010-12-25 The Idaho Transportation Department has postponed making a recommendation in a dispute over whether ConocoPhillips, the international oil company, can use a backcountry road, Route 12, to ship gargantuan loads of equipment to a Billings, Mont., refinery from the Port of Lewiston on the Snake River. The Lewiston Tribune reported that no date had been set for the recommendation, being prepared by Merlyn Clark, a Boise lawyer. The megaloads would be the heaviest trucks to ever use Route 12 and would take up both lanes of traffic. ExxonMobil plans to send 207 megaloads on the same highway next year, destined to move through Montana to the Canadian oil sands.
568 2010-12-25 Months after Los Angeles ran a majority of medical marijuana dispensaries out of town by passing strict regulations, the shops are cropping up again. A judge this month scratched key portions of the ordinance that city officials spent years putting together and noted that a large number of collectives could reopen. David Welch, the lawyer who represents some of the shuttered clinics that sued the city, says nearly 60 have decided to open in recent months. About 180 collectives applied to remain open after hundreds were forced to close, but only about 40 met all the ordinance’s criteria. which include being at least 1,000 feet from schools, parks and other gathering sites.
569 2010-12-25 I am all too aware of what having that information means since my mother died of Alzheimer-related causes. Nevertheless, I most definitely do want to know if the same fate is in store for me so that I can begin to plan the rest of my life while I am still “in charge.”

Most important, I would invest my savings in a supportive, long-term living arrangement, one that I would choose, on my own terms. And I would decide myself what to do with all my “stuff” — my books, collections, clothing and furniture.

And then I would try to live every hour of every day with eyes and ears wide open, savoring the sights and sounds of this life as best I can, for as long as I possibly can.

Thinking of elderly patients whom I’ve known for years, I am nearly certain that informing patients of the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease as early as possible, or telling them of an increased risk of the disease, will be harmful on the whole.

We don’t exactly know what Alzheimer’s disease is. There are lots of different kinds of dementia, and the concept of “normal” human aging is very poorly understood.

Further, the harms can be serious; some patients may even consider assisted suicide. Several studies have been done about patients who are worried that they have Alzheimer’s. There is very real suffering involved in the anticipation, and the suffering can begin years before there is any demonstrable abnormality or disability. The diagnosis is sometimes and inexplicably shameful.

If I am to get Alzheimer’s at age 70, at what age would I like to know this? Never. I would like to notice at age 75 that my wife and kids are becoming at once oddly solicitous and a bit patronizing.

The writer is a doctor specializing in geriatrics and a professor at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.

Anyone who has seen Alzheimer’s disease in the vacant eyes of his or her loved ones fears nothing more than seeing it in the mirror. As the caregiver for the past 17 years for both my husband (early onset Alzheimer’s) and my mother (late onset), I had a genetic screening three years ago that indicated a gene variant that puts me at increased risk.

So when doctors ask why we should test until we can effectively treat, I would respond that we, as a baby boom generation of potential victims, own that decision — not our doctors.

We should test and count ourselves among the “worried well.” Because putting our own lives on the line can take the Alzheimer’s debate out of the closet of private suffering and into the town hall of political action. We should test because hiding from the future is no longer smart living.

Knowing our risk, we would be more inclined to enlist for clinical trials. Early diagnostic testing is one way to act against Alzheimer’s, rather than waiting to be acted upon.

As a generation, we must refuse to forget who we are. This means daring to know our future.
570 2010-12-25 Center Derek Roy, the Buffalo Sabres’ leading scorer, is out for the season after tearing his left quadriceps tendon. General Manager Darcy Regier announced that Roy was expected to miss four to six months and would have surgery in the next few days.

Roy was hurt Thursday in the first period of a 4-3 loss to Florida. Roy leads the Sabres with 35 points (10 goals, 25 assists) and forwards in ice time (20 minutes 3 seconds) over 35 games this season.
571 2010-12-25 The two Mississippi State players caught on camera fighting in the stands of the Diamond Head Classic in Honolulu were suspended indefinitely and sent home. Renardo Sidney and Elgin Bailey, who are roommates, were involved in a fistfight after the Bulldogs’ game Thursday night. The altercation lasted for several minutes before being broken up by teammates and coaches.

The fight was the latest in a string of problems for Sidney. The N.C.A.A. ruled last March that he had to repay $11,800 in improper benefits and sit out the remainder of the 2010 season and nine more games this season. ¶Zach Graham had 19 points, and Mississippi (9-3) beat Saint Louis, 69-61, on Friday to finish third in the Cancun Governor’s Cup in Mexico. The Billikens (5-7) were without Coach Rick Majerus, who had an undisclosed illness. The assistant Porter Moser ran the team. (AP)
572 2010-12-25 “My experience on Wall Street made it possible for me to be comfortable buying a lot of art at once,” he later wrote. “In my investment firm, when we like a security after careful analysis, we buy a modest quantity. Sometimes after the purchase, we will find that we like it very much. If a large quantity of the stock then becomes available, and we are still enthusiastic about its value and its future, we will buy in quantity quickly, even though the day before we had no such plan and no knowledge that the stock would be available.”

“The same principle,” he added, “applied to my purchase of the Avery paintings.”

Roy Rothschild Neuberger was born on July 21, 1903, in Bridgeport, Conn. His father, Louis, who was 52 when Roy was born, had come to the United States from Germany as a boy. His mother, the former Bertha Rothschild, was a native of Chicago, a lover of music (she played the piano) and a “nervous, troubled woman from a large, well-to-do Jewish family, not related to the famous Rothschilds,” Mr. Neuberger wrote in an autobiography, “So Far, So Good: The First 94 Years” (John Wiley & Sons, 1997).

His father was half owner of the Connecticut Web and Buckle Company and had an interest in the stock market, owning thousands of shares in a Montana copper company. The Neuberger family moved to Manhattan in 1909, settling on Claremont Avenue opposite Barnard College on the Upper West Side. Mr. Neuberger attended DeWitt Clinton High School, where in his senior year he was captain of the tennis team that won the Greater New York championship.

“Looking back on my youthful addiction to tennis, I find it not much different from my fascination with the market,” Mr. Neuberger wrote in his autobiography. “You have to make fast decisions. You can’t wait to think about it overnight.”

A similar impatience led him to leave New York University after a single year. He felt, he wrote, “that I could learn much more out in the world of business.”

It was while working for two years as a buyer of upholstery fabrics for the department store B. Altman & Company that he said he developed an eye for painting and sculpture as well as a sense for trading. Both would greatly influence his later life, as would John Galsworthy’s series of novels “The Forsyte Saga,” which described the practice among well-to-do English families of educating their children on the European continent, and “Vincent van Gogh,” a biography by Floret Fels.

The first book led Mr. Neuberger to a sojourn in Europe. Using money inherited from his father, he set out in June 1924 for a life of leisure. While living mainly on the Left Bank in Paris, he spent afternoons at a cafe, played in tennis tournaments in Cannes and traveled to Berlin and other European capitals.

In Paris, Mr. Neuberger was inspired by the van Gogh biography to collect and support the work of living artists.

“Of course, to do so, I had to have capital of considerably more than the inheritance that gave me an annual income of about $2,000,” he later wrote. “In those days you could live very comfortably, almost luxuriously, on $2,000, but you couldn’t buy art in quantity. So I decided to go back to work in earnest.”

He arrived on Wall Street in the spring of 1929, as the bull market was roaring toward its peak. Hired for $15 a week as a runner for the brokerage firm Halle & Stieglitz, he soon learned all aspects of the business, at the same time managing his own money.

One of the first big trades he executed on his own behalf was designed to hedge his own wealth against the possibility that the stock market might fall from its precarious height. He sold short 100 shares of the Radio Corporation of America, the most popular stock of the era, betting that its price would decline from its lofty level of $500.

In October 1929 came the crash that ushered in the Great Depression, and while Mr. Neuberger’s blue-chip stocks fell, his bet against RCA paid off well: the stock’s price eventually fell into the single digits. He said he lost only 15 percent of his money in the crash, while many others lost everything.

On June 29, 1932, the Dow Jones industrial average dipped to 42 and Mr. Neuberger married Marie Salant, a graduate in economics from Bryn Mawr who had gone to work in the research department of Halle & Stieglitz two years earlier.

“I can report that by June 29, 1996, the Dow Jones industrial average had climbed to 5,704 and Marie and I had had 64 wonderful years together,” Mr. Neuberger later wrote. Mrs. Neuberger died in 1997.

Besides Mr. London, Mr. Neuberger is survived by his daughter, Ann Neuberger Aceves; his sons, Roy S. Neuberger of Lawrence, N.Y., and James A. Neuberger of New York City; seven other grandchildren; and 30 great-grandchildren.

Emboldened by his management of his own assets, Mr. Neuberger became a stockbroker at Halle & Stieglitz in 1930, leaving nine years later to start his own firm, Neuberger & Berman. The firm was later acquired by Lehman Brothers, but spun off in 2008 as a stand-alone company with Lehman’s bankruptcy. Mr. Neuberger continued to go to his Neuberger Berman office every day until he was 99, Mr. London said.

Mr. Neuberger began to build his art collection in the late 1930s, and although he was asked to do so many times, he never sold a painting by a living artist. “I have not collected art as an investor would,” he said. “I collect art because I love it.”

He preferred to share his love by donating works to museums and colleges. In May 1965, Mr. Neuberger received an anonymous offer to buy his art collection for $5 million, a sum he considered a fortune at the time.

Years later he learned that the offer had come from Nelson A. Rockefeller, then governor of New York. Mr. Rockefeller went on to play a key role in Mr. Neuberger’s art collection. In May 1967, while Mr. Neuberger was visiting Mr. Rockefeller at his Pocantico Hills estate in Westchester County, the governor offered to have New York State build a museum to house the collection at the State University campus at Purchase.

Designed by Philip Johnson, the museum opened in May 1974. Mr. Neuberger often said that the true spirit of his collection could be found on the second floor, which held seminal paintings by Pollock, Stuart Davis, Edward Hopper and Georgia O’Keeffe, as well as many Milton Averys.

Mr. Neuberger made an additional gift of $1.3 million to the State University at Purchase in 1984 and other major gifts to the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He also served as a president of the New York Society for Ethical Culture and the American Federation of Arts.

Mr. Neuberger’s second memoir, “The Passionate Collector,” was published by John Wiley & Sons in 2003. At a White House ceremony in 2007, President Bush presented Mr. Neuberger with a National Medal of Arts.

Like any collector, Mr. Neuberger rued the ones that got away. He remembered passing up a Grant Wood painting as well as refusing to pay $300 for a Jasper Johns in the late 1950s. One time a dealer offered him a Picasso sculpture for $1,500, but he declined because he was buying works only by American artists. “I was such a square that I stupidly didn’t buy it,” he told The New York Times in an interview in 2003.

Mr. Neuberger bought all his works himself, usually through dealers. And his taste ran toward the bold. “I liked adventuresome work that I often didn’t understand,” he told The Times as he was celebrating his 100th birthday. “For art to be very good it has to be over your head.”

But he said he enjoyed the challenge that the work posed to the viewer. “Those who understand the mysteries of art,” he said, “are made happier by doing so.”
573 2010-12-25 The phone rang at 9 a.m. Friday with unexpected news from Michigan’s governor, and Larry Puma let the relief wash away the pain of the past two days, though not the last 22 years.

In 1988, Mr. Puma’s 19-year-old nephew, Pietro Puma, was stabbed to death in a robbery in suburban Detroit. Two men were sentenced to life without parole. But one, Matthew Makowski, 43, was recommended for commutation by a parole board vote after a public hearing in October. He was the mastermind of the robbery gone bad, the authorities said, but was not present at the stabbing.

Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat who is days away from the end of her term, commuted Mr. Makowski’s sentence on Wednesday. But the Puma family was stunned because they never knew about the public hearing, so they protested loudly through the news media on Thursday.

When Ms. Granholm learned of their objections, she halted the commutation in a rare decision.

“There is a process, and the process has worked,” said Liz Boyd, a spokeswoman for Ms. Granholm. “We appreciate the family coming forward.”

Even though Ms. Granholm sent the case back to the parole board, which will formally hear the objections of the victim’s family, the authorities believe the case is closed because of political circumstances. On Jan. 1, Rick Snyder, a Republican, will be sworn in as governor.

“The next administration has told us that there won’t be any carryover, and there’s not time left in this governor’s administration,” said Russ Marlan, a spokesman for the Michigan Department of Corrections. A message left for Mr. Snyder’s spokeswoman was not returned.
574 2010-12-25 As the Emily Post etiquette Web site states: “Tapping on a hand-held device is O.K. if it’s related to what’s being discussed, but taking care of personal business is unprofessional. Your associates might think that you were more interested in your gadget than the business at hand.”

Mobile technology has already started to sneak onto the floors of both the House and the Senate. While the rules of the 111th Congress officially banned iPads and other devices from the floor, there has been a “wink and a nod” approach to a lawmaker who takes furtive glances at his BlackBerry, according to a senior Republican aide.

That was obvious last week, when Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, was seen, head down, tapping out messages as he sat directly behind Senator Arlen Specter, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who was giving his farewell address. Earlier this month, Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas, took his iPad to the speaker’s rostrum as he presided over the chamber. And Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, was caught using his BlackBerry during President Obama’s health care address in 2009.

In the Senate, a leadership aide said that no changes were planned, but that the rules committee could look into loosening the rules at some point. But in the House, members will be free to whip out their mobile phones any time.

That prospect worries Jaron Lanier, the author of “You Are Not A Gadget: A Manifesto.”

“This notion of the deliberative body being insulated and being a little bit removed was there for a reason,” Mr. Lanier said Friday in an interview. “Real-time Tweets? Do we want that?”

Apparently, we do. Mobile devices are everywhere these days. The one on Mr. Obama’s hip can often be seen in photographs snapped as he emerges from Air Force One. Even Laura Bush, the former first lady and a lover of paper-bound books, admitted recently that she was hooked.

“I had not used a computer in the eight years I spent in the White House, and I didn’t know a thing about BlackBerrys,” Mrs. Bush told Advertising Specialty Institute Radio. “And now, like everyone in the U.S., I have one in my hand every moment. I’m addicted to it.”

The new rules in the House, first reported by Nancy Scola of techPresident.com, will be clarified early next month in a document called the Speaker’s Announced Policies. For example, Mr. Buck, the Republican spokesman, said the use of the ubiquitous white iPod earphones would probably not be allowed.

The intent, he said, was to let lawmakers look up the text of a bill, check a fact or keep up on the news of the day. Their advisers could also send them important messages. And, especially with the iPad’s bigger screen, lawmakers could abandon paper copies of bills in favor of electronic versions. Or they could use Google on their smartphone to check the accuracy of something a colleague had just said.

On the other hand, less-high-minded members could use the devices to play games, do their Amazon shopping or find movie listings. In Florida, where laptop computers are already allowed to sit on the desks of state senators, one member was caught with pictures of naked women on his screen.

Still, Mr. Lanier envisioned a bright side, even if lawmakers are not using the devices strictly for work. Recalling the many scenes of lawmakers’ speaking to a mostly empty chamber, he said, “At least if they have a little game to play, maybe they will attend more.”
575 2010-12-25 The hostile A.C.S. bid for Hochtief has brought a level of intrigue and venom that, while par for the course in the United States, has come as a shock to the normally placid German capital markets. The approach has been described in Germany as an “unfriendly bid,” as the German word for hostile, feindlich, is seen as inappropriate in a corporate context.

Hochtief has accused A.C.S., which owned 29.98 percent of the company before the bid and a subsequent dilution of shares, of bad boardroom manners by announcing the surprise offer on Sept. 16, just a week after a board meeting that included Hochtief and A.C.S. executives in which there was no talk of any such approach.

The German company, which receives more than 90 percent of its annual revenue of $24 billion from outside Germany, said that Spanish control would dilute its “made in Germany” brand, load the company up with A.C.S. debt and leave it dangerously exposed to the sickly Spanish economy.

A.C.S., an abbreviation for Actividades de Construcción y Servicios, has responded that the merger would create perhaps the most powerful building services company in the world — one that would manage airports in Greece and toll roads in Europe and the United States, and also have a large exposure to booming Asian markets. Hochtief’s most profitable markets are in Asia and the United States, while A.C.S. derives most of its business from Spain and Latin America.

The Spanish company has said it has no plans to change Hochtief’s strategy and has professed some surprise at the German company’s aggressive response in its defense.

Hochtief’s most notable move was a deal in early December to sell the government of Qatar a 9 percent stake at about a 10 percent discount to the market price — a ploy that enraged the company’s second-largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management of Memphis.

In a furious letter to management, Southeastern, which holds 4.84 percent of Hochtief, described the discounted sale as nothing more than a $348 million payment to Qatar in advance of future construction projects.

In response, Southeastern said it would sell half its Hochtief holding last week to A.C.S. at a slight discount to the market price of around 65 euros a share. That sale pushed the Spanish company closer to the 30 percent ownership threshold.

Southeastern, which manages about $32 billion, is a buy-and-hold investor not known for taking activist stands. But Scott Cobb, Southeastern’s portfolio manager overseeing its European investments, said Hochtief’s discount deal with Qatar left him no choice but to sell part of his own stake.

“These guys don’t own any shares, and human nature tells you that all they care about are their bonuses and salaries,” he said, referring to Hochtief’s chief executive, Herbert Lütkestratkötter, and his executive team. “This was an absolute and unjustifiable failure of corporate governance.”

Hochtief’s response was that the opportunity to bring in an investor like Qatar was too good an opportunity to pass up and was in line with its broader strategy of expanding in the Middle East.

What is more, Southeastern’s large position in A.C.S. (it holds 6.5 percent) and the fact that it began to take a position in Hochtief only in late 2009 — its last big purchase was in late August, less than three weeks before A.C.S. made its bid public — has fed suspicion in the German market that A.C.S. and Southeastern were working in concert.

“It is interesting to see Southeastern tender its shares below the actual share price,” said Christian Gerhardus, a spokesman for Hochtief.

Mr. Cobb disputes any claim of teaming up with A.C.S. and says that the August purchase was “completely coincidental.” A spokeswoman for A.C.S. said that the bid for Hochtief was independent and that company was not working in concert with Southeastern.

All the ruffled feathers notwithstanding, Mr. Pérez’s motive in pushing forward is clear. A.C.S.’s stock price has been hurt by the view that it will suffer together with the Spanish economy and that its debt burden of 9 billion euros will continue to hamper its significant ambitions. From a high of 50.60 euros in June 2007, the stock has been a poor performer and closed Thursday at 35.70 euros. By taking control of Hochtief, not only would the company get exposure to Hochtief’s booming business in Asia and the United States, it would reduce its debt in absorbing Hochtief’s healthier balance sheet — and at a price that analysts agree is a steal.

“This is a very good chance for A.C.S.,” said Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Düsseldorf. “The offer is currently 63 euros, and we see fair value in Hochtief at 91 euros.”
576 2010-12-25 “I am very proud of the old technology,” he said. “But I am also proud to spread the word that there is a problem.”

It is not unusual for a developer or a company to assert that a new device is safer, more efficient or cheaper than an existing one. But Dr. Augustine’s campaign against his own creation is notable for several reasons.

For one, some specialists in patient warming say that Dr. Augustine has yet to produce clear evidence that devices like the Bair Hugger pose a threat, a position that an independent testing laboratory sought out by Dr. Augustine also reached. But that has not stopped the inventor from lashing out against the Bair Hugger, the company that sells it, Arizant Inc., and even some researchers who do not share his views.

His campaign also comes amid the backdrop of a long-running feud between him and Arizant. Dr. Augustine resigned in 2002 as chairman and chief executive of the company, which used to be known as Augustine Medical, after a dispute with other board members, court papers show. Arizant was acquired this fall by 3M for $810 million.

Last year, Dr. Augustine and Arizant settled a court battle arising in part out of a Medicare fraud investigation involving a different device that Dr. Augustine invented.

In 2004, the inventor pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor charge stemming from that inquiry, paid a $2 million fine and was subsequently barred for five years from participating in federal health care programs.

Dr. Augustine then sued Arizant in a Minnesota state court asserting that it owed him, under an indemnification agreement, that $2 million fine plus millions of dollars more in salary. Under a settlement, Dr. Augustine received about $5 million, the company and the doctor said.

Dr. Augustine’s campaign against the Bair Hugger has taken various forms. He has spoken out against the device at professional medical meetings and has underwritten studies intended to show that it may pose a bacterial threat.

Videos on a Web site promoting his new device, which is called the HotDog, suggests that heat generated by a Bair Hugger can redirect circulation in specialized rooms where joint implant surgeries are performed. That change in air flow can bring airborne contaminants in contact with patients, the videos assert.

Last April, the inventor also wrote to Arizant executives, accusing the company of a cover-up of the device’s problems, according to a copy of that letter which Dr. Augustine provided to The New York Times.

“The question for you to answer is the following; is Bair Hugger going to be replaced quickly and catastrophically by a mandatory recall, or do you survive a voluntary recall and live to fight another day?” he wrote.

Arizant executives declined to be interviewed about their interactions with Dr. Augustine. However, Arizant has sued the inventor’s new company, Augustine Biomedical and Design, in Germany, charging it is distributing information there that falsely disparages the Bair Hugger.

3M, Arizant’s new owner, said in a statement: “We believe Mr. Augustine’s allegations against forced-air warming stem from a personal vendetta and are baseless.”

Several researchers in the area of patient warming said they respected the contributions that Dr. Augustine, who has some 150 patents to his credit, had made. And they added that the HotDog, which acts like an electric blanket rather than an air blower, appears to work as well as the Bair Hugger.

But they also said that there did not seem to be enough science to back his assertion that the Bair Hugger was dangerous.

“He simply has a new device now and wants to promote it,” said Dr. Andrea Kurz, an anesthesiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, who has studied the HotDog. “And when you promote a new device by making something old look bad, it doesn’t work well in our community.”

Not long ago, Dr. Augustine presented data to the ECRI Institute, a group in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., that evaluates medical devices, to support his contention that bacteria generated by the Bair Hugger might be linked to hospital infections, said Dr. Jeffrey Lerner, the group’s executive director.

Dr. Lerner added that the group concluded that current data was inadequate to prove that link.

Along with Arizant, Dr. Augustine has turned his sights on other experts. For example, he filed an ethics complaint this year with the Cleveland Clinic, charging that a leading specialist there on patient warming, Dr. Daniel Sessler, was biased against him.

In an interview, Dr. Sessler said that Dr. Augustine, whom he has long known, approached him several years ago to be a consultant on the HotDog. Dr. Sessler said that he told the inventor he would need a sizable payment to consider the position because he would no longer be able to accept research financing from competitors like Arizant.

The men did not reach an agreement and soon, Dr. Sessler said, Dr. Augustine turned on him.

“He started getting on my case, sending me funny notes saying I was biased,” he said.

For his part, Dr. Augustine said he filed his ethics complaint after Dr. Sessler made a speech at a recent professional meeting that discussed only forced-air warmers like the Bair Hugger and did not mention devices like the HotDog.

A spokesman for the Cleveland Clinic said that its legal department had looked into Dr. Augustine’s charge that Dr. Sessler was biased and determined that it was unfounded.

Dr. Jeffrey P. Gumprecht, an infectious disease expert in New York, said that he was hired by Dr. Augustine’s company to review its data. He said he found the inventor’s theory about the potential dangers of forced-air warming compelling, but added that proving such a link might be impossible because it would require mounting a huge clinical study.
577 2010-12-25 Mylan, a generic-drug maker, agreed to pay $65 million to settle a lawsuit by the federal and Texas governments asserting that the company had inflated prescription drug prices, increasing the cost of reimbursing pharmacies and other providers. The company admitted no wrongdoing in agreeing to the payment. Since 2003, Mylan has been sued by 18 states making similar allegations, according to the company’s 2009 annual report. Last year, Mylan, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson agreed to pay $124 million to settle claims they violated laws by underpaying Medicaid rebates, the Justice Department said.
578 2010-12-25 ATLANTA — Reaching cruising altitude between New York and Atlanta on Friday afternoon, the courtly pilot on Delta Flight 1947 broke some happy news for Yuletide romantics, or something less so for those hoping to make a Christmas Eve redeye: a possible white Christmas in the Deep South, something that has not been seen in Atlanta since the 1880s.

But the prospect of snow had Delta Air Lines, which has a hub and headquarters here, scrambling to please its public, offering free one-time changes to travel plans. And it seemed as if there would be plenty of changes; Delta said it would cancel some 500 flights nationwide on Saturday (300 out of Atlanta alone), putting a serious crimp in the plans of untold numbers of those ultimate last-minute Christmas travelers.

The approaching storm was not the only worry with travelers embarking on their annual rite of rushing and reunion. In security lines all over the country, passengers girded for another indignity as transportation officials warned that even the sacred totem of Ralph Kramden — the thermos — would be subject to new searches.

Stressed-out expressions and short tempers were as common as nut snacks and three-figure baggage fees; at a flight out of La Guardia, some petulant travelers chafed at airlines’ stricter rules for the size of carry-on bags. “I’ve traveled all over the world with that bag,” one woman huffed. But on this trip, the bag traveled in the cargo hold.

Others took a more merry approach, donning Santa hats and marking time with moments of quick camaraderie. In Long Beach, Calif., a Thursday night arrival from Oakland saw a welcome sight: a sunset, after days of rain had soaked Southern California and cost some their homes.
579 2010-12-25 “Whereas before Chávez was largely content in creating parallel institutions, here the intent is far more focused on replacing or significantly refashioning existing institutions like universities, political parties and the media,” said Alejandro Velasco, a historian at New York University who specializes in Venezuela.

While the laws were approved during a lull in popular attention as much of Venezuela shut down for the holidays, their scope and ambition provoked a sharp public reaction here, including unusually forceful protests this week by students, who were dispersed by soldiers firing water cannons and rubber bullets.

“One has to say it clearly: a new dictatorial model is being imposed in Venezuela,” said Ismael García, a prominent leftist legislator who broke with Mr. Chávez in 2007.

One of the measures approved this month punishes legislators for switching political parties, effectively prohibiting lawmakers like Mr. García from peeling away from Mr. Chávez’s coalition to the opposition. The law describes such a move as “fraud” that could disqualify defectors from holding public office.

Iris Varela, a lawmaker from Mr. Chávez’s United Socialist Party, said the law was needed to prevent opposition legislators from being elected on the president’s ticket, “so later they can betray.”

Opposition leaders said the law, along with several other new measures, was unconstitutional. But with Venezuela’s legal system tightly controlled by pro-Chávez judges who rarely rule against the president, it is unclear how a challenge would gain headway in the courts.

Beyond the vote granting broad decree powers to Mr. Chávez, enabling him to enact new laws and bypass the National Assembly on issues like public security and finances, the lame-duck National Assembly also placed procedural restrictions on the new legislature, in which the opposition is expected to account for about 40 percent of the body.

Lawmakers will now be allowed to take the floor to speak for a bill for only 10 minutes, down from 15. Those speaking against a bill will have just three minutes, down from five. The departing legislature also restricted broadcasts of parliamentary debates to state television.

While Venezuela’s major political institutions have been controlled by Mr. Chávez’s followers for some time, the ease with which the legislature approved the laws, with relatively little debate among its own members and virtual silence within the country’s legal system, surprised some observers.

“In Venezuela, the law is destroyed by the law, the judicial system is destroyed by the judicial system and the Parliament is destroyed by the Parliament,” said Fernando Mires, a Chilean historian and philosopher who closely follows Venezuelan events, in an essay examining the new legislation.

Others here said the opposition’s condemnation of the new laws was misleading and overly dramatic.

“The opposition, practically from the outset of Chávez’s presidency over 10 years ago, has been claiming that dictatorial rule is imminent,” said Steve Ellner, a political scientist at Oriente University in eastern Venezuela. “It just hasn’t turned out that way.”

Mr. Ellner said one of the new laws, the measure prohibiting nongovernmental groups from receiving foreign money, had to be seen in the broader context of tensions between Caracas and Washington. The United States has sent millions of dollars to Venezuelan organizations, many of them critical of Mr. Chávez’s government.

“Among Chávez’s followers, concern for national security overshadows the issue of the constructive role that NGOs can play in a democratic setting,” he said, using the abbreviation for nongovernmental organizations.

The extension of an existing broadcast law to include restrictions on Internet messages that “incite or promote disobedience of the current legal order” or “refuse the legitimately constituted authority” has elicited concerns from press freedom groups. The measure introduces fines and the suspension of services for Web sites deemed in violation.

Changes in the broadcast law also portend a showdown with Globovisión, a news network here that remains critical of the government. The government recently took a 20 percent stake in Globovisión, and the law may ease a further shift in control by requiring television station owners to be in Venezuela when reapplying for licenses. Globovisión’s owners recently went into exile in the United States.

Human Rights Watch contended that the new set of laws were a “legislative assault on free speech” that would put Venezuela in violation of international human-rights treaties.
580 2010-12-25 THE love affair of American investors with the stock market appears to have ended.

The year now ending will be the fourth consecutive year in which mutual funds that invest primarily in American stocks experienced net outflows of funds, meaning that investors as a group withdrew more money than they put in.

That has happened even though the stock market has flourished over the last two years as it bounced back from lows reached in the spring of 2009 amid worries that the recession at the time would turn into Great Depression II.

The Standard & Poor’s index of 500 stocks had a total return of 26 percent in 2009, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and is on pace to post another double-digit gain this year. If current prices hold, they will be the best back-to-back years since 1998-99.

The accompanying charts show that investors took out $81 billion from such funds so far this year, significantly more than they took out in 2009 but well below the withdrawals of more than $150 billion in 2008, the year that Lehman Brothers failed.

The withdrawals this year were partly offset by money flowing into foreign stock funds and hybrid funds, which invest in both stocks and bonds. Investors seem more willing to trust in overseas markets, and a growing number are choosing so-called target-date funds, in which fund companies promise to choose the right mix of stocks and bonds depending upon when an investor expects to retire.
581 2010-12-25 Isaac Brekken for The New York TimesLee Amaitis, the president and chief executive of Cantor Gaming, a subsidiary of the Wall Street bond powerhouse Cantor Fitzgerald.     LAS VEGAS - Miles away from the glamour of the Las Vegas Strip, past forecl...
582 2010-12-26 Zane Johnson had 19 points and 8 rebounds to lead Hawaii (9-3) to a 68-57 victory over short-handed Mississippi State (8-5) in the fifth-place game of the Diamond Head Classic on Saturday in Honolulu. It was the first game for the Bulldogs since they suspended two players for fighting in the stands at the tournament.

The Rainbow Warriors controlled the inside and the game with the Bulldogs’ top big men, Renardo Sidney and Elgin Bailey, suspended indefinitely. Sidney and Elgin were involved in a fistfight after the Bulldogs’ game on Thursday. ¶Devin Ginty made 5 of 6 free throws in the final 25 seconds and San Diego (3-10) held on for a 67-64 victory over Utah (7-6) in the seventh-place game of the Diamond Head Classic. Jordan Mackie led the Toreros with 14 points in their first win over an N.C.A.A. Division I opponent this season. san diego (AP)
583 2010-12-26 Dartmouth transcripts include median grades, along with the number of courses in which the student exceeded, equaled or came in lower than those medians. Columbia transcripts show the percentage of students in the course who earned an A.

At Reed College, transcripts are accompanied by an explanatory card. Last year’s graduating class had an average G.P.A. of 3.20, it says, and only 10 percent of the class graduated with a G.P.A. of 3.67 or higher.

“We also tell them that in 26 years, only 10 students have graduated with a perfect 4.0 average — and three of them were transfers who didn’t get all those grades at Reed,” said Nora McLaughlin, the registrar at Reed. “We wanted to put the grades at Reed in context to be sure that graduate schools, particularly professional schools where G.P.A. is very much an important factor, understand how capable our students are.”

Especially in hard economic times, students worry that professors who are stingy with the A’s will leave them at a disadvantage in graduate school admissions and employment. No wonder, then, that many students visit Web sites like RateMyProfessors.com when registering, perhaps to help them avoid tough graders.

Cornell’s experience shows the impact — and the unintended consequences — that grading information can bring.

In 1996, Cornell’s faculty adopted a “truth in grading” policy, and median grades were posted online starting in 1998. The policy called for median grades to be shown on transcripts as soon as student-records technology made that possible, but that did not happen until a full decade later.

And while the median grades were available only online, a study by three Cornell economists found a large increase in enrollment in courses with a median grade of A — further driving grade inflation.

“At least when the grades were only online, the main users of the information seemed to be students shopping around for easier classes,” said Talia Bar, one of the three economists.

Ms. Bar said there is no consensus on the right way to grade.

“I might see a course of 200 people with a median grade of A as not right, but others might see it as good,” she said.

But at least in the realm of theory, there is widespread agreement that providing extra context on transcripts is a good thing.

“It’s generally recognized that an A by itself is not very meaningful,” said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. “Giving statistical context to assist recipients of a transcript in understanding the grades is definitely helpful.”

But as a practical matter, it is not so easy.

“It’s complicated, it’s controversial, and it runs into campus political opposition from all sorts of directions you might not anticipate,” Mr. Nassirian said, adding that transcripts with too much extra information can become unwieldy.

Studies of grade inflation have found that private universities generally give higher grades than public ones, and that humanities courses award higher grades than science and math classes.

Mr. Perrin’s concern with grading standards began 15 years ago, when he was a teaching assistant at the University of California, Berkeley.

“I would grade papers, run the grades by the professor and then give them out, and long lines of students would appear outside my office to say I graded too hard,” Mr. Perrin said. Now, at North Carolina, Mr. Perrin is convinced that grading problems are pervasive.

“Anything that uses G.P.A is unfair, because a given student can be penalized or rewarded in grading just because of the mix of professors or the strength of the schedule,” Mr. Perrin said. “Some instructors grade harder than others. Some courses are harder than others, and some departments are harder than others.”

The pending changes at North Carolina are the university’s latest effort to improve its grading system.

Since 1967, when the average G.P.A. was 2.49, grade inflation at the university has been well-documented. In 2000, the faculty council heard a proposal to adopt a target average G.P.A. of 2.6 to 2.7, but the idea was dropped. A few years later, the faculty narrowly voted down an ambitious proposal for an adjusted G.P.A., called the “Achievement Index,” that would reflect not only the students’ performance in their courses, but also the rigor of those courses.

At U.N.C., the average G.P.A was 3.21 in the fall of 2008, up from 2.99 in 1995. A’s have become the most frequent grade, and together, A’s and B’s accounted for 82 percent of the 2008 grades. Last spring, the faculty called for the creation of Mr. Perrin’s committee to help the registrar give context to undergraduate grades by providing statistics on what percentage of students got each letter grade, what percentage are majors in the department and what percentage are seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen.

“We seem to have a pretty good consensus here now,” said Holden Thorp, the chancellor. “What I like about this approach is that it allows faculty who have a certain philosophy of grading to stick with it, as long as they’re O.K. with having it be shown. If somebody gets an A in a class with a lot of A’s and that’s put out there, that’s good. If the chemists are willing to tell everybody that they grade harshly, that’s good too.”
584 2010-12-26 Dwyane Wade had a television show, too. It was not in prime time, or sponsored, or technically his. But 33 hours before LeBron James made “The Decision” last July, Wade went on ESPN to announce he would re-sign with the Miami Heat .

The decision (lowercase) was televised live at 12:30 p.m. July 7, to modest fanfare and zero criticism. It did not turn Wade into a symbol of competitive cowardice or a source of sociological studies.

The contrasting reactions to James’s and Wade’s announcements had everything to do with context, of course, as well as format. Wade’s was an act of loyalty, to his employer of seven seasons. James’s was an act of betrayal, and an audacious, self-indulgent one at that.

A lot of bandwidth has been expended deconstructing and vilifying James for his decision. Perhaps not enough has been said about Wade’s. He not only stayed put, but also shelved his ego and to an extent his self-interest in inviting James and Chris Bosh to share the South Beach spotlight.

For six seasons, Wade was the undisputed face of the Heat. Yes, Shaquille O’Neal borrowed some wattage for a few years, but Wade was always the scoring leader, and was the most valuable player of the 2006 N.B.A. finals as Miami won its only championship.

From 2004-5 through 2009-10, Wade averaged 26.8 points, won a scoring title (30.2 points a game in 2008-9), led the Heat to five playoff appearances and carried the full weight of the city’s expectations.

How often does a perennial M.V.P. contender — still in his prime at 28 — invite a two-time M.V.P. to join his team, to share the glory and the adulation? Almost never.

When superstars align, it is usually a product of happenstance (the draft) or front-office machinations (a trade), and the results can be messy. Scottie Pippen and Charles Barkley were uneasy allies in Houston. O’Neal and Kobe Bryant feuded through three title runs with the Los Angeles Lakers and could hardly wait to split up in 2004.

The current Boston Celtics are a portrait of superstar harmony, but Paul Pierce, Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett were all in their 30s by the time they united (via trades) in 2007. After years of individual failure — and years of enjoying top-dog perks — they were ready to make sacrifices for the common good.

In that regard, Wade, James and Bosh are years ahead of schedule in reordering their priorities. All three sacrificed money and status, but Wade’s gesture was the most significant, because the Heat was clearly his team.

Adjusting to James — another ultradynamic, scoring, playmaking, ball-dominating star — has not been easy. Wade’s averages (23.3 points, 4.3 assists and 16.6 shots) are his lowest since his rookie season. But Miami is winning and Wade seems at ease, satisfied.

Wade and James share billboards and news conferences and the burden of explaining when things go wrong. Next to James, who can be scripted and self-obsessed in his commentary, Wade sounds ever more thoughtful and magnanimous.
585 2010-12-26 The image never left her, and over the next decade and a half, whenever Ms. Neravanda was in the area, she would drive up Ward Hill to admire the views and, she said, “just dream.”

Finally, in 2004, after both their children had grown up, the Neravandas bought a two-bedroom midcentury cottage on Tompkins Circle in Ward Hill, with sweeping views of the Staten Island and Brooklyn waterfronts and the serene blue band of water in between, from the lower part of Upper New York Bay, past the majestic span of the Verrazano and out to the open sea.

They didn’t move in until just this month, having provided the house as a home for their grown daughter and niece for several years.

Now the home has been thoroughly renovated, and the elder Neravandas have the daily pleasure of watching the languorous parade of ships making their way into New York Harbor in what, from this tranquil overlook, seems slow motion.

“Each day it’s different,” Ms. Neravanda said of the view. “One day the whole Narrows was full of mist and the whole bridge was missing, so it was the way it must have looked before the bridge was built, eerie but beautiful.”

As with many houses in Ward Hill, a large proportion of which date to the early decades of the last century, little work had been done on the Neravandas’ home since its construction. It seemed due for a face-lift.

On the outside, the couple transformed it into an angular contemporary. On the inside they added a bedroom to accommodate visiting children and grandchildren.

Although Ms. Neravanda would not disclose the cost of the house or its renovation, real estate records show that a renovated five-bedroom house next door sold last month for $725,000.

Many homes have remained in the same families for decades, but as longtime residents either retire away or pass away, Ward Hill has been enjoying an infusion of new residents from all walks of life.

“It’s a real eclectic mix of people, with a lot of artsy people moving in,” said Jody Scaravella, a restaurateur who lives in a renovated Dutch colonial down the block from the Neravandas. “It’s not a boring, homogeneous zone.”

In a terraced behind his house, Mr. Scaravella grows produce for Enoteca Maria, the Italian restaurant he owns in nearby St. George. While tending his zucchini in the summer, he said, he is occasionally able to hear live rock being performed by talented bands at the homes of neighbors who work in the music industry. At other times he hears only the singing of .

“Urban bucolic” is how Joseph Carroll, the district manager of Community Board 1, described the area, adding that “it’s economically singular but ethnically diverse.” The ’s American Community Survey, based on samples from 2005 to 2009, estimated that residents in the area of Ward Hill and adjacent streets were 41 percent Hispanic, 29 percent white, 12 percent Asian and 8 percent black.

The neighborhood was named for Caleb T. Ward, who around 1835 built a monumental porticoed mansion on the crest of a hill 200 feet above sea level. The house, according to its city landmark designation report, is one of the finest examples of Greek Revival in the five boroughs and one of the last great houses remaining from a time when Staten Island’s north shore was a resort for wealthy New Yorkers.

Ward Hill, hidden in plain sight above low-rise buildings on Victory Boulevard, defines a neighborhood just a few blocks long and a few wide. Its boundaries, while not universally accepted, are generally considered to be: Cebra Avenue to the south; Victory Boulevard running northeast from Cebra; Fiedler Avenue and Tompkins Circle to the north; and Tompkins Circle and Ward and Nixon Avenues to the east.

The area’s signature views are best obtained from Nixon Avenue, Tompkins Circle and Ward Avenue. Those streets are lined with well-maintained single-family homes, representing a mix of styles: colonials, Tudors, even a ranch or two. But because so many are of older vintage, these prime streets nonetheless have a cozy, cohesive feel.

Nixon Avenue has a manicured aspect that Ms. Karp, the Coldwell Banker agent, likened to the enclave of Garden City. On the crest of Ward Avenue stand stately if not elaborate houses, with more modest homes mixed in as the hill slopes down in either direction.

“They have something that can never be removed,” Mr. Carroll, the district manager, said of Ward Hill residents. “The people on the perimeter have the views, and the houses on the interior have the serenity.”

Compared with neighboring Grymes Hill, its higher-profile neighbor, Ward Hill has relatively down-to-earth prices. While a three- or four-bedroom home with prime water views in Grymes Hill can easily cost more than $1 million, Ms. Karp said, a comparable house with optimal views can be had in Ward Hill for $625,000 to $725,000.

There are seven houses on the market in Ward Hill. Theresa , a sales agent with Coldwell Banker Hometime Realty, said that 16 had sold in the last year. According to an analysis by Anthony Licciardello, a sales associate with Robert DeFalco Realty, single-family homes sold for an average of $530,000, after 153 days on the market. Two three-bedroom semidetached houses on Tompkins Circle, both with New York Harbor views, sold for $395,000 each.

The average sale price for houses over the past 12 months has climbed to $411,808 from $278,961 the previous year, with homes remaining on the market an average of 118 days, half as long as the year before.

WHAT TO DO

For those with an adventurous palate, there is a rich variety of local mom-and-pop restaurants in the less-rarefied area below the hill. A 129-step “stair street” runs from Tompkins Circle down to Victory Boulevard, providing a short cut to Sri Lankan, Mexican, Polish and menus. “These are authentic restaurants, people expressing their culture and trying to eke out a living,” said Mr. Scaravella, the restaurateur.

The Cargo Café, on Bay Street in nearby St. George, hosts rock, jazz and big-band acts. The Every Thing Goes Book Cafe and Neighborhood Stage, also on Bay Street, presents music, poetry and theater. Richmond County Bank Ballpark, home of the single-A Staten Island Yankees, is a five-minute drive. Nearby Silver Lake has a public course and tennis courts.

Elementary students are zoned to attend Public School 16 in neighboring Tompkinsville, which serves prekindergarten through fifth grade. Intermediate School 61 in nearby Randall Manor covers Grades 6 through 8. Each received a C on its most recent city progress report.

High schools nearby include two in St. George: the Ralph R. McKee Career and Technical Education High School and Curtis High School. SAT averages at McKee last year were 411 in reading, 429 in math and 386 in writing; at Curtis, they were 439, 441 and 430. Citywide averages were 439, 462 and 434.

Lower Manhattan is half an hour away, via a five-minute drive and a ride on the . The ferry is so close that some residents make the 10- to 15-minute walk instead. The Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, a gateway to Brooklyn, is about a 10-minute drive.

Ward Hill has been popular with public figures. Lewis Nixon, whose wife, Sally Lewis Wood Nixon, bought the Ward Mansion in 1904, was head of Tammany Hall. Joseph Marotta, a former chairman of the local community board, lived on Tompkins Circle until his death in 2008. At a ceremony in May, Nixon Avenue was given the additional name of Hon. John J. Marchi Way, after the longtime state senator and Ward Hill resident who died last year.
586 2010-12-26 How did an English chef come to open a Japanese bistro in Cambodia?

It actually began on a late night in Shanghai in March 2009, when the chef, Caspar von Hofmannsthal, happened upon an izakaya, a Japanese gastropub, hidden behind an unmarked door.

“It was packed, loud and smoky, but the food was so simple and well-executed,” said Mr. von Hofmannsthal, 28, who previously managed high-end London restaurants like Quo Vadis.

So when the Londoner moved to Phnom Penh two months later, he set out to recreate the izakaya experience, but with a twist.

Mr. von Hofmannsthal opened Yumi in November 2009, turning a garage into a sleek, ambient bistro with recessed lighting, entered through a leafy terrace edged in funky fortified vines.

“We let the ingredients speak for themselves,” Mr. von Hofmannsthal said of the recipes that he and his head chef, Ross Erikson, conceive in Yumi’s open kitchen.

Using locally grown, seasonal products — including whatever’s freshest at the market — Yumi delivers small, artful, sauce-heavy plates of pleasure that are meant to be shared. During a summer visit, these included refreshingly light tempura squid with a ponzu dip spiced up with chilies and garlic, and niku dango, skewered Japanese beef meatballs, dressed in fragrant black pepper from the seaside town of Kampot.
587 2010-12-26 For the seventh consecutive decade, Texas will gain seats in the United States House of Representatives after the decennial apportionment process — four seats this time, bringing the state’s total to 36.

When these new members take office after the 2012 elections, what will this increase mean for Texas? Extra clout, especially since the state will undoubtedly send the largest Republican delegation in the nation to a House that in 2011 just switched back to Republican control.

“It does increase the weight of Texas in national decision-making, most obviously in the House,” said Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas.

This year, Texas gained more new representatives than any other state, reflecting its increased population — up to 25 million from 20.9 million. The state significantly outpaced population growth nationally, which increased by a relatively anemic 9.7 percent, largely from growth in the South and the West, according to the Census Bureau.

Apportionment is the first tangible result of the bureau’s decennial count of American households. The count is used to determine how many representatives each state sends to Congress, and consequently how many votes each has in the Electoral College.
588 2010-12-26 The Volt, which shares its basic structure with the Chevy Cruze, can readily achieve the top end of G.M.’s estimate for all-electric range: driving gently, I managed 50 miles on a full charge. The next morning, unplugging after a four-hour refill from a 240-volt charging dock, I drove like a normal commuter, covering 41 miles to the Detroit Hamtramck plant where the Volt is built.

Once its central display screen registered the last mile of battery power, the Chevy switched into “extended range” mode, divvying motive chores among the remarkably quiet 1.4-liter gas engine upfront, its dual electric motors and the 435-pound, 16 kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery nestled below the floor.

Having delivered the energy-use equivalent of about 112 miles per gallon in battery mode, the Volt continued to have admirable economy with the gas-driven generator supplying the electricity: 44 m.p.g. over all, whipping the E.P.A.’s estimate of 35 city and 40 highway. With its 9.3-gallon gas capacity — premium fuel required — you can exceed 300 miles per tank, in addition to the initial E.V. miles. That’s the crux of how the Volt maintains everyday practicality while affording owners all-electric motoring on short local trips.

After logging 120 miles (60 electric and 60 in gas-electric mode) the Volt returned the no-fudging equivalent of 64 miles per gallon. That average accounts for the 18 kilowatt-hours of plug-in electricity the Volt consumed — just over a half-gallon’s worth of gasoline using the conversion of about 33 kilowatt-hours of energy per gallon.

Unfortunately, if owners want that accurate accounting of combined mileage, including electricity, they’ll have to do it online through the free five-year OnStar account that comes with the car. That’s because the Volt’s trip computer simply measures the gas you use over the total trip mileage, including the initial E.V. miles. Essentially, the computer pretends that the electricity is free and its miles are on the house.

So while the Volt accurately displayed my gasoline economy in extended-range mode (a healthy 44 m.p.g.) it also showed a too-optimistic 84 m.p.g. total after 120 miles because I had burned only 1.4 gallons of gasoline. But count those kilowatts in the battery, and the real average was 64 m.p.g. (The E.P.A. estimates the Volt’s combined gas-electric economy at 60 m.p.g., and its all-electric operation at the energy equivalent of 93 m.p.g.)

The Volt’s vehicle line director, Tony Posawatz, said that G.M. tried to provide useful interactive mileage data, but not so much that readouts would confuse drivers. Software updates may let owners choose more data-rich displays, including cost-per-mile or the so-called m.p.g.e., which converts electrical consumption into its gasoline equivalent.

Still, give the Volt’s engineers their due: 64 m.p.g. is pretty spectacular. That’s a real-world result, and it’s nearly 30 percent better mileage than a Toyota Prius, previously the nation’s highest-mileage hybrid.

Remember, I managed 64 m.p.g. on a 50-50 split of gas and electric driving. Most owners, I think, will do better, determined to drive most of their miles on battery power.

Early adopters with the means and mind-set to buy a Volt — $41,000 on the window sticker, but $33,500 after subtracting the $7,500 federal tax credit, or $350 a month on G.M.’s sweetheart lease — will plug in faithfully, rarely sullying their Volts with a fuel nozzle.

Yes, the mileage calculations can be baffling. Then, G.M. marketers muddied the water by promoting the Volt as a “purely electric” car, never mind that once its battery is depleted the gas engine will start in order to keep the car moving.

To me, G.M. should shout from the rooftops that the Volt is really a plug-in hybrid; its ability to drive like an electric car when you want it, but coast-to-coast on gasoline should you need, is its huge advantage over short-range, cord-bound E.V.’s like the Nissan Leaf.

As Chevy reminds us incessantly, a Volt owner can travel 40 miles each day and never burn a drop, joule or calorie of gasoline (more, obviously, if you can plug in while at the office or shopping mall). That owner will cover those first 40 miles for about $1.50 worth of electricity on average, a figure that includes electrical losses as the Volt draws some 12.5 kilowatt-hours of juice to refill the battery. The Volt only uses about 65 percent of its battery capacity, one of several strategies aimed at ensuring long battery life. While the batteries are warranted for eight years or 100,000 miles, G.M. says it engineered them to last 150,000 miles.

Covering those same 40 miles would cost $4.80 in gasoline for a typical 25-m.p.g. car, or $2.40 for the Prius driver who managed 50 m.p.g.

Those figures are based on a national average of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, according to the Energy Department, but electric rates vary wildly by location. Charge your Volt in Connecticut, with its nearly 19-cent average rate, and the Volt’s running costs fall close to those of a Prius or Honda Civic Hybrid, raising skepticism over the Volt’s considerably higher price.

But please, enough with stories that cherry-pick statistics, comparing worst-case Volts against Priuses running downhill on the nation’s cheapest gas. So try this: In California, which endures some of the nation’s highest electric bills, Pacific Gas & Electric plans to charge as little as 5 cents a kilowatt-hour for nighttime E.V. charging. At that rate, you’d spend 60 cents to cover 40 miles in the Chevy. For a Prius to commute on such pocket change, gasoline would have to cost 75 cents a gallon.

If only the styling gave owners more bragging rights. There are two ways to look at the Volt: first, that its middle-America normalness is exactly the point. Or, that Chevy missed an opportunity to brand the Volt with a truly eye-catching design. At least it avoids the green-goblin frumpiness of the Leaf.

Call the Volt quietly handsome, with a pleasingly sporty stance and uncluttered visage — aside from the unfortunate black plastic that underlines the side windows.

There’s a tad more gee-whiz inside. It begins with an iPod-like center stack and dual 7-inch information screens. A navigation system is standard, and there are clever smartphone and OnStar applications to remotely manage charging and check the charge level; owners can also cool or heat the car remotely, using grid electricity rather than draining the battery.

The flush-mounted touch-panel controls look all Logan’s Run, though they sometimes balk at an initial fingertap before responding. Even so, the Volt’s vivid displays — including a little green ball that hovers inside an animated circle — offer welcome feedback on how efficiently you’re driving.

Because the 5.5-foot-long T-shaped battery runs between the seats, there’s no room for a fifth passenger. Legroom is tight in back. The hatch is also a bit smaller than a typical compact’s, though folding the rear seats vastly expands the space.

While the Volt’s cabin is comfortable and whimsically futuristic, materials and fit-and-finish are more akin to its sibling, the Cruze— certainly not the luxury you’d demand in any other car at this price. But that’s a necessary trade-off, considering that each lithium-ion pack costs G.M. an estimated $10,000. You can practically feel that battery sucking money from the interior.

The Volt’s payback is its sophisticated operation. It is not sporty per se, nor is it a limp noodle. The Chevy drives like an especially quiet and trusty family car.

The regenerative brakes feel grabby and nonlinear at first, but you soon get used to braking early and lightly to recapture as much electricity as possible. Drivers can switch the console shift lever into a Low mode that bolsters the energy-scavenging of the brakes. Though special Goodyear tires trade some grip for low-rolling resistance and fuel economy, drivers may be surprised at how confidently the Volt will corner.

The oddest part of driving the Volt? At times, the engine revs don’t rise in sync with a push on the gas pedal, as they would in a conventional car, because the Volt may be drawing power from its battery instead. Then, a few seconds later, the engine speeds up to replenish the battery’s buffer.

Certainly, you could buy a conventional Chevy Cruze for $20,000, get respectable mileage and save thousands. But the Volt isn’t for people looking for the lowest possible price or operating costs — it is designed for those willing to spend extra for new technology that can wean them off gas and cut pollution.

In other words, the Volt is a car that will make fans feel good about driving and about themselves. If that’s not your cup of green tea, don’t buy it. But if the Volt appeals to you, my hunch is that you’re going to love it more than any car you’ve driven in years.

The achievement can’t be overstated. Poised to sell in the tens of thousands, the Volt (and Leaf) are the first cars in a century to make Big Oil sweat, if only a little. More will follow. And in a first for G.M., it’s an economical car that Americans will buy for its cachet, not a cut-rate payment.
589 2010-12-26 Mabel A. Hwang and Jonathan David Weiss were married Friday afternoon at the Langham Hotel in Pasadena, Calif. Dr. William I. Weiss, the bridegroom’s paternal grandfather who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.

The couple, both 24, are in their final year of law school at the University of Southern California.

Mrs. Weiss graduated from Wellesley, magna cum laude. She is a daughter of May Hwang and Andrew B. Hwang of South Pasadena, Calif. The bride’s father is an immigration lawyer. She is to join her father’s law practice upon graduation.

Mr. Weiss graduated from Georgetown, summa cum laude. Upon graduation, he is to become a litigation associate in the Los Angeles office of Jenner & Block, a Chicago law firm. He is a son of Carol Anne Weiss and Dr. Steven J. Weiss of Basking Ridge, N.J. The bridegroom’s mother is a nurse practitioner, working in Parsippany, N.J., for Atlantic Corporate Health, a Morristown, N.J., company that designs employee health care programs for companies. His father is an allergist and immunologist at Allergy Asthma and Immunology, a practice in Livingston, N.J.
590 2010-12-26 Sharyn Carroll Meaney and Neil James Morton were married Friday on St. John in the Virgin Islands. The Rev. Phil Chalker, a minister with the World Christianship Ministries, officiated at the Westin hotel on Great Cruz Bay.

Mrs. Morton, 43, is the owner of and the designer for a sports apparel business that bears her name. She works in Hoboken, N.J., and in New York. She graduated from Guilford College in Greensboro, N.C., and received an M.B.A. from the University of Colorado. She is the daughter of Kathleen H. Bradham of Aiken, S.C., and Daniel B. Meaney of Madison, N.J.

Mr. Morton, 48, is the chief executive of Everlast Worldwide, the maker of boxing, mixed martial arts and fitness-related sporting goods, and the head of licensing in the United States for International Brand Management Ltd., both units of Sports Direct, the British sporting goods retailer. He works in New York. He is the son of Sheila and Graham Morton of Hemel Hempstead, England.

The bridegroom’s two previous marriages ended in divorce.
591 2010-12-26 Also, three rental units are to be built for the physically handicapped in Mohegan Lake in Yorktown, and a three-family house is to be rehabilitated in Pelham.

The settlement, signed by Andrew J. Spano when he was county executive, stipulates that of the 750 houses or apartments, 630 must be provided in towns and villages where black residents constitute 3 percent or less of the population and Hispanic residents make up less than 7 percent. The 120 others face a different set of criteria for cost and ethnic concentration.

Among communities affected by settlement are Bedford, Bronxville, Cortlandt, Dobbs Ferry, Eastchester, Hastings-on-Hudson, Harrison, Irvington, Larchmont, Lewisboro, Mamaroneck, New Castle, North Castle, Pelham and Pelham Manor, Pleasantville, Rye, Rye Brook, Scarsdale and Yorktown.

The three rental apartments for people with physical disabilities in Mohegan Lake will be developed by Freedom Gardens for the Handicapped, a nonprofit group in Yorktown. Estimated rent for the one-bedroom units is $1,280 a month. The Board of Legislators has approved the project.

The Larchmont condo project, to be built by Wilder Balter Partners in Elmsford, entails construction of two buildings near the train station. The 10 one-bedrooms and 41 two-bedrooms will be available to families earning 80 percent of the median income (the planning department puts the median for a two-person household at $83,750). The project is up for approval.

The total cost is projected at about $20 million, said William G. Balter, one of the partners. Financing will come from federal, state and county sources. The smallest one-bedroom unit (about 800 square feet) will sell for $155,000; the largest two-bedroom with a den (about 1,600 square feet) will go for $241,200.

“These units are not for poor people,” Mr. Balter said. “They’re for working-class people who work in the community, in the banks and schools, for example.”

He saw the need for moderately priced units as great enough in Westchester that the units would be “sold out before they are even finished.” But that has not been the case at an affordable-housing project in Ossining with 12 units, built by the county two years ago. Sales there have been slow, Ms. Drummond said, adding, “In the current economy, people have been reluctant to lock into homeownership.”

In Rye, Lazz Development of Rye Brook has plans for Cottage Landings, which will consist of 18 town houses. Eleven one-bedroom units are to be sold for about $150,000 each, and 7 one-bedrooms with dens for about $165,000. Lazz will also build four one-bedroom units to be sold at market rate. The cost of the project, on a one-acre site that already contains two two-family houses, is about $5.8 million; financing is to be federal, state and county. The project has been approved.

Another Lazz project, the three-family house in Pelham, envisions a two-bedroom apartment for the homeowner and two rental units, a one-bedroom providing income of $1,150 a month and a two-bedroom providing $1,375 a month. The proposed price to the buyer is $325,000. The project has been submitted for approval.

The board has also approved financing for the Cortlandt rental project, called Roundtop at Montrose, of which 83 units will be affordable. (An additional eight units were approved by the town as affordable-housing units before the settlement, and therefore will not count.) Eligibility will be restricted to families with incomes no higher than 60 percent of the area median. Rents will range, depending on income, from $870 a month, for a one-bedroom, to $1,270 for a two-bedroom.

The Anti-Discrimination Center, the New York City fair housing group that brought the suit against the county 16 months ago, said others among the 31 municipalities earmarked for new housing remained resistant, and more legal action against Westchester may be necessary to force compliance. Alfred A. Gatta, Scarsdale’s village manager, pinpointed the cost of land there as one impediment, expressing doubt about developer interest in building affordable projects when the property itself is so pricey.

“I have been looking over the model ordinance, and we have the zoning in place to allow for multifamily development,” Mr. Gatta said. “But I think at $1.6 million an acre for vacant land here, some developers just won’t bother.”

“Scarsdale supports the idea in concept,” he added. “I just wish the county would have negotiated a settlement agreement that would have taken that into account.”

But Craig Gurian, the executive director of the Anti-Discrimination Center, did not buy Mr. Gatta’s argument. He said the county had the legal tools to force municipalities to develop zoning that would allow for even higher density, and that in turn would make it feasible for developers to build affordable units in places with high land costs..
592 2010-12-26 Serving as the public face of a Web startup is in part a financial bet for Mr. Caan. “Nobody has a beef with money,” he said after the online session, sitting at his kitchen table with Dmitry Kozko, the young, Russian-born founder and chief executive of Openfilm. But “no one’s making money,” he said. “We have shares.” (Openfilm has been backed by the Miami entrepreneur Mike Zoi; it was recently acquired by the technology company Net Element, of which Mr. Zoi is chairman, with Mr. Kozko retaining his title at Openfilm.)

Mr. Caan’s primary motivation at this point, however, appears to be his unhappiness with the path that Hollywood has taken over the last 20 years. He would like to open the eyes of young filmmakers to the virtues of an earlier, more humanistic approach, and a time when “there wasn’t this abundance of these guys — and God bless ’em, some of them are great — who all of a sudden because they shot some music video, they’re shooting some $80 million” film, he said. “Or these other guys who can do stuff with C.G.I. and have no respect for actors. I don’t get it.”

Mr. Kozko and Mr. Caan have aspirations to upgrade the movie business not just through the use of mentors but by producing films, expanding the best of the shorts selected for Openfilm into features. (According to Mr. Kozko the site currently hosts about 7,000 videos, with its staff of screeners accepting about 9 percent of the videos that come in. Openfilm is also distributing some of its videos through services like Tivo and Boxee. Advertising revenue from viewing on the Openfilm site and outside distribution is split equally with the filmmakers, Mr. Kozko said.)

As an interim step the site is sponsoring a series of contests. Filmmakers submit videos specifically for the contest (and pay a $45 entry fee), with finalists determined by public voting and the winner chosen by the advisory panel. The first winner, Val Lauren for his 40-minute drama “Help,” received a package valued at $250,000, consisting mostly of a promise of financing for a feature; Mr. Kozko said that production would begin this spring. The deadline for submissions for the next contest is Friday, and the value of the prize has increased to $500,000 ($50,000 in cash the winner can use for any purpose, the rest in the form a financing package for the feature film), though the frequency of the contests has been reduced to two a year from four.

Winning the first contest has not greatly increased Mr. Lauren’s profile within Openfilm; “Help,” with fewer than 10,000 views, trails far behind the 275,000-plus of “Hidden Camera S*x Tape.” Impartial observers could also question how much of a victory the selection of Mr. Lauren’s polished film, which boasted the well-known actor Adam Beach and the high-profile television producer Mark J. Greenberg, was for struggling filmmakers.

Whatever the Hollywood reality of Openfilm’s business model may be, it’s clear that Mr. Caan is enjoying the ride and his odd-couple relationship with the dapper Russian software engineer. Sitting in his kitchen in jeans and a polo shirt, Mr. Caan frequently interrupted a reporter to ask his own questions of Mr. Kozko, who is encased in a skinny black suit despite the Southern California heat.

Why should someone be able to join a live Web chat with the eminent Robert Duvall (who is scheduled to take part in early 2011) for as little as a $2.95-a-month membership? he wondered loudly. Wouldn’t you just join for a month and then cancel? You’d be surprised, Mr. Kozko said; it’s the type of small fee that a person forgets he has. Mr. Caan shook his head at the notion of forgetting about $2.95 a month. “I’m sorry, I’m from Brooklyn,” he said. “We think like that.”
593 2010-12-26 Cupcake Sthlm, Sankt Eriksgatan 83; (46-8) 83-8083; cupcakesthlm.se. Mini-cupcakes from 14 kroner (about $2 at 6.7 kroner to the dollar); larger ones from 29 kroner ($4.30).

The first thing you notice when you walk into Per Olsson Choklad & Konditori, also known as POCK, is the large glass case in the center of the room that displays the cakes. The idea came from a design store that Per Olsson had visited in Manhattan. “Paris changed the way I think about pastry, but New York inspired the shop design,” he said.

On the same trip to the States he met some Swedish friends who had successfully opened a chain of Swedish cafes in Manhattan. When he returned to Stockholm he left his job as the head baker at Tossebageriet, one of the city’s most traditional bakeries, and opened his own place on a side street on Sodermalm, an island south of the city center. With its bright pink-and-white walls, POCK looks trendy, but the cakes are a mixture of old favorites (tarte Tatin and brownies) and new inventions.

“I want classic flavors but presented in a new way,” Mr. Olsson said. “For instance, I’ve turned the banana split into a mousse that’s flavored with rum and lime and topped with meringue.” POCK is open all week, but the best time to visit is the weekend, when Mr. Olsson and his two colleagues fill the display case with 8 or 10 different cakes.

At Saturnus, a French-style cafe in the well-heeled Ostermalm neighborhood, the traditional bulle — a bun spiced with cinnamon or cardamom and sprinkled with pearl sugar — has been supersized. These jumbo buns can weigh up to 15 ounces, are as wide as the plate they’re served on and dwarf those found anywhere else in town. They’ve also become the cafe’s signature item, and were declared the best in the city by a national newspaper.

During a typical weekend the cafe sells around 300 of them, according to the owner, Christos Pispas, a Swede of Greek descent. “You’d think people would share them, but they don’t, and they don’t leave anything behind,” he said. “Even a child can put one away.”

The buns were already on the menu when Mr. Pispas and his wife, Christina, took over in 2003, but since then both the buns’ fame and the cafe’s popularity have grown. While most of the rest of the menu borrows from France, including tea from Mariage Frères in Paris and Valrhona hot chocolate, Mr. and Mrs. Pispas get ideas from all over. A trip to London yielded inspiration for the white coffee cups decorated with a rooster motif (inspired by Bar Italia in Soho) as well as the Key lime pie recipe (from Ottolenghi in Notting Hill).

Riddarbageriet, also in Ostermalm, was one of the first bakeries in Stockholm to offer sourdough bread and is known for producing some of the best loaves in the city, including Rag Arnold, a big, strong rye bread named after Arnold Schwarzenegger. The bakery was established by Camilla Fritzdorf and Johan Sorberg, who were married at the time. When they opened the cafe, he was doing baking demonstrations on television.

Inside the store are five marble-topped tables where you can have a drink with a sandwich or pastry. Behind the scenes are two kitchens: a Swede makes bread in one while a Frenchman works on the sweet things in the other. This combination of skills has yielded spectacular results. There are two small tartlets not to be missed: the mazarin, a frosted pastry filled with almond paste, and the catalan, which is similar but with a layer of raspberry. Both are traditional Swedish cakes, available at any old-fashioned bakery, but at Riddarbageriet they’re a revelation. The incredibly thin pastry shatters as you bite into it, the almond paste has just the right sweetness, and the raspberry is wonderfully subtle.

Riddarbageriet, Riddargatan 15; (46-8) 660-3375. Tiny bread buns start at 5 kroner. The mazarins and catalans are 25 kroner.

The cakes at Xoko are, quite literally, fit for a king (or a notable physicist, chemist or economist). It was founded by Magnus Johansson, who makes the desserts for the annual Nobel banquet.

A futuristic-looking place with white walls and lights that change color, Xoko serves cakes, desserts and sandwiches during the day, and after 5 p.m. it adds tapas to the menu. You can order the dessert that was served at last year’s Nobel banquet: lemon and cheese mousse with sea-buckthorn sorbet.

Mr. Johansson wanted to create a new kind of Stockholm cafe and has also reworked many Swedish cakes. A traditional princess torte, for instance, is a sponge cake with layers of raspberry jam and cream wrapped in bright green marzipan. Xoko’s version features raspberries that appear to be erupting out of the top of the cake.

Mr. Johansson says that cafe culture elsewhere in Europe benefits from having fewer regulations. “In Sweden we have so many stupid rules,” he said. “For instance, I’d like to serve a Champagne breakfast, but we’re not allowed to serve Champagne before 11 a.m.”

In 2008 the Frenchman Sébastien Boudet opened Petite France, the city’s most authentic French cafe-bakery. On a quiet side street on the largely residential island of Kungsholmen, it took a year or so for word to spread about the quality of the breads and pastries (not to mention a whole spectrum of macarons). Now lines form every weekend, though canny locals know the trick is to go well before opening time.

“I don’t like the Swedish way of keeping the door locked until it is exactly opening time,” Mr. Boudet said. “The door is unlocked when we turn up at 4 a.m. We officially open at 8 o’clock during the week, but before that we might have taxi drivers or police working overnight who come in.”

Mr. Boudet has adapted French recipes to suit Swedish tastes, using more eggs and butter when making traditional buns. He’s also relaxed his attitude toward only using seasonal ingredients. “I never used to buy raspberries in May, when it can still be snowing, but I have to because I’ve seen how much Swedes enjoy a raspberry tart at that time,” he said.

The breakfast tray is particularly popular, mixing French and Scandinavian influences: yogurt topped with muesli served with a small baguette sandwich and a chouquette — a ball of choux pastry.
594 2010-12-26 He celebrated a system in which the little guy could win....
595 2010-12-26 McCULLOUGH--Charles D.,MD., age 81, of Southport, CT, retired physician and partner for the OB-GYN Specialty Group, passed away peacefully on December 20, 2010. Calling hours will be held on Wednesday from 4 to 8pm in the Lesko & Polke Funeral Hom...
596 2010-12-26 WHERE do you go when you've already opened some of the best bars in the world? For Romée de Goriainoff, Olivier Bon and Pierre-Charles Cros, the founders behind a triumvirate of Parisian cocktail lounges, the answer is London. They've recently re...
597 2010-12-26 Getting around the more than 60 islands that make up  the British Virgin Islands usually involves a boat rather than an airplane. But with the recent reopening of Virgin Gorda International Airport, travel options have expanded in time for the hig...
598 2010-12-26 He couldn’t lift a hammer, but he rebuilt a neighborhood....
599 2010-12-26 A young English doctor’s Afghan adventure....
600 2010-12-26 As if there were a need for more evidence of the hole created by LeBron James's departure from Cleveland beyond the team's 8-21 record, there is the effect on  dollars from ticket receipts - not for the Cavaliers but for their opponents.     One y...
601 2010-12-27 Buyers in so-called secondary markets that trade private companies including Facebook, Twitter and Zynga are mostly wealthy speculators looking to snag an early piece of the next Apple, Microsoft or Google. Now, the S.E.C. wants to know more....
602 2010-12-27 Nuclear companies may not be certain they want to build, but they are doing the groundwork anyway....
603 2010-12-27 Volume may have been light on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday after the city was blanketed by 20 inches of snow -- but at least there was trading....
604 2010-12-27 With investors free to sell their stock from the I.P.O., shares of the electric car maker tumbled 15 percent on Monday....
605 2010-12-27 Goldman Sachs' Petershill Fund has agreed to buy a minority stake in Mount Lucas, a Pennsylvania-based firm, as industry deal-making remains strong....
606 2010-12-27 Not such a big deal....
607 2010-12-27 Even if the spreadsheet tells you to buy stock instead of paying off the mortgage, that may not be the best emotional decision....
608 2010-12-27 This golden, bubbling potato gratin with Gruyère and Swiss chard can be a side dish or the star of the meal....
609 2010-12-27 Does the equity in your house affect your business's finances? Do you know the meaning of 'austerity?'...
610 2010-12-27 The Jets are in, as are the Chiefs, the Ravens and the Eagles, but the Giants are not (yet). Here's where the playoff races stand after all but two games in Week 16....
611 2010-12-27 The financial crises of the last couple of years spawned myriad reforms. But there are other undesirable situations around the globe that still need changing.

Here are five financial headlines that investors may wish for, but are highly unlikely to appear:

¶ “G-20 Agrees to Scrap Interest Deduction.” Corporate finance everywhere is skewed by the tax deductibility of interest, which encourages excessive leverage. And housing markets where borrowers can deduct large amounts of mortgage interest, notably the United States, suffer similar distortions, with predictably troublesome results. Britain phased out the mortgage deduction it used to have. But these are tricky political waters, and even isolated moves are unlikely, never mind a concerted global effort.

¶ “Apple, Google and Other Global Tech Firms to Pay Huge Special Dividends.” Sure, some, like Cisco, have talked about starting a payout of a modest size. But their stashes of cash are out of all proportion to the universe of sensible ways they could spend it. Most of the pile should go to shareholders. But that requires bosses to concede their growth prospects are finite and to effectively shrink the companies they run.

¶ “China Floats Its Currency.” Perhaps not completely freely — that could be asking too much, even for a rust-belt member of Congress. But it’s a needed move to ease global economic imbalances. Unfortunately, stability and employment are the overriding objectives of Beijing. Any big step that threatens either won’t be taken.

¶ “Bipartisan Energy Bill Passes Congress With Overwhelming Support.” A sweeping effort by the world’s top consumer of hydrocarbons could include eliminating inefficient subsidies for ethanol production; removing import tariffs on Caribbean cane ethanol; adding a $1-a-gallon gas tax; mandating that all federal agencies convert their vehicles to run on compressed natural gas; and imposing a carbon tax to encourage energy conservation and cleaner-burning fuels. Pigs might fly, too.

¶ “General Electric Follows Citigroup and Bank of America With Breakup Plan.” Carving up G.E. into separate businesses and winding down GE Capital would create value for shareholders and show that Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive, recognizes that the company’s conglomerate structure doesn’t create sufficient synergies. The company may slowly be heading in that direction, but swallowing his pride and doing it quickly looks a step too far for Mr. Immelt.
612 2010-12-27 “Diversifying the audience does remain a central challenge for public television,” he said, adding that research has shown 70 percent of the show’s viewers stay to watch other programs.

Mr. Rogers said the decisions were partly because of existing commitments that could not be quickly changed — like overnight tele-courses that meant no room for “Charlie Rose” — and also to bolster the other stations.

“We thought this was a good opportunity to help KLCS have a franchise,” he said of “Independent Lens.” He added that the move was right for the market: “I think ‘Independent Lens’ is a great concept and a lot of the films that appear there are terrific, but I don’t think they all are.”

In a call with reporters, Mr. Rogers said of KCET’s decision: “It’s hard to understand because they walked away from the best media brand and the best content in the country.”

There are raw wounds in the wake of the switch from KCET to KOCE. Some over-the-air viewers around Santa Barbara will not get PBS, since the KOCE signal does not reach. Twenty-eight KCET donors — although no major ones — have requested their pledge money back. (And they received it, because, “we try to treat everybody with a degree of respect,” said Al Jerome, KCET’s president and chief executive.)

The new KCET lineup will include movies, reruns of past PBS hits and foreign imports, including BBC and NHK newscasts. Longer term, KCET, whose “SoCal Connected” recently won a coveted Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award, wants to expand local programming, including its student film festival.

Since its October announcement, KCET has received 11 grants totaling nearly $3 million, including $1 million from the Ahmanson Foundation to support the transition.

“We’re excited; now the game begins,” said Mr. Jerome. “People will see this as a clear alternative and a contrarian way to go, vis-à-vis PBS stations.”

PBS expects to have a gap of several million dollars in its programming budget for a couple of years because of KCET’s withdrawal. And with little paid advertising to tell viewers where to find its shows — PBS cannot afford it — no one knows how long confusion will last. “That’s our biggest concern: can people find the content?” said Paula Kerger, PBS’s chief.

Longer term, she called the plans to integrate the three stations that remain affiliated with PBS an exciting opportunity. Mr. Rogers of KOCE agrees. “We know that this has never been done before; we’ll be the ones that see if it works,” he said.
613 2010-12-27 The snow began falling in New York in late morning, and by 5 p.m. it had already eclipsed the average of 3.3 inches for the month of December.

Through the afternoon, the storm grew into an adventure. The snow came down in great sweeping curtains, drifting over parked cars and park benches to be sculpted into aerodynamic shapes.

Everywhere, the winds whispered and moaned in their secret Ice Age language. The blizzard spawned lightning flashes and thunder. Yet the sounds of the city were strangely muffled and distant. Sledders, snowboarders, hikers and even a few skiers were soon out, cutting fresh trails along the marbled Hudson or in the wilderness of Central Park.

The surrounding skylines were lost in the whiteout, and the playing fields of the Great Lawn might have been the plains of Nebraska or a steppe.

It was not a bad day to stay at home with the paper and watch the storm through panes etched with frost.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, wearing a bomber jacket and wheezing with a cold at a late-afternoon news conference, called it a dangerous storm that could down trees, disrupt railroad signal systems and pose hazards for drivers and the homeless.

“The latest reports are qualifying this storm as a blizzard, and unfortunately our city is directly in its path,” Mr. Bloomberg said.

The mayor said major roads would be cleared by plows overnight, but he urged commuters to take mass transit on Monday. Trains, subways and buses ran in the storm on Sunday, and Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road trains were expected to run on reduced schedules on Monday, although the L.I.R.R. said it might suspend service if snow depths reached 10 to 13 inches, a distinct possibility, to clean electrified rails.

Amtrak, citing problems with high winds that affect signals, switches and overhead wires, canceled trains south of Washington to Richmond and Newport News, Va., and later those between New York and Boston, although service between Washington and New York was not affected.

“Better to have people stay safe where they are, despite the inconvenience,” Cliff Cole, an Amtrak spokesman, said of the cancellations.

Air travel was virtually impossible. More than 2,000 flights were canceled by major airlines on the Eastern Seaboard, 1,444 of them at Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports in New York and Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey. Spillback cancellations affected hundreds of other flights from Chicago and Atlanta, and even from London and Paris.

One terminal at Kennedy was transformed into a campsite of refugees. Entire families rested on stacks of luggage, slept on the floor in sleeping bags, watched movies on laptops and ate lunches on suitcases. People streamed to information booths, but it was hopeless: Boards listed nearly all flights as canceled.

On the AirTrain to Kennedy from Jamaica, travelers told their tales of woe and hope. Luciana and Marcelo Dossa were bound for Austin, Tex., after a week’s visit to New York. Their American Airlines flight had been scratched, but they went to the airport on the chance that something else might turn up. “We decided to come anyway because we need to find a way to get home,” Mrs. Dossa said.

People who ventured out in cars found major roads plowed but slippery; the police reported many spinouts and minor accidents on Sunday, but no deaths. Many bus carriers canceled service between Washington and Boston, where the New England Aquarium bubble-wrapped its four 5-foot penguin ice sculptures to protect them from the elements.

In Philadelphia, where 20 inches of snow was expected, the National Football League postponed the Eagles-Vikings game from Sunday night to Tuesday night. League officials said the last time a forecast of heavy snow changed a scheduled outdoor game was in 1932, when the league championship game between the Chicago Bears and the Portsmouth Spartans was moved indoors.

The Washington area, which had a series of rare snowstorms last winter, was largely spared by this one, an enclave of serenity in the crocodile-shaped mass that crawled up the Atlantic Coast. The weather service, which had predicted 6 to 10 inches of snow for the capital region, scaled it back at midday to 1 to 2 inches, and Ronald Reagan and Dulles International Airports remained open with normal service.

For retailers, who had enjoyed a big run-up to the holiday, there was a chill in the day-after-Christmas sales, traditionally one of the year’s biggest shopping days. In Brooklyn, the Atlantic Terminal Mall had only a smattering of customers, not the usual day-after frenzy.

Rebecca Godfrey, 28, a manager at Dead Sea Spa skin care kiosk, said that in 40 minutes only three people stopped in, and only one made a purchase. On the same day last year, she said, 40 to 50 visited, and half bought products. “Usually the day after Christmas is like my favorite day to work,” Ms. Godfrey said. “But today I just felt like being home.”

At the Doubletree Hotel in Times Square, three generations of the stranded Braceras family from Miami — 11 members in all — were sprawled in the lobby with suitcases, and dwindling options. They should have been on the ski slopes of Vermont, starting a weeklong vacation. But their connecting flight had been canceled, and hopes for a car service had been dashed.

At least they had a room upstairs. Sue Braceras, the matriarch, presided as her brood talked of an impromptu sightseeing tour, perhaps with stops at Radio City Music Hall to see the Rockettes, and to the American Girl shop on Fifth Avenue. But it was all doubtful.

“We’re going to have a ball,” Elizabeth Campo, one of the adult daughters, said through gritted teeth as five children scampered among the suitcases. “My husband went to the room already with the baby. He said he’s not leaving the room for two days.”
614 2010-12-27 Ever since the Dodd-Frank financial reform law was signed in July, the question has been whether it would actually lead to a stable financial system. If the Republicans who will control the House next year get their way, the answer will surely be “no.”

The legislation requires regulators to write hundreds of rules to put the law into effect. To their , regulatory agencies have begun that process with a sense of mission and depth of expertise that was missing in the years before the financial crisis.

In particular, the and the — which share the all-important regulation of the multitrillion-dollar market — have proposed rules that are tough and sophisticated. The new is ramping up. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by the secretary, will report in January on how to implement the “ ” to restrict proprietary trading by .

The process is painstaking, and the outcome is uncertain. But progress is being made — and the House Republican leaders want none of that. Representative Spencer Bachus of , the next chairman of the House Financial Services Committee told The Birmingham News that “Washington and the regulators are there to serve the banks.” He later said he meant regulators should set parameters, not micromanage banks, yet he seems to prefer the parameters that were in effect before the crisis when regulators did serve the banks.

In a letter to the S.E.C. written with Representative of , the next majority whip, he said Dodd-Frank would do little for economic recovery and warned against rules that could curtail growth. He and Representative Frank Lucas of , who will lead the agriculture committee, which shares jurisdiction over derivatives, have urged regulators to avoid “overly prescriptive” rules on derivatives speculation. He has also warned the Financial Stability Oversight Council that a strong Volcker rule would impose “substantial” economic costs, without making the system safer.

Mr. Bachus’s salvoes are only the start. Some Republicans want new laws to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and others have pledged numerous hearings, which seem intended not to oversee the process but to inhibit it by creating delays and communicating hostility.
615 2010-12-27 “There have also been reports that the vehicles are being shipped by barges on the Pearl River,” one dispatch read gravely, “north to some unknown destination.”

The apparent threat to national security was broadcast so far and wide that one night in 1994 Timothy J. McVeigh himself broke into the yard to examine the vehicles firsthand. He went away disappointed.

But the real tale behind the trucks, as is often the case, turns out to be more interesting than the conspiracy.

Charles Chawafaty, an Egyptian businessman, and Fred Koval, a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel, first met in a Saudi Arabian prison.

Mr. Koval, now 88, a bomber in World War II, a pilot during the Berlin airlift and a man generally game for adventure, had moved to Jedda, Saudi Arabia, in 1979 to teach electronics at a school run by the Lockheed Corporation.

In 1981, Mr. Koval helped out a New Orleans businessman who was having trouble leaving the country, but who eventually did — using a passport in Mr. Koval’s name. And so Mr. Koval spent four and a half months in a Saudi prison. While there, he said, he met Mr. Chawafaty.

Mr. Chawafaty said in an interview by e-mail that he had been “accused of insulting the prophet of Islam and the Saudi royal family.”

Not long afterward, Mr. Koval returned to his home in Biloxi, Miss. (a return journey, he said, that included a furtive three-day trip across the Red Sea to Sudan in a motorboat), and Mr. Chawafaty left Saudi Arabia (under a compromise, he said, that involved a promise not to return unless he converted from Methodism to Islam). The two kept in touch.

In 1993, Mr. Chawafaty’s company, Agrinvest International, which is based in Phoenix, bought roughly 1,000 former Soviet-bloc vehicles that had been demilitarized and auctioned after German reunification. He paid $3 million, he said, including shipping expenses.

Around 350 were stored in Britain; the rest — 700 or so Russian, Czech and East German trucks and tankers — made their way to the Mississippi coast. Mr. Koval had found 18 acres north of Gulfport where they could be stored.

“Maybe he can explain to you why he bought this” stuff, Mr. Koval said over coffee at a Waffle House in Biloxi.

Mr. Chawafaty, now 65, said the plan was to retrofit the vehicles and sell them to the United Nations for humanitarian missions around the world. It made sense to use Soviet-bloc trucks in places like Africa, he said, where Soviet-era parts were widely available.

Some of the trucks were painted white and turned into ambulances, others into snowplows, refugee transport vehicles and refrigeration vans.

All of this set off the conspiracy theories. Mr. Koval said he kept the most outlandish of them in what he called his “banana file.”

“But none of it attracted buyers,” he said.

The vehicles were not permitted for use on American roads because of their reliance on leaded gas, among other things. A few trucks were donated to a relief organization in Mexico, Mr. Chawafaty said. Others were given to the Air Force for shooting practice.

One man in Guyana planned to buy a few, and even set off for Biloxi to pick them up, said Mr. Koval, who looked after the trucks until 1999. But the man died of a heart attack during a layover in Miami.

Another plan was to take the heavy cargo shells off the trucks and sell them as storm shelters or tool sheds. Mr. Koval estimates that a dozen or so of these were sold. He still has a few on his property, Cyrillic lettering on the outside, cobwebs and junk on the inside.

In the end, the vehicles mostly sat unwanted in the lot beside Highway 49, next to the Friendly Pawn Shop and across the way from a discount liquor store. The conspiracy theories dwindled, as did the visits by customs officials.

The rusting accelerated after Hurricane Katrina, and for various reasons, including a civil court judgment, the expiration of a trade license and the fact that nobody was interested in rust-covered trucks, Mr. Chawafaty decided to scrap them.

Mr. Koval learned about their impending demise by reading about it in the newspaper like anyone else.

And he laughed about the whole episode, which produced little more than proof that most business schemes, like most conspiracy theories, will eventually end up on the ash heap of history.
616 2010-12-27 BEIJING -- Star-crossed love between Alexander the Great and his teenage male slave. Ferocious battles that defined an empire. The bloodshed and romance of Ancient Greece.     The novel ''The Persian Boy,'' by Mary Renault, has it all. In the West...
617 2010-12-27 Apple on Tuesday confirmed that it had removed from its online store an iPhone and iPad app that let users view the content on the WikiLeaks site and follow the WikiLeaks Twitter account.     Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, said the company ha...
618 2010-12-28 Credit: Maggie Steber for The New York Times
619 2010-12-28 ICE Trust, the world's largest clearinghouse for credit-default swaps, cited "significant changes" to proposed regulations in deciding to withdraw its application....
620 2010-12-28 Is the recent expansion in the insider trading investigation -- including raids at three hedge funds late last month -- starting to rattle investors?...
621 2010-12-28 Chesapeake Bay has improved on an number of environmental measures, but is still imperiled, a new report finds....
622 2010-12-28 While British companies complain that the cost of British stock deals is too high, selling equity across the pond is even more expensive....
623 2010-12-28 With investors free to sell their stock from the I.P.O., shares of the electric car maker fell 15 percent on Monday....
624 2010-12-28 Ashton Gibbs scored 21 points as host Pittsburgh’s balance overcame Kemba Walker’s one-man offense for No. 4 Connecticut in a 78-63 victory by the No. 6 Panthers on Monday night in a Big East opener.

Walker scored 31 points but missed 17 of 27 shots from the field as Pittsburgh repeatedly limited the Huskies to a single shot in a possession — often a bad one. The Huskies shot 31.7 percent, 19 of 60, and had only two scorers with more than 5 points until the closing minutes.

“They locked us up defensively,” UConn Coach Jim Calhoun said. “We didn’t react well to being legally, physically handled defensively. They weren’t allowing us to get good shots.”

Brad Wanamaker, who took turns with Gibbs shadowing Walker, added 14 points as Pittsburgh (13-1) beat Connecticut (10-1) for the fourth straight time and the fifth in six games.

“It’s great to get a win against a great team,” Wanamaker said. “It shows where we’re at.”
625 2010-12-28 Meanwhile, he and his staff were managing on little or no sleep. “We were here all night,” he said. “We’ll be here all through the night tonight.”

He said hiring additional plows and paying overtime were significant costs that would not be recouped. “You hope that you make up the business during the course of the week, but you never do,” Mr. Reingold said.

Macy’s flagship store on Herald Square delayed its opening Monday by 30 minutes, and many companies, like the Durst Organization, the big developer, told most employees to stay home.

Some restaurants, most Broadway theaters and the trading floors on Wall Street were able to gather enough workers and cast members to go on with their routines. But it was not easy.

At River Café on the Brooklyn waterfront, reservations were canceled and out-of-town customers failed to arrive. Some deliveries were delayed, but everything arrived in time so the restaurant could prepare a full menu for Monday evening, said Scott Stamford, the restaurant’s manager. Mustering a full staff required some improvisation, though: the maître d’hôtel, Josh Brown, attached plastic zip ties to his bicycle tires for better traction on the ride home Sunday night, then used his cross-country skis to get back Monday.

The New York Stock Exchange, which has not curtailed trading because of the weather since a blizzard in January 1996, opened on time for a full day of trading — light as it was. Fewer shares of stock changed hands at the exchange than in any full session in more than 12 years.

To avoid a late start, the exchange relied on the rehearsed storm-beating strategies of traders like Kenneth Polcari, who traveled into the city from Westchester County on Sunday evening and checked into a Club Quarters hotel near the exchange. All the other rooms were taken, he said, by financial services workers.

“People around the world trade on the New York Stock Exchange,” Mr. Polcari said. “They don’t know and they don’t care that it is snowing outside.”

Planning ahead also paid off for Francisco Crousset, who manages J. H. Little Papa & Son, a neighborhood market at Lincoln Road and Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn. Mr. Crousset, 40, had plenty of eggs and milk to sell on Monday, even after customers had rushed in to stock up, because he had scheduled an extra delivery on Saturday.

“I knew there was going to be a storm, so I prepared,” he said. For Broadway theaters, the snowstorm’s timing could hardly have been worse. The week after Christmas is among the most lucrative for theaters because so many tourists visit. Popular shows are usually turning away people this week, rather than trying to lure them in with “snow day” discounts, as the musicals “Billy Elliot” and “Mamma Mia!” did on Sunday and Monday.

There were roughly 200 no-shows at the Sunday night performances of “Mary Poppins” and “The Lion King.” Because of the weather, most major Broadway musicals and plays were allowing people to exchange their Sunday and Monday tickets for performances at another time.
626 2010-12-28 American missiles struck two vehicles in a Taliban stronghold on Pakistan’s side of the border with Afghanistan on Monday, killing 18 militants, Pakistani intelligence officials said. The six missiles struck Sheratala, a village in the in Mir Ali District of North Waziristan. The vehicles were apparently leaving a compound, and one was carrying a large load of ammunition, compounding the blasts from the missile strikes, the intelligence officials said.
627 2010-12-28 In October, Kraft Foods made playground-building a centerpiece of its annual company “Delicious Difference Week.” About 1,300 employees, including the chief executive Irene Rosenfeld, built 13 playgrounds, including one in Washington Park on the South Side of Chicago, at a total cost of more than $1.4 million. Kraft, too, counts healthful lifestyles, along with ending hunger, as a top philanthropic priority.

“It’s huge — getting children excited about play,” said Nicole Robinson, the vice president of the company’s charitable arm, the Kraft Foods Foundation.

Kraft and other companies that provide money for playground construction say they have not studied whether their contributions increase public awareness of their brand. Corporate-financed playgrounds typically bear a plaque with the company’s name and receive a flurry of local news coverage.

Kraft’s playground projects are “a huge boost to the company’s reputation, and add to its credibility,” Ms. Robinson says.

Foresters, the life insurance provider, also has opted for playgrounds, recently pledging $1.5 million to build 20 in the United States, where the company, which is based in Canada, has most of its clients.

“It’s a good fit for us,” said George Mohacsi, its president and chief executive. “And we get more bang for the buck when we build a playground, we put in something that people can use daily for a decade or more.”

A. Dennis White, president and chief executive of MetLife Foundation, said his company regularly finances playgrounds to promote physical fitness. The company has donated $850,000 in the last three years for 400 play spaces in the United States and Mexico.

“It’s something that can be built in a day, and we like the visibility it gets in the local community,” Mr. White said.

Once upon a time, playgrounds were largely the province of schools or municipalities, but with plummeting local tax revenues, they are ripe for corporate support. This dovetails with a recent study that found companies are allocating their charitable giving — whether it is goods, services or cash — more toward community needs instead of grand goals such as alleviating world hunger.

Basic needs were the only categories in which corporate cash contributions increased last year, according to the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy’s annual corporate giving report, which used information from 171 major companies, including 61 of the Fortune 100.

Companies financing playgrounds often work in partnership with Kaboom, a nonprofit group based in Washington, which recently drew praise from Mrs. Obama. It has a comprehensive plan to include the community and company volunteers in designing, building and maintaining play spaces.

Kaboom has nearly 300 corporate partners, including Home Depot and Kimberly Clark. Darell Hammond, its chief executive, said companies need to spend $75,000 to $500,000 to create a public playground, depending on whether the floor is rubberized.

Companies are drawn to the idea because “playgrounds bring the community together,” Mr. Hammond said. “It’s almost a new town square.”

Other companies work with nonprofit organizations like Shane’s Inspiration or Boundless Playgrounds, to create play areas that are accessible to disabled children. This fall, CVS worked with the Pepsi Refresh Project to give $70,000 to construct the playground proposal from the public that had won the most votes on the project’s Web site.

A Fort Wayne, Ind., playground proposal was selected and will be built in 2011, said Eileen Howard Dunn, senior vice president for community relations for CVS Caremark. CVS, based in Woonsocket, R.I., has spent $3 million in recent years to finance 65 playgrounds around the country, and has pledged to build 10 more next year as part of its $25 million “All Kids Can” initiative to help disabled children.

With charitable cash in shorter supply, companies are encouraging employees to volunteer. The corporate philanthropy committee report found that in the last three years, 20 percent more companies offer paid time during the workday for employees to volunteer.

Companies devoting resources to building playgrounds, which typically are in areas that are home to a concentration of their employees, say that worker engagement and satisfaction are important considerations in choosing the playground option.

“Employees who participate feel a sense of community whether they participate for the one day or for the six months of planning,” Ms. Robinson, of Kraft, said. “And any company really receives a halo.”
628 2010-12-28 “Hey!” she snips at the audience. “I still want my money!”

Her made-up New York accent and oversize attitude send the crowd into another chorus of laughter. It is the school musical’s final scene, and Destiny’s comedic act as the swindler D. Lite scored the last lines of the script.

Last school year, Destiny struggled just to read a script out loud, said Karina Lynch, who organizes the annual show. Problems with literacy and pronunciation stunted Destiny’s academic progress at Public School 142 on the Lower East Side.

Two musicals later, she is stealing the show and reading at grade level, Ms. Lynch said.

“I feel like I belong here,” said Destiny, taking a break from dance rehearsal. “They helped me make my life better.”

The Educational Alliance After 3 Arts Program has gained a reputation for discovering hidden talent at P.S. 142. Shy children dance center stage. Students with learning delays earn leading roles.

One student who repeated a grade and struggled to learn English became valedictorian after joining the arts program, school officials said.

“There are children up on that stage that you know didn’t have the best year academically; but on that stage, they’re a star,” said Rhonda Levy, the school principal. “It’s a huge boost for their confidence.”

The program gives Ms. Levy’s students three hours of performing and visual arts instruction and academic tutoring every day after school. Since it began in 2000, the program has grown from offering just two basic art courses to becoming what Ms. Lynch describes as an arts academy.

Artists from around the city are paid to teach students photography, cartooning, mask-making and ballroom dancing, among other things. A highlight each spring is a two-act stage performance.

The goal is “to provide the children with opportunities that they otherwise wouldn’t have,” Ms. Lynch said.

“You are creating an art connoisseur,” she continued. “By exposing children at a young age to this, even if they don’t become professional artists, they grow up to appreciate it.”

Though the program is offering more arts instruction, it is reaching fewer students.

Some government grants that paid for the program have not been renewed because of shrinking budgets, Ms. Lynch said. In its first year, the arts program served 200 students. Now it serves 142, or about one-third of the school’s pupils.

“Technically, we only have funding for 135,” she said. “It’s very difficult to say to a parent: ‘I’m sorry. We don’t have any more room.’ ”

Ms. Lynch said the program’s waiting list tended to be between 50 and 75 students long. The program has become popular with students and their working parents.

“Every time it turns 3 o’clock, I’m already out the door,” said a fifth grader, Jerika Peña, 10, who has been in the program since kindergarten.

Her classmate Carlen Rodriguez, 10, agreed. “We watch the clock,” she said.

“It’s better for me to be at after-school then outside doing nothing,” Carlen added. “You learn something every day.”

That is especially true during the spring, when students rehearse three to five days a week for the annual school musical. The program staff comes up with a script and makes the costumes and sets from scratch or from reused materials.

This spring, they will get an extra pair of hands. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund gave $2,000 to the Educational Alliance for an additional staff member to help with vocal training. The Educational Alliance is a beneficiary of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven organizations supported by the fund.

“You might not remember the math test you took in the fourth grade, but you’ll always remember the role you played in the school play,” Ms. Lynch said. “No matter if you were the lead or the acorn in the fourth row, you’ll always remember that.”
629 2010-12-28 “Senator-elect Kirk became the first member of the Appropriations Committee to stop requesting earmarks and voted against the stimulus bill,” the spokeswoman, Susan Kuczka, said in a prepared statement. “He has and will continue to be an advocate for his Illinois constituents before administration agencies but will not request Congressional earmarks to be included in House or Senate legislation.”

Lettermarking, which takes place outside the Congressional appropriations process, is one of the many ways that legislators who support a ban on earmarks try to direct money back home.

In phonemarking, a lawmaker calls an agency to request financing for a project. More indirectly, members of Congress make use of what are known as soft earmarks, which involve making suggestions about where money should be directed, instead of explicitly instructing agencies to finance a project. Members also push for increases in financing of certain accounts in a federal agency’s budget and then forcefully request that the agency spend the money on the members’ pet project.

Because all these methods sidestep the regular legislative process, the number of times they are used and the money involved are even harder to track than with regular earmarks.

But a New York Times review of letters and e-mail to government agencies from members of Congress shows that the practice is widespread despite the fact that both President George W. Bush and President Obama have issued executive orders instructing agencies not to finance projects based on communications from Congress.

Under the leadership of Representative John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who will be speaker of the House in the new Congress, and pressed by Tea Party supporters who want to curb government spending, Republicans have called for a ban on earmarks, saying they have become symbol of what is wrong in Washington.

Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, said the earmark ban was “an unprecedented step for the House,” adding, “We’ll be working to ensure that it is as fair and effective as possible in terms of enforcement.”

The Senate rejected an earmarks ban in a vote during the lame-duck session of Congress.

In any case, many people both inside and outside Congress remain skeptical that much will change if earmarks are banned, since legislators have a history of finding new ways to try to get money for their districts.

David E. Williams, vice president for policy at Citizens Against Government Waste, likened the effort to stamp out earmarks to a game of “Whack-a-Mole.”

“When one door closes, there is always two or three more that they can go through,” Mr. Williams said, adding that he feared that lawmakers would develop even less transparent ways to finance their special projects.

But Representative Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who is a longtime opponent of earmarks, still sees merit in banning them.

“There’s no way you can stamp out every effort by lawmakers to bring home the pork,” Mr. Flake said. “But you can marginalize it, and a ban on earmarks would be going a long way in doing that.”

Supporters of an earmark ban point out that unlike earmarks written into a spending bill, requests for financing made through letters, phone calls or other methods are not legally binding on an agency.

But Winslow T. Wheeler, a former Senate appropriations and national security aide who worked for both Democrats and Republicans over three decades before stepping down in 2002, said agencies were loath to ignore requests from legislators, especially appropriators like Mr. Kirk.

“When you have people who control your budget, that you have to appear before on an annual basis to ask for funding, you listen to what they have to say,” Mr. Wheeler said.

Mr. Boehner and other Republicans who will be in the House leadership in the new Congress did not respond to questions about whether or how they would try to address practices like lettermarking and soft earmarks.

Mr. Flake said he had raised the issue with Mr. Boehner, adding, “I’m confident that he heard me and will address these things, too.”

Soft earmarks alone accounted for billions of dollars in spending in 2006, the last year they were examined, according the Congressional Research Service. They occur most often in spending bills for State Department, the United States Agency for International Development and other foreign aid programs.

In 2010, the soft earmarks included suggestions to finance the Esperanza International, a micro-lending organization based in Washington State that was started by David Valle, a former major league baseball player, and the Real Property Foundation, a group in Chicago made up of American real estate agents that promotes private property rights around the world.

Patrick M. Cronin, a senior adviser at the Center for a New American Security and a former administrator at the Agency for International Development, said soft earmarks were commonly used by members of Congress, especially appropriators.

“They would tell you that they wanted money to go to a particular university or group or the next time you wouldn’t get the funding in the budget you wanted,” Dr. Cronin said. “So it’s true that you can ignore some soft earmarks, but others you have to take more seriously. Agency heads are not going to put their budgets in jeopardy because of a few line items.”

Military spending bills regularly contain financing that the Pentagon did not seek for projects in Congressional districts.

Steve Ellis of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group that tracks federal spending, refers to such financing as “undisclosed earmarks.” These expenditures end up in a bill at the request of lawmakers or military contractors, but the source of the request does not have to be disclosed because the provisions do not meet the Congressional definition of an earmark.

The 2010 military bill, for example, contained expenditures that the Pentagon did not want: $2.5 billion for C-17 transport planes; $825 million for all-terrain vehicles; $732 million for other planes, and $500 million for a second engine for the F-35 jet.

Taxpayers for Common Sense found 146 such undisclosed earmarks totaling nearly $6 billion in 2010 spending bills.

“If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it’s a duck,” Mr. Ellis said. “These are clearly earmarks.”
630 2010-12-28 “Apparently, the board of trustees decided these items were not historically significant to the area and voted to have them sold at auction,” she wrote. “I have resigned from my position and accept the responsibility for the significant loss of historical material.”

Deaccessioning is the kind of word that makes eyes glaze over and can seem to be the preserve of dusty intellectuals and large museums. But it’s just a fancy name for the sale or giving away of art and artifacts by museums and other cultural organizations, and the dust-up here in this city of about 5,000 demonstrates that such debates occur in all kinds of places, big and small, where people feel protective about materials in their care.

With her personal gesture of protest in late September, Ms. Phillips stepped into a growing public controversy surrounding institutions that have sold or considered selling parts of their collections, which have been entrusted to them for the public’s benefit. Some say such sales can compromise collections, and others argue that museums, libraries and historical societies have to cull their collections periodically, particularly if there is pressure to pay their bills.

In Little Falls, library officials said they were selling things to raise money, not to cover operating costs, which institutions try to avoid, but to preserve other artifacts.

“We don’t have the space to take care of some of these items,” said Chester P. Szymanski III, the library’s president. “We’re not a museum. We’re a library.”

Ms. Phillips drew support for her decision from the Little Falls Historical Society and letters to The Herkimer Telegram and The Little Falls Times. Some wrote to say that Ms. Phillips should get her job back. A resident, Peter J. Adasek, recommended she get a raise.

“If you do not return, Ms. Phillips,” he wrote, “we have then lost another treasure.”

Some of the library trustees, though, said they thought Ms. Phillips had made much ado about nothing. Any materials that went out came back, and if they weren’t signed out, it was because the library didn’t want them returned.

“She is a very creative, energetic person,” said Linda B. Vincent, a trustee who owns an antiques center and also serves on the boards of the Munson-Williams-Proctor Arts Institute in Utica and the MidYork Library System. “I think she needs to be in a different venue for that energy.”

Quitting wasn’t an easy decision for Ms. Phillips. (She now runs the office of a local roofing contractor.) But she said that she was raised to do “what’s right”; that for 20 years, she had carried in her purse a beat-up copy of the United States Constitution to remind her of personal responsibility; and that her hard-knock childhood, which included a bout with drugs and a teenage pregnancy, left her with a pretty thick skin.

A petite 5 feet 2 inches, with graying hair and rapid-fire speech inflected by her native New Hampshire, Ms. Phillips went to Utica College at 32, made the dean’s list, became managing editor of the student paper and graduated in 2004, the same year that her son, Travis, now 26, did from a community college.

She came across the historical items while going through the library’s collection of materials on its second and third floors. The 13-star flag, which is believed to have waved over Washington’s headquarters at Newburgh, N.Y., during the waning days of the American Revolution, sold on Dec. 10 in Cincinnati. But in the wake of protests prompted by Ms. Phillips’s stand, the library took the inaugural ball invitation — which had been sent to an early Little Falls family, the Petries — off the auction block.

“I didn’t realize what the response would be to that,” Ms. Vincent, the trustee, said. But she added, “We will continue to deaccession things that have no place in our library or that we can’t take care of.”

The library’s main purpose is serving the “educational, social and cultural needs of the community,” Ms. Vincent said. “It has nothing to do with preserving stuff.”

Michael J. Borges, the executive director of the New York Library Association, said, “If there was enough funding for libraries, these libraries wouldn’t have to sell off their historic assets.”

For Ms. Phillips, who was director for two years, much of the problem was the way the trustees took things without creating a record.

For her part, Ms. Vincent said that she took home “a box of stuff to spread it out and see what was there” and she added that Mr. Szymanski had taken home Civil War money to put in sleeves and look up the value.

“Yes, some of it came in and out of the building,” she said. “It all came back.”

Ms. Phillips said Ms. Vincent’s approach was haphazard and lacked the requisite accountability.

“She has no business taking library property,” Ms. Phillips said. “She thinks she’s the queen of the world and she doesn’t have to abide by anybody’s rules.”

Since Ms. Phillips’s departure, the Little Falls Library has updated its deaccession policy to make more explicit that proceeds will not be used for operating expenses and to spell out procedures. (“Objects that are eligible for deaccessioning are to be recorded on a deaccessioning worksheet.”)

“I don’t think they’re going to be willy-nilly selling anything in the future,” said David Burleson, a trustee at the historical society. “There’s more citizen involvement.”

Ms. Phillips said she would like to return to the library field. She said she missed giving computer classes to older residents, planning literary events and interacting with children. But she added that she had no regrets.

“I got to a point in my life where I don’t let people dictate what I do — I don’t let them define me,” she said. “That’s why I won’t sit and be quiet. I spent a lot of years being quiet. I’m not that way anymore.”
631 2010-12-28 Sweet apple juice permeates this crunchy salad....
632 2010-12-28 At this point all eaters, fat or lean, could be forgiven for slamming the door on all expert dietary input, forever. But those who are curious about the science behind it all could do worse than to pick up Mr. Taubes’s book “Why We Get Fat: And What to Do About It.”

A few things to understand at the outset: First, despite the happy fact that unlike many in this field, Mr. Taubes is not out to sell you anything (other than his book), it is still a manifesto. Thus, though it is bursting with data, a reader has no way of knowing whether other data has been overlooked or minimized to support the author’s points.

Second, the new book is not really a new book at all; it is a sort of CliffsNotes version of “Good Calories, Bad Calories,” a long, dense tome Mr. Taubes published in 2007. With the new, smaller and more focused version, Mr. Taubes openly admits he is aiming for a broader audience and bigger impact. Fair enough, although one does begin to wonder if a line of protein bars is not far behind.

But all that aside, Mr. Taubes proceeds to stand the received wisdom about diet and exercise on its head in a particularly intriguing and readable synthesis.

We’ve got the whole thing backward, he argues. The overweight are not lazy hogs who eat too much and exercise too little. The thin are not virtuous and disciplined. Rather, all of us are fulfilling a fixed biological mandate, just as growing children are. Our bodies have a nonnegotiable agenda, and our behavior evolves to make that agenda happen, he writes: “Eating in moderation and being physically active (literally, having the energy to exercise) are not evidence of moral rectitude. Rather, they’re the metabolic benefits of a body that’s programmed to remain lean.”

In other words, you don’t haul your body off that couch and out to the gym; your body hauls you.

Meanwhile, “those who get fat do so because of the way their fat happens to be regulated,” Mr. Taubes writes. “A conspicuous consequence of this regulation is to cause the eating behavior (gluttony) and the physical inactivity (sloth) that we so readily assume are the actual causes.”

The actual causes, he argues, with a great deal of observational and experimental data to support his points, are the array of regulatory enzymes and hormones that move fuel, in the form of fat and sugar molecules, in and out of storage depots around the body.

And the only one of these hormones under even a smidgen of voluntary control is insulin. At this point Mr. Taubes merges onto the narrative highway traveled by all low-carb advocates: The body’s insulin levels are largely determined by ingested carbohydrates, and for some people the high-carb foods that stimulate insulin secretion and cravings for more high-carb foods are, in this worldview, just so much poison.

So that apple — a filling package of fiber and vitamins to the Weight Watchers folks — is just a serving of fructose to Mr. Taubes. Fructose is the problematic sugar our bodies turn to fat the most readily, and if you are programmed to be fat, an apple will make you that much fatter.

Mr. Taubes draws an analogy to cigarette smoking: Not every long-term smoker gets lung cancer — in fact, only a minority do — but among people with lung cancer, smoking is by far the most common cause. “In a world without cigarettes, lung cancer would be a rare disease, as it once was,” he writes. “In a world without carbohydrate-rich diets, obesity would be a rare condition as well.”

How to account for the fact that in virtually all head-to-head comparisons of various diet plans, the average long-term results have invariably been quite similar — mediocre all around? The party line holds that backsliding is universal. Mr. Taubes makes much of the addictive effect of carbohydrates: once you taste them you never forget them.

But those studies report group outcomes. Every plan has its own rare, shining success stories as well. Sometime, a diet just clicks.

Perhaps the remarkable diversity of the human organism — whose various sizes and shapes (double chins, giant thighs and all) are so clearly driven by such a vast array of different appetites and genetic cues — simply means that it is foolish to expect a single diet to serve all comers.

There. A proposal to end the war, just in time for the new year.
633 2010-12-28 Americans are living longer, but those added years are more likely to be a time of disease and disability.

An analysis of government data has found that while life expectancy has steadily increased over the past decade, the prevalence of heart disease, stroke, cancer and diabetes has also increased, and disability has grown as well.

For example, in 1998 about 16 percent of men in their 70s had a mobility problem — that is, they failed one of four commonly used physical tests. By 2006, almost 25 percent failed at least one.

Writing in the January issue of The Journal of Gerontology B, the authors conclude that people live longer not because they are less likely to get sick, but because they survive longer with disease.

As a result, a 20-year-old man today can expect to live about a year longer than a 20-year-old in 1998, but will spend 1.2 years more with a disease, and 2 more years unable to function normally.

The lead author, Eileen M. Crimmins, a professor of gerontology at the University of Southern California, said that while we have been very successful in increasing the length of life, it comes at a cost.
634 2010-12-28 In this nation where world-class high-tech companies co-exist with urban slums and rural poverty, employers like Tata, Infosys and Wipro have set out to create avant-garde, environmentally smart corporate sanctuaries.

And even if some architects and critics complain about the wisdom and taste of the efforts, the executives behind the building boom say their ambitious projects put a modern face on Indian business.

T. V. Mohandas Pai, a director at Infosys, which has 15 campuses around India, said his company’s eclectic mix of designs from all over the world reflected this nation’s inclusive sensibility. “One singular thing is monotonous,” he said. “In India, we are a colorful people.”

Like China a decade earlier, India appears to be at that phase of economic development where buildings are meant to help advertise the nation’s arrival on the world stage. But unlike China, where the government and state-owned corporations took the lead, private companies in India have headed the charge — not the government, which struggles to execute even basic construction projects.

And within India’s business world, technology companies have been more adventurous than others, perhaps because of their outsize financial success and their need to hire tens of thousands of workers to write software for foreign clients. State and federal governments are aiding the effort by offering these companies generous tax incentives and choice pieces of real estate to build big campuses.

Competition for employees is intense, because while India produces about 500,000 engineers every year, most colleges provide such poor education that the industry says that just a quarter of graduates are employable. But among those most qualified — typically graduates of elite places like the Indian Institutes of Technology and Birla Institute of Technology and Science — as many as 18 percent leave for other jobs every year. The outsourcing companies see lavish, environmentally friendly campuses as a way to help attract and retain the best and brightest workers.

With their manicured lawns, power generators and lakes, the campuses are a noticeable improvement on most engineering colleges, which suffer from India’s standard infrastructure deficiencies — blackouts, water shortages and poor maintenance.

“I prefer a big campus,” said Aditya Mathur, a software engineer, 23, who joined Wipro a year ago, and now works at a four-year-old office in Gurgaon, south of New Delhi, as a software tester. “The facilities are better in a big campus.”

Tata Consultancy Services — or T.C.S., as the company is known — is spending $200 million on its Siruseri campus and has hired the Uruguayan-born Canadian architect Carlos A. Ott, who designed the opera house on the Place de la Bastille in Paris. The company is also building big campuses in Ahemdabad, Pune, Calcutta and Hyderabad.

But some critics say that too many of the industry’s new complexes are intended to make a big splash without much thought of how they will function and fit into the local surroundings.

“It is a haphazard reaching for something that will quickly make a statement about the place being world class,” said Himanshu Burte, an architecture critic who writes frequently for Indian newspapers.

But Rahul Mehrotra, a prominent architect who has designed an office building for Hewlett-Packard in Bangalore, the city at the heart of India’s technology industry, argued that rather than being outré, too many Indian tech campuses had a hackneyed feel, evoking the sprawling suburban campuses of Silicon Valley or American companies like Google and Apple.

“The architecture in these cases symbolizes the fact that these are places of outsourcing, not cutting-edge research,” said Mr. Mehrotra, who lives in Mumbai and Boston.

Mr. Pai of Infosys said he was unconcerned about such criticism. He said the people who mattered to the company — employees and customers — raved about its buildings, particularly those that resembled landmarks like the Coliseum at its new campus in the city of Mysore. “They like the fact that it’s so diverse,” he said.

Infosys probably set the standard for ambitious corporate campuses in India more than a decade ago. Many other companies grew helter-skelter wherever they could find space. But Infosys started building large complexes, beginning with its first campus on the southern edge of Bangalore, its home city, in 1995, just a few years after India started to open its economy to the rest of the world.

That first campus, which, after many expansions, can now accommodate 24,000 people, was considered cutting-edge for creating an ordered oasis of lawns and lakes in the midst of the urban chaos that envelops most commercial areas in India. The complex also established the company’s quirky style — with a glass pyramid for an auditorium and a building that resembles a washing machine — and helped set a benchmark for big campuses in the technology industry.

Mr. Pai, who determined the overall layout of the campuses with the company’s chairman, N. R. Narayana Murthy, said Infosys was determined to make every new campus “better than our last campus.”

Their rules include the tenet that no two buildings should look alike. Another audacious goal is that every campus should become a “carbon sink” in the next five years. In other words, trees, lakes and other natural features should absorb more carbon than is generated by the campus.

Some other firms, like Wipro, tend to be more understated, opting for standard-looking office buildings. But even these companies have trademark causes. Wipro prides itself on minimizing the use of power and, especially, water. It recycles water and creates lakes to harvest the rain. At one of its campuses in Bangalore, a training center appears to float on one of these reservoirs.

T.C.S., based in Mumbai, has long had significant operations in and around Chennai, the city formerly known as Madras, which is on the Bay of Bengal. But N. Chandrasekaran, chief executive of T.C.S., said the company previously had too many buildings arbitrarily sprinkled around that region.

The new Siruseri campus, 18 miles south of Chennai, is meant to help consolidate some of those outposts and give employees a sense of place and pride of ownership. “We had multiple buildings and we felt that we should have a campus where employees will feel empowerment, will feel good about working,” he said “and at the same time we have a place to host clients.”

For at least some employees, the plan seems to be succeeding.

Deenathajalan Sugumar, who works in production support, recently moved to the new T.C.S. campus in Siruseri from a smaller building in Chennai. He gushed about the campus, even though he now commutes by a company bus for more than an hour every day, more than double his previous travel time.

“It’s my home,” Mr. Sugumar, 24, said. “It’s my company.”
635 2010-12-28 Yet with anemic property tax revenues and forecasts of more dire financial times ahead, some experts and elected leaders fear that more localities may have to at least consider bankruptcy.

“There could be many cities in this position next year,” said Summer Hallwood Minnick, director of state affairs for the Michigan Municipal League, who added that in this state, cities had already struggled with billions less than expected in state revenue sharing. “All our communities have done is cut, cut, cut. They’re down to four-day workweeks and the elimination of parks, senior centers, all of that. So if there’s anything else that happens, they will be over the edge.”

This month, the authorities in Rhode Island said the City of Central Falls could face bankruptcy if immediate, drastic changes — perhaps the city’s annexation into a neighboring municipality — failed. Some leaders in Harrisburg, Pa., which owes millions in debt payments tied to an incinerator project, say bankruptcy may eventually be the only choice.

Prichard, Ala., which stopped paying monthly checks to retired city workers when its pension fund ran out last year, is appealing a bankruptcy judge’s ruling that it did not qualify for Chapter 9 under Alabama law.

Only about 600 cities, counties, towns and special taxation districts have filed for bankruptcy (known as Chapter 9 for these sorts of entities) since 1937, said James E. Spiotto, a municipal bankruptcy expert at Chapman & Cutler, a law firm in Chicago, and fewer than 250 in the last three decades. In part, it can be hard — even impossible — to do: about half the states have statutes authorizing such filings, but some of them set limits or require elaborate approval processes. Other states have no specific provision allowing cities to pursue bankruptcy, and at least one, Georgia, bans such moves.

So far, the financial misery of the past two years has not caused a surge in bankruptcy applications; about 15 municipalities pursued bankruptcy in the last two years. But if revenue forecasts continue as predicted, 2011 might bring a rise in cities faced with such a fate.

Hamtramck (pronounced ham-TRAM-eck) did not anticipate its current circumstances. Officials in Detroit announced this year that they had for years overpaid Hamtramck in a revenue-sharing deal related to a General Motors plant that sits smack on the border of the two cities. The dispute is likely to be resolved, eventually, in court, but meanwhile, Detroit has stopped paying $2 million a year, and Hamtramck is watching a growing gap in its $18 million budget.

Here, the urgent search for services to cut has turned all attention to a realm that is also emerging at the center of budget debates in cities and states around the country: the costs of salaries, benefits and pensions of public workers.

Mr. Cooper, the city manager, says that everything else that could be cut already has been, while the city goes on spending 60 percent of its total general fund to pay for its police and firefighting forces — 75 current police officers and firefighters and about 240 former workers and spouses now on pensions. Mr. Cooper said that an entry-level police officer costs the city about $75,000 a year in salary and benefits, and yet repeated efforts to renegotiate contracts have failed.

“They kind of have the Cadillac plan,” Mr. Cooper said, “and we’d kind of like the Chevy.”

The police and firefighters question whether the city’s bankruptcy talk is really just a scare tactic for negotiation. Earlier discussions with city officials, they say, have urged them to accept pay cuts, layoffs, increased worker payments to pensions and even a suggestion that officers might pay for part of their own bulletproof vests — all this while the city has opted not to increase taxes.

“Nobody likes the police until you need them,” said Jon Bondra, the incoming president of Hamtramck’s police union.

Hamtramck, all 2.1 square miles of it, is a gritty city, a proud one and a place “that can do more with less than anywhere on earth,” in the view of Greg Kowalski, 60, who has lived here since childhood. Immigrants have arrived in waves over time, leaving layers like sedimentary rock — from Germany, Poland, Bosnia, Albania, Bangladesh, Yemen and more. Along Joseph Campau Street on a recent morning, a woman in a burqa strolled past Stan’s Grocery, which boasts about its Polish pierogi and kielbasa.

Hamtramck — once a community of more than 50,000 people but now fewer than half of that — grew up around an enormous auto factory that John and Horace Dodge built here a century ago. It remains a city woven together by union history, a fact that makes the turmoil filtering out from City Hall all the more pronounced.

“Look, if I was king of the world, I’d give them all a million dollars,” Charles Sercombe, the editor of The Hamtramck Review, the local newspaper, said of police officers and firefighters. “But this is the new economy, welcome to it.” He noted that his own job was now part time and that he received no health benefits.

Although Mr. Cooper says he believes bankruptcy, which could allow the city to “start over” with its labor contracts, is the only solution, the authorities in the State of Michigan have so far rejected the city’s request that the governor issue an executive order allowing Hamtramck to file for bankruptcy. An official from the state’s Treasury Department said that no city in Michigan had gone through bankruptcy, and that the governor had no such authority; the state has specific provisions for authorizing a bankruptcy filing, including intervention from an emergency financial manager and an emergency loan board. The current administration, which will be departing later this week, has urged Hamtramck to seek state assistance, including a possible emergency loan.

Rick Snyder, a Republican who is to be sworn in as governor of Michigan on Saturday, said the circumstances in Hamtramck concerned him, particularly for what it might bode elsewhere.

“We could have a large number of jurisdictions facing insolvency,” Mr. Snyder said. “Major reinvention” will be a necessity, he added, including taking a serious look at the structure of local governments and the possibility, in some places, of consolidation of services.

A new fear is bubbling up along the streets here: that Hamtramck, in so much fiscal distress, may ultimately disappear (either through bankruptcy or, simply, default), and wind up sharing services with or becoming a part of Detroit, a place many here describe as painfully rundown and unsafe.

“I’m not going to wait for two hours for a cop to show up,” said Shannon Lowell, the co-owner of a coffee shop. “We’ve trimmed every bit of fat. What else are we going to do? Borrow money from our dying grandmother?”
636 2010-12-28 Authorities arrested Don Chu, a Primary Global Research executive from Somerset, N.J., at 6:05 a.m. on Nov. 24. Within 24 hours, employees halfway around the world in the expert-network firm's Manila office received a directive from their chief: s...
637 2010-12-29 A couple of H.P. laptops use Intel's new Sandy Bridge chip....
638 2010-12-29 For this Floridian, every winter day might as well be a blizzard....
639 2010-12-29 More colleges are bringing the trading floor to the classroom, allowing students to make real-time buy and sell decisions, just like any Wall Street financier....
640 2010-12-29 Many companies may still have to post margin on their derivatives trades - effectively making the so-called end-user exemption moot....
641 2010-12-29 The N.C.A.A. responded to criticism of its enforcement rulings -- this time, the decision to suspend Ohio State players next season, but let them play in the Sugar Bowl -- via statement on its Web site....
642 2010-12-29 Modeled on an old Rolling Stones concert, the two-day Rock & Roll Circus parades indie rock sideshows under the tent at Lincoln Center....
643 2010-12-29 Some environmental groups are criticizing the Obama administration's plan for regulating coal ash....
644 2010-12-29 The fighting in Iraq is not over, but largely, Operation New Dawn is a twilight war for the troops still living in dusty camps throughout the country....
645 2010-12-29 Federal authorities charged Winifred Jiau of California with conspiracy and securities fraud for providing hedge fund managers with confidential information about Marvell Technology and Nvidia....
646 2010-12-29 A group of men who faced up to 90 days in jail and fines of $1,000 for playing chess at the tables in a city playground are in line to have their charges dismissed....
647 2010-12-29 Days of isolation from the snowstorm may be making some people a bit stir-crazy....
648 2010-12-29 The small businesses that succeed will need to do more than just hope. And they will need to do more than just complain about the government and wait for it to solve all problems....
649 2010-12-29 Norilsk Nickel plans to spend as much as $4.5 billion to buy back its shares after failing to acquire Rusal's 25 percent stake in the company. Rusal labeled the move "gross corporate blackmail."...
650 2010-12-29 In the holiday season, too, demand remains strongly linked to supply, an economist writes....
651 2010-12-29 “The idea is to deliver the tradition back to the owners of the traditions,” Mr. Smith told the Buddhist magazine Mandala in 2001.

Though Mr. Smith had neither an academic affiliation nor a doctorate, wherever in the world he happened to be living — in New Delhi, where he acquired Tibetan literature for the Library of Congress; Cambridge, Mass., where he started the resource center in his house, sleeping amid towers of Tibetan books; or New York — his home became a magnet for students, scholars, religious leaders and exiles who sought his expertise on Tibet’s rich but little-known literary canon.

“The value of Tibetan literature is two things,” David Germano, a professor of Tibetan studies at the University of Virginia, said last week in a telephone interview. “First of all, it’s one of the four great languages in which the Buddhist canon was preserved.” (The others are Chinese, Sanskrit and Pali, an extinct language of India.)

“In addition to the scriptural canon,” he said, “there were histories, stories, autobiography, poetry, ritual writing, narrative, epics — pretty much any kind of literary output you could imagine. So the second value of the Tibetan canon is it’s one of the greatest in the world.”

The canon was imperiled after China invaded and occupied Tibet in the 1950s. Though fleeing refugees managed to smuggle some books out, the Chinese destroyed a great many others.

“With the close of the Cultural Revolution, you essentially lost much of the Tibetan Buddhist literature,” Professor Germano said. “It was lost to the war; it was lost to the destruction of the monasteries, libraries and collections of books in Tibet that were systematically sought out and burned during the Cultural Revolution.”

Ellis Gene Smith was born on Aug. 10, 1936, in Ogden, Utah, to a Mormon family that traced its lineage to Hyrum Smith, the elder brother of Mormonism’s founder, Joseph Smith.

After attending a series of colleges, Mr. Smith settled in at the University of Washington, where he studied Mongolian and Turkish, earning a bachelor’s degree in Far Eastern studies in 1959.

Around that time, as he began work on a doctorate at the university, he started studying Tibetan with a visiting lama, Deshung Rinpoche, and was entranced. Further study was hindered, however, by the lack of available texts.

“We had no Tibetan books,” Mr. Smith told The New York Times in 2002. “Deshung said: ‘Go and find them. Find the important books and get them published.’ ”

After advanced study in Sanskrit and Pali at Leiden University in the Netherlands, Mr. Smith went to India in 1965, spending several years studying with exiled Tibetan lamas. He joined the Library of Congress field office in New Delhi in 1968, eventually becoming field director there.

Mr. Smith acquired as many Tibetan books as he could for the library, seeking out Tibetan refugees in India, Nepal and Bhutan and earning their trust. Most of the books he collected were either hand-lettered manuscripts or had been printed in the traditional manner, using carved wood blocks. (Tibet had no printing presses.) Often, a book he obtained was the only known copy in the world.

In India, Mr. Smith began printing new copies of thousands of Tibetan books. He was aided, serendipitously, by a United States program, Public Law 480, which let developing countries buy American agricultural commodities in local currency. The United States would take that currency and invest it in local humanitarian projects.

As Mr. Smith noted, nothing in the law expressly forbade using the money to republish great works of literature. And so, book by book, he brought much of the Tibetan canon to light. His publishing project, which lasted two and a half decades, furnished books to libraries and Tibetan speakers around the globe, greatly augmenting the store upon which scholars could draw.

“Without his vision, many of us in the field would not be doing what we’re doing,” Leonard van der Kuijp, a professor of Tibetan and Himalayan studies at Harvard, said last week.

In later years, after the Library of Congress sent Mr. Smith to Indonesia and then to Egypt, he continued collecting and publishing Tibetan texts through intermediaries. He retired in 1996 and three years later founded the center, where he served as executive director until last year.

Mr. Smith is survived by three sisters, Rosanne Smith, Carma Wood and LaVaun Ficklin.

He was the author of several published catalogs of Tibetan literature and a volume of essays, “Among Tibetan Texts: History and Literature of the Himalayan Plateau” (Wisdom Publications, 2001).

“Digital Dharma,” a documentary film about Mr. Smith and his work, is currently in production.

Interviewers often asked Mr. Smith what propelled his quest. His answer was simple, and Buddhist to the core:
652 2010-12-29 Even that figure, however, is undoubtedly an undercount of the phenomenon social service providers call “doubling up,” which has ballooned in the recession and anemic recovery. The census’ multifamily household figures, for example, do not include such situations as when a single brother and a single sister move in together, or when a childless adult goes to live with his or her parents.

For many, the arrangements represent their last best option, the only way to stave off entering a homeless shelter or sleeping in their cars. In fact, nearly half of the people in shelters in 2009 who had not previously been homeless had been staying with family members or friends, according to a recent report, making clear that the arrangements are frequently a final way station on the way to homelessness.

A New York Times analysis of census “microdata,” prepared by the University of Minnesota’s state population center, found that the average income of multifamily households in the records fell by more than 5 percent from 2009 to 2010, twice as much as households over all, suggesting that many who are living in such arrangements are under financial siege.

Holly’s parents had been enduring their own financial struggles. Mr. Maggi, 58, lost his job as a high-end furniture maker in early 2009. Complicating matters, he and his wife had allowed Holly’s older sister, her husband and their two children to move in with them after they lost their home to foreclosure in 2008. They finally scraped together the money to move out just a week before Holly arrived with her family.

“I was just thinking, ‘Is it ever going to end?’ ” Mr. Maggi said. “I thought I was done raising my kids.”

Nevertheless, the Maggis said there was never any question about their taking in Holly and her young family.

“She didn’t have any other options,” said Kathy Maggi, 53, who has not worked for several years because of health problems. “It was here or on the streets.”

Back in Gainesville, Holly Maggi had worked as a manager at a self-storage facility before being laid off in 2007. She eventually took a job at a Häagen-Dazs, only to lose that as well. Mr. Wilson’s job as a flooring contractor sustained them, until that work also dried up in early 2009.

As their money dwindled, Ms. Maggi and Mr. Wilson looked into shelters but discovered they would not be able to stay together as a family. It took Ms. Maggi a week to muster up the courage to ask her parents.

“It was the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do,” said Ms. Maggi, who has lived on her own since she was 18, working for most of that time and putting herself through community college.

The young couple, however, have come to regret their decision, even as they concede they had no other choice.

“I liked her family when we weren’t here,” said Mr. Wilson, who has struggled to mesh his more reserved personality with the garrulousness of Ms. Maggi’s family. “Now that we’re here, I don’t like them. I feel bad about it. I don’t think it’s their problem, or something that can be helped. It is what it is.”

The stresses can be as trifling as having to worry when getting up at night to use the toilet, which Mr. Wilson said he fretted about all the time because the elder Maggis’ bedroom is next to the bathroom. Or they can be more serious, like how Mr. Wilson and Ms. Maggi feel their parental decisions are being constantly undermined by her parents.

Several months ago, Holly Maggi finally landed a part-time job, paying minimum wage, as a cashier at Harvest Food & Outreach Center here, which offers discounted groceries, classes and other services to the needy. (The center’s client base has grown tenfold this year in St. Lucie County, where the unemployment rate was 15.2 percent in November.)

With Ms. Maggi at work, Mr. Wilson, 26, has been left to fend for himself at home with their daughter and Ms. Maggi’s parents. Over time, Kathy Maggi’s regular chirping about how to deal with Madison and her sometimes-differing approach — she prefers, for example, not to let her granddaughter cry, even though Mr. Wilson and Holly Maggi sometimes think she needs to — has rankled Mr. Wilson. “I don’t think she feels Madison is safe when she’s with me,” he said.

After Holly comes home from work, the couple spend most of their time in their bedroom, with Madison dashing in and out. Most of their possessions, including a 75-gallon fish tank with two giant South American cichlids and a South American catfish, occupy a second bedroom. Even though three-quarters of the space in their room is taken up by a king-size mattress, it has become their refuge. “This is the only place we feel we have that’s really ours,” Holly Maggi said.

The family’s time together has not been without its joys. It has enabled Madison’s grandparents to witness her first steps and first words, her transformation from infant to toddler. But the financial burdens shadow everything.

The sharing of expenses is a touchy subject. Holly’s food stamps cover groceries, but she and Mr. Wilson only occasionally pitch in on other bills because they have been focused on paying off creditors, as well as friends and relatives who have lent them money. Her parents have dropped hints but hold back. “That’s her money,” Kathy Maggi said. “I can’t say, ‘Holly, give me your paycheck for the bills.’ I can’t do that.”

The young couple’s relationship has suffered. Arguments are more frequent. Their sex life, they say, is basically nonexistent. Every night, with her parents in the next room, Mr. Wilson and Ms. Maggi discuss in hushed tones how and when they might be able to move out. Their hopes were buoyed recently when she was promoted and got a small raise.

The new dilemma, however, is that Jim Maggi’s unemployment benefits are scheduled to run out soon, which would leave the elder Maggis with no income and their savings exhausted. Mr. Maggi declared recently they needed to have a family meeting.

The predicament has left Holly Maggi feeling torn. She wants to leave, maybe even needs to, but she also does not want to abandon her parents. Soon, she will have to make a decision.
653 2010-12-29 ATLANTA — Elizabeth Elliott, 24, a travel administrator in New York, has a message for her fellow holiday travelers: “You have to be dedicated if you want to get anywhere.”

On Tuesday, she spent 14 hours on a trip home from Christmas vacation in Atlanta that normally takes four hours, making layover stops in Columbus, Ohio, and Washington, D.C., and then taking Amtrak and a cab to her apartment. It was a circuitous route that reminded her of the scene in “Home Alone” in which the desperate character rides in the back of a U-Haul with a polka band just to have a way home.

Why the rush? “I’m starting a new job,” Ms. Elliott said.

This week’s weather has made getting home difficult — but not impossible. With long delays at airports, the most committed travelers are realizing that the fastest path between Airport A and Airport B might not be a straight line — and may involve other modes of transportation.

Alec White, 25, an investment banker, was planning a 14-hour trip by plane and train from Atlanta to New York. “I’m really trying not to miss a date with my girlfriend on New Year’s Eve,” he said.

Some airlines are offering enticements to travelers willing to wait for rescheduled flights. But many travelers are opting to fly part of the way to their ultimate destination, and then drive or take a train from there.

“Our main goal is just to get people moving again,” said Judy Graham-Weaver of AirTran, which canceled 177 flights from Friday to Monday. “For some people, that means taking a creative route.”
654 2010-12-29 And few of Silicon Valley’s technorati seem willing to forget one of the biggest Wi-Fi breakdowns, on the opening day of a conference in 2008 co-hosted by the technology blog TechCrunch. It left much of the audience steaming over the lack of Internet access. The next morning, the organizers — who included Mr. Calacanis — clambered onto the stage to apologize and announce that they had fired the company that installed the Wi-Fi.

Technology conferences are like revival meetings for entrepreneurs, deal makers and the digitally obsessed. Attendees compulsively blog, e-mail, text and send photos and video from their seats.

Some go so far as to watch a webcast of the event on their laptops rather than look up at the real thing right in front of them. Nearly all conferences make free Wi-Fi available to keep the crowd feeling connected and productive.

The problem is that Wi-Fi was never intended for large halls and thousands of people, many of them bristling with an arsenal of laptops, iPhones and iPads. Mr. Calacanis went to the extreme at the Web 2.0 Summit by bringing six devices to get online — a laptop, two smartphones and three wireless routers.

He explained — while writing e-mails on his laptop — that as a chief executive and investor, he needed dependable Internet access at all times. “You’ve still got to work,” Mr. Calacanis said.

Wi-Fi is meant for homes and other small spaces with more modest Internet demands, says Ernie Mariette, founder of Mariette Systems, which installs conference Wi-Fi. “You’re asking a technology to operate beyond its capability.”

Conference organizers and the Wi-Fi specialists they hire often fail to provide enough bandwidth. Many depend on the infrastructure that the hotels or convention centers hosting their events already have in place.

Companies that install Wi-Fi networks sometimes have only a day to set up their equipment in a hall and then test it. They must plan not only for the number of attendees, but also the size and shape of the room, along with how Wi-Fi signals reflect from walls and are absorbed by the audience.

“Every space is different and every crowd is different,” Mr. Mariette said.

What is good enough for a convention of podiatrists is woefully inadequate for Silicon Valley’s connected set.

“I’ve been to health care conferences where no one brings a laptop,” said Ross Mayfield, president of the business software company Socialtext and a technology conference regular.

Technology conferences are an anomaly. Some regulars joke, perhaps accurately, that the events are host to more Internet devices per square foot than anywhere in the world. All too often, the network freezes after becoming overwhelmed with all the nonstop streaming, downloading and social networking.

That was what happened this year at the RailsConf, a software conference in Baltimore, when attendees caused Wi-Fi gridlock by tuning in to a webcast of an unrelated event across the country. Nearly everyone, it turned out, wanted to watch Apple’s live unveiling of the iPhone 4, the very one that fell victim to a Wi-Fi crash.

Adding more Wi-Fi access points does not necessarily fix the problem, Mr. Mariette said. In fact, doing so may make the situation worse by creating more interference.

To avoid Wi-Fi gridlock, conference organizers sometimes ask attendees to turn off electronics they are not using and to refrain from downloading big files. Cooperation is generally mixed, however.

Last year, an attendee at Web 2.0 Expo in New York was so desperate to get online that he offered to pay Oren Michels, chief executive of Mashery, a Web services company, to share his mobile Internet connection. MiFi, as the device is called, enables users to create mini-Internet hot spots using a mobile carrier’s network, not conference Wi-Fi.

“He said, ‘Can I give you 20 bucks for access?’ ” Mr. Michels recalled. “It was just some random person sitting next to me.”

Even if Wi-Fi devices are not connected to the network, they constantly emit signals that create background noise, sometimes until it becomes impossible to get online. IPhones and most BlackBerrys, along with certain laptops, are more susceptible than other devices because they operate on 2.4 GHz, a part of the spectrum that offers only three channels.

The Wi-Fi curse also extends to tech industry press conferences. Google, for instance, once held a press day at its headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., during which the Wi-Fi failed for several hours, although it was restored during the event’s final minutes. The flub did not exactly build confidence that Google and its partner, EarthLink, could deliver on their plans — since abandoned — to blanket San Francisco with free Wi-Fi.
655 2010-12-29 Food prices globally are rising to dangerous levels. There is talk of a coming crisis, like the ones that produced riots around the world in 2008 and 1974. Many of the ingredients of a disaster are present, but governments can stop the problem before it causes too much damage.

A warning sign is the price of traded staples like wheat, corn and rice. Prices shot up in 2010, soaring 26 percent from June to November and brushing the peaks of 2008, according to the Food Price Index kept by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. That hits poor countries that import much of their food, including the Philippines, Mexico, Nigeria and Pakistan.

High prices deprive the poor, who already spend as much as half of their income on food. The market still clears, but at a riot-inducing high price. In India, where the cost of onions has in the past led to the upending of governments, prices of the good have again skyrocketed.

For most big countries, food prices are a domestic affair. Just 12 percent of cereals produced are traded across borders. In countries that grow their own, like China, Russia and India, buyers often pay prices set by the government that have little link to global markets. Yet these nations are suffering, too.

China, which only really uses global markets for soybeans, is fretting over soaring shop prices for goods as diverse as pork and seaweed. In India, a fifth of the population is undernourished, according to the United Nations. Both countries have their own issues; for instance, in India, awful infrastructure means a third of produce spoils before it reaches the market. But something is clearly making the problem worse.
656 2010-12-29 In May, the number of jurors dropped below 12, and the judge announced that because of the gravity of the charges, the repeat trial could not be heard by a jury.

“When they dismissed the jury, they snatched victory from us,” Mr. Antonov said Tuesday. “And now, instead of victory, they have simply disposed of this man.”

Nearly 20 years after the collapse of Communism, professional judges grant acquittals in fewer than 1 percent of criminal cases, just a shade more than they did in the Soviet era. Juries have proved to be more skeptical of prosecutors, acquitting 15 to 20 percent of the time.

Jury trials, which were phased out by the Bolsheviks, were revived in the 1990s. But their number has remained tiny, roughly 600 of the more than 1 million criminal cases heard each year. The authorities have eliminated jury trials in cases where crimes like terrorism and espionage are charged, and new proposals would ban them in cases involving extremism. Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin went further this week, saying juries “are not effective” and suggesting that their use be limited to federal courts.

Mr. Izmestiev, 44, was a business partner of Ural Rakhimov, whose father for two decades headed the resource-rich region of Bashkortostan. His defenders say that relationship had soured by 2007, when Mr. Izmestiev was arrested on suspicion of murder. Prosecutors went on to accuse him of contracting with a criminal gang to carry out a long list of murders, attacks and acts of sabotage — finally adding two charges of terrorism in 2008.

He stood trial with 12 members of the so-called Kingisepp gang, who all received lesser sentences on Tuesday. Among the crimes alleged was an attempt on the life of Mr. Rakhimov and an attempt to bribe an officer of the Federal Security Service. The trial was closed to the public, on the basis that some evidence was classified.

Jurors interviewed earlier this year said that though Mr. Izmestiev might well have been guilty of some wrongdoing, the charges had not been supported by the evidence they had heard. Iosif L. Nagle, one dismissed juror, said he had passed a note to the judge informing her that investigators had approached him outside the courthouse, but there was no response.

Anna A. Usacheva, a spokeswoman for the Moscow City Court, said the court never received any complaints from jurors in the case. Told of Mr. Nagle’s allegation, she said it was appropriate to take the decision out of his hands.

“Thank God such a juror did not deliver a verdict, a juror who felt he was under pressure,” Ms. Usacheva added. “Decisions involving the fate of another person cannot be made under the influence of fear or any other emotion.”
657 2010-12-29 The world's largest clearinghouse for credit-default swaps, ICE Trust, has had second thoughts about registering with regulators,  citing concerns over new rules devised to bring transparency to the $600 trillion derivatives market.      ICE Trust...
658 2010-12-29 ''Rain: A Tribute to the Beatles on Broadway'' has recouped its initial investment of $2 million in seven weeks, the show's producers announced on Monday. The biographical show, with four cast members impersonating the Beatles in a concert setting...
659 2010-12-29 MORRISROE--Garyowen. The lawyers and staff of Chadbourne & Parke LLP mourn the untimely passing of our longtime partner, colleague and friend, Garyowen Morrisroe. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Susan and his children, Lauren, Daniel an...
660 2010-12-30 A federal judge in Manhattan on Thursday dismissed a $2 billion case against Porsche, stating that the New York court had no jurisdiction over lawsuits related to foreign securities....
661 2010-12-30 New York State paid $30 million to secure conservation rights on tens of thousands of acres of forest in the Adirondacks....
662 2010-12-30 In letters to federal regulators, the Justice Department warns that Wall Street could monopolize the $600 trillion derivatives market unless tougher rules are enacted....
663 2010-12-30 The teams at the top of the Premier League table have do-si-doed a bit recently, making this weekend's games pivotal as the title race heads into 2011....
664 2010-12-30 Credit Suisse lowers earnings estimates for Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley but praises Goldman's "expense discipline."...
665 2010-12-30 "I still discover new things about myself every day,'' says Uyanga Tamir, a senior at Cherry Creek High in Denver....
666 2010-12-30 The United States revoked the visa of Venezuela’s ambassador to Washington in retaliation for President Hugo Chávez’s rejection of an envoy nominated to be the American ambassador in Caracas, the State Department said Wednesday night. Mr. Chávez had blocked the arrival of the American diplomat, Larry Palmer, after Mr. Palmer accused the Venezuelan government of having close ties with Colombian rebels. In response, the United States effectively expelled Venezuela’s ambassador, Bernardo Álvarez Herrera, by withdrawing his visa.
667 2010-12-30 A sport utility vehicle in which Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly was a passenger was involved in a three-car accident on a slick Brooklyn highway on Wednesday night, though no injuries were reported, the police said.

One vehicle was badly damaged in the multiple-car collision, which the police said occurred about 8 p.m. near the 65th Street exit on the Gowanus Expressway.

According to the police, a Ford Econoline van was cut off by a red sedan, prompting the van’s driver to slam on his brakes and causing him to fishtail into a snow embankment and a barrier. Behind the van was a Ford Expedition carrying Mr. Kelly, which braked to avoid an accident, the police said. But instead, Mr. Kelly’s car slid into the van, and was struck from behind by a Lincoln Town Car occupied by a livery driver and a passenger.

Mr. Kelly and the occupants of the other vehicles all refused medical attention.

The van had to be towed, the Town Car suffered minor damage, and Mr. Kelly’s vehicle was driven away, the police said. All the vehicles involved had been driving at about 40 miles an hour, the police said.
668 2010-12-30 “It was tiring and long,” Ms. Gargamelli said. “I will be happy to be home in my own bed tonight.”

Abiola Billey, 30, a law clerk from St. John’s in Antigua, went to Miami for Christmas and planned to fly to New York on Sunday to visit family before heading home on Thursday. When her JetBlue flight on Sunday was canceled, and she was told that she could not get another flight to New York until Friday, her next call was to Greyhound. She spent nearly 36 hours on a bus in order to have less than 12 hours in New York before her trip to Antigua.

“Christmas was nice,” Ms. Billey said, “but everything after that went downhill.”

Bus companies added extra shifts of workers to deal with the glut of passengers, many of whom found train seats as hard to find as plane seats, officials said. William Lassiter, a Greyhound driver for 31 years, said this week had been on par with Thanksgiving weekend, among the year’s busiest for bus travel.

“It’s been a little overwhelming,” Mr. Lassiter said.

Ali Schmidt, 24, an actress, visited her family in Ohio for Christmas and was set to fly to La Guardia from Detroit on Monday, only to learn that her flight had been canceled. Needing to be in New York for a shift as a singing waitress on Thursday morning, she drove to Cleveland, met her friend Julie Greeneisen, 22, and hopped a bus to Manhattan.

“The bus ride wasn’t that bad, but the bus station was crazy,” Ms. Schmidt said. “They had four busloads of people trying to get on one bus.”

Some people whose flights were canceled got as close as they could to New York on any flight they could catch, and then rode buses the rest of the way.

Nolan Lee, 31, and Janet Davis, 25, had tickets for a flight to New York from their home in Chicago on Monday. The closest they could get on Tuesday after learning that their flight had been canceled was Pittsburgh, where they boarded a bus at 2 a.m. Wednesday to arrive in New York on Wednesday afternoon. They were just in time to see “The Addams Family” on Broadway, for which they had bought tickets.

Mr. Lee, a chiropractic student, described the overnight ride seated next to an overflowing bus bathroom as “horrible.” Ms. Davis, a figure model, agreed.

“It was radically gross,” she said. “I’ve traveled Greyhound before, but this was just a different animal.”
669 2010-12-30 For 16 years, sisters Jamie and Gladys Scott have shared a life behind bars for their part in an $11 armed robbery. To share freedom, they must also share a kidney. Gov. Haley Barbour suspended the sisters’ life sentences on Wednesday, but 36-year-old Gladys Scott’s release is contingent on her giving a kidney to Jamie, 38, who requires daily dialysis. The sisters were convicted in 1994 of leading two men into an ambush in central Mississippi the year before. Civil rights advocates have for years called for their release, saying the sentences were excessive.
670 2010-12-30 “I just think we’re better this way,” D’Antoni said, “and we’ll deal with it.”

The Knicks (18-13) are off to their best start in years and have won 15 of their last 20 games, all with Stoudemire as their primary center. At 6 feet 10 inches and 240 pounds, he is undersize for the role, but brilliantly effective in D’Antoni’s high-octane offense. He is second in the league in scoring, with 26.3 points per game.

None of this should be surprising, of course: Stoudemire was also quite effective as an undersize center under D’Antoni in Phoenix. But this was not the lineup that the Knicks envisioned when training camp began.

D’Antoni hoped that the rookie Timofey Mozgov, who looked promising in the preseason, could handle the job. But Mozgov wilted once the games began, and the Knicks went 3-4 with him as the starter. Ronny Turiaf inherited the role and the Knicks went 5-1. But Turiaf got banged up and his effectiveness waned.

Now Turiaf is a 15-minutes-a-game reserve, and Mozgov is out of the rotation. So it is Stoudemire’s job and Stoudemire’s burden, even if he still resists the label.

“The All-Star ballot has me at power forward,” he noted. “But playing center is definitely working for us so far. And whatever creates wins, we’re going to keep it going.”

The benefits and pitfalls are evident. Stoudemire is quicker and more athletic than traditional centers, which makes him especially dangerous in transition. But on defense, size quickly becomes an issue. Ilgauskas had 12 points and 9 rebounds — 5 on offense — in the first quarter Tuesday, mostly by reaching over the Knicks’ heads.

Howard, the league’s premier center, poses an even greater concern. He is averaging 21 points and 12.9 rebounds and can overpower most defenders with a combination of brawn and athleticism. He is surrounded by capable shooters, which makes double-teaming problematic.

“He’s definitely a physical specimen down there in the post,” Stoudemire said. “He’s a great defensive player. Offensively, he’s a little limited, so we’re going to use that to our advantage.”

Stoudemire was hinting at Howard’s shooting range, which, despite some improvement, remains mostly limited to the area around the basket.

The concern for the Knicks is foul trouble. They are wholly dependent on Stoudemire, who is averaging a career-high 37.9 minutes per game, and cannot beat an elite team without him.

Stoudemire has fouled out just once this season (in a Nov. 4 victory over Chicago), and has accumulated at least five fouls on nine occasions.

“We’re not going to speak about foul trouble,” Stoudemire said Wednesday, while discussing Howard. “Hopefully, that doesn’t happen. But I think the most important factor is to try to keep him off the boards, try to keep him from getting easy baskets. It’s never easy.”

D’Antoni said foul trouble was a concern, but added, “I’m sure they have the same concerns of Dwight starting on Amar’e.”

If Stoudemire falters, Turiaf will get the call. Asked who would be next, D’Antoni paused a few seconds before saying, “Timmy,” referring to Mozgov, who has barely played in the last month.

Orlando (20-12) just underwent a dramatic overhaul, acquiring Gilbert Arenas, Jason Richardson and Hedo Turkoglu in a pair of trades on Dec. 18. Orlando, which had been struggling, has now won four straight games, including victories over San Antonio and Boston, the two conference leaders.

This will be the Knicks’ first game at Orlando’s new (very large) Amway Center, and their first time facing the Magic this season. Their first scheduled meeting, on Nov. 2, was postponed because of asbestos concerns at Madison Square Garden.

D’Antoni said he was impressed with the Magic’s new lineup and its array of 3-point shooters. He tried to play down the concerns about Howard.

“Size isn’t everything, you know that,” he said wryly.

In truth, the Knicks would happily acquire a skilled, muscle-bound 7-footer to play next to Stoudemire. But those players are difficult to obtain, and D’Antoni seems perfectly comfortable with his smallish lineup. After all, his undersized Suns teams averaged 58 wins over four seasons.

“I’m a little slow at changing what we do,” D’Antoni said. “I fully believe what we do is going to work over the long haul, and we’ll stick with it.”
671 2010-12-30 In “The Arduous Community” (column, Dec. 21), David Brooks offers an eloquent appreciation of Erica Brown, a Jewish educator.

One comment, though, should not go unchallenged. He says she “offers a path out of the tyranny of the perpetually open mind by presenting authoritative traditions and teachings.” This implies that religious traditions are different from any other socially constructed system, like economics or politics.

One of the incontrovertible insights of modernity is that like any other aspect of culture, religions are humanly constructed and historically developed. Each religion is an anthology of opinion and insight gathered under the name of those who identify with it.

Within the Jewish tradition, for example, which voice is “authoritative”? The voice of philosophical rationalism or of kabbalistic mysticism? Gendered differentiation of religious roles or egalitarian engagement?

To suggest that an “open mind” is a symbol of tyranny is a peculiar inversion. Orthodox religious systems that insist on one truth have imposed or tried to impose tyranny on those for whom religious affirmation and an open mind are complementary and nonnegotiable.
672 2010-12-30 Your Dec. 26 editorial “Avastin” correctly calls for Genentech, the drug manufacturer, to identify the subset of women most likely to benefit from Avastin, but the Food and Drug Administration must also bear some responsibility.

F.D.A. approval of new drugs commonly opens the floodgates to widespread use, often by many patients for whom the benefits are questionable. Past experience has shown that drug effectiveness can be quite variable. In fact, it is unreasonable to expect a new drug to be uniformly beneficial for all patients with a particular medical condition.

Thus, when weighing evidence from clinical trials, both the F.D.A. and the manufacturer should be required to consider the varying effects of a new drug on different groups of people so that drug approval decisions can be targeted at those who will really benefit while preventing or minimizing adverse effects for those who won’t.

The writer is a professor of health policy and management and executive director of the Health Policy Institute at Boston University.

Your editorial rightly calls on Genentech to “focus on proposing ways to identify the subset of women who can really benefit from Avastin.” What about the women who are already responding extremely well to Avastin but whose treatment is now threatened by the F.D.A. decision?
673 2010-12-30 Facing overwhelmed ticketing agents, busy signals on the phone and the possibility that she might not get a seat until New Year’s Day, she remembered that a friend had rebooked her flight almost immediately by sending a Twitter message to the airline.

She got out her , did a few searches and sent a few messages. Within an hour, she had a seat on another airline and a refund from JetBlue.

“It was a much, much better way to deal with this situation,” said Ms. Heming, 30, a student at . “It was just the perfect example of this crazy, fast-forward techno world.”

Although airlines reported a doubling or tripling of Twitter traffic during the latest storm, the number of travelers who use Twitter is still small. Only about 8 percent of people who go online use Twitter, said Lee Rainie, director of the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a nonprofit organization that studies the social impact of the Internet.

“This is still the domain of elite activist customers,” Mr. Rainie said.

Of course, an agent with a Twitter account cannot magically make a seat appear. More often than not, the agent’s role is to listen to people complain.

“@DeltaAssist is worthless,” wrote Amy Zopfi, an event services manager in who was stuck for hours in and sent a stream of complaints to the Delta Twitter account. Delta officials readily admit that they cannot solve everyone’s problems through Twitter or .

Often, all the people running the accounts could do was apologize.

Sometimes, just connecting with someone at an airline can calm angry passengers.

“What you constantly hear from airline passengers is, ‘Just tell me what’s going on. I can adjust my travel expectations and my personal life if I just know what’s going on,’ ” Mr. Rainie said.

He also said that stranded families were using their gadgets in a team approach to getting answers.

“Mom would be on Twitter, Dad on Facebook, Junior would be searching sites and whoever hit pay dirt first is the way the family would figure out what to do next,” he said.

Even when help is not forthcoming, the airline Twitter accounts serve as a news source. People could share information — and pain.

One woman sent messages noting every song from the 1980s JetBlue played while she was on hold and stranded in the airport in Burbank, Calif. (Terence Trent D’Arby anyone?)

Brian Devinney, who used to work in the travel industry, is stuck in , Fla., until his flight leaves for New York on Sunday. So on Tuesday night he spent three hours offering information to stranded travelers who were using the airline Twitter accounts.

“With Twitter, you have people who were reaching out looking for something, for a community of people stuck in the same situation,” Mr. Devinney said.

Airlines still prefer that travelers use the phone. Arranging itineraries in the limits of a 140-character Twitter message is not always efficient. And many of the people monitoring Twitter sites for airlines are not ticket agents nor do they have a secret stash of seats.

“We consider ourselves an information booth rather than a customer service channel,” said Morgan Johnston, a JetBlue manager of corporate communications. And airlines only have a handful of people working Twitter and thousands working the phones.

But that does not always help. Susan Moffat of , Calif., spent 48 hours trying to get through to JetBlue this week. She wanted to get back home from a visit to New York. She finally connected and, after holding for an hour, secured a flight back on New Year’s Day. The agent told her she might have gotten a quicker response if she had used Facebook or Twitter.

A casual Facebook user, Ms. Moffat said, it never occurred to her that traditional methods of communicating might not be good enough anymore.

“My question is, in order to book an airline reservation am I going to have to be friends with a company?” she said. “What about a phone call?”

Still, she realizes that might be a very old-school option. “It’s like trying to talk to my kids on e-mail,” she said.
674 2010-12-30 Massachusetts officials on Wednesday announced a plan to curb heat-trapping gases emitted by homes, cars and businesses in the state by 25 percent below 1990 levels over the next decade.

The targets set by the plan are the highest allowed under climate legislation passed by the state in 2008 and among the most stringent in the nation, placing Massachusetts in the company of California, New Mexico and other states that have taken strong action to address global warming.

Unlike California’s plan, however, which sets industry-by-industry regulations to achieve its mandated cutbacks, the Massachusetts plan relies largely on existing programs, like renewable-energy mandates, energy-efficiency standards for building construction and curbs in the electricity sector that are already in place under a multistate agreement known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative.

In announcing the new measure, Ian A. Bowles, the state’s secretary of energy and environmental affairs, said most of the planned emissions cuts would result in net gains in jobs statewide. The plan, he added, shows that a state can change its energy profile with minimal economic impact and “puts the lie to the Chicken Little-oriented debate on the national scene” that equates reduction of emissions with job loss and economic disruption.

“People who have studied this find you can get your first 20-30 percent of greenhouse-gas cuts without making significant economic trade-offs,” he said.

Debra Boronski, president of the Massachusetts Chamber of Business and Industry, said she was not so sure of Mr. Bowles’s contention, particularly when it came to switching from conventional fuels — like the natural gas that powers much of the state’s electricity grid — to renewable sources of energy like wind and solar power.
675 2010-12-30 “We’re not saying the sky is falling,” said Maureen Wolpert, marketing director at Seventh Generation, which is based in Burlington, Vt. “And we’re not disputing that optical brighteners work — we’re just saying that our detergents work without using them.”

While many consumers are wary of perfumes and dyes, leading most major brands to offer varieties that are free of both, little attention has been paid to brighteners.

“Because it’s a topic that no one really knows anything about, it creates curiosity and generates an, ‘Oh, wow,’ ” Ms. Wolpert said.

Hoping to elicit such responses, the brand sent samples of detergent as well as hand-held black lights and digital video cameras to mom bloggers, and instructed them to wash similar shirts in conventional detergent and Seventh Generation. Then, the bloggers hung them side-by-side in darkness and shined the black light on them, causing the Seventh Generation shirt to barely appear and the other to glow purple.

The effort resulted in at least 34 bloggers posting videos about their demonstrations, according to the brand.

Some newer military uniforms are made of fabrics that are undetectable by infrared or night-vision equipment, but laundering them with products containing optical brighteners can render them detectable.

On Dec. 15, Seventh Generation asked visitors to its Facebook page with family members in the military to chime in about optical brighteners, and about 50 responded, many saying that they used either Seventh Generation or other brands free of optical brighteners because they had been instructed to do so.

Since detergents generally do not list ingredients, military branches have researched which are free of brighteners, and numerous Web sites, including Military.com, have published lists of about 20 suitable brands, including Seventh Generation, Woolite, and dye- and perfume-free varieties of All and Cheer.

Among those deemed unsuitable is category leader Tide, the Procter & Gamble brand that commands more than a 45 percent share of the detergent market, according to the SymphonyIRI Group.

According to the Tide Web site, two optical brighteners — disodium diaminostilbene disulfonate and disodium distyrylbiphenyl disulfonate — are used in dozens of Tide varieties. (Representatives of Tide did not return messages seeking comment about the use of optical brighteners.)

Mintel, a market research firm, called Seventh Generation “the home laundry category leader in environmentally-friendly products,” adding that the success of the brand was instrumental in the Clorox Green Works brand deciding to introduce a laundry detergent in 2009.

In the year ending Oct. 31, Seventh Generation detergent had total revenue of $27.5 million, an increase in 1.5 percent over the previous year, according to SymphonyIRI, whose totals do not include Wal-Mart. That is less than a 1 percent share of the detergent market, which totaled $3.62 billion.

Seventh Generation, which focuses marketing efforts primarily on social-media marketing and public relations, spent just $99,000 on advertising in 2009, while Tide spent $133.8 million, according to Kantar Media.

William L. Chameides, dean of the Nicholas School of the Environment at Duke University, said scientific studies about the safety of optical brighteners have tended to be “inconclusive,” generally finding no imminent danger to people or the environment but calling for more studies to further assess risk.

On his blog, The Green Grok, Dr. Chameides occasionally examines ingredients in consumer products, writing recently about both formaldehyde, which is used as a treatment to make clothing wrinkle-free, and triclosan, which along with being an insecticide is added to toothpaste and other personal care and cleaning products for its antimicrobial properties.

“I’ve decided it’s worth it to me to expose myself to low levels of formaldehyde because in the job I have I need to have crisp shirts and I’m too lazy to iron,” Dr. Chameides said in an interview. “But there’s no way I’m going to brush my teeth with a toothpaste that has an insecticide in it.”

As for brighteners, “I don’t necessarily worry too much about optical brighteners, but I generally buy detergent like Seventh Generation because the stuff in them generally tends to be better for the environment,” Dr. Chameides said.

Convincing consumers to choose a detergent based on forgoing the additives may be a tall order.

“For the most part people will relate to the fact that they have brighter colors and whiter whites as opposed to the fact that they have these optical brighteners,” Dr. Chameides said. “I don’t know what the decision process is for most people when they buy detergent, but I don’t think it’s a highly intellectual process.”
676 2010-12-30 WASHINGTON — The Obama administration is expressing alarm over reports that thousands of political separatists and captured Taliban insurgents have disappeared into the hands of Pakistan ’s police and security forces, and that some may have been tortured or killed.

The issue came up in a State Department report to Congress last month that urged Pakistan to address this and other human rights abuses. It threatens to become the latest source of friction in the often tense relationship between the wartime allies.

The concern is over a steady stream of accounts from human rights groups that Pakistan’s security services have rounded up thousands of people over the past decade, mainly in Baluchistan, a vast and restive province far from the fight with the Taliban, and are holding them incommunicado without charges. Some American officials think that the Pakistanis have used the pretext of war to imprison members of the Baluch nationalist opposition that has fought for generations to separate from Pakistan. Some of the so-called disappeared are guerrillas; others are civilians.

“Hundreds of cases are pending in the courts and remain unresolved,” said the Congressionally mandated report that the State Department sent to Capitol Hill on Nov. 23. A Congressional official provided a copy of the eight-page, unclassified document to The New York Times.

Separately, the report also described concerns that the Pakistani military had killed unarmed members of the Taliban, rather than put them on trial.

Two months ago, the United States took the unusual step of refusing to train or equip about a half-dozen Pakistani Army units that are believed to have killed unarmed prisoners and civilians during recent offensives against the Taliban. The most recent State Department report contains some of the administration’s most pointed language about accusations of such so-called extrajudicial killings. “The Pakistani government has made limited progress in advancing human rights and continues to face human rights challenges,” the State Department report concluded. “There continue to be gross violations of human rights by Pakistani security forces.”

The Obama administration has largely sought to confront Pakistan in private with evidence of human rights abuses by its intelligence and security forces, fearing that a public scolding could imperil the country’s cooperation in combating Al Qaeda, the Taliban and other extremist groups.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, the administration of President George W. Bush urged Pakistan to capture militants and Islamic extremists linked to the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Since then, human rights groups have said that Pakistan’s security forces used that campaign as a cover to round up hundreds, if not thousands, of political activists and guerrilla fighters in Baluchistan and hold them in secret detention.

Precise numbers of disappearances are difficult to pin down, human rights advocates say, partly because family members fear that reporting missing relatives could endanger the relatives or even themselves.

“It is very difficult to put numbers on disappearances as they are accompanied by intimidation of the next of kin of the disappeared,” said Ali Dayan Hasan, a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch in Lahore, Pakistan. “People are unable to speak publicly. But we can safely say that disappearances are the order of the day across Pakistan, particularly in relation with counterterrorism.”

In Islamabad on Wednesday, the interior minister, Rehman Malik, addressed the security issue in Baluchistan without mentioning the disappearances. “We are trying to ensure law and order in Baluchistan,” he told lawmakers in the National Assembly. “I will assure that we will do everything to improve the situation.” In August 2009, he acknowledged that 1,291 people were missing in the country. Husain Haqqani, Pakistan’s ambassador to Washington, said in an e-mail on Wednesday that “the courts and the government are investigating cases of disappearances with a view to establishing the whereabouts of the disappeared persons and the circumstances under which the alleged disappearances took place.”

Under pressure from Pakistan’s Supreme Court, which has held hearings on petitions filed by family members of missing Baluch men, as well as public rallies in supported of the disappeared, the government of President Asif Ali Zardari has been forced to respond to the outcry. A judicial commission established to investigate the disappearances is scheduled to present its report to the Supreme Court on Friday.

Pakistani intelligence officials say that human rights groups have exaggerated the number of people held incommunicado. The officials seemed to justify the extrajudicial detentions by citing the country’s weak judicial system and often poor police investigations that they say have led to dozens of terrorism suspects’ being acquitted by local courts.

American officials have dismissed these claims for years. “ ‘Disappeared’ Pakistanis — innocent and guilty alike — have fallen into a legal black hole,” the United States Embassy in Islamabad said in a cable, dated Feb. 8, 2007, that was obtained by WikiLeaks and made available to some news organizations, including The New York Times.

American officials are expanding programs to build up the judicial system in Pakistan. Officials also offer human-rights training to police officers and finance programs to reduce the backlogs of court cases that prevent family members of those who disappear from seeking relief through the Pakistani judicial system.

“This issue has been a persistent challenge for Pakistan,” said a senior American official who deals with South Asia and who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. “We’re trying to help Pakistan build democratic institutions so they can be a more effective partner.”

But American officials concede that the programs may take years to produce enduring results. The State Department’s most recent report on human rights in Pakistan, issued in March, said that during 2009 “politically motivated disappearances continued, and police and security forces held prisoners incommunicado and refused to disclose their location.”

That report, citing a Pakistani human rights group, said that in August 2009, Pakistani Frontier Corps paramilitary troops arrested two members of the Baluchistan National Party in Khuzdar, Pakistan. Two days later, the men were turned over to the police. “Both men showed evidence of having been tortured,” the report said. “Authorities reportedly forced them to make false confessions before their release.”
677 2010-12-30 Rhode Island will not be ready to commit to the America’s Cup until after a Friday deadline set by the team selecting the host city, but that should not hurt Newport’s chances because the people behind the bid are working closely with race organizers, the state’s top economic development official said.

The state is a week or two away from knowing how much it would cost to host the 34th America’s Cup at Newport’s Fort Adams State Park in 2013, said Keith Stokes, head of the state Economic Development Corp. He said the state was working closely with BMW Oracle but still did not know the exact requirements for the international sailing competition.

“We cannot make any formal commitment before we know what we’re committing to,” Stokes said.
678 2010-12-30 Chelsea could not muster a shot on target during a first half in which Bolton arguably played better in rainy conditions.

Manager Carlo Ancelotti said he hoped the victory would spark an upturn.

“It was a very important step,” he said. “I’m not sure if everything will be O.K. now — we have to wait and see until the next game. The league is open for us again. We are not in the best condition, confidence or atmosphere. We have to improve.”

ARSENAL MISSES CHANCE At Wigan, Arsenal settled for a 2-2 draw after defender Sébastien Squillaci scored a late own goal. Arsenal missed the chance to draw even with Manchester United and Manchester City atop the Premier League.

Wigan was rewarded for some early pressure when Ben Watson converted a penalty in the 18th minute, but the Russian playmaker Andrey Arshavin tied the score for Arsenal in the 39th with a superb volley, and forward Nicklas Bendtner put the visitors ahead just five minutes later.

Wigan’s attempts to salvage a draw were hurt in the 78th minute when Charles N’Zogbia was sent off, but the score was tied three minutes later when Arsenal’s Squillaci headed a clearance attempt into his own net.

Arsenal Manager Arsene Wenger had made eight changes from the lineup that beat Chelsea, 3-1, and his second-string team lacked the usual fluency.

PRESSURE RISING ON LIVERPOOL Liverpool slumped to an embarrassing 1-0 defeat at home to lowly Wolverhampton, adding to the pressure on its manager, Roy Hodgson.

Wolverhampton was last in the league when the game began, and was without an away league win all season. Stephen Ward flicked the ball past Pepe Reina in the 56th minute for the lone goal. It was a poor performance by Liverpool, which had its captain, Steven Gerrard, back. He had been out six weeks with a hamstring injury.

ISRAELI STAR DIES Avi Cohen, a former Liverpool defender who became the first Israeli to play in England’s top league, died in a Tel Aviv hospital Wednesday. He was 54. Cohen died from injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident last week in Ramat Gan. Doctors performed extensive brain surgery in an attempt to save his life.

Cohen was among the first Israeli players to sign for a major European team when he joined Liverpool in 1979. He made 24 appearances and scored one goal for the club before returning to Israel to play for Maccabi Tel Aviv. He was a longtime captain of the Israeli national team.

His son Tamir plays for Bolton in the Premier League.
679 2010-12-30 Mr. Grinspun turns on one of the half-dozen or so computer screens in his office to show off the lifelike strands of animated hair that his lab helped create and stares lovingly at the screen. “The mathematics behind this is really gorgeous,” he says.

Mr. Tamstorf uses another word —“principled” — to describe the Columbia group’s approach to problem solving.

What he and others mean when they refer to work as “principled” or “beautiful” is that the images on screen are not the result of a patchwork of technical tricks, but of precise mathematical equations based on the way the world actually looks and operates — in a word, physics. They use what is known as discrete differential geometry, a field so new that the first textbook on the subject was published only two years ago.

“We find equations that describe lots of different kinds of physical systems,” Mr. Grinspun explained, “the shape of a cable on a bridge, a spinning top, cilia.” He started pumping a large, colorful top that he keeps on his desk to illustrate. Those equations are then used to create a violent splash of waves or the layered folds of a skirt.

Predicting and controlling flexible materials and collisions, however, is tricky. Very tricky. With hair, for example, you need to take into account how every one of the 150,000 or so strands on a head interacts with the other strands, gravity, friction, air and so on. Imagine trying to come up with a couple of equations for that.

In general the process of animation involves painstaking trial and error that Mr. Tamstorf at Disney compared to “operating blindfolded.” The animators may get some of it right, but not all of it: a patch of scalp peeks out while a character is running, or a shirt keeps inching up a character’s belly even after he has stopped moving. Sometimes the studio is forced to resort to “brute force” to achieve a desired effect, he said, which could mean calling in Disney’s army of artists to paint over every single image in the film to satisfy the director.

As long as it looked good on the big screen, though, no one cared much how a result was achieved. It was like patching a leaky roof by nailing on a wooden panel, tying down a tarp, taping over a crack, sticking an umbrella in a hole. As long as it kept the water out, no one complained.

“That’s not our philosophy,” Mr. Grinspun said. “We said, ‘Let’s show the world you can have mathematically principled approaches.’ ”

Mr. Grinspun’s crucial idea was to throw out the jury-rigged models instead of trying to improve upon them, as Apple did with its operating system when it abandoned DOS and command prompts. “The programming had to be rethought from the ground up,” he said. Instead of trying to force a system that was designed to simulate straight hair to produce curly hair too, for instance, Mr. Grinspun created a more sophisticated system that could do both.

“We’re like psychoanalysts,” he added. “We try to find what the underlying problem is. You have problems with your mother? Let’s go back and look at your toilet training.”

The uses of discrete differential geometry go far beyond animation. Johns Hopkins Medical Center, for instance, is using Mr. Grinspun’s computer simulations to predict how needles move through human flesh, so that doctors can train to do laparoscopic surgery on virtual bodies instead of the real thing.

The approach was alien to most animators, though, and initially greeted with skepticism. “It was controversial at first,” Mr. Grinspun said, “but the strategy has paid off in the long run.” It significantly cut down the time it took to produce what the director wanted, to minutes from days, and provided better results. “You get more bang for the buck,” Mr. Grinspun said.

Disney did not work much with academics before Mr. Tamstorf’s partnership with Mr. Grinspun began about five years ago. Since then the company has looked more to universities. After Disney acquired Pixar in 2006, it ramped up its academic connections and in 2008 opened two collaborative labs on university campuses, one at Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh and the other at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich.

Mr. Grinspun generally does not sell or license the programming that comes out of his lab. Graduate students get to be interns for three or four months at places like Disney and Weta, where they gain valuable experience, and the team gets unusual and interesting problems to work on.

At the recent meeting Mr. Grinspun asked Mr. Tamstorf to list the technical conundrums he would like the lab to work on. “One of the areas where our current systems are far behind where they need to be is that garments don’t come to rest where they should,” Mr. Tamstorf said. “The character has stopped, but his shirt keeps crawling, crawling, crawling.”

Mr. Grinspun chimed in, “It’s the inability of simulations to stay still.”

Another persistent problem is having certain types of materials keep their general shape even when they’re moved or pushed. In “Tangled” keeping Rapunzel’s puffed sleeves puffed was an impossible task. (Artists ultimately had to draw in the puffs.) “We need better bending models or control,” Mr. Tamstorf said, so that the shape remains stiff but the fabric looks soft.

Mr. Grinspun enjoys working with studios, but he is not tempted to work for one full time, he said. At heart he is an academic. He does like contributing to the artistic enterprise, however.

As he sees it, his work frees the artists from worrying about a puffed sleeve so they can focus on what they do best, like capturing expressive emotion. His reward is different: “As long as you make pretty pictures, you get to keep learning all this math and physics.”
680 2010-12-30 “We are going to have more of the same next year,” said Thomas Steinemann, chief strategist at Vontobel Asset Management in Zurich, whose parent company manages about $80 billion. “There is enormous fiscal stimulus. Where it all leads is another question, but the surprise is probably on the upside for the economy and for equities.”

The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 1 1/32, to 93 30/32. The yield fell to 3.35 percent, from 3.48 percent late Tuesday.

Trading slowed this week after a snowstorm hit the East Coast. About 468 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, the fewest for a full-day session since May 1998. The average over the last 100 days is 1.01 billion. As many as 1.2 million airline customers may have been affected by flight cancellations as the blizzard closed major airports.

The business barometer of the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago, a gauge of business conditions, is forecast to show a 15th consecutive month of expansion in December. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey is 61 after a reading of 62.5 in November. Readings above 50 indicate improving conditions.

Crude oil is trading over $90 for the first time since October 2008 amid signs that global demand is picking up. Spot crude oil prices fell 37 cents, to $91.12 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Shares of BJ’s Wholesale Club jumped 7.08 percent, to $47.62. The private equity firm Leonard Green & Partners may make a hostile takeover bid for the chain if the retailer does not auction itself “in the coming weeks,” The New York Post said, citing unidentified sources.

Goldman Sachs declined 0.92 percent, to $167.63, and Morgan Stanley fell 1.37 percent, to $27.28. Mike Mayo at Crédit Agricole Securities lowered fourth-quarter earnings estimates for the firms, citing lower-than-expected trading in their fixed-income, currencies and commodities units.

Monsanto, the seed company, rose 2.7 percent, to $68.92. It may get an earnings boost of 15 to 30 cents a share from a recent increase in glyphosate prices in China, Michael Cox, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, said in a report.

MBIA jumped 8.82 percent, to $10.36, after JPMorgan Chase and Barclays said they are withdrawing from a lawsuit over the company’s decision to split its insurance unit in two. The lawsuit filed by 18 of the world’s largest financial companies will continue for the remaining plaintiffs.
681 2010-12-30 SEOUL, South Korea — In an unexpected diplomatic overture that could lead to the resumption of negotiations with North Korea, the president of South Korea said Wednesday that he would endorse restarting the six-nation talks aimed at dismantling the North’s nuclear weapons program.

After months of tensions in which the two Koreas exchanged artillery fire and increasingly bellicose threats that seemed to push the peninsula to the brink of war, President Lee Myung-bak said that his government favored multilateral talks in 2011 “to terminate the North Korean nuclear program,” preferably by 2012.

The impoverished North has vowed to become “a strong and prosperous country” by 2012, the 100th anniversary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, North Korea’s founder. To South Korean politicians and foreign leaders, the North’s remarks about this promised transformation are vague, improbable and worrisome.

The participants in the six-nation talks are the two Koreas, China, the United States, Japan and Russia. Hosted in the past by Beijing, the talks broke down in April 2009 when the North withdrew from the process and ejected inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog.

Mr. Lee’s remarks came before a presentation by the Foreign Ministry about its goals for next year. The Unification Ministry and Defense Ministry also reported to Mr. Lee on Wednesday, during private sessions at the Blue House, the presidential office here.
682 2010-12-30 The traditional version of this Middle Eastern dish includes pita bread, fried and doused in chicken stock....
683 2010-12-30 The year cannot end, it seems, without a fight over the fees paid for television programming.     Last year, there was an end-of-the-year dispute involving Time Warner Cable and the News Corporation. This year, Time Warner Cable is sparring again,...
684 2010-12-30 Bloomberg financial terminals hummed, stock prices raced across an electronic ticker, and CNBC blared in the background.     The trading floor had all the trappings of those at Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase or Morgan Stanley. But this one was some...
685 2010-12-30 MORRISROE--Garyowen. The lawyers and staff of Chadbourne & Parke LLP mourn the untimely passing of our longtime partner, colleague and friend, Garyowen Morrisroe. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Susan and his children, Lauren, Daniel an...
686 2010-12-30 Federal authorities charged another technology consultant with conspiracy and securities fraud on Wednesday in a widening investigation of insider trading.     The charges were filed against Winifred Jiau, 43, a consultant for an expert-network fi...
687 2010-12-31 Shares of Imax surged in early trading on Friday, amid speculation that Sony and possibly the Walt Disney Company are mulling takeover offers....
688 2010-12-31 The German sports car manufacturer had been accused of misleading investors over its stake in Volkswagen....
689 2010-12-31 Use only the most tender kale for this salad, not the tougher black leaf variety....
690 2010-12-31 The Queen of England announced her annual honors list on Friday in London....
691 2010-12-31 Things are getting hot with the Suns, and it's not because they're playing well....
692 2010-12-31 Golden eagles and whooping cranes are among the bird species at risk from rapid wind farm development, according to a conservation group....
693 2010-12-31 The pharmacy services company said it would acquire the Medicare Part D business of Universal American - an acquisition that may open the nation's largest pharmacy health care provider to further criticism about anti-competitive practices....
694 2010-12-31 In his second installment, Wheels' resident gaming expert takes the measure of the Sony PlayStation 3's new race-simulator game against its arch Xbox 360 nemesis....
695 2010-12-31 BOSTON (AP) — The Celtics’ Kevin Garnett could miss two weeks because of a strained right calf.

General Manager Danny Ainge said Thursday that a magnetic resonance imaging test showed Garnett’s injury Wednesday night was muscular and unrelated to a right-knee injury that forced him to miss the 2009 playoffs.

“It’s not anything to do with his knee, which is great news,” Ainge said on WEEI radio.

Garnett was hurt in a loss at Detroit. Garnett, a forward averaging 15.4 points and a team-leading 9.8 rebounds a game, limped down the court before leaving the contest.

The injury is the latest in a string of them for the Celtics.

Rajon Rondo missed the last six games with a sprained left ankle, Delonte West has been sidelined for the last 15 with a broken right wrist and Jermaine O’Neal missed 19 games with sore knees before playing the last three. The Celtics lead the Eastern Conference with a 24-6 record, but have lost two of their last three games.

portland’s Roy out Portland’s All-Star guard Brandon Roy will be out indefinitely because of sore knees, the Trails Blazers said before their game against Utah.

The team did not put a timeline on Roy’s absence, but General Manager Rich Cho suggested it would be lengthy.
696 2010-12-31 Universities and medical schools have tightened disclosure requirements and conflicts of interest policies for scientists, engineers and doctors in recent years, and the main professional associations for political scientists, sociologists and psychologists have all adopted ethical codes.

During the American Economic Association’s annual meeting, in Denver next week, its executive committee will take up a proposal to “consider the association’s role regarding ethical standards for economists,” according to an internal committee agenda obtained by The New York Times.

The association’s president, Robert E. Hall of Stanford, would not elaborate on the proposal or say where he stood on it.

“Like my predecessors, I’m skeptical that the A.E.A. is well-positioned to cure any ethical lapses that economists may be committing outside the A.E.A. itself,” he wrote in an e-mail. “Still, the topic might benefit from further discussion within the organization.”

The proposal is likely to raise a host of questions: Should economists be required merely to disclose who finances their research, as many academic journals already require? Should they have to reveal which corporate clients they advise, consult for or give speeches to? Should they even be allowed to serve as corporate directors and officers, as many business and finance professors do?

Some scholars say the discussion is long overdue.

“I’m glad the A.E.A. is taking it up,” said Dale W. Jorgenson, a former president of the association and a longtime Harvard professor (he advised the undergraduate thesis of Ben S. Bernanke, now the Federal Reserve chairman). “I’m hoping they take an activist position.”

Professor Jorgenson said that academic economists had fallen behind scholars in other fields in their attentiveness to transparency, and should follow the example of the biomedical sciences, where money from the private sector is subject to rigorous disclosure rules. But another former president of the association, Robert E. Lucas Jr., said universities were better suited to handle the matter.

“It’s good to get this stuff out in the open, but I don’t like the idea of the A.E.A. watching over this,” said Mr. Lucas, a Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago.

Mr. Lucas added: “What disciplines economics, like any science, is whether your work can be replicated. It either stands up or it doesn’t. Your motivations and whatnot are secondary.”

Since economics emerged as a modern discipline in the late 19th century, its practitioners have resisted formal ethical codes, said George F. DeMartino, an economist at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.

In “The Economist’s Oath: On the Need for and Content of Professional Economic Ethics,” to be published in January, Mr. DeMartino describes concerns dating to the 1920s about the influence of business on economic research, and cites multiple calls within the association for a code of conduct — all of which have been rebuffed.

After one such debate in 1994, the committee concluded that it might not have the relevant expertise to fairly judge ethical disputes; that a fair mechanism to resolve complaints would be hard to establish; and that any such effort could result in lawsuits and prove toothless because of a lack of sanctions for violators.

“I can see the case for specific rules on conflicts of interest, but that doesn’t begin to exhaust the ethical challenges that confront economists,” Mr. DeMartino said.

What is clear is that the film has rattled the profession.

“You could call this the ‘Inside Job’ effect,” said David H. Autor, an M.I.T. professor who is a nonvoting member of the committee but had not heard of the proposal. “Certainly the implication of the movie was that people were selling their academic reputations to further the interests of moneyed individuals and institutions.”

The film is particularly critical of R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School and a director of MetLife; Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor at the same school who advises investment firms; and Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard professor who resigned from the board of the American International Group, the insurance giant, after it was bailed out by the Fed and the Treasury.

All have held top posts. Professor Feldstein was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan, a job Mr. Hubbard later held under Mr. Bush. Professor Mishkin was a Fed governor.

Mr. Hubbard said the association proposal “sounds like a very good idea,” and Professor Mishkin said: “I strongly support having the A.E.A. clarify standards for disclosure, because increased transparency would benefit the public and the economics profession.” (Professor Feldstein said he could not discuss his work for A.I.G. on the advice of lawyers.)

A recent paper by Gerald Epstein and Jessica Carrick-Hagenbarth of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, found that many financial economists who weighed in on the Wall Street overhaul signed into law in July did not prominently disclose potential conflicts of interest.

As an example they cited Mr. Duffie, who like Mr. Mishkin was an author of “The Squam Lake Report,” a volume of recommendations on financial reform that was published in June.

“Looking back on it, it was probably an oversight not to say that we not only talk to regulators but have affiliations with players in the financial services industry,” Mr. Duffie said.

Others said they saw no problem with their multiple roles. Professor Clarida, of Columbia, said his experiences at Treasury and Pimco “enhance my academic work and my effectiveness in the classroom.”

Ms. Tyson, who is an unpaid adviser to the Obama administration, said, “Provided everything is disclosed, there is no reason why an economist who happens to have associations in the private sector should be precluded from speaking out on policy issues.”

But while many economists disclose corporate work on their Web sites, others do not. Professor Clarida provided a copy of his résumé that lists his work for Pimco, but his Web page has an older version that does not.
697 2010-12-31 vowed as a candidate that he would put the on a path to addressing by reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas pollutants. He offered Congress wide latitude to pass , but held in reserve the threat of E.P.A. regulation if it failed to act. The deeply polarized Senate’s refusal to enact climate change legislation essentially called his bluff.

With Mr. Obama’s hand forced by the mandates of the Clean Air Act and a 2007 Supreme Court decision, his E.P.A. will impose the first regulation of major stationary sources of greenhouse gases starting Jan. 2.

For now, administration officials are treading lightly, fearful of inflaming an already charged atmosphere on the issue and mindful that its stated priorities are job creation and economic recovery. Officials are not seeking a major confrontation over carbon regulation, which offers formidable challenges even in a less stressed economic and political climate.

“If the administration gets it wrong, we’re looking at years of litigation, legislation and public and business outcry,” said a senior administration official who asked not to be identified so as not to provide an easy target for the incoming Republicans. “If we get it right, we’re facing the same thing.”

“Can we get it right?” this official continued. “Or is this just too big a challenge, too complex a legal, scientific, political and regulatory puzzle?”

The immediate effect on utilities, refiners and major manufacturers will be small, with the new rules applying only to those planning to build large new facilities or make major modifications to existing plants. The environmental agency estimates that only 400 such facilities will be affected in each of the first few years of the program. Over the next decade, however, the agency plans to regulate virtually all sources of greenhouse gases, imposing efficiency and emissions requirements on nearly every industry and every region.

, administrator of the E.P.A., has promised to pursue a measured and moderate course. The agency announced last week that it would not even begin issuing standards for compliance until the middle of 2011, and when it did so the rules would not impose unreasonable costs on industry.

But the reaction in Congress and industry has been outsized, with some likening the E.P.A. to terrorists and others vowing to choke off the agency’s financing for all air-quality regulation. A dozen states have filed suit to halt the new greenhouse gas rules, with one, , flatly refusing to comply with any new orders from Washington.

Two federal courts, including one this week in Louisiana, have refused to issue restraining orders halting the implementation of the new rules. But late Thursday, a federal appeals court in Washington temporarily blocked the the E.P.A. from enforcing its rules in Texas while the courts consider whether the federal agency has the right to take over the Texas program. The courts have not yet ruled on the legality of the broader federal program.

Representative Fred Upton, the Republican who is set to become chairman of the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee, said he was not convinced that greenhouse gases needed to be controlled or that the E.P.A. had the authority to do so.

“This move represents an unconstitutional power grab that will kill millions of jobs — unless Congress steps in,” Mr. Upton wrote this week in a Wall Street Journal opinion essay.

His co-author was Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a conservative group financed by Koch Industries and other companies that has spread skepticism about global warming and supported many of the candidates who will join the new Congress.

Mr. Upton has proposed a moratorium on all global warming regulation until the courts have ruled definitively on the legality of federal action on the issue, decisions that are probably years away.

Others in Congress, including Senator and Representative Nick J. Rahall II, both Democrats from , have proposed a two-year delay in regulation by the E.P.A. while Congress comes up with its own rules. Virtually no one expects action on climate change legislation in the next Congressional session.

White House officials have said that they will recommend that Mr. Obama veto any measure that restricts the administration’s power to enforce clean air laws.

Greenhouse gas emissions in the United States are already falling faster than any current legislative or regulatory proposal envisions, because of the -driven drop in demand for electricity. Carbon dioxide emissions from the energy sector, by far the largest source of total emissions, fell to about 5.4 billion metric tons in 2009, down from 5.8 billion metric tons the year before, and they are likely to fall even further this year. Demand for electricity in 2009 fell by the largest amount in six decades and is almost certain to slip further in 2010.

When demand for power begins to rebound with the economy, emissions are expected to rise more slowly than in the past, in part because utilities are using fuel more efficiently and switching to cleaner-burning natural gas for part of their electricity generation. But such moves will not take the place of the across-the-board reductions in emissions that will be required to meet the administration’s target of a 17 percent reduction in emissions over 2005 levels by 2020.

And it is that broader mandate that has set off such intense opposition from industry and its allies in Congress.

“Early next year we’re going to have a very serious debate on whether the E.P.A. should be allowed to unilaterally go forward and restructure the American economy,” Jack Gerard, the president of the , said in an interview.

“As the president looks to 2012, his message has to be job creation, and this kind of regulation is inconsistent with that,” he said. “The public has a long memory. Anything viewed as hurting the opportunity to create jobs will not be well received.”
698 2010-12-31 In , Mary Fallin, also a Republican, has organized two “preinaugural balls,” not to be confused with the inaugural ball itself, which will be held later at the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in .

Others are embracing conspicuous frugality. In New York, , a Democrat, is having a small preinauguration dinner for close friends at the governor’s mansion, and has parceled out so few invitations to his no-frills swearing-in ceremony that even some top aides have not made the cut.

of has issued guidelines: no paid entertainment (a school choir will sing) and a rent-free evening reception (in a state-owned building). To highlight his thrift, Mr. Brown, a Democrat, plans to stop at a cookout after he takes the oath to snack on hot dogs and chips.

The extremes seem to reflect the uncertain economic times: shoppers may have returned to their prerecession ways during the holidays, but state budget deficits are ballooning, and there are persistent mutterings about the deep repair work that is needed to fix the economy.

What is certain is that the new chief executives and their staffs, no matter the party, are carefully considering the optics of opulence.

“They are pros who understand what a high-stakes gamble it is,” said Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin who has written extensively about political transitions.

“It’s awkward because it’s self-promotion. Whatever you do, somebody will think it’s insufficient, or too much. So you want to alienate the fewest and capture the attention and respect of the most.”

Not everyone succeeds. Take two of Florida’s governors. In 1995, shot off a homemade potato gun during his inaugural, grazing a car. Twelve years later, Charlie Crist refused to sing the state’s official song, “Old Folks at Home,” citing the racially insensitive lyrics. Some Floridians found it disrespectful.

This year, some incoming governors say they are being sensitive to the financial plight of their constituents. In New York, which recently slashed $40 billion from its budget, “people are disillusioned and disappointed,” Mr. Cuomo said in an interview.

As his staff sat down to plan a celebration, the governor-elect said he told them there was nothing to celebrate. “No balls, no concerts, no parades — no fanfare,” he said. “I think it would be discordant to the feeling of the body politic.”

Mark Dayton, the Democratic governor-elect in , said he considered canceling his party, which is scheduled for Jan. 8. Instead, he has authorized a “Blue Jeans to Black Tie” ball with a loose dress code and a flexible ticket price. He plans to show up in jeans and an old hockey jersey.

Then there is Mr. Scott in Florida, whose multiday, multicity inauguration has become known wryly in political circles here as the “coronation.”

Preparations began shortly after Election Day with a prodigious fund-raising drive. Mr. Scott, a wealthy former health-care executive who dug into his own pocket to finance his campaign, received donations of $25,000 each from dozens of major state employers like , and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida, collecting nearly $3 million.

Good-government groups complained about potential conflicts of interest. (A spokeswoman for Mr. Scott said that in return for the donations companies would receive “nothing more than a series of events honoring and celebrating the people of this state.”)

Eyebrows rose anew when Mr. Scott, relying on the donated use of private planes, took his inauguration on the road. He started in the north on Monday, hitting , and made his way south to by Wednesday.

That night, in the Little Havana neighborhood, Mr. Scott treated a largely Cuban-American crowd to giant platters of roasted pig, brown rice and boiled yucca. A procession of local politicians introduced and reintroduced Mr. Scott, extolling his financial acumen and management skills.

On Tuesday, for his official inauguration, Mr. Scott will hold a two-hour prayer breakfast with no fewer than 10 speakers; an afternoon concert featuring the country singers Lee Greenwood and Rockie Lynne; and a parade befitting Disney World’s home state.

Mr. Scott’s aides published the packed schedule on what amounted to almost 10 single-spaced pages on his Web site. Among the highlights: a rendering of the stage being built for Mr. Scott’s inaugural ball.

Democrats, especially, detected hypocrisy, and pounced. Mr. Scott, after all, campaigned on a platform of fiscal restraint and small government. Businessmen like himself, he declared shortly after the election, “accept austerity as the price for dramatic turnarounds.”

Pressed about the scale of the festivities, Mr. Scott said: “It absolutely is fitting for these times. We need to celebrate how we are going to change this state.”

As criticism mounted, his aides began pushing back. They produced data that suggested the inauguration would generate millions of dollars in economic activity, and they vowed that after covering the costs of the festivities, they would donate any money left over to a nonprofit group that aids wounded military veterans.

Most of the events, they said, are free to the public. Tickets to the ball, however, start at $95. Which may explain that elaborate spread of food, like a “Fresh Florida Gulf Display” that will include grilled shrimp with a Florida avocado dipping sauce.

Why not limit the menu to hamburgers and hot dogs? The caterer said the menu was in sync with the tenor of the evening. “It’s a high-dollar ticket,” she said. Besides, a budget buffet “wouldn’t be very attractive.”
699 2010-12-31 “Specifically they told me the plan was to crush me with investigations, lawsuits and false accusations so that my political reputation would become so toxic no one would ever get behind me,” she wrote. “I was warned by numerous sources that the DE political establishment is going to use every resource available to them.”

In that statement, she took particular aim at Mr. Biden.

“So given that the King of the Delaware Political Establishment just so happens to be the vice president of the most liberal presidential administration in U.S. history, it is no surprise that misuse and abuse of the F.B.I. would not be off the table,” she wrote.

Running with the backing of the Tea Party movement, Ms. O’Donnell won the 2010 Republican nomination for the Senate in Delaware after receiving the endorsement of Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska.

Accusations about the misuse of campaign money dogged Ms. O’Donnell throughout the campaign, pushed by two former campaign workers and by a group called Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. Ms. O’Donnell ran for the Senate two other times, and the allegations about misusing campaign money apply to all of the campaigns.

In her appearance on ABC, Ms. O’Donnell said she had not been contacted by investigators. “I’m confident that we have always done everything to comply with all the rules,” she said.

In an interview on the “Today” show on NBC, Ms. O’Donnell described the former campaign workers as disgruntled employees who had worked for her campaigns only briefly. She said the rent payments in question were for a townhouse that was also used as her campaign headquarters. And she said her political enemies were using the issue to destroy her political career.

Asked by the show’s host, Ann Curry, to name the people behind those efforts, Ms. O’Donnell pointed her finger at Mr. Biden, but also at the Delaware Republican Party, which backed her rival in the primary, Representative Michael N. Castle. After she won the primary, even national Republicans like Karl Rove, the political adviser to President George W. Bush, criticized her. Mr. Rove called her “nutty.”

Ms. O’Donnell called the criminal inquiry part of “the political apparatus who wants to make sure this antiestablishment movement is stopped in its tracks” and said, “They are trying to discredit me.”
700 2010-12-31 “They used to say, ‘We’re a sovereign state; these are our affairs,’ ” he said.

“The important thing is that they created an anti-money-laundering law and an authority to enforce it,” Mr. Nuzzi said. “Without that, the Vatican Bank will remain an offshore bank.”

Still, he added, “now we have to see how it becomes operational to avoid the errors of the past.”

In September, Rome magistrates seized $30 million from the Vatican bank and placed its chairman, Ettore Gotti Tedeschi, and director general, Paolo Cipriani, under investigation for failure to disclose adequate information about two money transfers to two accounts it held.

Two judges have subsequently upheld the seizure, the latest one saying the bank had not sufficiently explained the provenance and purpose of the funds. The Vatican bank maintains that the investigation is the product of a misunderstanding, and that it was sending funds between its own accounts. Italy’s highest court is expected to rule on whether to release the funds.

The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the new norms were not directly in response to the investigation.

Asked whether the law would require the Vatican bank to explain the origin and purpose for funds it transferred, Father Lombardi said the law was meant to prevent “the types of problems” that the bank had faced in the past. “This is a first step,” he said.

The new law emerged from continuing negotiations instigated by the Vatican with the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force over joining the so-called white list of countries with good records on financial transparency. The Vatican had pledged to pass such a law by the end of 2010 as part of a 2009 monetary accord with the European Union that allows it to use the euro as its currency.

In an e-mail message, Rick McDonell, the executive secretary of the task force, called the new legislation “a positive development.”

Mr. Gotti Tedeschi has also been working to get the Vatican included on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s “white list” of countries that share tax information — a badge of transparency — but the Vatican has not yet met all the criteria.

In an e-mail message, Jeffrey Owens, the director of the Center for Tax Policy and Administration of the O.E.C.D., said the new law was “clearly a step in the right direction.”

Thirty years ago, the Vatican bank was involved in a scandal at a large private bank, Banco Ambrosiano, which collapsed after the disappearance of $1.3 billion in loans to companies in Latin America. The Vatican bank denied wrongdoing but paid $250 million to Banco Ambrosiano’s creditors. Banco Ambrosiano’s president was found dead, hanging from a bridge in London.

Under John Paul II, the Vatican bank — the Institute for Religious Works, or I.O.R. in Italian — was a crucial conduit to the East Bloc during the cold war, and its murky practices gave rise to speculation about the source of some funds.

Some wondered what the new law might mean for the Vatican’s ability to operate under repressive governments like those in Cuba or China.

“How will the I.O.R. materially manage to put these norms into effect, especially in places where there are difficult situations with states and particular regimes?” asked Ignazio Ingrao, a Vatican expert at the Italian weekly Panorama. “It will not be easy.”

The pope has yet to name the president or four members of the internal watchdog, the Financial Information Authority. It will answer directly to the pope but have “full autonomy and independence,” the statute said.

Charged with cooperating with European Union agencies and ensuring that all of the Vatican’s financial operations comply with European Union laws, the authority will have the power to freeze suspicious transactions for up to five days, conduct investigations and determine whether to pass them to prosecutors at the Vatican’s own tribunal.

Those found to have violated financial reporting norms will be subject to four to 12 years in jail and fines of $1,320 to $19,900.

Significantly, the new law is to extend “to all dicasteries of the Roman Curia and all the organizations and entities of the Holy See wherever it extends its activities” — meaning everything from the Vatican bank and museums to the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples, which owns vast amounts of real estate and is now the target of a separate Italian judicial investigation.

Vatican observers said they expected power struggles as different Vatican entities fought to protect their autonomy against queries from the new authority.

In line with other European legislation, the Vatican’s new law prohibits human trafficking, organ trafficking, prostitution, training for terrorist acts or supplying chemical or biological weapons. It also sets fines and jail time for anyone convicted of growing, selling or transporting drugs.

The statute says the new authority will work in secrecy, but that doing so should not pose an obstacle for Vatican employees to respond “when the information requested is necessary for investigations” — although it did not spell out who would determine the necessity.
701 2010-12-31 HIGHLIGHTS Mr. Roosevelt was the first newly elected governor to enter the Capitol through its grand main approach, which had been completed only the year before. Plenty of people journeyed to the Capitol to catch a glimpse of his regal entrance. But as a political event, it had less star power: Few members of the Legislature bothered to show up.

LAVISHNESS SCALE The Assembly chamber was adorned with gilded, crimson velvet draperies, and the festivities included a formal procession from the Executive Mansion to the Capitol. But with subzero temperatures, things did not go entirely as planned: the band escorting Mr. Roosevelt was all but silenced after the performers’ brass instruments froze.

SPEECH THEME Democratic theory and the nature of representation. For a man just elected to govern New York State, Mr. Roosevelt was not particularly interested in discussing much that had to do with New York. Speaking of the need for elected officials to embody a spirit of idealism as well as pragmatism, he said, “Under no form of government is it so necessary thus to combine efficiency and morality, high principle and rough common sense, justice and the sturdiest physical and moral courage, as in a republic.”

TONE Celebration. Mr. Smith was repeatedly interrupted with cheers, and so was the man he defeated, Gov. Charles S. Whitman. Less than two months after World War I had ended, there was plenty to celebrate.

HIGHLIGHTS Thousands of people tried to get into the Assembly chamber — so many that several dignitaries ended up missing the ceremony, turned away by overzealous doorkeepers who did not recognize them. (The crowds posed more problems at Mr. Smith’s second inauguration. To accommodate them, hotels put cots in hallways and ballrooms, and a rail yard was filled with sleeping cars for use as makeshift housing.)

LAVISHNESS SCALE This was an all-American affair. The Assembly chamber was decorated in red, white and blue, and a band in the gallery played patriotic tunes. But the highlight was the parade, described as the grandest of any inauguration in state history. An estimated 1,000 members of Tammany Hall, the Democratic political machine, marched.

SPEECH THEME Bipartisanship. For as much as the election of Mr. Smith amounted to a huge victory for Tammany Hall, he used his speech to soothe any ruffled feelings. “I am happy in the knowledge that I enjoy intimate personal friendship with the leaders and a great many members of both branches of the Legislature,” he said. “I want to declare publicly that I propose to work with them, irrespective of party affiliation.”

TONE Inclusiveness. Breaking a tradition going back at least half a century, Mr. Cuomo was inaugurated at a state convention center in Albany rather than the Assembly chamber. The size of the center allowed him to invite about 2,600 people.

HIGHLIGHTS Face time with the governor. After the ceremony, Mr. Cuomo and his family remained at the podium to receive congratulations from guests. More than two and a half hours later, he was still shaking hands. The next day, at a public open house at the Executive Mansion, he greeted 2,836 people.

LAVISHNESS SCALE The inauguration was meticulously planned, with Mr. Cuomo himself taking charge. “He pored over the clippings of previous inaugurals,” a spokeswoman for his inaugural committee said at the time. “He wanted it to be traditional, inclusive, inspiring. Something people would remember.” But the expense was held in check: Mr. Cuomo’s aides were happy to point out that the festivities cost an estimated $50,000, significantly less than the $90,000 spent for the inauguration of Gov. Hugh L. Carey four years earlier.

SPEECH THEME The virtues of activist government. Mr. Cuomo, in typically eloquent and soaring rhetoric, emphasized that fiscal restraint should not stop government from working to provide “shelter for the homeless, work for the idle, care for the elderly and infirm and hope for the destitute.”

TONE Attack. Mr. Spitzer went on the offensive in his 20-minute inaugural address, declaring — with his predecessor, Gov. George E. Pataki, sitting nearby — that New York, “like Rip Van Winkle,” had “slept through much of the past decade.”

HIGHLIGHTS The event was referred to as a “people’s inaugural,” and at times the festivities touched at the grandeur of presidential inaugurations. Mr. Spitzer delivered his address on the steps of the Capitol.

LAVISHNESS SCALE The inauguration was intentionally modest compared with the three-day extravaganza of food and celebration, including a laser light show, that Mr. Pataki had put on for his supporters when he first took office. But Mr. Spitzer’s inauguration was not without some pomp, including a concert featuring James Taylor and Natalie Merchant.

SPEECH THEME There is a new sheriff in town. “Day 1 of our time for change has arrived,” Mr. Spitzer declared. Earlier in the day, he signed five executive orders, including directives that set new ethics rules for state employees. He also barred elected officials and candidates from appearing in advertisements paid for by state entities. And he promised more reforms “substantial in size and historic in scope.”
702 2010-12-31 UNIONDALE, N.Y. — A state oversight board on Thursday gave Nassau County a three-week reprieve before deciding whether to impose a fiscal control period, after a last-ditch appeal by county leaders that pointed to millions of dollars in potential savings and other contingencies to close a $350 million budget gap.

The oversight board, the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, demanded that the county executive, Edward P. Mangano, back up his claims of added savings with specifics by Jan. 20.

“We’re giving the county one final opportunity here,” said the authority’s chairman, Ronald A. Stack, after emerging from a three-hour closed meeting into an auditorium packed with union leaders, lawmakers and county workers.

Nassau’s fiscal year begins on Saturday, and the oversight board called the meeting on Thursday intending to impose a control period for the first time, which would leave one of the nation’s wealthiest and highest taxed suburban areas stripped of its checkbook and credit cards, the power to negotiate labor contracts and other major commitments, and the freedom to chart its own financial course.

But Mr. Mangano, a Republican who took office a year ago, sent the board members a letter on Thursday spelling out tens of millions of dollars in new contingencies to offset the more than $200 million in risks that NIFA has warned against.

The authority’s board members complained about the 11th-hour effort, but agreed to hold off out of “an abundance of caution,” Mr. Stack said.
703 2010-12-31 “You’ve got to understand that I cut my teeth in the leadership of this department dealing with the situation we’re about to encounter,” he said.

He defended himself in advance on some hot-button issues, and he seemed to hint at some steps in the realm of counterterrorism policies that might hearten his conservative critics in Congress but could draw criticism on the left. He also laid out what amounts to an agenda for the coming year, from continuing to restore the “traditional mission” of the department — law enforcement work put on the back burner after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 — to national security matters, including a fresh push to overhaul an important surveillance law.

As Mr. Holder takes up such work, the incoming House chairmen most likely to play leading roles in Justice Department oversight are Representatives of , the new head of the Judiciary Committee, and of , who will lead the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Both declined to be interviewed, but Mr. Smith said in a statement, “I am committed to fair and reasonable oversight of the Justice Department and to ensuring openness and transparency of our federal law enforcement agencies.”

Mr. Holder said that he did not know Mr. Issa well, but that he had known Mr. Smith for years. The two recently had lunch, and Mr. Holder said he believed they could work together.

Like much of Washington, the two chairmen are likely to start off focusing on economic issues. But it seems inevitable they will turn to Mr. Holder, a frequent target of their criticism over the past two years.

Last March, for example, they released a joint letter criticizing the Justice Department for not doing more to investigate the community activist group , and for an early 2009 decision to downsize a voter-intimidation lawsuit against the New Black Panther Party, a black-nationalist fringe group they portrayed as an Obama administration ally.

“We’ve already seen this administration dismiss one case against a political ally — the New Black Panther Party — for no apparent reason,” Mr. Issa and Mr. Smith wrote. “We remain concerned that politicization at the Justice Department once again may result in the administration’s political friends getting a free pass.”

Asked about the prospect of oversight hearings and subpoenas involving the New Black Panther case, Mr. Holder said, “there is no ‘there’ there.”

“The notion that this made-up controversy leads to a belief that this Justice Department is not color-blind in enforcement of civil rights laws is simply not supported by the facts,” he said. “All I have on my side with regard to that is the facts and the law.”

Another high-profile issue confronting Mr. Holder in the new year is how to deal with mounting pressure to prosecute the founder of , , over his role in a major disclosure of classified government documents. Prosecutors have been examining whether Mr. Assange could be charged as a conspirator to the leak, or for publishing the materials.

Mr. Holder pushed back against the suggestion that indicting Mr. Assange would open the door to prosecuting traditional news organizations that take steps to ferret out and disclose information the government says should be a secret — including , which published some of the WikiLeaks documents and often writes about classified matters.

“Do you think that what you do is consistent with what you understand Assange and WikiLeaks did?” Mr. Holder asked a reporter. “Would I have liked not to see the stuff appear? Yes. But did The Times act in a responsible way? I would say yes. I am not certain I would say that about those people who were responsible for the initial leaks and the wholesale dumping of materials.”

Meanwhile, Mr. Holder seems to be adjusting the Justice Department’s legislative agenda in light of the new Congress.

He said he agreed with the director of the , , that there is a need to make sure that Internet-based communications providers — like those providing encrypted e-mail and chat services — design their systems so that they can be wiretapped, just like phone companies.

Obama administration officials have been developing a draft bill to impose that mandate, although the administration has not yet signed off on it. The plan has drawn criticism from advocates of Internet freedom, who argue that it would impede technological innovation and that any tools developed to eavesdrop on suspected criminals and terrorists could also be exploited by hackers or repressive regimes seeking to identify political dissidents.

But, significantly, Mr. Holder appeared guarded when asked about a proposal he aired last spring, dismaying civil liberties groups: expanding the time interrogators can question terrorism suspects before they must read them Miranda warnings or present them to a judge for an initial hearing.

Asked about reviving the proposal, Mr. Holder spoke vaguely about continuing conversations with lawmakers. But he also disclosed that the department had sent “guidance” to agents emphasizing that under existing law, they can question terrorism suspects about immediate threats to public safety before reading them Miranda warnings.

Still, no issue has fed more Republican attacks on Mr. Holder than his support for sometimes using the criminal justice system to handle terrorism cases — especially his November 2009 decision to prosecute , the self-professed mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, in federal court rather than a military commission.

The White House soon pulled back that decision amid concern about the cost and disruption of providing security for the trial in , leaving Mr. Holder exposed. The issue of where to hold a trial has remained in limbo ever since.

This month, over Mr. Holder’s objections, the still-Democratic-controlled Congress passed a bill that forbids the military to spend its money to transfer detainees from , , to the , even for trials. In the interview, he declined to engage with a question about whether Congress was doing him a backhanded favor by making the civilian trial option harder.

Indeed, last month, two potential Republican presidential candidates, Gov. of and former Speaker , declared that Mr. Holder should resign over the outcome of the first, and possibly only, trial in regular court of a former Guantánamo detainee.

A jury convicted the detainee, , on just one charge for his role in the 1998 embassy bombings in , while acquitting him on 284. Mr. Pawlenty and Mr. Gingrich accused Mr. Holder of endangering national security by prosecuting him in civilian court.

But, noting that Mr. Ghailani will soon be sentenced to from 20 years to life in prison, Mr. Holder said he wondered “a year from now, when people look back and Ghailani is in jail, will that have the same resonance that people try to give it now.”

Indeed, he said, as a former American history major, he has to think about his job over the long run.

“You’ve got to just develop as thick a skin as you can, understand that some people will disagree with you on a principled basis but other people will disagree with you for purely political and partisan reasons,” he said.
704 2010-12-31 For a kale salad to be successful, use the most tender kale you can find and cut it into very thin filaments or chop it very finely (or both). Curly kale and Russian kale are more tender than black leaf kale. This is inspired by a wonderful salad I tried recently at the New York restaurant Northern Spy.

4 cups very finely chopped or slivered curly kale or Russian kale (about 6 ounces on the stem, or half of a 3/4-pound bunch, stemmed and washed in two rinses of water)

1 apple, sweet, like a Fuji, or a sweet-tart, like a Gala, Braeburn or Pink Lady, cored and cut in 1/4-inch dice

1. Combine the kale, almonds, apple and Cheddar in a large bowl.