1 2010-10-01 ING Direct comments on its compliance with Federal Reserve regulations related to adjustable rate mortgage advertising....
2 2010-10-01 Something about the shape of the horn combs in the models' hair at Rick Owens suggested they might be available for radio signals....
3 2010-10-01 An analyst who has been critical of Citigroup met on Friday with the bank's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, and its shares surged....
4 2010-10-01 Microsoft, Oracle and Apple now all have lawsuits against backers of Google's Android software....
5 2010-10-01 It will be the third Brooklyn place for the owner of Saul....
6 2010-10-01 Ten people bought the first Fetish, which was introduced at the 2002 Geneva auto show. Venturi intends to put the replacement model into mass production of 10 a year....
7 2010-10-01 Rodney Glassman has found his campaign thrown off track in recent days as he has been forced to defend his 246-page doctoral dissertation on arid land resource sciences....
8 2010-10-01 Sinopec's $7.1 billion investment in Repsol's Brazilian subsidiary is the latest in a string of energy deals in which the Chinese are recycling their enormous stockpile of dollars....
9 2010-10-01 Linda McMahon's campaign pushes back against reports that she will not rule out cutting the minimum wage....
10 2010-10-01 Facebook announced Friday that it will enact a 5-for-1 stock split, the third stock split in its history...
11 2010-10-01 An artist takes on urban alienation in his show at Hosfelt Gallery....
12 2010-10-01 The new location will have 10,00 square feet of space over two floors....
13 2010-10-01 The Sesto Elemento's central tub is constructed of what Lamborghini calls "carbon fiber forged composite."...
14 2010-10-01 For those hoping the Federal Reserve will turn to an additional round of stimulus spending, a speech today by William Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, certainly provides hope....
15 2010-10-01 "All lessons learned from Macondo have been applied to this well," the government says in a reference to BP's gulf spill....
16 2010-10-01 In a long-awaited report, regulators said they had identified the sequence of events that erased more than 600 points from the Dow Jones industrial average in minutes....
17 2010-10-01 The Fall issue of T Design looks at different visions of domestic bliss....
18 2010-10-01 This weekend, inspired by New York's Indian Summer, co-vocabularists are invited to share descriptive toponyms....
19 2010-10-01 The Fisker Karma hybrid gasoline-electric sports car model on display in Paris was the first to be produced in the company's Scandinavian factory....
20 2010-10-01 Up! I mean down! I mean .......
21 2010-10-01 The Securities and Exchange Commission brought what very well could be be the first insider-trading lawsuit against a pair of trainmen, both employed by Florida East Coast Industries when it was taken over by Fortress Investment Group in 2007....
22 2010-10-01 Cogent, the maker of fingerprint-identification systems that is being acquired by 3M, received a buyout bid of more than $1 billion from NEC, according to court papers....
23 2010-10-01 No need for valets in a new structure in Birmingham, England, where cars are parked via an automated pallet system....
24 2010-10-01 Carly Fiorina, campaigning to be California's first Republican senator elected in two decades, said hedge funds should be subject to greater transparency requirements and the financial regulatory overhaul doesn't go far enough....
25 2010-10-01 For hedge funds, bigger actually may be better: Bridgewater Associates, already the biggest United States-based hedge fund, pulled in more new money in the first half of 2010 than any of its rivals, according to an annual survey from AR magazine....
26 2010-10-01 European Union finance ministers met on Friday in a fresh attempt to agree a common approach to taxing banks for the cost of crises, although documents prepared by aides for the meeting showed agreement was unlikely....
27 2010-10-01 Financial markets have been "very unfair" to Portugal, failing to recognize its previous deficit-cutting achievements and pressing the country to adopt more stringent economic measures than the government wanted, Prime Minister José Sócrates sai...
28 2010-10-01 A Chicago area hedge fund manager has been sentenced to six years in prison for his role in the $3.7 billion Ponzi scheme allegedly orchestrated by Minnesota businessman Tom Petters....
29 2010-10-01 A single trade by Waddell & Reed Financial helped spark the cascade of market selling on May 6, said a source familiar with regulators' report on the so-called flash crash....
30 2010-10-01 The Dubai chief of police said he had received death threats from the Israeli spy agency Mossad because of his role in publicizing the details of the assassination of a senior Hamas figure this year, an Emirati newspaper reported Thursday. The police chief, Dahi Khalfan al-Tamim, told Al Etihad, a state-owned daily newspaper, that he had received the first threat two days after he made public videotape of the suspects believed to have killed the Hamas official, Mahmoud al-Mabhouh, in a Dubai hotel on Jan. 20. The police chief publicly accused Mossad in February of carrying out the killing. “Protect your back if you are still talking,” one message said. The second threat was delivered by phone to one of Mr. Khalfan’s relatives, the newspaper said.
31 2010-10-01 Even as voters rage and candidates put up ads against government bailouts, the reviled mother of them all -- the $700 billion lifeline to banks, insurance and auto companies -- will expire after Sunday at a fraction of that cost, and could conceiv...
32 2010-10-01 After two years of unpredictable sales trends, the Manhattan real estate market seems to have settled into a more typical and seasonal pattern, with prices rising slightly and sales volume dipping in the recent summer months, third-quarter market reports to be released on Friday indicate.

Prices increased for the fifth straight quarter, with the average sales price hovering around $1.43 million and the median price around $910,000, according to data provided by the city’s four largest brokerage firms. But prices are still well below the market’s height a couple of years ago, when the average was higher than $1.7 million and the median was close to $1 million.

“We have hit bottom, and we’re probably improving ahead of schedule,” said Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property. “But that just means we’re into a more normal market. We’ve moved out of critical care, and we’re stabilized now.”

After six unusually busy months at the beginning of the year, caused in part by pent-up demand from 2009 and by the federal home-buyer tax credit, the Corcoran Group’s report indicated that sales volume dropped 19 percent from the second quarter to about 3,000 deals. “I think it’s a sign that the wild ride is over and real estate is back to its basics,” said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group.

Sales numbers for Prudential Douglas Elliman showed similar trends, with the average price of its sales up 3.8 percent from the second quarter to $1.48 million and the median price up 1.7 percent to $914,000. But Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Prudential Douglas Elliman’s report, cautioned against reading too much into the increase. “The average is up,” he said, “but prices did not really rise, because it’s all about the mix of apartments that actually sold.”
33 2010-10-01 In 2005, Miraloma scored 651 out of 1000 on California’s Academic Performance Index. Results released last week show a score of 865, among the city’s best.

“There were 450 parent requests for 37 open kindergarten spots this year,” said Ron Machado, the school’s principal.

On a recent visit to one of the school’s kindergarten classes, a half-dozen parents were assisting children alongside a teacher and one teacher’s aide. Most parental involvement entailed learning, but the manual chores are indicative of how far families will go to help a school succeed.

The extra hands have also been important during the recession when public schools must cope with budget issues. Miraloma, with 362 students from kindergarten to fifth grade, employs two custodians and two kitchen workers for maintenance and meals. To get beyond those basics, parents work in the school’s educational garden (complete with two chickens), prepare and provide organic snacks, and even do landscaping.

Ellie Rossiter, executive director of Parents for Public Schools, a nonprofit group that advocates for families in the school system, witnessed Miraloma’s transition firsthand. “Seven years ago when my child enrolled there, no one thought it was a good school,” she said.

Ms. Rossiter and a dozen other parents credited the turnaround to the school’s most recent principals, including Mr. Machado, a charming and creative former teacher who took charge five years ago. He once inspired students by promising to shave his hair into a Mohawk if test scores improved — a photo of him with that resplendent pink hairdo is on the school’s Web site.

“He makes it his job to make the family part of the school,” Ms. Rossiter said.

Miraloma is just one example in San Francisco’s public schools where parental involvement is having an impact. Standing at the celery-scrubbing table, parents easily rattled off the names of 10 other schools with high parental participation and correspondingly high test scores.

GreatSchools.org, a nonprofit organization that independently monitors school quality, recently ranked San Francisco as having the best public schools in California and No. 8 nationwide for cities with populations of 300,000 or more.

It is a ranking that defies conventional wisdom here. It is not unusual for San Francisco residents to bemoan the public schools — a reputation that experts say has developed due to the city’s complex system that requires parents to apply for schools, rather than to have their children attend whichever school is closest. Fears of ending up in a poor-performing school have unfairly tainted the whole system, experts say.

Matthew Hardy of the United Educators of San Francisco, the teachers’ union, said that the belief that the public school system is a failure was “one of those truths that isn’t true.”

What is true, however, is that not all parents can donate their days. The schools that tend to have the most parental participation also have more middle-class families. Miraloma’s success has come at a price: fewer children from working-class homes.

Still, there is a feeling that any school can improve if the parents get involved.

Monica McGee has had children at Miraloma for nearly a decade and remembers what failure looked like.

“Eight years ago there was no parental participation,” Ms. McGee said. “It was like a ghost town.”

Now, with grades soaring, pass the celery brush.
34 2010-10-01 Re “A Federal Gun Bill” (letter, The New York Times on the Web, Sept. 28):

We strongly disagree with Lawrence G. Keane, general counsel for the National Shooting Sports Foundation, when he claims that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Reform and Firearms Modernization Act would “help law enforcement.”

The legislation is one of the broadest assaults on A.T.F. in decades. It would eviscerate A.T.F.’s authority to shut down lawbreaking dealers and allow corrupt dealers to keep selling guns even after licenses are revoked for willful violations. It purports to “modernize” A.T.F., yet would prohibit agents from using computers to retrieve criminals’ names from gun dealer records.

As A.T.F. directors and agents under Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton, we have seen how weak gun laws coddle corrupt gun dealers and endanger our communities. A.T.F. needs strong authority to stop gun trafficking and tougher gun laws, like mandatory Brady background checks on all gun sales at gun shows.

The letter was also signed by Joe Vince, former chief, Crime Gun Analysis Branch, A.T.F.; Gerald Nunziato, former special agent in charge, National Tracing Center, A.T.F.; and Jay Wachtel, former resident agent in charge, A.T.F., Long Beach Field Office.
35 2010-10-01 The series begins at noon with a 25-minute dance installation by Zaccho Dance Theater entitled “Sailing Away.” An excerpt from a larger site-specific work about the mass exodus of blacks from San Francisco in the 1850s, “Sailing Away” will be performed in full at different locations along Market Street from Oct. 7 to 10.

Over the next nine months, performances by the AXIS Dance Company, the Halau ’o Keikiali’i hula ensemble and other local groups will also grace City Hall. Organizers hope the program will introduce new audiences to dance, and help expand City Hall’s relationship with the public.

“The art happenings will hopefully make people think of City Hall as being more than a place you go to deal with taxes or yell at a supervisor,” said Wayne Hazzard, the executive director of Dancers’ Group.

Presenting art at City Hall comes with challenges. Producers have to deal with limitations on the availability of the space for performance and rehearsal, rules against tampering with the architecture to install lights and sets and poor acoustics.

“So many technical things were tough,” Ms. Shuch said about mounting “Love Everywhere.” “We never ran through the piece until the actual show.”

Yet the physical beauty of City Hall makes it a lovely stage. And the pivotal role it has played over the years in the history of San Francisco creates a powerful resonance for artists interested in conveying political or social messages through their work.

“Sailing Away” could make a particularly strong impact when presented within the confines of the city’s seat of power.

“These were prominent figures in San Francisco history, but many of them have been forgotten,” Joanna Haigood, the artistic director of Zaccho Dance Theater, said of the black figureheads portrayed in “Sailing Away.” “Bringing these characters to City Hall provides a wonderful opportunity for audiences to view them within the political context of the city.”

Officials have not shied from presenting politically charged work. For example, the San Francisco Art Commission has held photography exhibitions on women in the global economy and oil companies dumping waste in South Africa in its downstairs gallery. And Matt Gonzalez, who presented monthly art shows at his City Hall office throughout his tenure as a city supervisor from 2001 to 2004, once allowed the graffiti artist Barry McGee to paint “smash the state” on his office walls.

“We meet no resistance whatsoever for mounting exhibitions that highlight issues that are important to the building,” said Meg Shiffler, the director of the San Francisco Arts Commission Gallery.

But Ms. Shiffler said the programming at City Hall was still evolving. “Someday I’d like to see Christo wrapping the dome and Diamanda Galás singing from the balcony,” she said. “The sky’s the limit when you work for the city, but you have to move slowly and carefully to gain support to build the public programs you want.”
36 2010-10-01 The annual investment updates from America’s great university endowments add to evidence that investors have fallen out of love with public equities. After a decade of zero returns, this is understandable. But with stocks cheap and bonds stretched, investors may rue this underweight position.

David Swensen, chief investment officer at Yale, already famous for his wariness of listed equities, is not the only one who has been trimming stocks. Harvard has scaled back its allocation. It’s down to 33 percent this year, from 46 percent in 2000. And the universities are in good company. Morgan Stanley reports a migration out of equities over the last decade by insurers, pensions and mutual funds.

This shift looks overdone. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index is now trading at just 16 times trailing operating earnings, or about 15 percent below its average over the last two decades, according to Standard and Poor’s. This looks particularly appealing when companies in the index hold a record $850 billion of cash that could be used for dividends, buybacks or acquisitions. Analysts also believe earnings next year will finally surpass the 2006 peak.

Emerging market shares — the only portion of its equity holdings where Harvard’s endowment, run by Jane Mendillo, has been increasing its holdings — look to be a better value still. Earnings estimates have been revised up much faster than for developed peers, yet at 12.6 times 2010 forecast earnings, the MSCI emerging index is trading at a hefty discount.

Equally revealing, bonds look especially frothy. Fixed income markets have seen greater inflows than equities did during the tech bubble of 2000, according to Morgan Stanley. With 10-year Treasury notes yielding just 2.5 percent, further buying only makes sense for those expecting deep deflation — a menace that policy makers have so far been able to hold at bay. Indeed, investors can get an almost identical dividend yield from holding stocks like Microsoft. This is a classic sign that shares are cheap.
37 2010-10-01 The dispute began early Thursday over two dogs, a miniature pinscher named Rocco and a Shih Tzu, Bugsy, one tied too closely to the other outside a bar in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn.

It was the type of minor skirmish common enough on the crowded sidewalks of New York. But as the owners of the dogs separated them, things quickly escalated.

By the time it was over, two employees of the bar, the Branded Saloon, on Vanderbilt Avenue, had been stabbed. One of them, Daniel Hultquist, who had been performing music at the bar, was slashed in the neck and treated at a nearby hospital. The other, Chai Eun Hillmann, an aspiring actor and a martial arts expert, was stabbed twice in the torso and killed.

The police have arrested Daniel Pagan, who had served time for manslaughter, and charged him with murder.

The evening began uneventfully. Anne Joseph, 24, who works at a nearby bar, said Mr. Hillmann, 41, worked as a bartender at the Branded, but was not working when he stopped by with Rocco to see friends and participate in a charity poker game in the basement. Mr. Hultquist was upstairs, she said, playing a guitar and singing songs that he performed under the stage name Francis Brady.
38 2010-10-01 Brian A. Bethune, the chief financial economist in the United States for IHS/Global Insight, while critical of parts, called the program over all “a tremendous success. Now obviously, they can’t go out on the campaign trail and say that, because certainly, for a lot of voters, it’s just not going to resonate.”

The “bank bailout” was the first big issue, before the Obama administration’s roughly $800 billion stimulus plan and its health insurance overhaul, to stoke the rise of the Tea Party movement. After supporting TARP, several Republicans have lost elections largely because of their votes. For many Americans, TARP is more than a vote; it is a symbol of big government at its worst, intervening in private markets with taxpayers’ billions to save Wall Street plutocrats while average Americans struggle through the recession those financiers spawned.

Fewer than three in 10 Americans say they believe the program was necessary “to prevent the financial industry from failing and drastically hurting the U.S. economy,” according to a poll in July for Bloomberg News.

“This is the best federal program of any real size to be despised by the public like this,” said Douglas J. Elliott, a former investment banker now associated with the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank.

“It was probably the only effective method available to us to keep from having a financial meltdown much worse than we actually had. Had that happened, unemployment would be substantially higher than it is now, the deficit would have gone up even more than it has,” Mr. Elliott added. “But it really cuts against the grain for a public that is so angry at banks to think that something that so plainly helped the banks could also be good for the public.”

After Sunday the Treasury can no longer commit money to new initiatives or recycle repayments to other purposes.

The Treasury never tapped the full $700 billion. It committed $470 billion and has disbursed $387 billion, mostly to hundreds of banks and later to A.I.G., the car industry — Chrysler, General Motors, the G.M. financing company and suppliers — and to what is, so far, a failed effort to help homeowners avoid foreclosures.

When Mr. Obama took office, the financial system remained so weak that his first budget indicated the Treasury might need another $750 billion for TARP. The administration soon dropped that idea as Mr. Geithner overhauled the rescue program and the banking system stabilized. Still, by mid-2009, the administration projected that TARP could lose $341 billion, a figure that reflected new commitments to A.I.G. and the auto industry.

The Congressional Budget Office, which had a slightly higher loss estimate initially, in August reduced that to $66 billion.

Now Treasury reckons that taxpayers will lose less than $50 billion at worst, but at best could break even or even make money. Its best-case assumptions, however, assume that A.I.G. and the auto companies will remain profitable and that Treasury will get a good price as it sells its corporate shares in coming years.

“We’d have to be very lucky to have both A.I.G. and the auto companies pay us back in full,” Mr. Elliott said.

Also, the best result for taxpayers could mean bad results for squeezed homeowners. Treasury has been ready to use up to $50 billion to help modify mortgages for people facing foreclosure, but its initiatives have been such a failure that little has been spent.

Whatever the final losses from housing, auto companies, A.I.G. or smaller banks, those will be offset by taxpayers’ profits from the big banks that have been the focus of their ire since 2008.

They have repaid their loans and Treasury has collected about $25 billion more from dividends and proceeds from the sale of warrants held as collateral, officials say. Many smaller banks hold on to their loans, however, reflecting their weakness and the desire of some others to keep the money given its advantageous terms. Scores are behind on dividend payments to the Treasury.

By any measure, TARP’s final tally will be less than expected amid the crisis. But the program remains a big loser politically.

On Wednesday, four days before its expiration, House Republicans nonetheless unsuccessfully forced a vote on legislation to end TARP. “We would be much better served if private institutions would either fail or be successful on their own,” said Representative Erik Paulsen of Minnesota, in an interview.

Among those who voted for the program in 2008, several Republicans have lost nominating contests for re-election or for another office, and others are on the defensive in fall races.

Senator Robert F. Bennett of Utah was “Bailout Bob” to Republicans who refused to re-nominate him for a fourth term.

“For those who were screaming at me — and screaming was the operative word — ‘You’ve just saddled our children and grandchildren with $700 billion,’ I said, ‘No, I haven’t,” Mr. Bennett said in an interview.

“My career is over,” he added. “But I do hope that we can get the word out that TARP, number one, did save the world from a financial meltdown and, number two, did so in a manner that, I believe, won’t cost the taxpayer anything. And even if it did not all get paid back, it was still the thing to do.”
39 2010-10-01 In 2008, Nick Faldo paired the rookies Ian Poulter and Justin Rose in the morning foursomes, and they lost, 1-up. In 1991, Montgomerie’s rookie year, he was paired with another rookie, David Gilford, and they were swamped, 4 and 2, by Lanny Wadkins and Hale Irwin.

A fast start seems essential since teams that have been ahead after the first day of matches have won five of the last six Cups.

“I wouldn’t say strange decision, don’t get me wrong,” Montgomerie said of the choice to send Watson and Overton out together. “Sort of, I don’t know, Luke Donald and Padraig Harrington would not expect to play two rookies in the last game.”

Montgomerie was also surprised when Pavin opted to play the Tiger Woods-Steve Stricker tandem in the No. 3 spot, against Ross Fisher and Ian Poulter, which kept Woods out of the leadoff spot he has held in the last three Ryder Cups he has played. Instead, Phil Mickelson and Dustin Johnson were matched in the leadoff spot against the formidable team of the English anchor Lee Westwood and the German star Martin Kaymer.

In match No. 2, Cink and the rookie Matt Kuchar were paired against the Northern Ireland team of Rory McIlroy, a rookie, and Graeme McDowell, the United States Open champion.

Asked why he thought Pavin “hid” Woods by holding him and Stricker until the third match, Montgomerie said: “I don’t know. I don’t know why, whether Tiger asked for that. I don’t know what Corey said beforehand.”

Pavin said the choice had more to do with what Woods said when he was asked by Pavin if he would be willing to play as a captain’s selection. At that time, Woods told Pavin to use him any way he saw fit, and Pavin said he saw fit to play Woods in that spot because that was how he drew up the pairings.

“He’s fine,” Pavin said. “He’s been saying the same thing to me since I asked him if he wanted to play on the team as a pick.”

Second-guessing the captain’s pairings is as much a pre-Cup tradition as the opening ceremonies. Rarely does all the fretting and wondering by fans and members of the news media amount to much. The last time it prompted this much discussion was in 2004 at Oakland Hills. That also happened to involve Woods and Mickelson, and it centered on Hal Sutton’s pairing of the two in both the morning and afternoon.

The pairing of the No. 1- and No. 2-ranked players in the world made sense to Sutton, but not to Woods and Mickelson. They did not jell as a pairing and lost both the morning foursome and the afternoon four-ball, and Europe romped to victory.

The good news is that all the talking, speculating and prognosticating will cease with the first tee shot. That is when the vagaries of the unique match-play format come into play and putts trump predictions. The team that putts the best prevails.

One more opinion from the other end of the spectrum will be tested. Last week, the NBC commentator Johnny Miller was asked about the importance of the maneuvering by captains in the Ryder Cup.

“You could be a good captain with a blindfold on and a dartboard,” Miller said.
40 2010-10-01 The Boeing Company said Thursday that it would delay delivery of the 747-8 freighter, its biggest commercial jet, until mid-2011 from the fourth quarter of 2010.

The widely expected setback follows an August announcement that Boeing would push back first delivery of its long-delayed 787 Dreamliner to the first quarter of 2011. Boeing said the delay would not hurt its 2010 financial results.

Boeing has 76 orders for the freighter model of the 747 at list prices of $293 million to $308 million. Boeing gets paid by customers at delivery.

The freighter model can carry 16 percent more cargo than the previous 747 model, while the intercontinental passenger model can carry 51 more passengers.

Stock in Boeing, which is based in Chicago, rose 57 cents, to $66.54 a share.
41 2010-10-01 Last year’s spending growth was well above the 6.3 percent increase projected by states at the start of their fiscal years, explaining why virtually every state’s program ran a deficit. And it provides a cautionary note for states that have projected a slowed rate of spending growth — 7.4 percent — for the current fiscal year.

The only hopeful news found by the survey was that the growth in enrollment slowed considerably in the second half of 2009. Yet, two-thirds of the Medicaid officials surveyed said they thought this year’s appropriations might not be enough to cover continuing enrollment growth.

States have been buffered from the harshest recessionary effects of the Medicaid explosion by a series of Congressional appropriations that have temporarily increased the federal share of spending. The stimulus package included $87 billion in Medicaid relief for states, and Congress last month extended the assistance, at a reduced level, through June.

At that point, absent further legislation, the state and federal shares will revert to their historical ratios. If the economy does not recover enough to reverse the enrollment growth, states fear they could be left with an unmanageable burden on their already inadequate revenues. Unlike the federal government, states must balance their budgets.

Without the assistance from Washington, said Vernon K. Smith, a principal with Health Management Associates, which conducted the survey for Kaiser, “we would have seen cuts on a scale that we’ve never seen before.”

Adding to the anxiety in state capitals is an expected surge in Medicaid enrollment due to a vast expansion of eligibility for the program under the new health care law. Starting in 2014, the expansion will make the program available to able-bodied adults with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (currently $14,404 for a single adult and $29,326 for a family of four). Today, Medicaid, which was enacted in 1965, primarily serves children, pregnant women and the aged and disabled.

The government expects the Medicaid expansion to account for about half of the 32 million uninsured people who are projected to gain coverage because of the new law.

Despite the enhanced federal aid for Medicaid last year, virtually every state made cuts to benefit levels or provider payments in order to balance budgets. As a condition of receiving stimulus money, states were prohibited from lowering eligibility thresholds, which they are allowed to set within federal parameters.

Instead, 39 states cut or froze payments to providers, including 20 states that reduced rates for doctors. That can have the effect of discouraging physicians from accepting Medicaid patients. Twenty states eliminated or restricted benefits like dentistry, imaging services and certain medical equipment. Further cuts are anticipated this year in many states.

States are running out of options for cuts that produce real savings, Mr. Smith said, and are increasingly turning to efficiencies like quality improvements, managed care and computerization.

Enrollment in Medicaid declined as recently as 2006 but began a rapid ascent the next year as the economic downturn began and the unemployment rate started to double.

There is often a lag between the start of a recession and its worst effects on safety net programs. Last year’s increases in enrollment and the rate of growth in enrollment were nearly double that of 2008, the survey found. Over three years, Medicaid enrollment has grown by 6.2 million.
42 2010-10-01 And Mr. Komisarjevsky, defense lawyers suggested, was the one who poured bleach and then gasoline on Michaela, who was tied to her bed, to try to blot out the record of what he had done. The bat was found in Michaela’s room after the arson fire that killed her and her sister, Hayley, who was 17.

There has been plenty of evidence in the prosecution’s capital case against Mr. Hayes, who is 47, including his own admission that he raped and then killed the girls’ mother, Jennifer Hawke-Petit. He bought gasoline that morning. He bought the BB gun that looked like a real pistol the intruders would use to frighten their victims, he told a police officer.

Each of the defendants has asserted from the start that the other was more responsible for what happened. Both face the possibility of the death penalty.

But in the courtroom it has been obvious that it was also a strategy of Mr. Hayes’s lawyers, Thomas J. Ullmann and Patrick Culligan, to try to turn the trial of Mr. Hayes into a trial of sorts of the absent Mr. Komisarjevsky.

“The defendant is trying to make it appear that Komisarjevsky is the moving force in this event,” Gary Nicholson, one of the prosecutors, said during a legal argument this week.

The missing man has been described many times. He was driving the Petits’ stolen Chrysler van when he crashed it into a police roadblock. He was the smaller of the two. He was wearing work boots, Carhartt-brand carpenter’s pants and, spookily, latex gloves.

The jurors have not been told that he was, though 18 years Mr. Hayes’s junior in age, at least his equal in criminal history. They have not been told of Mr. Komisarjevsky’s long record of burglaries, sometimes with night vision goggles.

But there have been hints. One Cheshire police officer said he had known Mr. Komisarjevsky long before the crime at the Petit home, which took place when Mr. Komisarjevsky was 26.

“I dealt with him when he was a juvenile,” the officer testified.

Only one of the two intruders did the talking, Dr. Petit testified. The other one had the BB gun that looked like the real thing. It was Mr. Hayes, the jurors were told, who had the gun in his belt when they were arrested. Which would make it Mr. Komisarjevsky whom Dr. Petit described suddenly adopting a sinister tone as he shouted down to the basement in the last chaotic minutes of the crime that “it’s all going to be over in a couple of minutes.”

Police officers described watching the Petit home as the two intruders ran out a side door in a last-minute escape attempt. Mr. Komisarjevsky was in front, they said, with Mr. Hayes trailing behind and slipping on the wet grass as he tried to keep up.

Putting Mr. Komisarjevsky figuratively on trial, lawyers with experience in capital cases say, is unlikely to have much effect in this first phase of Mr. Hayes’s trial to determine whether he is to be convicted of the crime. But it is a common defense strategy to plant seeds for a potential second phase of the trial that would determine whether he will be sentenced to death.

If there is a second phase, the jurors will have already heard Mr. Hayes’s version, however credible, that the crime would not have occurred without Mr. Komisarjevsky. While Mr. Hayes was out of the house, his lawyer Mr. Ullmann told the jurors, Mr. Komisarjevsky’s assault of Michaela “changed the scenario.”

Though he has no role in Mr. Hayes’s trial, Mr. Komisarjevsky’s lawyer, Jeremiah Donovan, has been in court monitoring the shadow trial of his client. One day last week, he let it be known that he wanted to talk to reporters, though there is a court order directing the lawyers and defendants not to comment publicly.

Mr. Donovan said he wanted to correct a “misimpression” that Mr. Komisarjevsky had anally raped the 11-year-old Michaela. Instead, he said, Mr. Komisarjevsky had confessed that he “ejaculated upon” the younger Petit daughter. He said he knew this was “small solace” to the Petit family.

The remarks were widely reported in Connecticut. Three days later, a Superior Court judge, Roland D. Fasano, directed that Mr. Donovan appear in court on Oct. 19 to respond to the assertion that his comments were “in flagrant violation” of the no-comment order.
43 2010-10-01 So I beat a path straight to the West Village, whose early embrace of gay men equals prime terrain for piano bars. Marie’s Crisis, for example, makes its cramped and — I was relieved to see — crowded home there, its main room wedged below street level, so that you descend into it as you would a secret hideaway.

The piano is in the center of the room, and the piano is everything. Regulars arrive early to snag a seat snug against it. Stragglers crush in tight, as if the instrument were some magnetic field or centrifugal force or — never mind, I’m hopeless with physics. Better just to say that the piano veritably sucks people in.

As does its call to song. Within seconds I found myself humming and within minutes singing, an activity I typically reserve for the shower, the car or family members I’m furious with and need to punish.

“I get no kick from Champaaaaaagne,” intoned the pianist and the people around him, including an Elaine Stritch look-alike whose evident passion for both Cole Porter and the cocktail before her inspired me.

“Mere alcohol doesn’t thrill me at aaaaallllll, ” I joined in, a lie as big and off-key as any ever told.

Although Marie’s Crisis is sometimes listed among gay bars, it’s much more diverse, its patrons bound principally by their outsize love of the musical theater and their ardent belief that life is indeed a cabaret. I can say with absolute certainty and no proof whatsoever that the idea for the television phenomenon “Glee” was conceived here. Marie’s Crisis is the gleekiest place you’ve ever seen.

And the gleekiest moment? After the pianist did a bit of panhandling — “Put a little something special in the bowl,” he said, referring to the glass one on his piano, “and by special I mean cash” — he segued into “The Sound of Music.” Then, seamlessly, “My Favorite Things.”

It was an Andrews-in-the-Alps medley! The hills were alive! If not only dozens of people — but also the joists, beams and bones of the room they’re in — can shudder with pleasure, that’s what happened at Marie’s Crisis just then. On the sidewalk seconds later, I reached for a cigarette I didn’t even have.

There’s slightly less ebullience, though similarly brisk business, across Seventh Avenue from Marie’s Crisis at the Duplex, another Village mainstay. The Duplex also encourages amateur vocal participation, but the song selection differs. I heard Jimmy Buffett, the Police and even the Monkees.

And I listened to both the male piano player and a female server at the microphone crack what passed for jokes (just barely). The server made much ado about her girlfriend’s having made off with her favorite softball mitt; the audience howled with laughter. That’s the sweet mercy of many a piano bar. Humiliation is off the table.

For the kind of piano bar that promises a brush with old storybook Manhattan, I went of course to Bemelmans Bar, at the Carlyle hotel on the Upper East Side. In the early evening, usually until about 8:30, there’s a solo piano player; later on there’s often a piano-anchored trio and, unlike the other bars I visited, a cover charge — of $25.

Bemelmans remains as gorgeous as ever, with its tufted leather banquettes; its tiny, shaded, flickering lamps on almost every table; and its whimsical mural of Central Park scenes by Ludwig Bemelmans, the illustrator of the Madeline books.

On the night I went the trio performed wordless jazz for the most part, though the pianist, Loston Harris, added vocals for “I’m in the Mood for Love.” It put me in the mood for a martini, which, fittingly, is the most frequently ordered drink at Bemelmans.

I learned this when I returned days later to chat with Tommy Rowles, who has tended bar at Bemelmans since the Mesozoic era — or, to be precise, 1968. He is 70 now, and when I asked him what, if any, big changes had occurred during his half-century there, he could think of only one. Until about the 1980s, most of the martinis he made were gin. Since then, he said, vodka has taken over.

I also returned to Manhattan Inn, so named because it’s on Manhattan Avenue. Although just a year old, it could pass for 100, and for a bar or restaurant — Manhattan Inn is both — that’s a compliment. The molding and glass display cases above the bar, the sleigh-shaped wood banquettes, the antique theater-style chairs, the moss-draped chandelier above the baby grand: all of these look like the most miraculous haul ever from the flea market of your dreams. The proprietors, Brooke Baxter, 32, and Rolyn Hu, 33, have great taste.

This time I was there on a Thursday night at about 9, and a pianist named Terry Waldo was playing ragtime for dozens of young people eating or drinking at tables on raised platforms around him. He would continue until 11, the frequent cutoff.

The customers with whom I talked said the piano had indeed been a lure and was proving to be a pleasure: a soothing curiosity. When Mr. Waldo began Scott Joplin’s “Entertainer,” I said to a few of them: “You know the movie that this is the theme from, right? Right?” I got blank stares. No one identified “The Sting.” Kids these days. So little respect for history or Paul Newman.

Ethan Katz-Bassett, 31, an intern at the Google offices in Manhattan who just moved to New York from Seattle, said that live piano music created “a natural thing for everyone to focus on or talk about” and thus made Manhattan Inn, which he’d visited before, “an easy place to go alone.”

The comment reminded me that in every piano bar I had noticed people like him, unaccompanied but seemingly un-self-conscious about that, thanks to the piano and the distraction it created. The music took them out of themselves. And the piano was like a village green, where paths effortlessly crossed, and anyone could linger.
44 2010-10-01 “We are raising the bar for safety, oversight and environmental protection at every stage of the drilling process,” he said in the speech, at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars here.

The rules take effect immediately under emergency rule-making powers.

In an interview, Mr. Salazar said he expected oil companies to complain, but to quickly comply.

“We’ll hear from industry that the regulations are too onerous, but the fact is, it’s a new day,” he said. “There is the pre-April 20 framework of regulation and the post-April 20 framework, and the oil and gas industry better get used to it, because that’s the way it’s going to be.”

The secretary pointedly refused to say when or under what conditions he would lift the drilling suspension, which has caused economic hardship along the Gulf Coast and political headaches for the Obama administration.

“We will lift it at our own time and when we’re ready, and not based on political pressure from anyone,” Mr. Salazar said.

The moratorium on deepwater drilling, imposed in late April, is scheduled to end on Nov. 30, but officials have signaled that it will probably be eased before then.

Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and a strong ally of the oil industry, is blocking the confirmation of Jack Lew as the new White House budget director until the moratorium is lifted or substantially eased.

Michael R. Bromwich, director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, the Interior Department office that now polices offshore drilling, was to deliver a report to Mr. Salazar shortly providing a blueprint for safely resuming drilling.

Mr. Salazar said he would review the report before deciding when that might happen.

On Thursday, the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said the new regulations and the completion of the Bromwich report “likely” meant that the drilling pause would end before Nov. 30.

Mr. Bromwich indicated this week that even after the moratorium was lifted, it could be weeks or even months before his agency granted permits allowing the 33 idled deepwater rigs in the gulf to start up again. Permits would be issued only after companies provided new spill response plans that detailed certification of the performance of critical equipment, like blowout preventers.

Oil industry executives expressed resignation about the new rules, saying they could be met, at some cost.

Marvin E. Odum, the president of Shell Oil, said in an interview that his company had weathered the moratorium so far by renegotiating contracts on its seven idle deepwater rigs in the gulf, allowing it to keep most of its skilled workers on the payroll.

“The piece I’m more concerned about is that when the moratorium does get lifted, you won’t be able to get back to work until the permit system starts to flow again,” Mr. Odum said. “Will it be weeks, months? That’s the big question.”

Jacqueline Savitz, a senior scientist at Oceana, a nonprofit environmental group, said that the new regulations alone would not prevent another spill.

“The BP disaster occurred because standards were not met and monitoring and inspections were too lax,” she said. “While stricter standards might help, adding them ignores the fact that there is simply no guarantee they will be followed.”

She urged Mr. Salazar to continue the freeze on deepwater drilling and extend it to shallow-water wells.
45 2010-10-01 Fisher-Price, the toy maker, is recalling more than 11 million tricycles, toys and high chairs over safety concerns.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission said on Thursday that two of the products had caused injuries.

In the recall of about seven million Fisher-Price Trikes and Tough Trikes toddler tricycles, the agency is aware of 10 reports of children being hurt. Six of them required medical attention.

The tricycles — some of which feature popular characters like Dora the Explorer and Barbie — have a protruding plastic ignition key near the seat that children can strike, sit on or fall on, leading to injuries that the commission said can include genital bleeding.

Fisher-Price is also recalling more than a million high chairs after 14 reports of problems. Seven children required stitches, the commission said. The models being recalled are Healthy Care, Easy Clean and Close to Me High Chairs. The pegs on the back of the high chairs can be used to store the tray, but children can fall on them, causing cuts and other injuries.

The recalls involve products sold in the United States and Canada.

The chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Inez M. Tenenbaum, said manufacturers need to do more to build safety into their products before they reach store shelves. But she praised Fisher-Price for “taking the right steps by agreeing to these recalls and offering consumers free repairs or replacement.”
46 2010-10-01 James Millstein, chief restructuring officer at the Treasury, said the agency arrived at that number by dividing the total number of shares it would have under the exit plan, about 1.6 billion, by the amount of Treasury dollars that A.I.G. used during its emergency, $47.5 billion.

The company and its government rescuers have been working intently in recent weeks to complete an exit plan before the Treasury’s relief program expires this weekend. Much remains to be done before the plan can be executed, probably in early February.

For instance, A.I.G. must still complete the sale of one of its big overseas life insurance businesses to MetLife. The sale was announced in March but needs regulatory approvals and is expected to close in November. It is expected to yield $6.8 billion in cash and $8.7 billion in MetLife stock, which will be used to pay down some of the company’s remaining $20 billion debt to the Fed.

Still more money for the Fed will come from an initial public stock offering of another big foreign life insurance business on the Hong Kong exchange. The offering, planned more than a year ago, was delayed for several months while A.I.G. tried unsuccessfully to sell the unit to a British company. The company now says the Hong Kong offering will go forward this year.

The Treasury will also help A.I.G. redeem most of the Fed’s unusual $26 billion preferred stake in the company. A.I.G. will use $22 billion remaining in a $30 billion emergency package that the Treasury made available in early 2009.

In exchange, the Treasury will get the Fed’s preferred stake, bringing its ownership of A.I.G. to 92.1 percent.

The company said it would come up with the additional $4 billion for the Fed with “proceeds from future asset monetizations,” including sales of two smaller Japanese insurance units that were also announced Thursday morning.

Once the Fed has been fully repaid, the Treasury will convert its preferred shares to common stock, diluting existing shareholders yet again. To cushion that blow, the company said it would issue up to 75 million warrants for those nongovernment shareholders, allowing them to buy more common stock for $45 a share in the future.

Treasury officials said they hoped these terms would end the current uncertainty over whether investors in A.I.G. might once again by diluted by the federal government, and how severely. That, they said, could stabilize the company’s stock and attract the institutional investors that have stayed away from A.I.G. during its restructuring.

To demonstrate that A.I.G. was ready to stand on its own, they said it would issue relatively small amounts of debt and equity in the next few months. The purpose would be to show auditors and rating agencies that A.I.G. could once again tap the capital markets if it needed to, which it has been unable to do since its crisis began. The company will also require a revolving credit facility from a private lender.

But officials said the many short-term liabilities that crowded A.I.G.’s balance sheet two years ago — and contributed to its cascading disaster — had all been refinanced over the past two years, and would not return.

The A.I.G. chief executive, Robert H. Benmosche, said in a statement that the plan would let A.I.G. “remain on track to emerge with one of the largest, most diversified property and casualty companies in the world.”
47 2010-10-01 Throw together this noodle dish as an alternative to the traditional rice stir-fry....
48 2010-10-01 The Morgan Library & Museum's landmark McKim, Mead and White building will reopen to the public on Oct. 30 after a $4.5 million restoration of its interior spaces.     The Italianate marble villa, designed in High Renaissance style, was formerly t...
49 2010-10-02 A federal judge in Manhattan has postponed the first civilian trial of a former detainee at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, until Wednesday.

Prosecutors sought a delay in the trial, which was to begin on Monday, because the judge had not yet ruled on their request to use a contested witness in their case against the former detainee, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani.

The government has said that the witness, Hussein Abebe, would testify that he sold TNT to Mr. Ghailani that was later used to blow up the United States Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

Mr. Ghailani, who was moved into the civilian system last year, is charged with conspiring in the 1998 bombings of the United States Embassies in Tanzania and Kenya, that killed 224 people.

The dispute over Mr. Abebe stems from how the government learned of him — through Mr. Ghailani’s interrogation when he was being held in an overseas jail run by the Central Intelligence Agency.
50 2010-10-02 Robert Wuhl, the comic actor who played a sports agent on HBO’s “Arliss,” will be taking a real job in the business starting in January, when he will host a three-hour sports talk radio show for Westwood One on weekdays from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.

“I can do sports talk, but I can also talk about movies and politics,” he said. “It’s not filtered. There are great hosts, like Dan Patrick, Jim Rome and Mike Francesa, but I come from a little different place. I joke that I can’t vote for the Heisman but I can vote for the Academy Awards.”

Wuhl has been in the sports films “Bull Durham,” as the pitching coach, and “Cobb,” as the reporter Al Stump, Ty Cobb’s ghostwriter.

“Fans care if their team wins or loses, but I’m more interested in the bigger picture, on how deals are made,” he said. “I enjoy talking about morality.”

He added: “I want to make this like the old Tom Snyder and David Susskind shows, bring people together, with sports personalities and sports-oriented celebrities.”
51 2010-10-02 AMERICANS became more pessimistic about their chances for higher incomes during the Great Recession than at any time in the past 45 years. That pessimism has eased, but still remains high.

The consumer confidence index fell in September, according to preliminary figures released this week by the Conference Board. That decline was largely because of lower expectations.

The expectations index is based on three questions about what consumers expect to happen over the next six months — whether business conditions will improve, whether there will be more or fewer jobs, and whether they expect their own incomes to rise or fall. In September, for the first time since July 2009, there were more negative than positive responses to all those questions.

In previous recessions, there has been widespread pessimism about the overall economy. But this recession was the first since the survey began in 1967 when more people expected their own incomes to fall.

Before this recession, no survey ever showed as few as 15 percent of Americans optimistic about their own prospects. But since October 2008, when the financial crisis intensified after the failure of Lehman Brothers, the figure has been below 15 percent. Similarly, the proportion of pessimists had never been as high as 15 percent before the financial crisis, but it has been above that figure for the last two years.
52 2010-10-02 The regulators hope the report lifts the uncertainty that has hung over the nation’s exchanges — and investors’ minds — since the crash. Certainly, officials at the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission seemed confident they had established the causes of the crash and answered any final doubts, and the findings were welcomed by some in the markets.

But it also left lingering questions among many who felt it did not explain why the crash took place on that particular day in May, or provide any assurance that this could not occur again.

“Extreme volatility of the kind we experienced on May 6 could happen again,” said Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, in a statement.

The regulators had already identified in a previous report the single large sale of futures contracts as having played an important role in the May 6 plunge. But in the new findings published Friday, the regulators emphasized the central role this large sale played on a day when markets were already under pressure because of the debt crisis in Greece.

“This report identifies what happened and reaffirms the importance of a number of the actions we have taken since that day,” Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairman, and Gary Gensler, the chairman of the C.F.T.C., said in a statement.

“We now must consider what other investor-focused measures are needed to ensure that our markets are fair, efficient and resilient, now and for years to come,” they said.

The report set out the sequence of events that began with the sale by Waddell & Reed of 75,000 E-Mini Standard & Poor’s 500 futures contracts, using computer sell algorithms. Normally, a sale of this size would take place over as many as five hours, but the large sale was executed in 20 minutes, the regulators said.

The algorithm was programmed to execute the trade “without regard to price or time,” the report said, which meant that it continued to sell even as prices dropped sharply.

The algorithm is one used widely across markets. It was provided to the firm by Barclays Capital, but it was up to Waddell & Reed to set the parameters dictating the way it sold the futures contracts.

There was no explanation from officials why the firm chose to sell so many contracts all at once, except to speculate that it was already late in the trading day when it made the sale. Neither would officials explicitly say whether or not the firm was under investigation, but they pointed out that the firm had made similar trades in the past.

In response to Friday’s report, Waddell & Reed put out a statement it had already issued in May. It said it had sold the contracts because it was worried about the European crisis spreading to United States.

After the firm started to sell, the report found, many of the contracts were bought by high-frequency traders, computerized traders who buy and sell at high speed and account for a big part of trading in today’s markets.

As they detected that they had amassed excessive “long” positions, they began to sell aggressively, which caused the mutual fund’s algorithm in turn to accelerate its selling.

Startlingly, as the computers of the high-frequency traders traded contracts back and forth, a “hot potato” effect was created, the report said, as contracts changed hands 27,000 times in 14 seconds, but with eventually only 200 actually being bought or sold.

The selling pressure was then transferred from the futures markets to the stock market by arbitrageurs who started to buy the cheap futures contracts but sell cash shares on markets like the New York Stock Exchange.

Automatic computerized traders on the stock market shut down as they detected the sharp rise in buying and selling. Altogether, this led to the abrupt drop in prices of individual stocks and other financial instruments like exchange-traded funds, and caused shares of some prominent companies like Procter & Gamble and Accenture to trade down as low as a penny or as high as $100,000.

The rout continued until an automatic stabilizer on the futures exchange cut in and paused trading for five seconds, after which the markets recovered.

The report’s findings will be put to a joint S.E.C.-C.F.T.C .advisory committee, which will determine if any new policies are needed.

Following the preliminary report in May, the S.E.C. announced it was instituting circuit breakers on all the stocks in the S.& P. 500-stock index, in an effort to prevent another crash.

It has since expanded the circuit breakers — which halt trading in a stock for five minutes if the price moves by 10 percent or more in a five-minute period — to a broader range of stocks.

In addition, Ms. Schapiro has said she wants to look at the use of stub quotes and also possibly limits on the speed of high-frequency trading, but some analysts said they still had questions.

“They didn’t explain why it never happened before and if it is unlikely to happen in the future,” said Adam Sussman, director of research at the Tabb Group. “In that, it is disappointing.”
53 2010-10-02 He owes his new support to the extraordinary political resurrection of , the self-exiled cleric whose fighters once battled in the streets of Baghdad, Basra and other cities with Iraqi and American troops. Until days ago he fiercely opposed Mr. Maliki’s re-election.

Mr. Maliki’s success reflected his tenacity — tinged with authoritarianism — to retain power, despite widespread opposition to his leadership. It also showed his willingness to disregard — for political expediency — American concerns about the return of Mr. Sadr’s followers to the center of political power.

A dour, uncharismatic leader, Mr. Maliki has persisted in arguing that only he can prevent a descent into the sectarian carnage that consumed Iraq when he took office in 2006, even if that means allying with a movement blamed for much of the violence.

While Obama administration officials insisted over months of quiet diplomacy that they preferred no candidate, only a broadly inclusive government, they made it clear that they did not favor a government that included the Sadrists, who are closely allied with and oppose the presence of American troops.

This week, a senior American military commander in Baghdad blamed Shiite extremist groups, including one affiliated with Mr. Sadr, for a spike in rocket attacks on the capital’s Green Zone.

In Washington, officials were noticeably cool to news of the agreement between Mr. Maliki and Mr. Sadr, in no small part because it signaled an ascendant Iranian influence in Iraq.

“An Iraqi government that owes its existence to the Sadrists and lacks strong support from Allawi would necessarily be one that leans in Tehran’s direction, something Washington can little afford at the moment,” Daniel P. Serwer, a vice president at the United States Institute of Peace, said in an e-mail.

Mr. Maliki, who is 60, now has the backing of at least 148 lawmakers in the new 325-member Parliament to form a government, just short of a majority. The Kurds, with 57 seats among several parties, indicated Friday that they, too, would support his re-election, though only with concessions on territorial, economic and political issues.

“Now he has a great possibility to become prime minister again,” said a prominent Kurdish lawmaker, Mahmoud Othman.

That would give Mr. Maliki a solid majority, though he must still cobble together a governing coalition among various parties jockeying for control of important positions and ministries, especially those overseeing oil and the security forces.

“What happened now is the best for Iraqis,” said a leader of Mr. Maliki’s party, Ali al-Adeeb.

He called for a swift session of Parliament to elect Mr. Maliki and pledged to continue talks to include other factions, especially Mr. Allawi’s, which includes almost all of the newly elected Sunni lawmakers. Mr. Maliki echoed that in his statement.

Mr. Allawi’s bloc vowed to oppose the nomination, but despite winning slightly more seats than Mr. Maliki did, 91 to 89, he and his supporters did not appear to have enough votes to do so.

It was not immediately clear when the new Parliament, known as the Council of Representatives, would meet again. It has convened only once, for 18 minutes, despite constitutional deadlines that have passed unheeded.

By law, the members must first elect a president, who then authorizes the leading bloc to form a government coalition.

Mr. Maliki’s nomination underscored the ever-shifting alliances of power here. The Sadrists at first backed Adel Abdul Mahdi, one of two vice presidents who is a leader of the , which was part of a broader Shiite alliance that joined Mr. Maliki’s bloc after the election, only to disagree on who should be prime minister.

That party’s leaders boycotted the nominating session on Friday and met later with Mr. Allawi. A party member, Ali Shubar, said it would oppose Mr. Maliki because “we won’t vote for another failed government.” The outcome of the struggle over the next prime minister showed the ebbing of the power of a party that once dominated Shiite politics after ’s toppling.

The Sadrists proved to be more effective and disciplined campaigners, with strong grass-roots support among Iraq’s Shiites. Having embraced politics, they are now poised to wield influence they have not had since they withdrew from the previous government in 2006.

The Sadrist leaders present on Friday did not explain their drastic and sudden swing toward Mr. Maliki. But in a statement two days ago, issued from Iran, where he is studying theology, Mr. Sadr sounded the pragmatic note of a seasoned politician.

He cited a saying of his father, Ayatollah Muhammad Sadiq al-Sadr, a revered Shiite leader who was killed in 1999 under Mr. Hussein’s regime.

“Politics has no heart,” Mr. Sadr said, in response to a letter from a follower. “Be informed, politics is giving and taking.”

One of the main issues facing Iraq in the coming year is what, if any, American military presence will continue after a deadline in December 2011 for withdrawing the remaining 50,000 American troops here.

Diplomats and military commanders here have already signaled an interest in maintaining a close security relationship with Iraq as it rebuilds its armed services and solidifies its fragile democratic institutions.

While many Iraqi political and military leaders have expressed support for that, the Sadrists remain opposed to what they call “a foreign occupation.”
54 2010-10-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
55 2010-10-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
56 2010-10-03 At 91, Buddy Morrow had to be helped onstage to lead the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra in Ormond Beach, Fla., on Sept. 24, but once the music started, his energy never wavered. He even played the trombone solo on “Night Train,” which had sold more than a million copies for him in 1952.

But when Mr. Morrow left the stage to tumultuous applause, it ended the final performance of a career that spanned more than seven decades. Mr. Morrow died Monday at his home in Maitland, Fla., his daughter Sara Morrow said.

Mr. Morrow was born Muni Zudekoff on Feb. 8, 1919, in New Haven to Sophie and David Zudekoff. He was the fifth of six siblings, all musicians, and played trombone because trumpet was taken.

At 15, he toured with the jazz ensemble the Yale Collegians. He soon moved to New York to play full time with established musicians like Harry James, Buddy Rich and Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey. He won a scholarship to the Juilliard School, but left before graduating to continue playing professionally.

He played lead trombone for the Navy Band while serving in the Navy on Staten Island from 1941 to 1944.
57 2010-10-03 Bay Area eaters are eagerly gulping down Vietnamese noodle soup, or pho, typically made with beef or chicken broth. Turtle Tower in the Little Saigon neighborhood is one of San Francisco’s dozens of pho restaurants. Stephen Pham, the owner, came from Hanoi 20 years ago to what he calls “the land of opportunity.”

Some culinary experts speculate that the word “pho” may come from the French “pot-au-feu,” or beef stew, which literally means “pot on the fire.” In Vietnam, pho is primarily eaten at breakfast.

Turtle Tower restaurant is named after a famous Hanoi landmark, Thap Rua, a three-level pagoda built in the 1800s in the middle of a lake. Pho was created in North Vietnam, and Turtle Tower’s soups stick to the original style: they are served with green chilies and limes, but without the bean sprouts, basil and hoisin sauce that were added when the soup migrated south in the 1950s.

Turtle Tower boils its pho broth for 10 to 15 hours. One of its most popular dishes is pho ga long (chicken noodle soup with giblets), which uses free-range chicken, freshly made noodles and vegetables from local farmers markets.

Pho Garden on Clement Street offers a challenge: Anyone who can swallow the contents of a gigantic bowl containing two pounds of noodles and two pounds of beef in 60 minutes gets the meal, normally $22, free. Photos of some 140 successful gluttons are displayed on the restaurant’s “Pho of Fame” wall.

Pho is pronounced “fuh” — like “foot” without the t. Pho fans employ many puns in their praise: phocused, phonatics, photastic, pho fix, phogasmic, what the pho?, and un-pho-gettable.

In addition to beef slices, beef tripe, tendon and meatballs are optional ingredients preferred by many Vietnamese customers. Tripe is stomach lining; tendon is tough, gelatinous and translucent; the meatballs sometimes contain cartilage and tendon.
58 2010-10-03 One man ignored a “No Thru Traffic” sign, parked and handed his 8-year-old daughter a digital camera. The girl began snapping pictures.

“Isn’t it something?” the father said to her.

Linda Victor, who had just gotten home from her job behind the deli counter at Lunardi’s, a neighborhood grocery, said: “It’s like, Don’t you have anything else to do? A lot of them drive back and forth and park and kind of get out and take their time. It’s like, Gee, let’s take the kids for a ride, and we’ll go see what it looks like when everything is burned down.”

Ms. Victor was standing at her kitchen counter in her white Lunardi’s jacket, eating potato chips. The home she has shared with her husband for 30 years survived with only a damaged roof, blistered brown paint and smoke damage.

From her front yard, Ms. Victor has a painful view of 15 acres of destruction. Where her neighbor’s pink wood-paneled house once stood were planks of wood and concrete coated in ash.

Last week, an eighth person, James E. Franco, 58, died from injuries sustained in the blast. Trucks carried away debris from 37 destroyed homes.

On Claremont Drive, Bill and Nellie Bishop are among the few who still live within the perimeter of the blast site. Mr. Bishop is a retired garbage collector; Ms. Bishop helps her husband coach a girls’ softball team. Their display of green ceramic frogs and bird fountains — in fact, most of their robin’s-egg-blue home — survived. But the houses next door are gone.

As Nellie Bishop crouched in her front yard to replace her charred garden with a fresh crop of marigolds, sunflowers and sweet peas, she realized she had an audience.

A security guard stepped in and prevented onlookers from sweeping past a barricade that had been erected.

“I feel like a movie star because he knows who to let in and who not,” Ms. Bishop said of the guard after thanking him with watermelon slices and iced tea.
59 2010-10-03 Cathy Helton, a secretary with the San Francisco Rent Board, a city agency, said she had never before been a political activist. But now she is, outraged that the Proposition B ballot initiative would force city employees to contribute far more toward their health-benefit costs.

At a thinly-attended rally of city employees against Proposition B in the Castro on Wednesday, Ms. Helton said her costs to insure herself and her son would be too much for her to pay if Proposition B passed. “I will no longer be able to afford to insure my child,” she said.

According to data from the city’s health services department, Ms. Helton pays $1,451 a year for her Blue Shield health insurance. Under Proposition B, she would pay $5,679 for the same medical coverage.

“I know how much money I have left over at the end of a pay period,” Ms. Helton wrote in an e-mail Friday afternoon, and she does not have that much in disposable income. “So, I’m in a really bad position,” she said. Employees like her with one dependent “get hit the hardest by this measure.”

Proposition B’s impact on city employees’ health care costs is taking center stage as voters prepare to cast their ballots on Nov. 2. The measure’s author, Jeff Adachi, who is the city’s public defender, said it would save the financially stressed city $120 million a year. Mr. Adachi has pitched Proposition B most prominently as a pension-reform measure, but nearly 70 percent of the projected savings would come from increased employee contributions to health care.
60 2010-10-03 The two fruits of this effort were “The Theory of Moral Sentiments,” published in 1759, and “The Wealth of Nations.” In the earlier book, Smith set out to understand the motivations of human behavior and the development of moral principles within individuals. At the heart of Smith’s analysis lies the concept of sympathy (what we know today as empathy), which he saw as the bedrock of all forms of human communication, including commercial exchange. It is sympathy, he writes, that ultimately accounts for “that great purpose of human life which we call bettering our condition.”

Smith built on this philosophical groundwork in “The Wealth of Nations.” Here, in a book of half a million words, he married man’s ineluctable drive for improvement with the concept of self-interest to set forth the primary driver of all economic activity: “It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest.”

More than 230 years later, Smith’s concept of the self-interest-seeking individual acting in a competitive environment remains at center stage in mainstream economics.

There are other important contributions in “The Wealth of Nations,” including equilibrium theory, opportunity cost, national income and the circular flow of economic activity. Mr. Phillipson, however, devotes little attention to these ideas, concentrating instead on Smith’s attack on 18th-century British commercial policy — government actions intended to manage imperial commerce for the mother country’s prosperity — and his consequent embrace of free trade. Smith regarded restraints on imports and other trade restrictions as a function of “the wretched spirit of monopoly” that had afflicted economic activity throughout history.

The policy implications were clear. Free-flowing trade was the road to national prosperity and international concord. The best evidence for Smith’s argument, Mr. Phillipson demonstrates, was the rapid progress of the American colonies, where cheap land and the absence of high taxes and other restraints had helped create a thriving society and a robust domestic market. (It is one of the rich ironies of history that Smith’s commercial paradigm tore itself away from Britain, its biggest trading partner, in the same year his magnum opus was published.)

The final chapters of Mr. Phillipson’s account reconstruct Smith’s later years and his efforts to revise both his books. Although Smith had hoped to publish another book, extending his “Science of Man” to the liberal sciences and elegant arts, the project outran him. He died on July 1, 1790, after a long illness, lamenting that he had not accomplished more.

“An Enlightened Life” follows the evolution of Smith’s thinking closely and all it owed to the other intellectuals in his orbit, especially David Hume. But Mr. Phillipson’s biography tells us almost nothing about Smith the human being. Discussion of Smith’s likes and dislikes, his loves (he adored his mother and lived with her for much of his life) and even his appearance is largely absent from this book.

Mr. Phillipson’s initial qualifier — that Smith left a scanty historical record — does not quite explain the book’s overriding focus on its subject as a factory of philosophical ideas. One longs for a sense of Smith’s harsh, stammering voice that worked so well in the lecture halls. Or a whiff of his legendary absent-mindedness. (He once put bread and butter into boiling water and complained about how bad the tea was.)

Still, “An Enlightened Life” delivers on its original promise: to trace the intellectual development of Smith’s mind through the making of his own, essentially philosophical, texts. For all that subsequent generations, no less our own, have taken from Smith’s economic contributions, it is indeed enlightening to understand the broader sweep of his vision.
61 2010-10-03 The U.S. State Department issued an alert on Sunday urging Americans traveling to Europe to be vigilant about possible terrorist attacks in a statement that specifically cites the potential involvement of Al Qaida. The British government, meanwhile, raised the threat of terrorism to "high" from "general" for Britons in France and Germany.

The decisions to caution travelers came as counterterrorism officials in Europe and the United States are assessing intelligence about possible plots originating in Pakistan and North Africa aimed at Britain, France and Germany.

The U.S. travel alert urges extra caution and does not discourage Americans from visiting Europe. An American official who confirmed the warning on Saturday, who did not want to be identified speaking about internal government deliberations, said a stronger “travel warning” that might advise Americans not to visit Europe was not under consideration. European officials have been concerned about the impact on tourism and student travel from any official guidance to American travelers.

"Current information suggests that Al Qaida and affiliated organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks. European governments have taken action to guard against a terrorist attack," according to the State Department statement.

"U.S. citizens are reminded of the potential for terrorists to attack public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure," the State Department said. "Terrorists have targeted and attacked subway and rail systems, as well as aviation and maritime services."

American intelligence officials said last week that they were pursuing reports of possible attacks against European cities, including information from a German citizen of Afghan origin captured in Afghanistan in July. The German, said to be named Ahmed Sidiqi, 36, from Hamburg, had traveled to the Waziristan region of Pakistan and received firearms and explosives training, a senior European official told The New York Times.

Mr. Sidiqi described plans for attacks by small armed groups in European cities, the official said. Other officials have said such attacks might be modeled on the 2008 assault in Mumbai. Those attacks, attributed to a radical Islamic group based in Pakistan, killed at least 173 people.

In August, the State Department renewed a “worldwide alert,” saying officials remained “concerned about the continued threat of terrorist attacks” against Americans overseas.

The British Foreign Office in London declined to comment on why it raised its terrorism advisory on Sunday, Reuters reported.
62 2010-10-03 In moving to a nonprofit, I knew that I’d have to take a salary cut, and that bonuses were unlikely. Fortunately, my previous job paid well and I was able to save. And my financial commitments are manageable. Some people can’t take a pay cut, or must drastically change their lifestyle, if they want to change jobs.

There were a few things about working in a nonprofit that I didn’t expect. The environment is more laid-back; for example, meetings are less structured. But that doesn’t mean we don’t work as hard as corporate employees do.

One reason for the more relaxed atmosphere could be that we’re small, with fewer than 25 employees. I also think that because we’re mission-driven as opposed to profit-driven, we don’t feel pressured in the way corporate employees do. In the corporate world, it’s all about staying within the budget, or increasing sales, or making a profit.

In my previous job, one way my company was judged was by how its funds performed against the competition and benchmarks. In my current job, our performance is measured by how successful we are in achieving the goals we set.

Our funders, mostly large foundations, expect results. Do we deliver what we say we will? If we say we’re going to improve charter school legislation in certain states over the next two years, are we accomplishing that? Our goal is to help underserved children get a high-quality education — that’s our objective, but it’s also the reward.

Before, I was evaluating charter schools as investment instruments. Now that I’m on the other side of the table, I realize the enormous financial and political challenges these schools have. From my perspective as an investment analyst, most charter schools weren’t good candidates for borrowing large sums. They don’t have a lot of students, or a track record, or significant financial resources. I didn’t think they were creditworthy.

Now, I can use my knowledge of finance and capital markets to help them get financing. If I can help charter schools grow, more children can attend. Some charter schools have long waiting lists because they don’t have the facilities to accommodate these students.

THE alliance may be small, but it’s easier to get things done than it would be in a corporation. For example, if I have a benefits question, I can always call the head of human resources. In many corporations, employees have to access the H.R. Web site or search the electronic employee handbook for an answer. If they want to talk to a staff member, they may have to search for the right person. Perhaps it’s the same in larger nonprofits, too, but I’m enjoying the personal aspect.

Members of my organization recently went on a retreat for team-building. It was refreshing after the staid corporate off-site meetings I’d attended with hundreds of other employees over the years. When the organization’s C.E.O. spoke at our retreat, one of the things he said was, “There is no room for ‘I’ in this organization.” That summarized the nonprofit world for me.

Many corporations like to think that they foster collaboration, but a number of employees work alone because of their specialties. I did. Here, we’re collaborative in everything we do; we have to be. Also, we all share the same passion. Perhaps it’s the same in all mission-driven organizations.
63 2010-10-03 RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — The authorities in North Carolina have opened an investigation into Gov. Bev Perdue’s campaign flights after a local prosecutor said he had lingering questions, officials said.

A spokeswoman for the State Bureau of Investigation said Friday that the bureau’s professional standards division began the investigation at the request of the Wake County district attorney, Colon Willoughby.

Mr. Willoughby said he requested the investigation after a State Board of Elections inquiry raised questions about the payments for campaign air travel.

“I felt there were some questions that were raised that were not addressed,” Mr. Willoughby said. He added that his concerns did not specifically involve the governor herself.

The elections board fined Ms. Perdue’s campaign $30,000 last month for failing to report more than 40 private flights. A majority on the panel found no deliberate effort to break the law, but the two Republicans on it tried to increase the penalty or hold a public hearing that would serve as a broader investigation of the campaign flights by the governor, a Democrat.

The Perdue campaign spokesman, Marc Farinella, said he had confidence in the bureau’s ability to conduct a fair inquiry.
64 2010-10-03 The government has had this authority since 1990 but has not used it, the inspector general said.

Mr. Levinson said he found that more than three-fourths of drug manufacturers did not fully comply with the law requiring them to provide price data. They are supposed to file monthly and quarterly reports on what wholesalers paid them for drugs eventually sold to retail pharmacies.

Medicaid spends tens of millions of dollars a year on drugs made by companies that did not submit the required price data to the government, Mr. Levinson said. Without price data, the federal government cannot compute rebates, and states may be unable to collect them.

As a condition of having their drugs covered by Medicaid, pharmaceutical companies must agree to provide discounts in the form of rebates. Drug companies pay the rebates to state Medicaid programs. The federal government and the states share the cost of Medicaid — roughly $400 billion in the last year — and share the savings that result from the rebates.

Ann Leopold Kaplan, deputy general counsel of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group, said drug companies “take compliance issues very seriously.” But, she added, “reporting of the average manufacturer price is very complex,” and the task has been made more difficult by many recent changes in laws.

Under the health care law, the minimum rebate on brand-name drugs dispensed to Medicaid recipients was increased to 23.1 percent of the average manufacturer price, from 15.1 percent. The minimum rebate on generic drugs was increased to 13 percent, from 11 percent.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the changes could save the federal government more than $35 billion over 10 years. Major drug companies are already reporting adverse effects on their revenues. However, drug companies stand to gain many customers with the scheduled Medicaid expansion in 2014.

Medicaid officials contend that “they do not currently have the resources” to identify all the manufacturers that fail to submit the data, Mr. Levinson said. He recommended that Medicaid officials aggressively pursue such manufacturers. Medicaid officials agreed to do so, but would not discuss enforcement plans.

The prices reported by drug manufacturers “play a critical role” in determining what the government pays for prescription drugs, Mr. Levinson said. They are used to calculate the rebates owed to states under Medicaid and to establish discounts on drugs bought by community health centers and hospitals serving large numbers of poor people. In addition, federal officials can use the data to set limits on what Medicaid will pay pharmacies for the generic versions of certain brand-name drugs.

In another report, the Congressional Budget Office said that Medicare could save substantial amounts of money through greater use of generic drugs.

About 65 percent of prescriptions in Medicare’s outpatient drug program are already filled with generic drugs, the budget office said. Medicare could achieve additional savings by encouraging people to “switch to the generic form of a different drug in the same therapeutic class,” the report said.

A pharmacist must ordinarily obtain the consent of the prescribing physician before substituting a generic drug for a brand-name product that is not chemically equivalent, the report said.
65 2010-10-03 TEHRAN — Iran has arrested an unspecified number of “nuclear spies” in connection with a damaging worm that has infected computers in its nuclear program, the intelligence minister, Heydar Moslehi, said Saturday.

Mr. Moslehi also told the semiofficial Mehr news agency that the ministry had achieved “complete mastery” over government computer systems and was able to counter any cyberattacks by “enemy spy services.”

Iran confirmed last week that the Stuxnet worm, a malicious self-replicating program that attacks computers that control industrial plants, had infected computers in its nuclear operations. Officials said it had been found in personal computers at the Bushehr nuclear plant, a power generator that is not believed to be part of a weapons program, and that it had not caused “serious damage” to government systems.

While the origins of the worm remain obscure, many computer security experts believe it was created by a government with the intent of sabotaging Iran’s nuclear program, which Western countries believe is aimed at creating a nuclear weapon. The United States and Israel have cyberwarfare programs and both countries have sought to undermine Iran’s nuclear enrichment program, but neither has commented on the Stuxnet worm.

Iran has portrayed the worm as a cyberattack by Western powers and Israel intended to derail the country’s nuclear program, which the government says is for peaceful purposes.

“All of the destructive activities perpetrated by the oppressors in cyberspace will be discovered quickly and means of combating these plans will be implemented,” Mr. Moslehi said. “The intelligence Ministry is aware of a range of activities being carried out against the Islamic Republic by enemy spy services.”
66 2010-10-03 The result is children who start life at a disadvantage — for kids facing stresses before birth appear to have lower educational attainment, lower incomes and worse health throughout their lives. If that’s true, then even early childhood education may be a bit late as a way to break the cycles of poverty.

“Given the odds stacked against poor women and their fetuses, the most effective antipoverty program might be one that starts before birth,” writes Annie Murphy Paul in a terrific and important new book called “Origins: How the Nine Months Before Birth Shape the Rest of Our Lives.”

Another groundbreaking and provocative book this year makes the same case: “More than Genes,” by Dan Agin, a neuroscientist at the University of Chicago. Both offer a new window into the unexpected forces that shape us.

One study in this field, by a Columbia University economist, Douglas Almond, looked at children who were born after the great flu pandemic of 1918. The pandemic lasted only about five months and infected about a third of pregnant women in America, so Mr. Almond compared those who had been exposed to it while inside their mothers with others born just before or after.

Ms. Paul quotes Mr. Almond as concluding, “People who were in utero during the pandemic did worse, on average, on just about every socioeconomic outcome recorded.” They were 15 percent less likely to graduate from high school, 15 percent more likely to be poor, and 20 percent more likely to have heart disease in old age.

Stress in mothers seems to have particularly strong effects on their offspring, perhaps through release of cortisol, a hormone released when a person is anxious. Studies show that children who were in utero during the Arab-Israeli Six-Day War of 1967 were more likely to have schizophrenia diagnosed as adults. And The Journal of the American Medical Association reported that Chinese born during the terrible famine from 1959 to 1961 were twice as likely to develop schizophrenia as those born at other times.

As for obesity, Ms. Paul describes several British scientists who fed pregnant rats junk food: doughnuts, marshmallows, potato chips and chocolate chip muffins. The offspring of those rats turned out to have a sweet tooth as well: they were more likely to choose junk food when it was offered and ended up 25 percent fatter than rats whose mothers were fed regular rodent chow.

This field of “fetal origins” is still in its infancy, but one implication is that we should be much more careful about exposing pregnant women to toxins, and much quicker to regulate chemicals that are now widely used even though they’ve never even been tested for safety. Professor Agin is particularly eloquent about the potential perils of lead, dioxins, PCBs, radiation and pesticides.

One study looked at Swedish children who were fetuses during the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear accident. The radiation exposure was very slight and did not seem to affect their physical health. But their cognitive abilities, especially in math, seemed affected, and they were one-third more likely to fail middle school.

The uncertainty in this field is enormous, but we have learned that a uterus is not a diving bell that insulates its occupant from the world’s perils. Chemicals like thalidomide and DES proved tragic for those exposed to them while in their mothers’ wombs. And it’s now high time to take a closer look at unregulated chemicals that envelop us — and may be shaping our progeny for decades to come.
67 2010-10-03 After a meeting on Saturday, Iraqiya leaders said they would now try to court two Shiite parties that oppose Mr. Maliki, as well as two smaller parties that won 10 seats, though that would still leave the bloc without enough seats to thwart Mr. Maliki’s re-election.

While Mr. Maliki again promised to include Iraqiya and other parties in the government, though in a secondary role, the bloc said Saturday that it would not accept the offer. “We will never really accept negotiations with them,” an Iraqiya leader, Mohammed Tawfiq Allawi, said.

The efforts to build a broader consensus behind Mr. Maliki’s re-election or block it — and the political dealing involved in either option — could take weeks or even months to sort out, delaying the formation of a new government even further. “This is Iraq,” Mr. Salih said. “It’s very difficult to predict what comes next.”

On Friday evening, Mr. Maliki appeared all but assured of re-election after winning the endorsement of the followers of Moktada al-Sadr, the self-exiled cleric whose fighters mounted the fiercest resistance to the American invasion and occupation and were blamed for sectarian violence against Sunnis.

The Sadrists have embraced politics, and despite opposing Mr. Maliki only days ago, are poised to wield influence they have not had since withdrawing from Mr. Maliki’s first government in 2006. With the backing of the Sadrists and other smaller Shiite parties, Mr. Maliki now has the support of at least 148 members of the new 325-member Parliament, nearly all of them Shiites.

The highly sectarian and religious cast of that alliance has raised tensions here and fear in the United States that Sunnis could be disenfranchised and support for a democratic government eroded.

Mr. Maliki, who ran on a platform of restoring security to Iraq after the bloodiest years of the violence, met in Baghdad on Saturday with political, security and tribal leaders from Anbar, the sprawling Sunni province. He called on the leaders to continue to back the government’s efforts against Al Qaeda and other insurgents who once held sway there.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has made repeated calls to Iraq’s leaders in the past week, has pushed Mr. Maliki to accept a compromise that would restrain his powers as prime minister and create a new security committee that would be led by Mr. Allawi and that would act as a check.

Joost Hiltermann of the International Crisis Group, a nongovernmental group that seeks to prevent conflicts, said that he expected a version of the American plan to still emerge. Given the complexities of the political trading, he said, “don’t expect a government before January.”
68 2010-10-03 WASHINGTON — The new Supreme Court term, which begins Monday, includes cases on some of the most contested issues of the day, including protests at military funerals, illegal immigration , support for religious schools, violent video games, DNA evidence and prosecutorial misconduct.

The term’s arguments and decisions will be scrutinized for insights into the thinking of the court’s newest member, Justice Elena Kagan, and for hints about how the court will rule when even more highly charged cases reach it, probably in a year or two, on federal health care legislation, same-sex marriage, the treatment of gay members of the armed services and the recent Arizona law giving the police there greater authority to check the immigration status of people they stop.

The marquee case on the docket so far is a suit brought by the father of a fallen Marine against a small Kansas church whose members protested at his son’s funeral. The case, to be argued Wednesday, is freighted with rage on both sides.

“Since when did any of our military die so that a group of people could target their families and harass them?” asked the Marine’s father, Albert Snyder, who won an $11 million jury verdict against the Westboro Baptist Church of Topeka, Kan., saying the church had caused him emotional distress.

An appeals court threw out the award on First Amendment grounds, saying the signs carried by the protesters — featuring messages like “God Hates Fags” — were not directed at the Marine, Lance Cpl. Matthew A. Snyder, or meant to convey factual assertions about him, but were instead protected commentary on matters of public concern.

Mr. Snyder said that ruling was perilous. “If the law can’t help us and the courts won’t do something,” he said, “someone is going to take this into his own hands.”

Margie J. Phelps, a daughter of the pastor of the church, will argue the case in the Supreme Court. She agrees that the case arrives at the Supreme Court at a volatile moment.

“We are a little church in the middle of the country that will not back down from the mob rule mentality that has taken over this country,” she said. “We are bringing the words of life and faith to a nation threatened with destruction.”

Rodney A. Smolla, the president of Furman University in Greenville, S.C., and an authority on the First Amendment, said the court’s decision to hear the case, Snyder v. Phelps, No. 09-751, indicates that “some number of justices would at least entertain the idea that special circumstances such as grief at funerals may warrant an exception to a robust conception of free speech in the general marketplace.”

Mr. Smolla added that aspects of the case were reminiscent of the controversy over the proposed Islamic center near ground zero in New York. While the law may treat the site of a terrorist attack and a military funeral differently, he said, “the cultural feeling is that each is close to a sacred space.”

The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press and 21 news organizations, including The New York Times Company, filed a brief supporting the Kansas church. “To silence a fringe messenger because of the distastefulness of the message,” the brief said, “is antithetical to the First Amendment’s most basic precepts.”

In a second major First Amendment case, Schwarzenegger v. Entertainment Merchants Association, No. 08-1448, the court will decide whether states may restrict the sale of violent video games to minors. The lower courts in the case and many courts considering similar questions have uniformly said no.

Indeed, the Supreme Court has never extended to violent materials the principles that allow the regulation of sexual materials. But the justices agreed to hear the video games case in April, just days after striking down a federal law making it a crime to sell dogfight videos and other depictions of animal cruelty.

The court’s business docket will be busy, too. After a one-year hiatus, the court will resume its scrutiny of an issue that often divides conservatives: who should prevail in tensions between federal and state efforts to regulate matters like vaccines, seat belts and arbitration?

“This is the issue that separates business conservatives and states’ rights conservatives,” said Catherine M. Sharkey, a law professor at New York University.

Business groups generally say there should be a national standard rather than a patchwork of state and local laws. But conservatives committed to federalism say that states have an independent role in regulating products and practices that could harm their residents.

The strange bedfellows quality of the issue, known as pre-emption, is illustrated by a brief filed in Bruesewitz v. Wyeth, No. 09-152, on behalf of Kenneth W. Starr and Erwin Chemerinsky. Mr. Starr, a former appeals court judge and independent counsel in the Whitewater investigation during the Clinton administration, is a leading conservative. Mr. Chemerinsky, the dean of the law school at the University of California, Irvine, is a prominent liberal.

But they agreed that the parents of a girl who say was injured by a vaccine should be able to sue its manufacturer under Pennsylvania law, notwithstanding a federal law that protects vaccine makers. The Obama administration, on the other hand, filed a brief supporting the manufacturer, saying a federal compensation system displaced state law.

In a second pre-emption case, involving seat belts, Williamson v. Mazda, No. 08-1314, the administration is on the other side of the question. In that case, the Justice Department has filed a brief supporting the estate of a woman killed in a car accident.

The car, which met federal safety standards, had shoulder and lap belts for some seats but only a lap belt in the seat occupied by the woman, Thanh Williamson. The federal government argued that Ms. Williamson’s family should be able to sue under state law because federal standards set a floor but not a ceiling on safety and that states are free to require more stringent standards.
69 2010-10-03 Emily Joanne Schnure and Eric Douglas Bratten were married Friday evening at the Church of the Blessed Sacrament in New York. Msgr. Robert B. O’Connor, the church’s pastor, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Bratten, 31, is the director of corporate and foundation fund-raising of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, in New York. She graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

She is a daughter of Darlene R. Schnure of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., and Donald A. Schnure of Lewisburg, Pa. Her father retired as the general manager of project finance for PSEG Global, the utility company. He worked in Newark. From 1994 to 1997, her mother was a Woodcliff Lake councilwoman, and from 2000 to 2003, she was the borough clerk.

Mr. Bratten, 35, is an advertising manager for The New York Times. He graduated from St. Vincent College and received an M.B.A. from American International College.

He is a son of Susan E. Bratten and Carl R. Bratten of Staatsburg, N.Y. The bridegroom’s mother retired as an English teacher at Franklin D. Roosevelt High School in Hyde Park, N.Y. His father retired as a computer programmer and analyst in the systems division of I.B.M. in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
70 2010-10-03 Michele Lee Wiles and James Renwick McCullough were married Saturday at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York. The Rev. Dr. Fred R. Anderson, the pastor of the church, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 30, is keeping her name professionally. She is a principal ballerina with American Ballet Theater, which is based in New York. She is to be one of three honorees during the Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York’s Arts and Letters annual auction and reception, at which she will also perform, on Oct. 25 at Lincoln Center’s Frederick P. Rose Hall. She is to perform the principal female role in “Theme and Variations” in Havana on Nov. 3. In June, she played the role of Odette/Odile in “Swan Lake” at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. The bride joined the dance company in 1998 and was promoted to soloist in 2000 and to principal dancer in 2005.

She is the daughter of Janet Lee Wiles and Laurence James Wiles of Pasadena, Md. The bride’s father owns a home-improvement construction company bearing his name in Pasadena. Her mother is a freelance makeup artist with Lancôme.

The bridegroom, 42, is a founder and the chief executive of Exosome Diagnostics, a biotechnology company with offices and laboratories in New York and Munich. He graduated from Boston University and received an M.B.A. from Columbia. He is a member of the board of Youth America Grand Prix, a student ballet scholarship competition, which is based in New York.

He is the son of Barbara S. McCullough and Dr. William Boyd McCullough of Madison, Conn. The bridegroom’s father, a general surgeon, retired as a partner in Surgical Associates of New Haven. He also retired as an associate clinical professor of surgery at Yale University School of Medicine.
71 2010-10-03 FOR as long as he’s been in music, Mark Ronson has had magnetic taste. Mr. Ronson, son of the socialite Ann Dexter-Jones and stepson of the Foreigner guitarist Mick Jones, was raised in London and New York, where he began as a scenester D.J., playing parties, modeling and hanging with the likes of Jay-Z.

He started a record label and segued into producing, most famously for Amy Winehouse and Lily Allen, coining a sound that blended old-school funk, contemporary hip-hop and retro Brit-pop. Then he put out his own albums; for his latest, “Record Collection,” just out from RCA, Mr. Ronson wrangled collaborators like Ghostface Killah and Simon Le Bon of Duran Duran, as well as lesser-known indie singers like Jonathan Pierce of the Drums.

For this act, billed as Mark Ronson & the Business Intl., Mr. Ronson wrote his own material for the first time; on tour he’s playing keyboards and guitar. He sings too, but by his own admission his voice is less valuable than his aesthetic, which now leans 1980s synthy but is stuffed with a music nerd’s panoply of references, from Arcade Fire to the Association. After dropping $100 on seven CDs, including one by the English band Mystery Jets and an Afro-beat compilation, Mr. Ronson, 35, spoke with Melena Ryzik recently in the back of Other Music, the East Village record store, about what else he’s obsessing over.

Q: Do you shop here normally?

A: I used to come here religiously on the way to my East Village Radio show on a Friday night. Even in the iTunes era, I still like the physical things — if I have the choice I’d still buy the CD. I love this shop; it’s just well curated. I like placards.

Q: Is this where you find new music?

A: I try and really keep on top of what’s going on. Not in a kind of like vampiric, “I want to know what the kids are doing so I can seem relevant” way, but because I like it. I admit to going to cool Web sites and reading magazines, but most of the time it’s from a friend or another D.J.

Q: Do you do everything with music on?

A: Not really. I can’t read with music on, I can’t go to sleep with music on. I can’t really do anything else when music is on but listen to it because it just overtakes everything and I start nerding out incredibly and trying to figure out how some snare sound was made.

Q: So do you like unpacking more obscure stuff, like “Dazzle Ships” by Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark? It wasn’t the hit of 1983 or anything.
72 2010-10-03 The racket made by buyers and sellers, often shouting orders to colleagues hanging out of windows, brought repeated attempts to have the Curb shut down. By about 1910 an informal group, the Curb Association, had begun to weed out the undesirables, deciding that a move indoors was the only way. Thus Mr. Hill wrote in 1920 that the Curb “is getting measured for a frock coat, and is contemplating a silk hat.”

A group of Curb regulars formed a real estate company and hired the architects Starrett & Van Vleck to design an exchange building, which opened in 1921 on Trinity Place, reaching back to Greenwich Street. Severe and classical, it might have been an opera house or a public library.

In 1931, as the New York Curb Exchange, the group rebuilt the Trinity Place side to more or less its present appearance. But it neglected to redo the Greenwich Street front, which still carries the old legend, New York Curb Market. In 1953 the Curb, long off the street, changed its name to the American Stock Exchange; it was acquired in 2008 by NYSE Amex Equities, a successor to the New York Stock Exchange.

The Curb building has been empty for some time, and its future is not clear.

Q I went to the old Public School 6, at Madison and 85th, and we used to go to the Trans-Lux Theater across the street. Is there a photograph of it? ... Jeannie Kligman, Rye Brook, N.Y.

A Reproduced here is a photograph of the theater from 1937, showing the Tennessee marble facade and stainless steel trim.

The building was designed by the theater architect Thomas Lamb in a severe moderne style. According to Warren G. Harris, the theater historian, the 85th Street Trans-Lux opened on Nov. 1, 1937, with 586 seats. The small auditorium was typical of the Trans-Lux operation, offering short subjects and newsreels like “The March of Time.”

The Trans-Lux was a significant element in a little urban scrapbook of random architecture. On one side of it was an 1892 apartment house designed by John H. Duncan, matched to a row of houses stretching down to the 84th Street corner. In 1929 the architect Frank S. Parker remodeled the front and installed oval show windows on the second floor, just visible in the photograph.

On the other side, at the corner, was a picturesque little commercial building of an unknown date, gray stucco with a pink Spanish tile roof, that in the 1960s was a luncheonette with streamlined modeling and glowing neon.

Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who lived around the corner from the Trans-Lux at 1040 Fifth Avenue, used to catch a movie there from time to time, according to Bob Maar, who posted about the theater on the Web site cinematreasures.org in 2005. Mr. Maar, for years the general manager of the Trans-Lux Corporation, said Mrs. Onassis would call and he would let her in through a side door. She lived in the Fifth Avenue apartment from 1964 until her death in 1994.

In a 1973 article in The Times, Mr. Maar declined to comment on a protest staged by eight children who were outraged by the substitution of the X-rated “Deep Throat” for the traditional Saturday kiddie matinee.

In 1980, when the developer John Avlon was assembling the 85th Street corner site for demolition, Mr. Maar told The Times that the Trans-Lux was “one of our little dollhouses.” It was torn down within a few years for the apartment house at 30 East 85th Street.
73 2010-10-03 I was pretty sure I would marry her, just not anytime soon. I also assumed — taking my cues from Hemingway, Maugham and Fitzgerald — that I had years of globetrotting to do before I’d consider settling down with anyone.

The next summer she and I worked in California. On weekends we’d cruise to the Henry Miller Library, an oceanside hangout named after the footloose novelist. It was fun to gaze at the Pacific and quote him to each other.

My own travels would begin to feel Milleresque: That fall I went to Buenos Aires; the following spring, I volunteered on a coffee farm in Mexico; that summer my girlfriend and I traveled to Montana, where I had landed a job baking pies at a roadside cafe.

Thinking of Hemingway’s Ketchum, Idaho, I had looked for a beautiful place where I could write and fish. The cafe owners said they also had work for my girlfriend — they needed line cooks.

In Montana, we were happy living under big skies, among friendly strangers and away from the East Coast. But our cabin was cramped and mouse-infested, and my girlfriend — a vegetarian — quickly tired of grilling burgers.

We quit after six weeks and headed east in her car. The ride felt like a defeat. I broke off the relationship because I was restless. Stop.

More than a year passed before we met for pizza on a dreary November afternoon in Boston. I had come down for the weekend from Vermont, where I was starting to write for a newspaper, to attend a journalism conference.

She was thinking of applying to law school; I wanted to go abroad again. There was no spark between us, but I attributed that to bad timing, figuring we would eventually rekindle our romance in a different place and context. The fact that I didn’t know where or how seemed kind of exciting.

Three springs later, I quit my newspaper job and spent the summer wandering around China and Southeast Asia. I settled in Hanoi, Vietnam, partly because its sidewalk cafes, French-designed boulevards and bustling expat social scene reminded me of books I had read about postwar Europe.

I spent the fall and winter drinking coffee, writing travel stories, scratching away at a novel and dating women from other countries. Soon I would be learning the ropes at a European news agency, playing tennis with diplomats and feeling expatriated in a good, adventurous, Hemingway sort of way.

But I still thought fondly of my first love. From what she’d told me over the phone before I left the United States, I knew she had started law school. I resisted that plotline: I sensed that someday she would decide to come find me.

I hadn’t seen her in three years. Two months after my 26th birthday, I mailed her a letter: Living abroad was fun, I wrote, but I missed her, and I wanted to see her the next time I came home to visit.

She replied via e-mail that she couldn’t see me: she had a boyfriend, and she was happy.

Ouch. I hadn’t been pining for her per se, but I was upset that she didn’t seem to need to see me in the same way I felt I needed to see her. Also: what boyfriend? I had assumed that, like me, she had been drifting through lovers as one floats among so many ocean swells.

Then she e-mailed to say that she was in Washington, D.C. — Did I want to meet up?

I did. A few weeks later, I hoisted my backpack, hailed a motorbike taxi outside my apartment and began a five-week odyssey of work and travel that would take me from Hanoi to Moscow to Paris to Reykjavik to New York. Along the way I strolled the Luxembourg Gardens, ate crepes by the Seine, reported a story from Rouen, slept in departure lounges and on friends’ couches, rode Amtrak to Vermont, paddled a canoe across an Adirondack lake and caught a train back to the city, where in Chinatown I boarded a southbound bus.

The next day, a sweltering Wednesday, I finally arrived at my destination: the entrance of a Washington Metro station, where my high school sweetheart, in a black skirt and silver blouse, looked more beautiful than I remembered. We ducked into a Mexican restaurant and ordered beers to steady our trembling hands.

She said she had been dating the same guy for three years. I had met him once at a party but I wouldn’t remember. Anyway, now they were living together. She liked law school and had never felt so settled — in a good way.

My throat crackled. I had been kidding myself assuming that I would marry this woman: We had each followed roads that the other had no interest in taking, and now she was in love with someone else.

Still: She was looking at me so prettily over the guacamole that I felt like whisking her away. Dearest Brett: Let’s start over together in Mexico City. Jake.

“Let’s have another drink,” I said.

We split the bill — it was almost half a month’s rent in Hanoi — and found a table at a high-ceilinged German brewpub on the next block. The lighting was dimmer there. Loosening up under the alcohol, I said the kind of playful, witty things I knew would make her smile.

Laughing, she said she wanted to hear more about my expat life. “A wire service in Southeast Asia?” I recall her saying. “I imagine you wearing one of those silly reporter hats with the wrap-around brim.”

We left the bar and walked toward the Metro. She pointed out that the station was closing in five minutes. She wasn’t inviting me to come home with her. She joked that she would be sure to send me one of those silly — —

When she noticed that I was crying, she hugged me as one holds a child who has scraped a knee. I held her hands and realized that the next time I saw her — if I ever were to see her again — she would probably be wearing a ring. She might even be a mother.

I dried my eyes on my T-shirt. A janitor was cleaning up. Otherwise we were alone. I scratched my sandals against the pavement. Perhaps I wanted to keep standing there because I had been traveling too much. Or maybe I sensed that I wouldn’t be back. Two or three minutes passed.

FOR the first half of my 20s, the Rest of My Life had appeared to wait patiently. And time, like a gift certificate, seemed like something I could hold on to and cash in later. But that night I felt as if the rest of my life was already upon me. Time was short, and I couldn’t think of anything to look forward to.

I grasped for something winning to say. Nothing came. I was drunk. She walked into the station and didn’t look back.

For a dizzy moment I considered chasing her down that escalator. Dearest Brett: Am lonely without you. Stop. Come to Hanoi. Mike.

The escalator stopped and the trains left. I walked on. I suppose I had my own connections to make.
74 2010-10-03 Patrizia Moroso is the creative director of Moroso, the 58-year-old company in Udine, Italy, that is one of the last remaining family-owned furniture manufacturers in a country that was once famous for them. A petite, intense figure — a kind of den mother in Issey Miyake — who loves to nurture new talent, she helped propel designers from Ron Arad and Massimo Iosa Ghini to Tord Boontje and Tokujin Yoshioka onto the global stage by commissioning envelope-pushing chairs, sofas and tables from them.

Patricia Urquiola is a vivacious Spanish architect and designer whose rapid-fire conversation includes multilingual superlatives like “super-carino” (“super-cute”) and “molto timeless.” And thanks to her work for furniture companies like Moroso, Kartell and B&B Italia, Urquiola, whose nine-year-old studio is based in Milan, has rocketed to superstardom in the last few years. Her recent projects include bathtubs for Axor, hotels for the W and Mandarin Oriental chains, a new store for H&M that opens in London next month and sets for a production of Monteverdi’s opera “L’Incoronazione di Poppea” in her hometown of Oviedo, Spain.

Moroso and Urquiola are both smart, opinionated, strong-willed women. So what happened when the former commissioned the latter to design a house? The result is a surprisingly serene and airy structure with colorful, welcoming interiors. On the outside, cedar siding and deep red trim make the 10,000-square-foot structure almost disappear into its heavily wooded setting; on the inside, ample windows let nature into the sheltering spaces. What is more, the house is environmentally conscious, with thick, ventilated and cork-insulated walls, solar panels for heating and hot water, and radiant-heated floors, as well as a large cistern for watering the plants, and outdoor pavers made from recycled steel waste.

“The first time I came here, it was spring,” Moroso said of her initial visit to the site. Having lived for a long time in an old house in the center of Udine, a city of about 100,000 in northeast Italy, Moroso decided that she wanted a change of domestic scenery for herself, her husband, Abdou Salam Gaye, and their three children. One day she noticed “a sort of wild garden” on a secluded street. It happened to be for sale, and — even better — it bordered public parkland that could never be developed. “I thought it was an earthly paradise,” Moroso recalled. Her husband agreed, and Patrizia called Patricia. “I liked her product design,” Moroso explained, “and she’s a woman. I thought I could talk to her about my ideas.” Urquiola designed the house in collaboration with the Milan architect Martino Berghinz, with whom she worked from 2001 to 2008. (Urquiola’s business partner is now Alberto Zontone, who is also her companion.)

“She’s a big bohemian,” Urquiola said of her client, who studied art before joining the family business nearly three decades ago. The house was thought of “from the inside out,” to accommodate the family’s busy social life. In Gaye’s native Senegal, entertaining groups of extended family and friends is common, so the house’s first floor contains its more public spaces: a catering kitchen, guest room, hammam and indoor pool; a playroom for the children; and two seating areas — one, with Urquiola-designed upholstered furniture and contemporary Iranian rugs, that opens onto a terrace, and the other a conversation pit that Moroso calls “our African place,” for eating and listening to music.

Upstairs are the family quarters — a smaller living room, a dining room and much smaller kitchen, and bedrooms. Urquiola said of the arrangement, “The house is about how to create an Italian-Senegalese landscape.” Of its formal language, she added: “The house has a kind of severity. So you can put a lot of things in it.”

Indeed, the interiors are a portrait in restrained clutter: artful groupings of tables and stools, sofas and chairs, pillows, vases and bowls. The art includes a giant light box by Fathi Hassan and an oversize photograph by Boubacar Touré Mandémory — two contemporary artists who were featured in Moroso’s influential “M’Afrique” exhibition during the 2009 Milan furniture fair — as well as boldly colored canvases by Gaye, who, in addition to painting, oversees the production of the M’Afrique furniture collection.

Some of the furniture is one of a kind, like the painted metal chairs by Ron Arad, but there are Moroso prototypes, too, like the Rift sofa by Urquiola covered in African fabric, which sprawls in the downstairs sitting room. Some pieces are simply rejects, like the Arad-designed plastic Ripple chairs on the terrace. Their colors, muddled in the molding process, made them even more appealing to Moroso. “I like the ‘strange’ version,” she explained, “the mistakes from the factory, the unique pieces made by the industrial process.” Her house, she said, is “sort of a testing place for me,” and “an extension of what I do.”
75 2010-10-03 Melissa Blair Rothberg, the daughter of Katherina B. Rothberg and James A. Rothberg of Nashville, was married Saturday evening to Ben Goldberger, a son of Susan L. Solomon and Paul Goldberger of New York. Rabbi Kenneth A. Kanter officiated at a 200-acre farm in Kingston Springs, Tenn., that is owned by friends of the bride’s family.

The bride and bridegroom met at Kenyon College, from which they graduated.

The bride, 29, is a public policy consultant in Chicago for Mathematica Policy Research, a Princeton-based consultancy; she is coordinating an evaluation of approaches aimed at preventing adolescent pregnancies. She received a master’s degree in political science from the University of Chicago.

Her father is a partner in Fridrich, Pinson & Rothberg in Nashville, an agency specializing in property and commercial insurance. Her mother is a data coordinator for the Center for Patient and Professional Advocacy at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, also in Nashville.

The bridegroom, 27, is a staff writer and the editor of the Web site of the Chicago News Cooperative, which produces public-interest journalism that focuses on Chicago and the surrounding area. Twice a week the organization also produces pages of local news that are published in copies of The New York Times distributed there.

His mother is a founder and the chief executive of the New York Stem Cell Foundation, a research institute. His father is the architecture critic of The New Yorker magazine and the author of several books on architecture. He won the Pulitzer Prize in 1984 for the architecture criticism he produced for The New York Times, and now holds the Joseph Urban Chair of Design and Architecture at the New School in New York.
76 2010-10-03 Emily Stanton Curry, a daughter of Helen P. Curry and Robert V. K. Curry of New Canaan, Conn., was married Saturday to Christopher Joseph Schlosser, the son of Susan M. Schlosser and R. Joseph Schlosser of Chappaqua, N.Y. The Rev. Judith M. Joyce, a minister affiliated with the Sanctuary of the Beloved, an interfaith religious organization, performed the ceremony at the Talmadge Hill Community Church in Darien, Conn.

The bride, 29, and the bridegroom, 30, met at Columbia, from which they each received an M.B.A.

Mrs. Schlosser is a strategy and operations consultant in New York, for financial services companies at A. T. Kearney, a management consultancy. She graduated cum laude from Bucknell.

Mr. Schlosser works in New York for Major League Soccer. He is the director of digital strategy, overseeing the league’s Web sites and mobile applications. He graduated from Colby College.
77 2010-10-03 McCARTAN--Edward F. On September 25, 2010. Retired Naval Commander, Editor and Editorial Consultant. Survived by his wife Rita, daughters Ann and Marty, and his sister Freddie. In Accordance with his wishes burial was at Sea. Donations to Smile Tr...
78 2010-10-04 Jeff Wilpon said the Mets will have good news for fans regarding ticket prices in 2011....
79 2010-10-04 Verizon acknowledges its $2 accidental-key-press problem on mobile phones - the same problem it denied last December....
80 2010-10-04 Verizon customers who suspect they are due credit due to erroneous data charges, should expect a credit or a check in October or November, said the company....
81 2010-10-04 NYU stages Tony Kushner play "Henry Box Brown" that had gone unproduced...
82 2010-10-04 When candidates face off on a stage, the resulting political theater can cement a contest or sharply alter its direction....
83 2010-10-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
84 2010-10-04 The typical resident of Westchester County, N.Y., pays more in property taxes on a home than the typical resident of any other major American county, according to a new analysis of Census data from the Tax Foundation....
85 2010-10-04 Will it be someone they know - say, Bobby Valentine, who has never been a general manager but probably has the acumen to do the job, or Jerry Dipoto, who was once a relief pitcher on the Mets and most recently was Arizona's interim general manager...
86 2010-10-04 Checking in on city businesses struggling to survive....
87 2010-10-04 The fifth season picks up steam with family turmoil, more body parts and suspicion in the air....
88 2010-10-04 Scenes from the Paris Fashion Week photo diary of Alexandra Catiere....
89 2010-10-04 Oliver Strand updates his free Times iPhone app....
90 2010-10-04 The News of Hockey for Monday, Oct. 4....
91 2010-10-04 British banks may need another state bailout next year and their borrowing requirements could hit £25 billion ($39.5 billion) a month, a research organization said, although the British finance minister dismissed any such scenario....
92 2010-10-04 The American International Group was forced to lower its valuation for the initial public offering of its Asian unit in order to secure a $1 billion cornerstone investment from the Kuwait Investment Authority, The Financial Times reported....
93 2010-10-04 LightSquared, the wireless broadband and satellite network, said Sunday that it had closed on $850 million of debt in the opening round of a syndicated secured credit facility. The company was advised by UBS on the matter....
94 2010-10-04 The Treasury’s schedule of financing this week includes Monday’s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.

At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.15 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.14 percent.

The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
95 2010-10-04 In July, Britain sent a large trade delegation that included Prime Minister David Cameron, and just last week Canada announced it would set up a chief executive forum with India and hoped to triple bilateral trade to $15 billion by 2015. Australia is pushing hard for a free-trade agreement with India, and New Zealand has secured one.

The games are the first time that India has hosted a truly global athletic competition. In fact it is the first time in decades — since the Asian Games in the early 1980s — that India has held any major multinational sports event.

Despite photos of filthy accommodations for athletes, a collapsing footbridge, a tourist shooting and allegations of corruption, not a single one of the 54 participating countries and 71 teams has backed out of India’s Commonwealth Games. India, like other emerging economic powers including China and Brazil, has become too important on the world stage, analysts say.

“Nothing will progress without the cooperation of China, India and Brazil,” said John Lee, foreign policy fellow at the Center for Independent Studies in Sydney.

Emerging markets are expected to make up just over 30 percent of the world’s gross domestic product this year, according to the International Monetary Fund figures, double their contribution in 1985. And partly because of the recession that was touched off by banks in the developed world, countries like India and China will contribute most of the global economy’s growth this year.

Emerging market countries are also increasingly hosting international sporting events, and, as developed nations are finding, they are doing things in their own way — whether it is the eerie precision of the Beijing Olympics, the glitz of South Africa’s World Cup or the chaos of India.

While developed nations seem to recognize the need to tap into India’s fast-growing economy, it still seems to be a tough transition for some to view India as a grown-up power to reckon with.

“I would hope that at the end of all of this India would have learned a great lesson,” the Commonwealth Games Federation’s president, Mike Fennell, said last week. In the past, such a remark might have been attacked as patronizing, or worse, by many of India’s top leaders and thinkers.

But in today’s India, where the number of billionaires grew by 50 percent last year — to 69 people, according to the latest Forbes list — no one in the government even seemed to notice. Rather than expressing remorse, Indian officials have started to make remarks seeming to ask what all the fuss was about in the first place.

“Anywhere, where international events take place, work continues till the very last minute,” Sheila Dikshit, Delhi’s chief minister, said last week.

Still, organization of sporting events and parades can be overrated as a measure of economic prowess, said Mr. Lee of the Center for Independent Studies.

“North Korea has great military parades with 200,000 people, but no one looks to them” to predict the future, Mr. Lee said.
96 2010-10-04 SPEAKING OF SPEAKERS An event billed as a leadership breakfast featured two figures at different points in their leadership careers: one who just announced he was giving up power and the other who is fighting to keep it.

The one who is leaving is Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, who disclosed on Sept. 24 that he would step down after Comcast completes its takeover of NBC Universal. The other is Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic representative from California who is hoping to remain speaker of the House after the midterm elections on Nov. 2.

Mr. Zucker interviewed Ms. Pelosi at the start of the breakfast, on Tuesday, sponsored by the women and lifestyle entertainment networks unit of NBC Universal. That Mr. Zucker is, in the parlance of politics, a lame duck was not mentioned during the lively give-and-take between the two.

Mr. Zucker started by asking the speaker whether she would still be in that post after Election Day. “I fully expect to,” Ms. Pelosi replied, saying voters must choose between a return “to the failed policies of before” and a better future.

There has been speculation that Mr. Zucker might seek a career in politics. He was asked after the breakfast whether he had sought tips from Ms. Pelosi.

“No, no, no, no,” he replied, laughing, then repeated the word six more times for emphasis and added, “Better make sure you get that right.”

THIRTY DAYS HATH ... The official program for Advertising Week 2010, which weighed in at 144 pages, listed the final day’s activities as taking place on “Friday, Sept. 31.”

BORROWED INTEREST Ads often use celebrities to draw attention. So, too, did several events during the week in addition to the Pelosi breakfast.

Rod R. Blagojevich, the former Illinois governor who was convicted of lying to federal agents, spoke at a “Trust Forum” on Tuesday, telling another familiar face, Chris Cuomo of ABC News, “I don’t see myself as a product, I see myself as a guy who’s been accused of something he didn’t do.”

“You guys consider it branding,” he added. “I consider it one person trying to get the truth out.”

Anderson Cooper of CNN moderated a panel on Wednesday about public service campaigns, co-sponsored by the Advertising Council and Google. He began by donning a pair of glasses, explaining, “I just turned 43, and my eyes are shot.”

Mike Rowe of the Discovery Channel series “Dirty Jobs” was the star of a panel on Tuesday about “celebrity branding,” during which he discussed his endorsements of brands like Caterpillar, Ford and Lee.

Lee Jeans, part of the VF Corporation, plans to test a line of work apparel to be named Mike Rowe Wear by Lee, said Liz Cahill, vice president for marketing, who joined him on the panel.

‘MAD’ ABOUT THE SHOW The AMC series “Mad Men,” about advertising in the 1960s, was a constant presence during the week — no surprise considering its popularity among industry executives. During several panels, senior agency executives discussed the differences between then and now.

Bryan Batt, who portrays the gay art director Salvatore Romano, was a guest at the presentation on Wednesday of the 2010 Glaad Media Awards in Advertising, sponsored by the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation.

And the Lincoln division of Ford Motor announced during Advertising Week that it had hired John Slattery, who plays Roger Sterling on “Mad Men,” to be its endorser for the 2011 model year. Mr. Slattery will initially appear in three commercials for cars like the Lincoln MKX and MKZ hybrid.

DUEL IN THE SQUARE On Tuesday, Google revealed its seven predictions about online display advertising in 2015 at the Interactive Advertising Bureau’s Mixx conference. The next day, the group Consumer Watchdog placed a digital ad in Times Square that called Google “chicken” for not accepting invitations to debate issues about the online privacy of consumers. The week before Advertising Week, Google erected a billboard in Times Square, 35 feet wide and 13 feet tall, as part of a campaign to encourage marketers to buy display ads on Google Web sites.

... THE BAD AND THE UGLY To capitalize on the interest in advertising during Advertising Week, Consumerist.com, part of Consumers Union, sent reporters on Wednesday the results of a vote by its readers to choose the “worst ad in America.” The winner, or loser, depending on one’s perspective, was a campaign for Staples that features a man shouting, “Wow, that’s a low price!”

‘I WANT MY VOTE’ One of the mainstays of Advertising Week since the first, in 2004, was the announcement of the ad characters and slogans chosen by consumers to join a “Walk of Fame” on Madison Avenue. This year, the week was used to open the voting, at advertisingweek.com, rather than to disclose the results; the 2010 inductees will be announced later in October.

Among the 26 nominated characters are the Jolly Green Giant, Mr. Clean, Smokey Bear and the Vlasic stork. Among the 28 nominated slogans are “I love New York,” “I want my MTV,” “Got milk?” and “Time to make the doughnuts,” for Dunkin’ Donuts.
97 2010-10-04 The rise in premiums for individual health insurance policies is actually an argument for the health care reform that Congress passed this year. As you note, the recession has led many now-healthy individuals to drop coverage, leaving the burden on those who have the foresight to maintain insurance or need it to pay their medical expenses.

That is exactly why the reform includes a requirement that almost all Americans must have coverage: to spread the risks, and the costs, across the population.
98 2010-10-04 The United States won the women’s world championships Sunday, getting 18 points from Angel McCoughtry in an 89-69 victory over the host Czech Republic in Karlovy Vary. Diana Taurasi added 16 points and Sue Bird had 11 for the Americans, who have won the world championships eight times.

Bird, Taurasi and Tamika Catchings were on the United States team that finished a disappointing third in the 2006 worlds. The Czechs were spurred on by a capacity crowd of 6,024, which included their president, Vaclav Klaus.

¶Bulls forward Carlos Boozer, one of Chicago’s top off-season acquisitions, broke a bone in his right hand after tripping over a bag at his home Saturday and could be out two months. The team said Boozer, acquired from the Utah Jazz in a sign-and-trade deal, would have surgery Tuesday. boozer
99 2010-10-04 TEHRAN — Cultural officials have lifted a ban on film production by Asghar Farhadi, an award-winning director, that was imposed after he made public remarks supporting opposition filmmakers last month.

The Ministry of Islamic Culture and Guidance said it lifted the ban last week after the director apologized.

“Authorization to continue making the film by Farhadi has been issued,” the ministry said in a statement reported Saturday by the ILNA news agency. The film in reference was Mr. Farhadi’s latest project, “Separation of Nader and Simin,” about a couple getting a divorce.

It was unclear precisely how Mr. Farhadi had apologized. He had previously said his remarks had been misconstrued.

The ban laid bare the deep divisions between Iranian artists and the government in the aftermath of the disputed June 2009 presidential election and the political crackdown that followed.

Mr. Farhadi won the Silver Bear for best director in Berlin last year for “About Elly,” a film that had languished for months in the hands of Iran’s censors before gaining permission to be screened last summer. But he aroused the ire of cultural officials and hard-liners during an acceptance speech after being named best director at an award ceremony in September organized by Iran’s House of Cinema, a guild of filmmakers.
100 2010-10-04 Debate rages over whether the uprising — which seemed to crystallize as a protest against a law that would reduce benefits, like year-end bonuses, for the security forces — was intended to oust Mr. Correa. Beyond that, some here are questioning whether Mr. Correa augmented the tension by wading into the protesting scrum and, at one point, challenging the officers to kill him. Regardless, his daring action seems to have bolstered his popularity.

In an interview here on Sunday, Doris Soliz, a top aide to Mr. Correa and his policy minister, said the uprising was “clearly a coup attempt.” Ms. Soliz said that intercepted communications from within the police force had indicated in recent weeks that destabilization efforts were being planned and that the protests offered the spark to put them in motion.

“We awoke with all the barracks taken over by the police and various airports in the country shut down,” she said.

“This was something that went beyond a mere protest over salaries into the realm of destabilizing the system and attempting to assassinate the president,” she added. “But it was the president’s unexpected move of going to the barracks and confronting them that thwarted this project.”

Others here beg to differ, pointing out that the high command of the armed forces did not break with Mr. Correa, even after top generals had suggested that he should consider revising the austerity law. “At no time did Correa lose control of the government, nor did anyone attempt to succeed him,” said César Montúfar, a prominent opposition legislator.

While Mr. Correa emerged politically strengthened, Ms. Soliz said the government would consider revising the austerity law. And despite the polarization that persists in the country, prominent opposition leaders like Jaime Nebot, the mayor of Guayaquil, supported the government as the chaotic events unfolded Thursday.

Still, the fog of that day’s events makes various interpretations possible. Gustavo Larrea, a former security minister under Mr. Correa, said the uprising could be called an attempted coup because those involved tried at one point to kill the president and “interrupt the rule of law.”

“But the president’s own temperament is partly responsible for this situation,” Mr. Larrea said. “Even after being gassed, he insisted on returning to the scene after his bodyguards had removed him. That error put our democracy at risk.”

Oscar Bonilla, an official in Mr. Correa’s government, accompanied the president throughout much of the day Thursday. The events included the confrontation that morning with the police officers, the president’s convalescing in the police hospital after being tear-gassed and pelted with water and the tense moments leading up to the rescue. Mr. Bonilla said that the belligerence of the rebellious policemen made a smooth exit impossible.

“Some of the police were drunk, and many were armed,” Mr. Bonilla said in an interview. “They prevented a helicopter from landing and quickly succeeded in blocking possible escape routes. We felt trapped inside the hospital and threatened by the men outside.”

What is more, police officers near the hospital grounds clashed with supporters of Mr. Correa who congregated nearby, beating some with batons and lobbing tear-gas canisters in their direction. At one point amid the chaos outside, the protesting police wounded Foreign Minister Ricardo Patiño as he left the hospital until his head was bleeding.

As night descended on Quito, Mr. Correa and his aides weighed their options and decided on a rescue by special forces. Bullets were flying overhead, presumably from police sharpshooters, by the time the forces involved in the operation arrived at the hospital. News photographers captured images of rebellious police officers hiding amid trees.

Inside the hospital, doctors, nurses, patients and journalists lay on the floor, hoping to avoid getting shot. As Mr. Correa’s S.U.V. drove away, a volley of gunfire fell on the scene.

Television cameras captured the killing of Froilán Jiménez, 29, a uniformed member of the president’s security team who was shot as he trotted alongside the vehicle. It did not stop until it reached Carondolet Palace, where Mr. Correa delivered a resounding speech denouncing his critics.

But the bloodbath at the hospital was not over yet. Shots still rang out, according to an account by El Comercio. People outside the hospital heard shouting from the police, including “Kill the chuspangos,” a slang word used here to refer to military men, before the gunfire finally subsided.

In the days since the standoff, a sense of calm has prevailed on Quito’s streets, with soldiers enforcing a state of emergency. Lessons for Ecuador’s fragile democracy seem to be emerging, albeit haltingly.

The authorities arrested three police colonels in connection with the uprising. Then a judge ordered them freed on the condition they remain in the country and report to him every 15 days.

Others whose lives were upended pondered the reasons.

“My brother died while saving President Rafael Correa,” said Carlota Jiménez, the sister of Froilán, the president’s fallen guard. “He is a hero.”
101 2010-10-04 BAGHDAD — When Nuri Kamal al-Maliki began his bid for re-election as prime minister — exactly a year ago on Saturday — he pledged to unite a population splintered and suspicious after years of war. He has not, and while he is hardly alone in blame, the consequences could haunt Iraq for years to come.

The purging of ballot lists before the election, the contentious and inconclusive challenges to the results, and the protracted delay in forming a new government since then have all deepened the ethnic, sectarian and societal cracks in a newly democratic state as fragile as an ancient Babylonian vase.

Sunni leaders in particular are angry at the prospect that they may be disenfranchised once again.

“The past four years have been full of injustice and oppression,” Atheel al-Nujaifi, a Sunni who is governor of Nineveh Province in northern Iraq, said Sunday in Mosul.

He accused Mr. Maliki of having abused his authority by arresting opponents, pressuring the courts, and hiring and firing security forces based on sectarian identity — practices, Mr. Nujaifi said, that Mr. Maliki continued even now as a caretaker leader with no mandate or parliamentary oversight. “Mr. Maliki’s continuation as prime minister will create a dictatorship,” he warned.

Even plans to conduct a census this month ran afoul of these divisions. On Sunday, Mr. Maliki’s caretaker government postponed the census — the first in years — until December after angry protests that an accurate count of the country’s population would rub raw the divides, especially in regions like Kirkuk and Nineveh, with myriad peoples and territorial disputes.

The challenge now is for Mr. Maliki to overcome the divisions and suspicions — among Sunnis, above all — that have dogged Iraq since its creation in 1920 under British rule, cobbled together out of disparate Ottoman provinces. Even though Mr. Maliki is all but assured of leading the next government, it could take weeks or months more for him to persuade the Sunnis to join the government in some way.

Mr. Maliki secured the nomination for a second four-year term on Friday, but he did so with the support, save one, of only fellow Shiites, in particular the followers of a radical cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, who not long ago were involved in the fighting that plunged Iraq into civil war.

Mr. Maliki, whose bloc narrowly lost the election in March to a secular and largely Sunni coalition led by Ayad Allawi, has fought so tenaciously to regain his post, and alienated so many potential allies in government, that few on Sunday said they believed his pledges, once again, to unite all Iraqis under his leadership.

Among Iraq’s Sunnis the view is acute and disturbing, given the disenfranchisement that once provided Al Qaeda and other Sunni extremist groups succor.

The electoral map of Nineveh, like that of all Iraq, traces the fault lines that divide the country and could yet sunder it, violently or otherwise.

Mr. Allawi’s alliance, Iraqiya, won an overwhelming majority of the province’s 31 seats outside the area under the control of the semiautonomous Kurdish region, which Mr. Nujaifi cannot even visit. Mr. Maliki’s State of Law coalition did not win a single seat there. The same was true in the Sunni provinces of Anbar and Salahuddin. The coalition won only one seat north of Baghdad, in Diyala. By contrast, Mr. Maliki or his main Shiite rivals won in all the provinces of the overwhelmingly Shiite south, while Mr. Allawi picked up only a handful of seats there.

Baghdad, like Kirkuk and Diyala, was split, like the neighborhoods that even now, despite improved security, are defined as either Sunni or Shiite, separated by checkpoints and blast walls that outsiders are wary to pass.

In the Sunni quarters on Sunday, despair, anger and fear prevailed. A common view blamed Iran, Iraq’s Shiite neighbor, for orchestrating Shiite dominance of a multicultural nation. Many accused Mr. Maliki of resorting to political expedience to retain power, rather than exercising national leadership.

In the Adhamiya area of Baghdad, a parking lot attendant who gave his name only as Suhaib Abu Farah, which means father of Farah, said another four years with Mr. Maliki would roil the streets. “The only choice for Iraqi men,” he said, “is either leaving Iraq or joining armed groups for money.”

The election — Iraq’s second for a new Parliament since the American invasion in 2003 — was supposed to blur the sectarian divisions that the toppling of Saddam Hussein exposed, if not erase them entirely.

To an extent, all the major parities and blocs sought to appeal to voters outside their bases, which are defined not by ideology as much as identity.

“National unity” was the theme, but when all the votes were counted — then recounted and finally certified months ago — identity triumphed. In an interview this summer, Mr. Maliki himself expressed disappointment that when it came to sectarianism, the country had returned to “square one.”

Of course, all sides blame one another for sectarianism, but the election results made it inevitable. One reason a government has not yet been formed is that Mr. Maliki had to spend the past seven months shoring up his nomination first among Shiites, overcoming a challenge from rivals for the post, including Vice President Adel Abdul Mahdi.
102 2010-10-04 Michele Ellison, the chief of the F.C.C. enforcement bureau, said in a statement that the agency was “gratified to see the repayment, but for millions of Americans it’s a day late and a $1.99 short.”

“Getting consumers repaid is just the first step; ensuring this doesn’t happen again comes next,” Ms. Ellison said.

In the last three years, the F.C.C. has received hundreds of complaints from Verizon Wireless customers who said they were charged for data use or Web access at times when their phones were not in use or when they mistakenly pushed a button that activated the phone’s Web browser.

Beginning in 2009, The New York Times and The Plain Dealer of Cleveland, among other publications, reported that customers had been complaining of the charges but had often been ignored by Verizon Wireless. On certain flip phones sold by Verizon, a directional arrow, when pushed, automatically would initiate the phone’s Web browser.

Even if customer immediately canceled the action, they were often charged $1.99 for Internet access, according to the complaints, some of which were detailed by David Pogue of The Times on his blog, Pogue’s Posts.

Customers who contacted Verizon about the charges said that the company had often refused to reverse the charges or discouraged them from blocking the data service on their phones.

Verizon maintained that it had responded appropriately. “Verizon Wireless values our customer relationships, and we always want to do the right thing for our customers,” Mary Coyne, deputy general counsel for Verizon Wireless, said in a statement. “When we identify errors, we remedy them as quickly as possible. Our goal is to maintain our customers’ trust and ensure they receive the best experience possible.”

But Verizon initially played down the issue, telling the F.C.C. in December 2009 that it did not charge customers who had inadvertently started their phone’s Web browser and immediately ended the session.

That month, the F.C.C. formally asked Verizon about news reports detailing the charges. In a letter, Kathleen Grillo, a senior vice president for federal regulatory affairs at Verizon, wrote that, “In order to protect customers from minimal, accidental usage charges, Verizon Wireless does not charge users when the browser is launched, and opens to the Verizon Wireless Mobile Web homepage.”

That statement seems to be contradicted by Verizon’s latest statement. “As we reviewed customer accounts, we discovered that over the past several years, approximately 15 million customers who did not have data plans were billed for data sessions on their phones that they did not initiate,” the company said on Sunday.

“These customers would normally have been billed at the standard rate of $1.99 per megabyte for any data they chose to access from their phones,” the statement said. “The majority of the data sessions involved minor data exchanges caused by software built into their phones; others involved accessing the Web, which should not have incurred charges. We have addressed these issues to avoid unintended data charges in the future.”

The F.C.C. began a formal investigation into the unauthorized charges in January. Formal F.C.C. investigations, in which the agency can seek sworn testimony, are usually not disclosed publicly. The F.C.C. said on Sunday that it began looking into the Verizon issue 10 months ago.

In recent weeks, the company and the commission staff have been wrangling over how long the company had been aware of the problem and whether the F.C.C. would initiate a Notice of Apparent Liability, as formal enforcement charges are known.

As an alternative to formal enforcement, the company and the F.C.C. could enter into a consent decree, in which the company would neither admit nor deny the charges, but would agree to make a voluntary payment to settle the issue.

As settlement talks proceeded last week, Verizon indicated to the F.C.C. that it expected that the total amount of the refunds that it would pay to consumer would be about $50 million, according to people close to the settlement talks.

On Sunday, Jeffrey Nelson, a spokesman for Verizon Wireless, declined to comment on whether the company could narrow the range of $30 million to $90 million in potential payments.
103 2010-10-04 “The Social Network” from Sony Pictures Entertainment opened to a strong but not stratospheric $23 million in weekend ticket sales at North American theaters. That result, while easily enough for No. 1, put the film, directed by David Fincher from a script by Aaron Sorkin, on par with recent releases like “The Town,” which opened with significantly less attention from the news media. “Even though it didn’t break any records, ‘The Social Network’ is going to maintain healthy receipts in the weeks to come,” said Phil Contrino, editor of BoxOffice.com. “The Social Network,” which received positive reviews but a slightly less rapturous response in audience exit polls, is considered an early Oscar favorite. “Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga’Hoole” (Warner Brothers) was second with $10.9 million for a new total of $30 million. “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” (20th Century Fox) was third with $10.1 million for a total of $35.9 million. “The Town” (Warner) was fourth with $10 million, bringing its total to $64.3 million. “Easy A” (Sony) rounded out the Top 5 with $7 million ($42.4 million total).
104 2010-10-04 NASHVILLE — Happy-hour beers were going for $5 at Past Perfect, a cavernous bar just off this city’s strip of honky-tonks and tourist shops when Adam Ringenberg walked in with a loaded 9-millimeter pistol in the front pocket of his gray slacks.

Mr. Ringenberg, a technology consultant, is one of the state’s nearly 300,000 handgun permit holders who have recently seen their rights greatly expanded by a new law — one of the nation’s first — that allows them to carry loaded firearms into bars and restaurants that serve alcohol.

“If someone’s sticking a gun in my face, I’m not relying on their charity to keep me alive,” said Mr. Ringenberg, 30, who said he carries the gun for personal protection when he is not at work.

Gun rights advocates like Mr. Ringenberg may applaud the new law, but many customers, waiters and restaurateurs here are dismayed by the decision.

“That’s not cool in my book,” Art Andersen, 44, said as he nursed a Coors Light at Sam’s Sports Bar and Grill near Vanderbilt University. “It opens the door to trouble. It’s giving you the right to be Wyatt Earp.”

Tennessee is one of four states, along with Arizona, Georgia and Virginia, that recently enacted laws explicitly allowing loaded guns in bars. (Eighteen other states allow weapons in restaurants that serve alcohol.) The new measures in Tennessee and the three other states come after two landmark Supreme Court rulings that citizens have an individual right — not just in connection with a well-regulated militia — to keep a loaded handgun for home defense.

Experts say these laws represent the latest wave in the country’s gun debate, as the gun lobby seeks, state by state, to expand the realm of guns in everyday life.

The rulings, which overturned handgun bans in Washington and Chicago, have strengthened the stance of gun rights advocates nationwide. More than 250 lawsuits now challenge various gun laws, and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, a Republican, called for guns to be made legal on campuses after a shooting last week at the University of Texas, Austin, arguing that armed bystanders might have stopped the gunman.

The new laws have also brought to light the status of 20 other states — New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts among them — that do not address the question, appearing by default to allow those with permits to carry guns into establishments that serve alcohol, according to the Legal Community Against Violence, a nonprofit group that promotes gun control and tracks state gun laws.

“A lot of states for a long time have not felt the need to say you could or couldn’t do it,” said Paul Helmke, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. “There weren’t as many conceal-carry permits out there, so it wasn’t really an issue.” Now, he said, “the attitude from the gun lobby is that they should be able to take their guns wherever they want. In the last year, they’re starting to move toward needing no permit at all.”

State Representative Curry Todd, a Republican who first introduced the guns-in-bars bill here, said that carrying a gun inside a tavern was never the law’s primary intention. Rather, he said, the law lets people defend themselves while walking to and from restaurants.

“Folks were being robbed, assaulted — it was becoming an issue of personal safety,” said Mr. Todd, who added that the National Rifle Association had aided his legislative efforts. “The police aren’t going to be able to protect you. They’re going to be checking out the crime scene after you and your family’s been shot or injured or assaulted or raped.”

Under Tennessee’s new law, gun permit holders are not supposed to drink alcohol while carrying their weapons. Mr. Ringenberg washed down his steak sandwich with a Coke.

But critics of the law say the provision is no guarantee of safety, pointing to a recent shooting in Virginia where a customer who had a permit to carry a concealed weapon shot himself in the leg while drinking beer at a restaurant.

“Guns and alcohol don’t mix; that’s the bottom line,” said Michael Drescher, a spokesman for Governor Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, a Democrat, who vetoed the bill but was overridden by the legislature.

The law allows restaurant and bar owners to prohibit people from carrying weapons inside their establishments by posting signs out front. But many restaurateurs are reluctant to discourage the patronage of gun owners, often saying privately that they do not allow guns but holding off on posting a sign.

“I’ve talked to a lot of restaurants, and probably 50 to 60 percent of them have no clue what’s going on,” said Ray Friedman, 51, who has created a Web site listing the firearms policies of area restaurants.

Previously, states like Tennessee did not allow its residents to carry concealed weapons unless they had a special permit from the local authorities. That began to shift in the mid-1990s, as the gun lobby pushed states to adopt policies that made permits for concealed weapons more accessible.

The new law passed with broad legislative support, despite opposition from the Nashville Chamber of Commerce and the Tennessee Hospitality Association.

So far, the law has been challenged only once. Filed by an anonymous waiter, the complaint contended that allowing guns into a tavern creates an unsafe work environment for servers. His complaint was denied by the state’s Division of Occupational Safety and Health.

“A loaded concealed weapon in a bar is a recognized hazard,” said David Randolph Smith, a lawyer who represents the waiter and is preparing to appeal the decision. “I have a right to go into a restaurant or bar and not have people armed. And of course, the waiter has a right to a safe workplace.”

Down at Bobby’s Idle Hour, however, Mike Gideon said he did not believe that guns in bars were unsafe. As he sipped a beer in the fading afternoon light, Mr. Gideon, who characterized his 19-gun collection as “serious,” said that having a few permit holders around made any public space safer and that he boycotts any business that does not allow him to carry a weapon.

“People who have gun permits have the cleanest records around,” said Mr. Gideon, 54. “The guy that’s going to do the bad thing? He’s not worried about the law at all. The ‘No Guns’ sign just says to him, ‘Hey, buddy, smooth sailing.’ ”
105 2010-10-04 The State Department travel alert issued on Sunday in response to reports of a threat by Al Qaeda was anything but precise.

Where is the threat? Europe. What is the target? Subways, railways, aircraft, ships or any “tourist infrastructure.”

What should Americans in Europe do? “Be aware of their surroundings” and “adopt appropriate safety measures to protect themselves when traveling,” the department advised.

The alert’s vagueness, issued after days of discussion inside the Obama administration, embodied the dilemma for the authorities in the United States and Europe over how to publicize a threat that intelligence analysts call credible but not specific.

The authorities do not want to be accused of hiding what they know. Nor do they want to panic the public unnecessarily.

The result in this case seemed frustrating for some travelers and counterterrorism specialists.

“My parents told me about the threat today on Skype, but I told them, ‘Why are you telling me?’ ” said Sara Popovich, 20, from Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., who is studying in London. “I’m here already, and I have to ride the Tube.”

Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism expert at Georgetown University, said the alert conveyed little useful information.

“Usually they’re at least country-specific,” Dr. Hoffman said. “This one is an entire continent. I’m not sure what it says, beyond the fact that the world’s a dangerous place, and we already knew that.”

President Obama met with his national security team on Friday night and Saturday morning, White House officials said. A White House spokesman, Nicholas S. Shapiro, said that while the State Department had decided to issue the alert, it came in response to Mr. Obama’s insistence that “we need to do everything possible to disrupt this plot and protect the American people.”

Patrick F. Kennedy, the under secretary of state for management, told reporters on Sunday that the advisory was not intended to discourage Americans from traveling, but merely to urge “common-sense precautions,” including vigilance about unattended packages and loud noises, and moving away quickly if something is “beginning to happen.”

An American counterterrorism official said Sunday that the vagueness of the alert accurately reflected analysts’ uncertainty about the imminence of an attack and the target of any plot.

“The threat to Europe is credible and of concern, but — as the general nature of the threat alert issued today suggests — the complete picture of possible terrorist plotting there hasn’t yet emerged,” said the official, who spoke about the classified intelligence on condition of anonymity.

Frank J. Cilluffo, a former Bush administration homeland security official now at George Washington University, said the State Department was wise to issue the alert. “I err on the side of sharing the information, since a vigilant citizenry can help prevent an attack,” he said.

The decision to warn travelers came as officials in Europe and the United States were assessing possible plots originating in Pakistan and North Africa, aimed at Britain, France and Germany. On Sunday, the British government raised the threat of terrorism to “high” from “general” for Britons in France and Germany.

American intelligence officials said last week that they were pursuing reports of possible attacks against European cities.

Some information about the suspected plot came from a German citizen of Afghan origin captured in Afghanistan in July. The German, Ahmed Sidiqi, 36, from Hamburg, had traveled to the Waziristan region of Pakistan and received weapons training, according to European officials.

The officials said Mr. Sidiqi told investigators he had met in Pakistan with a high-level Qaeda operative, identified as Younis al-Mauretani, who told him Osama bin Laden wanted attacks carried out in Europe.

In addition, the officials said, several British residents of Pakistani background were detained in Islamabad and Lahore in Pakistan recently and had offered similar information.

Officials in Britain, France and Germany took note of the American alert and made no objection.

A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry in France, where the Eiffel Tower was briefly evacuated in recent days, said the alert was “in line with the general recommendations we ourselves make to the French population.”

In Britain, the terrorism threat has sharpened a debate in London about whether to equip Scotland Yard with battlefield-style automatic weapons.

In a talk last month, Jonathan Evans, the director-general of MI5, the British internal security agency, warned of overstretched investigators and said there was a “serious risk of a lethal attack.”

Mr. Evans says Britain appears “increasingly to have imported from the American media the assumption that terrorism is 100 percent preventable and any incident that is not prevented is seen as a culpable government failure.” He called such an attitude “nonsensical.”

Some Americans in Europe on Sunday took the State Department alert in stride.

Rachel Swaine, 30, an administrator at Boston University, visiting Paris for the first time with her mother, Betsy, 63, of Glen Gardner, N.J., said a friend had told her of the terrorist threat.

“I honestly think that the French will not let anything happen to the Eiffel Tower,” she said.

Her mother added that she had been living near New York City on Sept. 11, 2001. “We were terrified, but we have been able to avoid attacks, and it should be the same here.”

She added: “You can’t let that ruin your life.”
106 2010-10-04 “I will keep my fingers crossed,” said Harjeet Kandhari, 41, a garment business executive with his wife and two daughters. “Let us see how this all proceeds.”

India had promised a world-class spectacle when it won the bid in 2003 to host the quadrennial competition, but until Sunday there was little reason to believe anything close to that would occur. The budget for the games has ballooned to at least $2.8 billion from an estimated $210 million, and delays and problems were so endemic that some of the 71 teams attending threatened to pull out.

“This is much better than I expected,” said Manish Jain, a 38-year-old exporter. “With all the talks of mismanagement earlier, at least you do not see that today.”

However, Indian sports fans’ frustration with their government was on display. When the Indian official in charge of the games, Suresh Kalmadi, rose to give a speech, a prolonged chorus of boos rolled through the stadium. “India is ready, ready to host the Commonwealth Games,” Mr. Kalmadi said.

But in several cases “barely ready” would have been more apt. The new metro rail station outside Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, the main site for the games, opened on Sunday. On Friday night, workers were still putting finishing touches on other facilities, including unpacking and positioning hurdles for track events.

Several top-ranked athletes — citing injuries, scheduling problems or security concerns — pulled out in advance of the competition, which begins Monday with archery and badminton. There was speculation, though, that the problem-plagued preparations could have been a factor in their decisions.

The athletes’ village had its first case of dengue fever, The Associated Press reported Sunday. But the victim, a member of India’s lawn bowling team, has been in New Delhi since March and may have gotten it from outside the village, a hospital spokesman said. Dengue had been a concern for Indian officials, partly because the quarters were built near a breeding ground for the mosquitoes that spread the disease.

Security has been in full force in New Delhi in recent days, with an estimated 100,000 police officers as well as officers from the military and private security agencies, spread around the city. Snipers were positioned on the stadium roof during the opening ceremony, and patrons had been advised to arrive two hours early so they could be searched for a long list of prohibited items, including food, umbrellas and loose change.

Some major roads have been closed and regular bus service throughout the normally traffic-choked city has been reduced to cut down on gridlock during the games, leaving many working-class people at the mercy of rickshaw drivers, who have doubled their rates.

Sunday’s audience, for the most part, seemed willing to wait until then to focus on the scores of delays and difficulties leading up to the opening ceremony.

“All the other issues of corruption and delays we can take care later,” said Dr. Vinay Aggarwal, 54, who was attending with his son. “Now I only want that the games should be a success.”
107 2010-10-05 Believe it or not, the Yankees see themselves as underdogs in the playoffs....
108 2010-10-05 Better to take your lumps and move on than dwell on the big, bad banks that allowed you to get into a financial mess....
109 2010-10-05 Craig Fritsche, who owns a building supply company in Virgina, is the small-business poster boy of the moment....
110 2010-10-05 A perspective from Brazil....
111 2010-10-05 The memoir from the son of the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy will be released next fall....
112 2010-10-05 The government settled a lawsuit with Visa and MasterCard that will allow merchants to offer consumers incentives to use certain Visas or MasterCards that cost the merchants less to accept than others....
113 2010-10-05 The Yankees announced their rotation plans for the first three games of the Yankees-Twins division series, and they do not include A.J. Burnett....
114 2010-10-05 I was not going to let my fear in Afghanistan define me for the rest of my life....
115 2010-10-05 Henry R. Kravis has pledged the largest gift in the history of Columbia Business School....
116 2010-10-05 The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County has opened its collection of 63 classic cars to the public....
117 2010-10-05 The I.R.S. is asked to investigate the tax-exempt status of a Republican-allied group tied to Karl Rove....
118 2010-10-05 Also in the Morning Buzz: Eliot Spitzer's debut as a television host, arrests in an attack at the Stonewall Inn, and other regional news....
119 2010-10-05 The new deal is critical for Univision because Televisa supplies most of its hit television shows....
120 2010-10-05 Caisse de Dépôt et Placement du Québec, Canada's biggest pension-fund manager, is looking to unload a $800 million private-equity portfolio, Dow Jones reported....
121 2010-10-05 The American International Group's Asian life insurance unit flagged a series of business risks including the collapsed bid from a British rival, Prudential, as it launched its share offering on Tuesday, Reuters said....
122 2010-10-05 Gymboree, the children's apparel retailer, has hired Goldman Sachs to begin a formal auction of the company, that is expected to fetch more than $1 billion, The New York Post said....
123 2010-10-05 Jochen Sanio, head of BaFin, has said we may be "light years" away from a policy solution to winding up failing banks -- he proposes a strategy of "bail-ins" in the mean time....
124 2010-10-05 Grupo Televisa agreed on Tuesday to invest $1.2 billion in Univision in exchange for a minimum 5 percent stake and a new content licensing agreement....
125 2010-10-05 The Italian coast guard said Monday that it had called off the search for two American balloonists, Richard Abruzzo, of Albuquerque, and Carol Rymer Davis, of Denver, who disappeared last week over the Adriatic Sea. The veteran pilots were flying in the 54th Gordon Bennett Gas Balloon Race when they lost contact Wednesday over the Adriatic Sea. Race organizers said the two plunged toward the water at 50 miles per hour and were thought to have crashed into the sea off Vieste. Search and rescue teams with the Italian coast guard, the United States Navy, Croatian coastal aircraft crews and divers have scoured the Adriatic Sea. On Monday, a robotic vehicle plunged to a depth of 656 feet to photograph the seabed where the balloon was thought to have crashed. Nothing related to the balloon or the pilots was found, according to a coast guard spokesman, who said strong sea currents can drag bodies very far away from a presumed point of impact.
126 2010-10-05 WASHINGTON — The beginning of a new term at the Supreme Court can feel like the first day of school. On Monday, when the justices returned to the bench from their summer break, everyone was checking out the new kid.

There was little else to do, as the first argument heard by Justice Elena Kagan, the court’s newest member, was a perfectly ordinary bankruptcy dispute.

Justice Kagan’s eight questions were crisp and pointed, and they indicated mastery of the difficult if mundane question before the court: May some bankrupt debtors include among their living expenses a standard monthly amount for the “ownership costs” of cars they own outright?

A credit card company, supported by the federal government, said that only people making loan or lease payments should qualify for a standard deduction of $471 a month over five years.

The distinction between leasing and owning, Justice Kagan suggested, does not always make sense.

“What would happen,” Justice Kagan asked, “if the debtor had a car that was 200,000 miles old and it was going to break down, you know, within the next five years? Would the debtor then be able to take the deduction?”
127 2010-10-05 Now, federal prosecutors in Manhattan say the statements by Mr. Ghailani and others that he made at Guantánamo “amount to a confession” of his role in the bombings plot.

But prosecutors say they do not intend to use those statements when Mr. Ghailani goes to trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan.

It will be the first civilian trial of a former Guantánamo detainee, and the challenge of trying detainees in federal court has been exemplified by the decision to forgo the use of Mr. Ghailani’s statements and the impact that could have.

In 2001, when prosecutors won four convictions in the embassy conspiracy, the government was able to tell jurors about incriminating statements made by three terrorists after their arrests; all three were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.

Prosecutors have not said why they did not seek to use Mr. Ghailani’s statements in the current trial, but there is no indication that he had a lawyer or that he waived his Miranda rights. The questioning, in the presence of a Department of Defense agent, occurred while he was in military custody and not being treated as a criminal suspect.

Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers argue that any statements he made in nearly five years of detention are tainted and inadmissible because of the coercive conditions under which he was held. Mr. Ghailani said at Guantánamo that he was kept in the dark about the plotters’ intentions.

The government is “streamlining the case to strip away those issues,” said Anthony S. Barkow, a former federal prosecutor who runs a center on criminal law at New York University School of Law. “They’re trying the case in a way that’s somewhat walled off from the controversy.”

The Ghailani case has been seen as a crucial test of President Obama’s goal of closing Guantánamo, and of trying detainees like Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in civilian court “whenever feasible,” as the president has said.

The case has taken on symbolic importance, even for victims.

“It is important that we have a trial that goes forward without evidence gathered under situations of coercion or torture,” said Susan F. Hirsch, whose husband, Abdulrahman Abdalla, was killed in the Tanzania attack.

The United States attorney’s office in Manhattan has overcome legal hurdles in bringing the case to trial.

In July, Judge Lewis A. Kaplan agreed with prosecutors that Mr. Ghailani’s long detention did not violate his constitutional right to a speedy trial. And in May, the judge ruled that allegations that Mr. Ghailani had been tortured while in C.I.A. custody, even if true, did not warrant dismissal of the charges. (He made no finding of whether torture had occurred.)

But there is little question that the government has had to make concessions by bringing the case into civilian court. For example, prosecutors have said they do not plan to tell jurors about what Mr. Ghailani allegedly did after the embassy bombings.

In his 2007 interviews at Guantánamo, he said he had later trained with Al Qaeda in Afghanistan, and also worked as a bodyguard for Osama bin Laden, according to the F.B.I. summary. While in that job, he said, he encountered operatives who would later become 9/11 hijackers, but he claimed they did not discuss “anything operational,” according to the document.

Beyond the issue of Mr. Ghailani’s statements, Judge Kaplan is considering whether prosecutors may call a crucial witness whom the government learned about through Mr. Ghailani’s interrogation while in C.I.A. custody.

The witness, Hussein Abebe, would testify that he sold Mr. Ghailani the TNT that was used in the bombing, prosecutors said.

Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers argue that Mr. Abebe’s testimony is also tainted and must be barred. Prosecutors contend Mr. Abebe’s decision to testify was voluntary, and linked only remotely to Mr. Ghailani’s interrogation.

A decision to exclude him as a witness would seem to be a major setback for the prosecution. “This is a giant witness for the government,” a prosecutor, Michael Farbiarz, has said in court.

On Friday, Mr. Farbiarz explained in court that without Mr. Abebe’s testimony about selling the TNT to Mr. Ghailani, “the government has no way of putting such evidence in front of the jury at all.”

The testimony was also crucial because the government expected the defense to argue that Mr. Ghailani was unaware that he was participating in a bombing plot, Mr. Farbiarz explained.

He said that other assistance Mr. Ghailani was accused of providing in the plot — helping to buy a truck that the suicide bomber drove and gas tanks that were used to intensify the blast — would have different meaning for jurors if they did not also learn Mr. Ghailani was buying “black-market explosives.”

“I expect the defense will say: ‘Look, he’s buying a truck with a friend; he doesn’t know what it’s going to be used for. He’s buying gas tanks, helping a friend; he doesn’t know where this is going,’ ” Mr. Farbiarz said.

The passage of 12 years since the crime occurred has had one other effect on the government’s case, court papers show. At least three of the government witnesses who testified in the 2001 trial — including the previous owner of the bomb truck, who prosecutors say established that Mr. Ghailani participated in its purchase — have died.
128 2010-10-05 The perception of Sweden’s “reputation for fairness and tolerance” has taken many hits before the election of the Sweden Democrats to Parliament and is undeserved.

In 2009, Sweden recorded its highest number of anti-Semitic incidents ever. Over the last four months, a synagogue was firebombed, a rabbi was attacked in the street, and a bomb threat was called in to a Jewish community center.

While the Sweden Democrats are clearly anti-Muslim (and should be shunned), there were fewer reported anti-Muslim incidents last year than there were anti-Semitic incidents despite the much larger Muslim community.

The Swedish Committee Against Anti-Semitism has also lamented that “prejudice against Jews is spreading under a very thin veneer” of anti-Israel activity. Riots greeted an Israeli tennis team at a Davis Cup match in Malmo, whose mayor said (on another occasion), “We accept neither Zionism nor anti-Semitism,” equating Jewish national self-determination with the oldest form of bigotry in the world.

Yes, even Sweden needs to tackle racism — in all its guises.
129 2010-10-05 “A Reminder for the F.B.I.” (editorial, Sept. 27): The report from the Justice Department’s internal watchdog confirming that the Bush-era F.B.I. engaged in improper investigative activity, spying on First Amendment-protected activity of nonviolent antiwar, environmental and animal rights groups, is disturbing, but it shouldn’t be surprising.

The F.B.I. has historically had trouble complying with reasonable limits on its investigative powers.

I was chief counsel for the Senate’s Church Committee, which exposed a host of wiretaps, bugs, break-ins and mail opening aimed at harassing civil rights, women’s liberation and antiwar groups during the course of five presidencies.

The F.B.I.’s more recent transgressions — described in last week’s report and many others — may seem less dramatic by comparison, but they are serious nonetheless: use of confidential informants without proper authorization; erroneous reports to Congress; administrative subpoenas, known as National Security Letters, issued in violation of F.B.I. policies and regulations; systemic unlawful acquisition of telephone records.

The F.B.I. needs more than a “reminder” of the threats that abuse of investigative powers pose to civil liberties. We must insist that its powers are subjected to both meaningful limits and meaningful oversight. As this latest episode shows, neither exists today.

The writer is chief counsel at the Brennan Center for Justice at N.Y.U. School of Law.
130 2010-10-05 WASHINGTON (AP) — Relatives of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks have lost a bid to get the Supreme Court to rule on whether New York City must provide a proper burial for material taken from the World Trade Center site, because it could contain the ashes of victims.

The justices declined on Monday to hear an appeal of a lower court’s ruling in a suit brought by relatives of some of the people killed when the twin towers collapsed. Lower courts dismissed the suit against the city, saying it acted responsibly in moving materials from the site in Lower Manhattan to a landfill on Staten Island and then sifting through the material for human remains.

The plaintiffs wanted the ashes buried in a cemetery after they were sifted again. None of the remains of roughly 1,100 of the people who were killed in the attacks have been found.
131 2010-10-05 But an approving Congress could remove that hurdle at a stroke, at least temporarily. That would distance the problem further from the federal budget, burying the risk in the Fed’s balance sheet — though of course it would amount to another form of money printing, as is the case with the Fed’s existing programs to buy Treasuries and mortgage bonds.

In the end, whether decades of history are overturned may depend on the breadth of state and local financial problems. A guarantee or Fed purchase program to tackle a widespread danger of default could garner political support. Conversely, if default appeared confined to one large entity like California — as was the case with New York in 1975 — the politics would probably prevent any rescue. If troubled state and municipal governments are hoping that they and their bond investors will get federal help, there is probably safety in numbers.

TPG’s investment in a $5 billion buyout of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 2004 turned out to be a turkey. The film studio’s owners are now on the verge of getting wiped out. But that isn’t stopping TPG from testing the shark-filled waters of Hollywood again.

The private equity firm said it would buy a 35 percent stake in Creative Artists Agency, the talent firm best known for representing stars like George Clooney and Julia Roberts.

At least TPG seems to be wading in to a depressed market. Studios have struggled to rustle up financing for movies, meaning fewer of them get made, actors earn less and, consequently, fees tumble for agents. Digital distribution is causing an uproar.

The upheaval has spread across the industry. William Morris and Endeavor, C.A.A.’s rivals, cobbled together a messy merger last year. That predictably prompted some valuable employees to flee. TPG seems to have tried to prevent a similar exodus at C.A.A. by locking in senior agents for five years while allowing them to cash out part of their stakes in the firm.

The upshot is that for its noncontrolling stake in C.A.A., TPG is paying about $165 million and arranging for $200 million of debt, giving the agency a valuation of around $700 million. It is also pledging cash for a jointly financed $500 million pot for future deals.

C.A.A. needed the new capital to expand. It wisely diversified into the sports business a few years ago and now represents more than 650 athletes, including the Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter. The announcement from C.A.A. and TPG didn’t even mention its Hollywood clients. But the sports arm, however promising, is expensive because of upfront payouts.

TPG may be able to help in other areas, too. International expansion and the agency’s fledgling investment banking arm will help further diversify the agency. Still, it’s difficult to see a clear path to a profitable exit for TPG in a sector where people matter more than financial engineering.

What is more, no matter how hard TPG may try to separate C.A.A. from the film and TV industries, they remain a cornerstone of the agency’s business. And outsiders who swim with the sector’s sharks all too often get eaten.
132 2010-10-05 With its banking tradition and reputation for prudence, Switzerland could also serve as an influential precedent for other governments which are rewriting their banking rules. Analysts said, however, that the proposed Swiss rules were not as strict as some in the industry had feared.

“These are at the better end of expectations and hence should be a positive catalyst for the shares,” Jon Peace, a banking analyst at Nomura Global Equity Research, said in a note Monday.

In a statement, Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, said: “The proposed measures will strengthen the stability of the financial system. They also represent an appropriate solution to the ‘too big to fail’ problem relating to the big banks without compromising their international competitiveness or that of the Swiss financial center.”

The rules would require the two big Swiss banks to hold so-called common equity, the most durable form of capital, equal to 10 percent of their risk-weighted assets, or assets whose value has been adjusted according to how risky they are. The more reserves a bank has, the more able it is to absorb losses if the value of its holdings declines or its customers cannot repay loans.

The Swiss proposals also set up sliding scales that would automatically increase the reserve requirements for banks as their assets grow or they acquire more market share.

Under the formula, Credit Suisse and UBS would be required to hold another 9 percent in reserves, for a total of 19 percent. But the additional 9 percent could be in the form of so-called contingent convertible bonds: debt that banks issue that automatically converts to equity in time of a crisis, so that it can be used to cushion losses.

Mr. Peace of Nomura noted that it was unclear whether anyone would want to buy such bonds. The 9 percent ratio “is at the high end of market expectations,” he said, “and could be a cause for concern given that such a market does not really exist today.”

The Basel rules would require banks to hold a ratio of 7 percent common equity to risk-weighted assets, up from as little as 2 percent currently.

Both sets of proposals would give banks until the end of 2018 to comply.

However, the Basel rules could wind up being similar to the Swiss rules as they apply to big or highly interconnected institutions, whose failure would threaten the financial system or the economy.

A separate panel known as the Financial Stability Board, which is working in concert with the Basel Committee, is considering stricter rules for such institutions.

The Swiss National Bank already rescued UBS once after the bank lost 46 billion Swiss francs ($47 billion), from the end of 2007 through 2009. The report Monday noted that the bank ultimately made a profit of 1.2 billion francs on the support it provided to UBS.

Smaller banks in Switzerland would not have to hold as much capital in reserve as Credit Suisse and UBS.
133 2010-10-05 But transit officials say that no change is planned. Mr. Albert doesn’t get it. With many station booth agents having been let go, he said, “there’s nobody around to hear the alarm.” Other than would-be fare beaters who now know when a gate is open, “who is it alerting?” he said.

It couldn’t take much money to eliminate this disliked noisemaker.

What would it cost to insist during nonrush periods that subway conductors keep doors open for a few seconds longer to allow passengers to scurry between express and local trains? All too often — again, we’re not talking about peak periods, when every second counts — a train sits for a while in the station, then closes its doors just as a connecting train pulls in across the platform. The frustration for riders is incalculable.

It would cost the authority nothing, nor would it be an affront to the First Amendment, to require the owners of free newspapers to install proper storage boxes. At too many subway stations, the papers are piled carelessly, or simply dumped. Passing trains blow them every which way, creating a mess and increasing the risk of track fires.

Along that line, why not “do simple things like making sure there are enough trash cans for the number of people that use a station,” said William A. Henderson, executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the M.T.A. “It’s not a big deal.”

Nor is it a big deal, while New Yorkers wait for so-called smart cards to advance beyond the experimental stage, for someone to devise a box for old MetroCards that doesn’t have a porous bottom that sends them spilling across the subway station floor.

How big a deal could it be to see to it that a presumably important service announcement isn’t made at the very moment an express train roars through the station?

And how much would it take to ensure that destination signs on trains and buses are correct? They aren’t always, Mr. Albert said.

FOR its part, the city could be tougher in enforcing rules that are supposed to keep cars out of bus lanes. That would go far to speed the commute. All City Hall has to do is say the word. (Mayor , who cast himself as the riders’ champion while running for re-election last year, seems to have since caught an acute case of on mass transit.)

“Oftentimes, these enforcement things pay for themselves because you’re writing tickets,” Mr. Henderson said.

Obviously, the list of low-cost improvements could go on. Just as obviously, nothing would please New Yorkers more than a restoration of the transit service recently lost. But they will take what they can get. As we said, miracles are in short supply.
134 2010-10-05 Apple is challenging a jury verdict that could force it to pay as much as $625.5 million to a company founded by David Gelernter, a Yale computer science professor, for infringing three patents related to how files are displayed on the iPod, the iPhone and Macintosh computers.

A federal jury in Tyler, Tex., on Friday awarded the company, Mirror Worlds, $208.5 million in damages for each of the patents infringed. They include a patent related to Cover Flow, a central feature of Apple’s computers and mobile devices that allows users to scroll through album covers, photos and other files.

The federal judge overseeing the case has yet to formally enter the verdict. In an emergency motion filed on Sunday, Apple asked the judge to stay the verdict because of a series of “outstanding issues” with two of the three patents it was found to have willfully infringed. Apple also said that it would be wrong for the court to award the plaintiff the full judgment for each of the patents, as it would amount to “triple dipping.”

If Mirror Worlds is granted the full amount by the court, it would be one of the largest patent awards in United States history. The case was heard before Federal District Judge Leonard E. Davis in the Eastern District of Texas, a locale favored by plaintiffs in patent cases because of the generosity of the jury awards.

Apple said that the court should consider its challenge “in light of counsel for Mirror Worlds’ erroneous and objectionable suggestion that, among other things, damages should be cumulative while at the same time suggesting that Mirror Worlds was not ‘triple dipping.’ ”
135 2010-10-05 Little conflicts or changes of heart come naturally to his dancers. A woman engages in an athletic dance with several men, but as she’s running brightly up one man’s back with the assistance of another, she pauses and looks piercingly back at a third, as if only now did she know who was most on her mind, and yet even this is just a passing thought.

The variations of feeling and ambiguities of gesture reach their height in the stops and starts of the solo for Travis Walker at the end of “Oh, Inverted World”: a solo full of not just apparent thoughtfulness (now looking at his left arm, now at his right) but also of complete stillness in between moments of action or while others pass. It’s the inwardness of this final dance that makes you want to re-experience the whole work.

“Oh, Inverted World” was sandwiched between two other ballets, these by Michael Smuin. This choreographer (and former co-artistic director of the San Francisco Ballet) died in 2007, but his company still gives an impressive number of performances, here and elsewhere. It was startling on Saturday afternoon to find how vividly his “Brahms-Haydn Variations” reminded me of watching San Francisco Ballet some three decades ago when it brought dances from his version of “The Tempest” to the Edinburgh Festival.

In those days, in terms of finesse, the San Francisco Ballet looked a great deal below the international caliber it enjoys today. But the dancers were good at rapture and charm and individual personality, as are the Smuin dancers now. (Mr. McIntyre makes them look less exuberant but more focused.)

“Brahms-Haydn Variations” (1985) is a bright series of classical dances that — even though some of the dancers are stretched beyond their capacity — is thoroughly pleasing in its changes of tone, its judicious mix of rushing outward energy and academic brilliance. Less interesting — though still a crowd-pleaser — is Smuin’s “Bluegrass/Slyde” (2005), to music by Edgar Meyer and Bela Fleck: its touches of free-and-easy blitheness and group funkiness are fine, its repetitions less so.

Notable dance took place over the week across the Bay Area. In addition to the opening of the new ODC Theater in the Mission district, the Chitresh Das company hosted Traditions Engaged, a festival and conference on Indian dance at the handsome modern Yerba Buena Center for the Arts (in the SoMA district, south of Market Street). And in Berkeley the Mark Morris Dance Group played a triple bill at Zellerbach Hall.

I wish time had allowed me to catch all three days of the Indian festival — a wide range of styles were represented — but I may have chosen poorly in attending Saturday evening’s performance. (The audience, however, was perhaps the most gorgeously attired I have ever observed anywhere.) The Chitresh Das Dance Company gave the world premiere of Mr. Das’s “Sita Haran,” which involved storytelling in the classical Kathak idiom without much of the formal dancing that makes the style most rewarding.

After that came a long suite of Bharatanatyam dances by the husband and wife V. P. and Shanta Dhananjayan, who were very sweet, well advanced in years and generally stylish without ever being seriously engrossing.

At Zellerbach on Friday, the Mark Morris dancers made the triple bill of “Behemoth,” “Looky” and “Socrates” at least as fascinating as they had at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in February. Set to music by Satie, “Socrates” richly repays rewatching. Its use of stage space (with groups passing in waves from right to left or moving in different zones of the stage) is compelling, its freshness of vocabulary touching.

Especially haunting, while the dancers are crossing the stage one way, is a jump in which the body reverses to face backwards while the raised arm softly descends. The coolly affecting nature of Satie’s cantata in the theater is marvelous, and at Friday’s performance the tenor Michael Kelly‘s delivery of the French text, with the admirable Colin Fowler at the piano, cast its gently poignant spell.
136 2010-10-05 In the summer of 2007, federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, developed a “do not board” list to stop people with serious infectious diseases from flying to or from the United States. The impetus came from some well-publicized cases, including the May 2007 incident in which an American man infected with tuberculosis flew to Europe for his wedding, and then promptly dropped out of sight. He was later placed under quarantine by the United States government when he returned via Canada.

Four years before that, after an outbreak of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, airports and airlines adopted emergency screening measures as the disease spread quickly around the world. There is no evidence, however, that large numbers of passengers were affected during those episodes, and the few identified cases involved people sitting within a few rows of an infected person.

While prominent pandemics have garnered the most attention, it is garden variety ailments, like colds or stomach viruses, that travelers should be worried about, members of the research panel said. And air travelers are more likely to pick up these bugs by touching a lavatory doorknob or a latch on an overhead bin. Charles P. Gerba, a professor at the University of Arizona and an expert on public hygiene, said research showed that viruses like influenza can survive for hours on such surfaces, which are not necessarily disinfected in routine cleaning between flights.

In fact, Dr. Gendreau of the Lahey Clinic said that the first thing he did upon boarding a plane was to take out an alcohol-based hand sanitizer and wipe down his tray table and other hard surfaces.

Many road warriors have their own rituals for staving off a sickness that could ruin not just their trip but any business they hope to gain. Stephen Wood, chief market strategist for North America at Russell Investments in New York, said that despite flying some 120,000 miles a year, he never became ill while traveling because he relied on some basic common sense practices, like drinking lots of water during a flight and avoiding alcohol.

But many frequent fliers say a long flight can leave them feeling as if they have the flu, even if they are perfectly healthy. Medical experts attribute that achy sensation to the effects of the lower oxygen and the aridity of air inside a plane that is at a cruising altitude of 35,000 feet and above. Even though most cabins are pressurized at around 8,000 feet above sea level, it is a higher altitude than most people are used to, and the swift ascent and descent of the plane only exaggerate the effects. “Fliers may actually be experiencing a mild case of mountain sickness,” Dr. Gendreau said.

Airplane manufacturers do not dispute this. The air inside a plane must be dry as a desert to protect the metal fuselage from the dangers of corrosion, said Ken Price, an interiors expert at Boeing. As a result, humidity levels can dip below 10 percent, contributing to any discomfort a traveler may experience on a flight. The company’s new 787 Dreamliner will have “much more humidity than any current plane,” he said, because it is made from composite materials that are more flexible. The Airbus A350, another midsize plane being developed by a European aerospace consortium, will also be built mainly from composites.

The next generation of planes will be pressurized at closer to 5,000 feet above ground, and Mr. Price said that tests showed that the difference in cabin pressure would help reduce the aches and pains associated with long flights.
137 2010-10-05 Public health officials have issued a rabies warning to American travelers after a 42-year-old psychiatrist from Virginia died from exposure to a rabid dog while he was jogging in India.

It was one of seven cases of rabies acquired abroad from 2000 to 2009, out of 31 human cases in the United States, officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported last week. Other cases were contracted by Americans traveling in the Philippines, Mexico, Ghana, El Salvador, Haiti and Mexico.

The psychiatrist’s exposure to the rabid dog occurred in the summer of 2009. (The nature of the encounter was not given, and the victim’s name was not released.) About three months later he began having fevers and chills, developed acute discomfort in his legs and became incontinent. Within 24 hours of being hospitalized, his behavior became erratic and he began gagging on large amounts of saliva. Tests confirmed he had rabies, and he died on Nov. 20, 2009.

C.D.C. officials say that many dogs in Africa and Asia have rabies, and people can be exposed through a bite or through exposure to infectious body fluids like saliva that come in contact with an open wound or mucous membranes.

The agency is warning travelers to countries where rabies is common to seek medical treatment if they come in contact with suspicious animals.

When you “walk up to a cute dog on the street in a place like India,” said an author of the report, Jesse Blanton, a C.D.C. epidemiologist, “you place yourself at a lot of risk.”
138 2010-10-05 The Mets have a list of 32 general manager candidates, and they have identified about half a dozen people on that list that they intend to speak to first.

The overall list includes older, more experienced, baseball executives like Sandy Alderson and Terry Ryan; general managers who have recently been replaced, like Josh Byrnes and Jerry DiPoto; and young executives like Rick Hahn, the assistant general manager of the Chicago White Sox and who, like Fred Wilpon, attended the University of Michigan. Hahn is considered a bright baseball man, and the college link — Fred Wilpon is an avid Michigan alumnus — certainly will not hurt.

Nevertheless, the Wilpons said they were approaching the process without a favorite.

“We’re going to look for somebody that has some new ideas and a new leadership quality here to reinvigorate the franchise,” Jeff Wilpon said. “And we’re going to listen. We’re going to do a lot of listening.”

In the interim, the assistant general manager John Ricco will be in charge of the day-to-day baseball decisions. Minaya will not have any role with the Mets unless the new general manager reaches out to him with an attractive offer. But that is not likely.

“I think we needed a change here,” said Minaya, who still has two years and about $2.1 million left on his contract.

Although the Wilpons took responsibility for all the recent failures, they did say that the most significant reason for Minaya’s dismissal was what they considered a waste of their money on underperforming players.

“I think some of the free-agent signings turning out the way they did, and the money we misspent, is probably the biggest piece of it,” Jeff Wilpon said.

At the top of that list of miscalculations are pitcher Oliver Perez, who was signed to a three-year, $36 million contract before the 2009 season, and second baseman Luis Castillo, who received $24 million for four years before the 2008 campaign. Both still have a year to go on their contracts and neither has any role on the team.

Minaya was hired in 2004 to change the direction of the team and was in charge when the Mets nearly made it to the World Series in 2006. But nothing has been the same since.

“We’ve had a lot of good years and too many poor years,” said Fred Wilpon, who has been an owner of the Mets for three decades. “That’s painful. But I must say that the last four years have been the most painful to me, and probably the most disappointing in what is over 30 years.”

The Wilpons were asked about a projected payroll for the 2011 team, which they would not divulge, and about their finances in light of the Bernard L. Madoff investment scandal. Fred Wilpon acknowledged the family had lost money, insisted it was not a debilitating amount and then passionately described the emotional pain of being swindled by a friend.

“The money, you don’t like to lose money that’s just stolen from you,” he said. “But the betrayal is something I’ll never, ever forget. I’ll go to my grave on that one.”

Manuel left the stadium without speaking, but Minaya addressed reporters in the Mets’ clubhouse. With tears welling in his eyes, he expressed his disappointment that he could not do more with what he felt was a dream job for a kid from Corona, Queens.

“The only part of the dream that didn’t happen was winning the World Series,” he said. “That’s what I had hoped to do. I was not able to finish it and hopefully somebody else will finish it.”

It is a task that will fall to the fourth general manager in the last eight years and the fifth manager in that time.
139 2010-10-05 HARTFORD — Richard Blumenthal and Linda E. McMahon questioned each other’s truthfulness and qualifications to serve in the United States Senate Monday in a televised debate marked by tart exchanges and obvious iciness between them.

Ms. McMahon, a Republican and a World Wrestling Entertainment executive, attacked early, casting Mr. Blumenthal, the state’s longtime Democratic attorney general, as a career politician detached from the concerns of ordinary people.

She spoke bluntly about her own tough times, describing herself as a businesswoman who overcame huge odds to build a successful company.

“I have come back from bankruptcy,” she said before a packed, mostly polite audience at the Bushnell Theater in Hartford. “Mr. Blumenthal does not have that experience. He’s been on the government payroll all his life.”

She told Mr. Blumenthal she created 600 jobs at World Wrestling Entertainment, then asked him: “How many jobs have you created?’ ” Mr. Blumenthal did not respond to that question directly, instead noting the efforts he had made as attorney general to protect jobs in the state.

Mr. Blumenthal pressed Ms. McMahon about her role as chief executive at the wrestling company, in an industry that critics say encourages steroid abuse, glorifies violence and demeans women.

“She has put profits ahead of people,” he said, saying that Ms. McMahon has refused to acknowledge the negative effects of long-term steroid use.

He also accused her of hiring lobbyists in Washington to fend off regulation of the wrestling industry.

Several clashes erupted over Mr. Blumenthal’s contention that the Republican candidate would support a reduction in the minimum wage, a politically damaging position in a state with large and active labor unions.

But Ms. McMahon forcefully denied the allegation. “That’s a lie,” she said. “You know that that’s a lie.”

The disagreement stemmed from a recent appearance at which Ms. McMahon was asked by reporters if she believed the minimum wage should be lowered. She did not explicitly say it should not, and Democrats have pounced on that ambiguity to suggest she favors reducing it. Ms. McMahon and her aides say that was a deliberate distortion and that she would never support such a move.

While both Mr. Blumenthal and Ms. McMahon appeared poised as they fielded questions from three panelists, the effects of the blistering campaign were obvious. Neither had a kind word or even a gentle joke for the other, and they seldom relented in their attacks.

The attorney general seemed to dismiss Ms. McMahon’s emphasis on his lack of private-sector experience, telling her, “I’m not running to be an entrepreneur as a senator.”

The most uncomfortable moment for Mr. Blumenthal came early when one panelist, Laurie Perez from Fox News Connecticut, asked about an issue that has dogged him on the campaign trail: his claims that he served in Vietnam, when in fact he served in the Marine Reserves during the war and never left the country.

Before answering, Mr. Blumenthal composed himself, shuffling papers on the lectern. He then acknowledged that he had misspoken several times but said he never intended to deceive anyone.

“I regret it,” he continued. “I take full responsibility for it. It was not intentional. But that is no excuse. And I want to say I am sorry, particularly to our veterans and mostly to the veterans of Vietnam.”

Ms. Perez also asked Mr. Blumenthal why he did not serve in Vietnam, but he did not answer.

The debate came after a furious back-and-forth between the campaigns Monday after Ms. McMahon released a new TV ad featuring a video clip in which Mr. Blumenthal suggested that he had served in Vietnam.

The video the McMahon campaign obtained shows Mr. Blumenthal delivering an address at a rally in Bridgeport in 2003 in which he praised the support being expressed for American troops overseas. Of Vietnam, he says, “When we returned, we saw nothing of this gratitude.”

The video of Mr. Blumenthal was part of a 30-second advertisement in which the narrator asks: “If he lied about Vietnam, what else is he lying about?”

Republicans close to the McMahon campaign said the goal was to personally shake up Mr. Blumenthal, who has significantly curtailed his public appearances after The New York Times published an article in May describing how he had misrepresented his military service over the years.

A Blumenthal spokeswoman, Mindy Myers, said Ms. McMahon’s ad was “another desperate attack from a losing campaign with nothing to say. Linda McMahon’s money can’t buy Dick Blumenthal’s genuine record of standing up and fighting for the people of Connecticut.”

The video released by the McMahon campaign is the second video to surface showing Mr. Blumenthal misrepresenting his military service in the Vietnam era.

In a video that appeared earlier this year, Mr. Blumenthal is seen making a false claim about his military service while attending a 2008 ceremony in Norwalk honoring veterans. “We have learned something important since the days that I served in Vietnam,” Mr. Blumenthal said in the video. “And you exemplify it. Whatever we think about the war, whatever we call it — Afghanistan or Iraq — we owe our military men and women unconditional support.”

The advertisement released on Monday underscored the increasingly competitive nature of Connecticut’s Senate race. Ms. McMahon has spent more than $20 million of her own fortune on the race, drawing national attention as she tries to put into play a seat Democrats once believed was safely theirs.
140 2010-10-06 For developers looking to find information about political candidates and committees, friendly data formats can be hard to find. Version 3 of The Times's Campaign Finance API aims to start making that process a bit easier....
141 2010-10-06 O.K., it took a while. But when it finally arrived, all went smoothly. Honest....
142 2010-10-06 The move by film critic Todd McCarthy to the Hollywood Reporter is a boost for the media outlet....
143 2010-10-06 Marketers would have to qualify their claims on product packaging and limit them to a specific benefit, like how much of the product is recycled....
144 2010-10-06 Check out this new video if you are "crazy" about political advertisements....
145 2010-10-06 The Minnesota Twins will host the New York Yankees in Game 1 of their American League division series....
146 2010-10-06 Stars, from finance and Hollywood alike, came out last week for the New York Film Festival premiere of "Inside Job," the latest documentary about the financial crisis....
147 2010-10-06 A medical professor compares the McDonald's plan to the plans available under the new health law, while a senator asks McDonald's to provide more details about the plan....
148 2010-10-06 Enjoy Aroldis Chapman's 105-mph fastball while you can, because nobody knows how long he will have it....
149 2010-10-06 Cautious answers characterized the N.H.L.'s annual preseason media conference call....
150 2010-10-06 A shoe designer strikes gold with a prime spot of a store in the First Arrondisement in Paris....
151 2010-10-06 If Senator Jim DeMint wants to show moral leadership, there just might be better ways than firing teachers on the basis of their private sexual behavior....
152 2010-10-06 The best-selling author's remark about the 2012 ticket sparked speculation across Washington before the White House dismissed the idea....
153 2010-10-06 Brad Tuttle provided readers of Time with a splendid array of "recession-era words and phrases." Examples include:...
154 2010-10-06 Vanguard lowers required investment minimum to invest in its lower-cost Admiral shares....
155 2010-10-06 The body of a missing pregnant woman was found in the Bronx in a vehicle parked within 100 feet of a building used by the Police Department....
156 2010-10-06 What's affecting me, my clients and other small business owners this week....
157 2010-10-06 In a bid to compete beyond the microcar segment it helped create, Smart is tapping Nissan to produce a coming 4-door hatchback....
158 2010-10-06 Also in the Morning Buzz: A candidate for governor tries to act nicer, dockworkers are accused of helping cocaine smugglers, and other regional news....
159 2010-10-06 Companies plead not for inaction but for ambitious, clear and measurable targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020....
160 2010-10-06 Rachel Maddow of MSNBC went to Delaware to try to find Christine O'Donnell, the state's Republican Senate nominee....
161 2010-10-06 Microsoft has joined the third round of financing for AppNexus, a real-time ad platform, which raised $50 million this go-round....
162 2010-10-06 Some strategists believe this campaign-year issue could help cast Republicans as out of touch during tough economic times....
163 2010-10-06 The Credit Suisse Liquid Alternative Beta Index climbed 3.6 percent last month amid an 8.8 percent surge in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index....
164 2010-10-06 A spat between VoIP providers Skype and Fring may mean lower prices for international calls....
165 2010-10-06 Among other tips, a keen observer of the admissions process counsels families to take the stress out of the admissions by talking over pizza or at a diner, rather than in formal debriefings....
166 2010-10-06 Two companies, Sweetgreen and Atayne, are figuring it out....
167 2010-10-06 Fairfax Financial Holdings said that it had completed a public offering of 12 million preferred shares for total proceeds of $286 million....
168 2010-10-06 Facebook and Twitter were used to peddle stocks in a classic "pump and dump" fraud of about $7 million that was uncovered during a cocaine-trafficking probe, federal prosecutors said....
169 2010-10-06 United Capital Markets's chief, John Devaney, the securities broker-dealer, is "noodling" with the idea for a $200 million debt hedge fund with $20 million of his money and a fresh angle....
170 2010-10-06 Federal regulators are investigating trading algorithms after they found that a computer-driven sale helped trigger May's flash crash, the Securities and Exchange Commission chairman said....
171 2010-10-06 George Soros, the billionaire investor, blamed Germany for leading the implementation of austerity measures that will throw the euro zone into a "deflation spiral."...
172 2010-10-06 The Treasury Department expects to lose $29 billion on the federal bailouts stemming from the financial crisis, with most of the losses in its housing finance program and the auto rescue....
173 2010-10-06 The big phone companies have been campaigning to convince Congress that attempts by the Federal Communications Commission to regulate Internet access like it regulates phones are a costly intrusion that will slow online investment and hamstring progress. And then — oops! — one of the big phone companies reminds us why they should not be allowed to discipline themselves.

Under pressure from the F.C.C., Verizon Wireless has now admitted that it incorrectly billed 15 million customers between $2 and $6, on average, for data services they didn’t use. Apparently, Verizon’s phones are built in such a way that it is easy for customers to accidentally press the button that opens a Web browser. If they don’t have a data plan, that would immediately tag $1.99 to their bill, no matter how quickly the request is canceled.

Verizon Wireless says it will pay current customers back for the charges by crediting their accounts and will send checks to former customers. It estimates that it owes $30 million to $90 million in restitution.

Mistakes do happen. What’s instructive about Verizon Wireless’s behavior is that when customers called to complain about the problem, it often refused to reverse the charges. When the F.C.C. officially approached the company in December, it denied there was a problem. The F.C.C. opened a formal investigation in January. On Sunday, Verizon changed its tune.

The investigation is not over. The F.C.C. is still looking into how long ago Verizon Wireless was aware of the problem. It also hasn’t yet decided whether to settle — allowing the company to make a voluntary payment while admitting no wrongdoing — or to start a formal proceeding to impose a fine. Letting Verizon Wireless off the hook with an “I’m sorry” plus restitution seems unlikely to have much of a deterrent effect.

The lesson Congress should take from this incident is that the telecommunications networks are too vital to leave to industry self-regulation.

Verizon and AT&T, along with the cable TV companies, are the biggest providers of broadband access. Verizon Wireless, the company’s wireless unit, is the biggest provider of wireless Internet access. It’s not just about who charges how much — as important as that is. The providers want the power to give preferential treatment for some content and restrict other sources.
174 2010-10-06 For at least 44 years, it has been illegal for foreign corporations, countries and individuals to make political contributions in the for any election, either directly or indirectly. It is even against the law to solicit such contributions. But in this Wild West year of political money, that longstanding ban is being set aside. The United States Chamber of Commerce — one of the biggest advertisers in midterm races around the country — is actively soliciting foreign money, and government enforcers seem to be doing nothing to stop it.

According to a report issued Tuesday by the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy group in , the chamber is getting “dues” payments of tens of thousands of dollars from foreign companies in countries such as , and , and then mingling the money with its fund to advocate for or against candidates in the midterm races.

The chamber firmly denies the charge, saying its internal accounting rules prevent any foreign money from being used for political purposes. Money, however, is fungible, and it is impossible for an outsider to know whether the group is following its rules.

The chamber has vowed to spend more than $75 million before the November election, and it has already run 8,000 ads, most of which support Republican candidates. The ads do not urge a vote for or against a specific candidate, but when they accuse Senator Barbara Boxer of of “destroying jobs,” or call Richard Blumenthal of “the worst attorney general in the nation,” no one can mistake the intent. (The two candidates, both Democrats, are in tight Senate races.)

Because the United States Chamber is organized as a 501(c)(6) business league under the federal code, it does not have to disclose its donors, so the full extent of foreign influence on its political agenda is unknown. But Tuesday’s report sheds light on how it raises money abroad. Its affiliate in , for example, the American Chamber of Commerce, says it has more than 450 corporate and individual members in the who pay as much as $8,500 a year to join.

Because of a series of court decisions that culminated in the ’s Citizens United ruling earlier this year, these and similar 501(c) nonprofits have become huge players in the year’s election, using unlimited money from donors who have no fear of disclosure. (Not surprisingly, the chamber has been a leading opponent of legislation to require disclosure.) One such group, American Crossroads, organized by , announced on Tuesday a $4.2 million ad buy to support Republican candidates, bringing the group’s total spending to about $18 million so far.
175 2010-10-06 He then explained, using terms that might have lost a few viewers, that what happened was actually “an exchange of bonds for equity,” before saying, “Just be truthful, that’s all we’re asking.”

Unbowed, Mr. Malloy returned to the topic of the company and said that voters should “be afraid that he’ll do to Connecticut what he did to the Bibb company in Georgia” — a comment that prompted Mr. Foley to smile.

The contest has becoming increasingly nasty, especially in television commercials. And the debate, at the Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts in downtown Hartford, was no more civil. Mr. Foley repeatedly accused Mr. Malloy of being “loose with the truth,” and Mr. Malloy said that Mr. Foley did not know how anything worked, be it government or the Internet.

Whoever wins in November will succeed M. Jodi Rell, a Republican who decided not to run for re-election. Though Connecticut has generally been a Democratic state, voting mostly for Democratic candidates for president, United States Senate and state legislature, no Democrat has won the governor’s office since 1986.

The debate began with a topical question for both candidates: whether the death penalty should be applied to Stephen J. Hayes, a former parolee who had been convicted just hours earlier for participating in a home invasion in Cheshire, Conn., in which a woman and her two daughters were killed.

Mr. Malloy opposes the death penalty; Mr. Foley supports it. But Mr. Malloy said that under the current laws, if Mr. Hayes were sentenced to death, that would be “carried out — period.” He added that as a former prosecutor he was the only candidate who had put criminals in prison for life.

Mr. Foley had perhaps his best moments when he said that voters were unhappy that Democrats had controlled the legislature for years. He won applause when he drew a parallel between Hartford and Washington.

“We have a single party that overwhelmingly controls the Congress and the White House,” he said. “It’s not working very well as far as most voters are concerned.”

At one point, Mr. Foley attacked Mr. Malloy on education, saying that Mr. Malloy did not support the Obama administration’s Race to the Top initiative because of his strong ties to teachers’ unions.

Mr. Malloy fired back, “He makes it up — of course I support Race to the Top.”

At that point, the candidates hurled questions at each other in a free-for-all that was sometimes hard to comprehend. It got so heated that Carl Cameron, the Fox News Channel reporter who moderated the debate, interrupted and said, “Gentleman, if either one of you would like to answer your simultaneously posed questions, we’d be happy to wait.”
176 2010-10-06 Few analysts argue that Mr. Obama can broker a peace agreement without horse-trading on issues like this. Ultimately, most believe, he will have to put down his own blueprint for a deal. The question some are asking is whether he is risking too much too soon — and for too little.

“I never imagined that we would have to do anything else,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel and a negotiator in the Clinton administration. “But in the process, we have to be careful not to pay with strategic coin for mere tactical breathing room.”

In the case of Israel, officials said, the United States is offering military hardware, support for a long-term Israeli presence in the Jordan Valley, help with enforcing a ban on the smuggling of weapons through a Palestinian state, a promise to veto Security Council resolutions critical of Israel during the talks and a pledge to forge a regional security agreement for the Middle East.

For all this, people briefed on the details said, the United States is seeking a single 60-day, nonrenewable extension.

“It’s an extraordinary package for essentially nothing,” said Daniel C. Kurtzer, who also served as American ambassador to Israel and was a negotiator in the Clinton administration. “Given what’s already happened, who thinks that a two-month extension is enough?”

After initially turning down the American offer, Mr. Netanyahu now appears inclined to accept it, several officials said. They said he needed extra time to round up the necessary votes among his cabinet members, several of whom are steadfastly opposed to an extension of the freeze.

But even if he signs on, some analysts predict that the two sides will end up in the same cul-de-sac in two months. Mr. Abbas, several people said, has told associates that he feels that he has no choice but to keep pushing for a freeze, largely because the Obama administration made settlements the centerpiece of its first 10 months of Middle East diplomacy.

For now, at least, that imperative has trumped even an offer by the United States to formally endorse a Palestinian state based on the borders of Israel before the 1967 Middle East war, something for which the Palestinians have long pushed. Some Palestinians say that an American endorsement is not worth a great deal if the Israelis refuse to recognize it.

“The original sin was putting so much emphasis on settlements, an issue we couldn’t resolve,” said Robert Malley, the Middle East and North Africa program director for the International Crisis Group. “We’ve spent the last year trying to undo the damage of that step.”

Some analysts argue that the United States still has one crucial advantage. Neither side wants to alienate Washington — the Israelis, because they need American help in defending themselves against Iran; the Palestinians, because they want backing on the issue of territory. In fact, lobbying the administration might be a higher priority than getting back to the bargaining table.

“There is a desire by both parties to woo the party that is not in the room,” said David Makovsky, an analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “Both want to get the support of the U.S.”

The political calendar might also be driving the administration to muddle through this period, analysts said.

“If we can get these 60 days, and get past the midterm elections, we can create a moment of choice for both sides,” said Daniel Levy, a former negotiator who is now at the New America Foundation.

The question of how much the United States is offering, and what it is asking for in return, is being fiercely debated within the White House and the State Department, according to officials. Some of that reflects the strong personalities of the people formulating Middle East policy in the administration.

The package of incentives for Israel was devised largely by Dennis B. Ross, a senior adviser on the Middle East at the National Security Council and a veteran peace negotiator. But the day-to-day negotiations are being handled by George J. Mitchell, the administration’s special envoy to the region who led the push on Israel to halt settlement construction.

The administration hopes that by making it clear that any settlement extension would be a one-time-only offer, it can avoid the prospect of the Palestinians’ threatening to walk out again in two months.

“We recognize that to get the parties over this hump we have to offer something of value to each side,” said the State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley. “In return, we need a commitment from the parties to remain in the negotiations long enough to reach an agreement. We don’t want to go through this again.”
177 2010-10-06 ALBUQUERQUE — Two accomplished balloonists from the United States recently set out from Bristol, England, with hopes of winning the world’s most prestigious balloon competition. Four days later, they vanished over the Adriatic Sea in stormy weather. No signs of the pilots or their balloon have turned up, and the Italian Coast Guard has called off its search efforts.

Now, many of their fellow competitors have gathered at the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta as mystery and tragedy hover over what is typically a jubilant celebration.

Balloon pilots and their crews, hundreds of them, were on a field before dawn Monday, straining to hear the day’s weather forecast announced over a loudspeaker.

“Be safe. Fly safe,” bellowed a man at the far end of the field.

The fiesta attracts 800,000 spectators, drawn to the kaleidoscope of hundreds of balloons in the sky. Those who knew the missing balloonists, Richard Abruzzo and Carol Rymer Davis, were still holding out hope for news of them after they vanished last Wednesday during the famed Gordon Bennett gas balloon event, in which 20 teams launched from Bristol in a competition to see who could travel the farthest.

“It’s hard to concentrate on flying that race now, not knowing what happened to Carol and Richard,” said Barbara Fricke, a gas balloon pilot who plans to fly in the America’s Challenge competition here this week.
178 2010-10-06 “Clearly, Marchella Pierce was a vulnerable child, and as a city we needed to do more to help her,” John B. Mattingly, the commissioner of children’s services, told council members during more than two hours of questions and testimony.

The findings, agency officials said, exposed systemic flaws inside the agency that persisted even after the beating death of 7-year-old Nixzmary Brown inside a Brooklyn apartment in January 2006 led to a series of reforms that were intended to protect children from abuse.

The problems in the Marchella Pierce case extended to an outside health care provider hired by the city to monitor her family until its contract expired in June.

The girl was born more than three months prematurely, had severely underdeveloped lungs and spent most of her life in hospitals. A twin sister died at birth. Marchella needed the help of a tracheal tube when she returned home for good in February. She weighed less when she died than when she had been released from the hospital and “was not normal weight even for a child with significant medical problems since birth,” the report said.

Although awaiting further autopsy results to determine the cause of death, agency officials said they intended in their final report to indicate that the girl was abused and neglected.

Children’s Services started monitoring the family in November after Ms. Brett-Pierce was found with drugs in her system when she gave birth to a son. In January, the agency assigned the case to Child Development Support Corporation, a Brooklyn-based provider, to work with the family and to help the mother with her drug problems.

But the city agency failed to properly assess the girl’s condition and plan for her care with Child Development Support before she returned home, the report said. That failure was compounded by inadequate home visits and assessments by both the agency and the outside provider, the report stated.

The city agency had no record that its child protective staff had any contact with the family after a brief visit on the night of March 2. That visit came after the girl’s mother took her to a hospital; her tracheal tube had fallen out, and a hospital worker, concerned about the mother’s ability to take care of the child, contacted authorities.

An agency investigator who visited the family that night reported that Marchella and her two brothers — one the infant, the other now 5 — appeared fine, but that the mother was hostile and should be evaluated on her ability to care for a child with special needs.

But neither a Children’s Services supervisor nor an assigned caseworker opened a new investigation as they should have, the report said. Nor did agency records indicate that its staff had any further contact with the family, the report said.

The girl’s father, Tyrone Pierce, is separated from Ms. Brett-Pierce.

During a review in June, an agency caseworker said he had visited the home on June 9 but no one was home. After the girl’s death, however, the same worker said he had seen the children and a grandmother on that visit.

The Child Protective Services unit in Brooklyn assigned to the case also reported after the girl’s death that her home had been visited and that the children were seen on April 6, July 22 and Aug. 12, the report said. But the visits were not recorded, and agency officials now appear to doubt that they ever took place.

A supervisor in the unit and the caseworker assigned to the case have been suspended for 30 days without pay pending a further investigation.

The report also faulted the agency’s oversight of Child Development Support and gave a scathing assessment of the provider’s handling of the case, calling it “woefully inadequate.” A caseworker there, for example, saw Marchella only three times between February and June, when its contract ended.

In February, a supervisor with the provider noted that Ms. Brett-Pierce was not complying with her drug treatment program. And in March, the treatment program told the provider that she had again tested positive for marijuana, had not met with her counselor in weeks and had threatened a program employee.

Yet on none of those occasions did the outside provider contact the city agency or the state’s central child abuse register to voice concerns, or to call for an elevated risk or child safety conference, as was required, the report said.

Marcia Rowe-Riddick, executive director of Child Development Support, has defended its handling of the case and said she was dumbfounded by the report.

“The most I can say is it’s disingenuous and incomplete,” she said. "It’s unbelievable that they continue to throw us under the bus in this case when they had responsibility for it the last two months. The fact remains: when we were in the home there was nothing going on and the child was still alive.”

Children’s Services assumed sole responsibility of the case after Child Development Support’s contract ended. As a result of the girl’s death, the agency has asked the state to help it review cases returned to the city agency’s monitoring from the outside provider. The agency also outlined a series of steps it intends to take to fix holes in the system that led to mistakes in Marchella’s case, including closer supervision of outside providers.
179 2010-10-06 Univision, the leading Spanish-language television network in the United States, will retain the rights to popular telenovelas produced by the Mexican television giant Grupo Televisa for another 15 years.

In a deal announced Tuesday, Televisa will invest $1.2 billion in Univision in exchange for a minimum 5 percent stake in the company and a new content licensing agreement for the telenovelas (Spanish-language soap opera dramas) and for the telecasts of some Mexican soccer matches in the United States.

The deal goes a long way toward burying years of hostility between the two companies.

Most of Univision’s top-rated shows in prime time are Televisa’s telenovelas, so the extension of the agreement was important. The existing agreement for exclusive American rights to the telenovelas was to expire in 2017. The new one takes the companies at least through 2025, and potentially longer if certain conditions are met.

Importantly for Univision, the deal also includes Internet streaming rights for Televisa’s programming, something it lacked before, and “the right to launch new services,” said Haim Saban, the chairman of Univision Communications. He said Univision could decide to dedicate some of its digital subchannel space to a telenovela channel. He also said the company could start a sports channel.

The deal is a boon for Televisa, which lost out in 2006 in a pitched takeover battle for Univision to an investor group led by Mr. Saban, TPG, THL Partners, Madison Dearborn Partners and Providence Equity Partners. Last year, Univision and Televisa settled a long-running lawsuit, clearing the way for the investment.

Emilio Azcarraga Jean, the chairman of Grupo Televisa, said that Univision was a “highly attractive strategic platform for the continued distribution of our content in the U.S. marketplace, our most important media marketplace outside of Mexico.”
180 2010-10-06 Over the last six weeks, the Obama administration’s policy for financing embryonic stem cell research has been challenged, blocked and temporarily reinstated. Here is how the legal roller coaster has affected one laboratory:

SEPT. 1, 2009 Jason Spence, above, a junior scientist, wins a coveted federal research grant for $101,000 to turn embryonic stem cells into pancreatic and liver tissue.

SEPT. 1, 2010 Dr. Spence does not receive the second installment of his grant, which covers his salary, after a federal judge ruled that government financing violates a law prohibiting the use of federal money to destroy embryos. A proposal for a second grant, which would allow Dr. Spence to pursue his research as an independent scientist, is also removed from the review process.

SEPT. 9 An appeals court temporarily lifts the block on stem cell research money. Dr. Spence receives his grant money. His other proposal is put back in the review process. But the National Institutes of Health warns that the policy regarding research money “continues to change from moment to moment.”

SEPT. 14 Senator Arlen Specter, Democrat of Pennsylvania, introduces a bill that would authorize federal financing for human embryonic stem cell research, raising Dr. Spence’s hopes of resolution. Legislators fail to act on the legislation before they adjourn to campaign for the midterm elections.

SEPT. 27 Dr. Spence’s mentor at the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, James Wells, submits a new grant proposal with one caveat: until Congress protects embryonic stem cell research, he says, his laboratory will limit its research to a stem cell that he considers “not ideal.”
181 2010-10-06 Recently, the Congressional Budget Office put the cost at $66 billion. And, after the bailout, the government will still be left with its investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-backed housing finance companies. The report said Fannie and Freddie were expected to cause “substantial losses,” but it noted that they were financed using other funds, not the troubled asset funds.

The Treasury arrived at its figure by adding in profits that it expects to receive on shares of A.I.G. stock. Those shares were given to the Treasury by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the Treasury expects they will yield a $22 billion profit. Without those shares, the Treasury would have reported a $51 billion loss, rather than a $29 billion loss, the report said.

In total, the Treasury has received back about $204 billion of the bailout funds, or just over half of the money it doled out. The report segregated the money given out under the Bush administration — $294 billion — from the $94 billion awarded under the current administration. All of the large bank bailouts were made under the prior administration, and since then, the money was invested in small banks, automakers, housing programs and A.I.G., the report said.

The bright spot, according to the report, were the bank paybacks. Nearly 80 percent of the money given to banks has been paid back. The Treasury also received $26.8 billion from banks through interest payments on the investments as well as sales of warrants the government received in the banks.

The report did not break down the sources of the automobile losses. The government gave the most money to General Motors and is seeking to recoup some through an initial public offering. The government also gave funds to Chrysler, Chrysler Financial and Ally Bank, formerly GMAC, the auto financing arm of G.M.

The housing programs, the report said, are not expected to return money to the government. Though $45.6 billion has been committed to programs, just $500 million has been paid out, because the Treasury plans to pay out the funds over time if, for instance, modified loans become permanent. The programs include mortgage modifications as well as funds for unemployed homeowners and those whose homes are underwater, or worth less than their mortgage debt.

The last bailout awards were announced last week, as part of the A.I.G. exit plan. The Treasury plans to give A.I.G. $22 billion more. That money will help A.I.G. pay down its debt to the Federal Reserve of New York. In exchange, the Treasury is also receiving the rights to proceeds from two special purpose vehicles from the Fed. The vehicles will pay out based on profits A.I.G. receives on sales of two of its units. The Treasury is predicting no losses on those.

The Government Accountability Office also released a report on Monday about the bailout, which said that the Treasury gave funds to 66 banks that were known to be weak. The bailout program was supposedly intended for banks that were healthy enough to survive without the funds.

In response to that report, a Treasury spokesman said that small banks that received bailout funds lent more money than banks that did not.
182 2010-10-06 But most of the measures to be decided on Election Day are routine housekeeping: fiscal proposals — like bond requests, property tax exemptions and licensing fees — that capture the constant ideological tug of war of taxing and spending.

“What it feels like is that the state legislatures are really fixated on the routine budgetary stuff, trying to keep their ships afloat,” said John G. Matsusaka, president of the Initiative and Referendum Institute at the University of Southern California. “The ballot propositions seem to have become an outlet for all the other issues that the legislators don’t have the time to deal with right now.”

Government spending is at the heart of the three ballot measures in Arizona, Colorado and Oklahoma — which, along with California, have the longest and most controversial lineup of ballot measures this year — that aim to nullify President Obama’s signature health care legislation. The measures, which are similar to one overwhelmingly approved by voters in Missouri this summer and approved legislatively in five other states, would establish that individuals or business cannot be compelled to buy health insurance or pay a tax penalty. The effect, however, is uncertain, given that the requirement does not become effective until 2014 and is already the subject of lawsuits.

The proposed constitutional ban on judges’ using international law in general — and Sharia law in particular — in Oklahoma has caused local Muslim leaders to complain that the state legislators behind the proposal were “riding a wave” of anti-Islamic sentiment across the nation, citing the controversy over burning Korans and protest over mosques elsewhere. “Sharia law is not a threat to anyone, I don’t care where you live,“ said Saad Mohammed, a director at the Islamic Society of Greater Oklahoma City. “Bigotry and prejudice is driving this.”

State Representative Rex Duncan, who is chairman of the state judiciary panel and the lead sponsor of the measure, said he knew of no judge ever citing Sharia law in a ruling in Oklahoma and could point to only one case in the country where the law had been cited. (In that case, a Family Court judge in New Jersey cited a man’s Islamic faith in denying a restraining order to a woman who said she had been raped by her husband. The ruling was overturned by a higher court.) But Mr. Duncan said the measure was “a pre-emptive strike.”

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, has called for a similar federal law, and Mr. Duncan said he had received inquiries from legislators in a dozen other states who expressed interest in adopting a similar ban.

The political rhetoric has grown particularly heated in Colorado, where Republican and Democratic politicians as well as labor and business groups have united to warn that the passage of three tax-cutting measures — dubbed the “ugly three” by opponents — would lead to such fiscal disaster that governing the state would be “nearly impossible.” They cite official state analysis that concluded that the budget would be cut by a quarter and the state would also be prohibited from taking on debt, preventing large capital projects.

“I’ve never seen a fiscal impact comparable to what would happen if all three of these were to pass,“ said Jennie D. Bowser, who studies ballot initiatives for the National Conference of State Legislatures.

The Washington initiative would create the state’s first income tax, exclusively on individuals who earn more than $200,000 — the same figure favored by President Obama, who has proposed extending tax cuts for individuals making less than that amount but allowing taxes to rise for those making more. (The tax rate would be 5 percent and increase to 9 percent for those making more than $500,000.)

The debate follows the national framing. Supporters say that the tax is needed to continue paying for services (it would be devoted to education and health care) and would affect only a tiny fraction of people while allowing taxes to be cut for everybody else. Critics say the increase would discourage business investment and prolong the recession, questioning whether politicians can be trusted with greater access to taxpayer money.

As with all state initiatives, the back and forth features a local flavor. The pro-tax effort is being led by Bill Gates Sr. and endorsed by his son, the Microsoft founder; the anti-tax effort is being supported by the current head of Microsoft, Steve Ballmer.
183 2010-10-06 Cheeses from Valley Shepherd Creamery in Long Valley, N.J., are in 15 Greenmarkets in New York. But Eran Wajswol (above) and his wife, Debra Van Sickle, the owners, don’t run the stands from November to April. So when the chance came to rent a little storefront that would allow for year-round sales, Mr. Wajswol grabbed it. “How many farmer-owned stores are there in New York?” he asked.

Mr. Wajswol, a former high-rise developer, spent about eight years experimenting, buying dairy sheep for his farm, visiting cheesemakers in Europe and gradually developing an inventory of some 26 cheeses that he has been selling for seven years. Most, made with sheep milk or a mixture of sheep and cow milk, are firm cave-aged varieties with thick rinds, based on European styles. A few are made with goat milk. Many are available in the store, along with yogurt, fresh sheep milk, cuts of lamb and ravioli made with his cheeses.

I particularly liked the tangy, full-bodied Oldwick Shepherd; the Cheddar-style Valley Thunder; Oktoberkaas, a slightly crumbly seasonal cheese with a sharp, racy flavor; Gottagettagoat, a gamy cheese with the scent of hazelnuts; and Crema de Blue, delivering a classically strong blue cheese flavor. Nettlesome, peppered with bits of nettle, had an artichoke aroma and herbal, slightly winy flavor.

At Valley Shepherd Creamery store, 79 Sullivan Street (Spring Street), most cheeses are $19 to $26 a pound. Small raviolis, in boxes of 25, come in 10 flavors, $4.75 to $5.50 a box; (646) 476-2893 or valleyshepherd.com.
184 2010-10-06 With Betty Buckley as the biggest name in its cast (Linzi Hateley played the title role), “Carrie” opened on Broadway in May 1988 in a bloody, bloated production that cost almost as much as another major show that season, “The Phantom of the Opera.” Whereas “Phantom” has gone on to make $800 million on Broadway alone, “Carrie” closed after 16 previews and five regular performances.

Rocco Landesman, who was president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which had $500,000 in the show, memorably told Time magazine, “This is the biggest flop in the world history of the theater, going all the way back to Aristophanes.” Indeed, the flame-out was preserved for posterity in a 1991 book (and title), “Not Since Carrie: Forty Years of Broadway Musical Flops.”

All of which, of course, made “Carrie” ripe for cult status, helping it become one of those shows that far more people claim to have seen before it closed than possibly could have. One who was in the audience, with the Playbill to prove it, was Mr. Arima. He recalled traveling from his home in Toronto that spring, at 19, with his mother on their annual Broadway sojourn and seeing the first Saturday matinee preview on April 30, 1988.

“I had never seen a crowd go wild like the ‘Carrie’ crowd did, the infectious and almost hypnotic quality to some of the songs, the absolute roar from the audience at the end as Carrie dies,” Mr. Arima said. “Personally, too, as a theater geek who had been bad at gym, I related very much to the archetype of the misfit. How many of us can remember being made fun of in high school because we were too smart, too shy, too awkward?”

Mr. Arima, who directed the Off Broadway hit “Altar Boyz,” did not give “Carrie” much more thought until 2008, when he was sharing theater memories with his mother before her death. He soon began making inquiries about reviving or perhaps reworking the show, which led him to the creators.

In the years since “Carrie” closed, said Lawrence D. Cohen, the book writer, the creators received hundreds of requests for the rights from regional and community theaters, colleges and high schools, and European companies. There were online petitions too. The only known production after Broadway was an unauthorized amateur mounting in 1999 at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, which included a reworked ending and an actual teenage cast.

The Broadway producers Kevin McCollum and Jeffrey Seller (“Rent” and “Avenue Q”) mounted a closed-door workshop production of “Carrie” in late 2009, using new material from Mr. Cohen, the composer Michael Gore and the lyricist Dean Pitchford, under Mr. Arima’s direction. The two producers ultimately decided not to move forward with the piece; in a telephone interview Mr. Seller declined to explain why, but said that part of the point of the workshop was to provoke ideas for a future production, and that he was pleased that Mr. Telsey had a vision for a far more intimate “Carrie” in the 299-seat Lucille Lortel.

Mr. Telsey said the draft script was in “very workable shape right now,” yet was so different from the original that he was not sure if MCC’s “Carrie” would be considered a revival or a reimagined work. While the story has not been radically altered, Mr. Telsey said the authors had gone far in “humanizing” Margaret White, Carrie’s oppressively religious mother (played by Ms. Buckley on Broadway) and portraying Carrie’s varied emotions, which were swamped in the 1988 production by the special effects for her kinetic powers.

Asked if he could see anything stopping MCC from mounting “Carrie,” Mr. Telsey said: “Not at this point. Certainly we’re not intimidated by the Broadway blockbuster flop status. By opening Off Broadway, in a smaller and far different production, I think ‘Carrie’ would receive a fair, fresh look that had nothing to do with its legend.”
185 2010-10-06 For a book that celebrates a break with traditional cooking, Colman Andrews’s new biography of the avant-garde Spanish chef Ferran Adrià lays on the cream sauce with a heavy hand.

By the end of the first two chapters of “Ferran” alone, Mr. Adrià, the owner of the Michelin three-star restaurant El Bulli, has been compared by the author and others to Picasso, Le Corbusier, Walker Evans, Miles Davis, Charlie Parker, Eric Clapton, Jimi Hendrix and Elvis Presley. Mr. Adrià — a pioneer of the culinary movement that’s come to be known as molecular gastronomy — is also likened to Tiger Woods, though whether to the pre- or post-bimbo-eruption Tiger Woods isn’t made clear.

Mr. Andrews is a founder of the excellent food magazine Saveur and the author of four well-received cookbooks. In the fawning “Ferran: The Inside Story of El Bulli and the Man Who Reinvented Food,” however, he’s lost in the weeds. He’s written hagiography, not biography. Reading “Ferran” is like being waterboarded with truffle oil.

There’s no doubt that Mr. Adrià is an interesting and influential chef, a man who pushes boundaries with knowledge and even wit. He’s sometimes mocked for igniting the craze, which lesser talents have disastrously latched onto, for serving foams and airs. He’s sometimes mocked too for seeming to be as interested in NASA-level chemistry as in organic flavor. Mr. Adrià likes to cook with liquid nitrogen, which — as one critic has pointed out — is the stuff dermatologists use to burn off warts.

Mr. Adrià is a galvanizing radical in the kitchen, however, deconstructing ingredients and employing state-of-the-art machinery to perfect things like spherification, a nectarous technique for “enclosing flavored liquid in a skin of, as it were, itself,” Mr. Andrews writes. (His spherified green olives are said to be unholy in their deliciousness.) Food culture, like any kind of culture, needs its outliers, and Mr. Adrià is a useful provocateur. Good luck getting a reservation at his restaurant, which is scheduled to close — at least in its current form — in 2011.

Good luck, too, wading through more than 50 pages of “Ferran.” Mr. Andrews’s awestruck observations are an appetite suppressant. “Ferran’s friends and colleagues think the world of him” is a typical utterance. As is: “He captivates audiences, charms them, gives them their money’s worth.” Or: “He can be almost electrically intense.” Or: Gravity itself seems like “an annoyance to him.” Or: “He is an icon, an idol. He is, as he says, a myth.”

Mr. Andrews taps on his wineglass, stands and makes this inscrutable toast: “It is a tribute to Ferran that even a novelist capable of fabricating the most improbable plots and completely unfettered by practical concerns can’t be as imaginative in the kitchen as Ferran can.” The image I conjure here is of Gary Shteyngart and his laptop, both splattered with peppermint borscht.

The quotations provided from other sources are no less amusing, mostly unintentionally so. “To follow the gaze of Ferran requires the training of a triathlete,” a journalist declared in the newspaper El Mundo. A critic in The Times of London emoted: “Ferran Adrià did not feed us. He deflowered us.” There is a Will Ferrell movie lurking in here somewhere.

Then there are Mr. Adrià’s own comments, as recorded by the author. As an example of Mr. Adrià’s profundity, Mr. Andrews quotes him thusly: “Why do we have coffee and then an egg at breakfast, while at lunch we eat the egg and then have the coffee? If you understand that, you can do avant-garde cooking.”

Mr. Adrià takes himself very seriously, recording every dish and experiment in (so far) some five bound books that together weigh 53 pounds, and 10 DVDs. There are scenes here of him shaming other chefs in their restaurants, calling them to his table and then making casual sport of them. To the author, he says things like: “I need less than you do. I am not at all materialistic.”

Mr. Andrews did not get especially close to Mr. Adrià. “He never once invited me home,” the author writes. We learn almost nothing about Mr. Adrià’s wife, Isabel Pérez Barceló, whom he married in 2002. (They have no children.) But if you stick with “Ferran,” details — some of them interesting — emerge.

Mr. Adrià was born Fernando Adrià Acosta in 1962 in the barrio of Santa Eulàlia in Hospitalet de Llobregat, southwest of Barcelona. He began to go by Ferran, the Catalan form of his first name, in the 1990s. Good thing. “Somehow ‘Fernando,’ much less ‘Nando,’ just wouldn’t carry the same weight,” Mr. Andrews writes.

Mr. Adrià’s father was a plasterer. His mother was a terrible cook. Mr. Adrià dropped out of high school. He dreamed of being a professional soccer player until, almost by accident, and with no special interest in food, he found a menial job in a restaurant.

He paid attention. When he was later drafted, at 20, into the Spanish Navy, he was chosen to cook for an admiral, a cushy gig. In the navy he also befriended a man who helped him land a job at El Bulli, a restaurant that, with two Michelin stars, was already on the map. The restaurant’s far-seeing owners regularly sent Mr. Adrià and his other staff members on international eating tours, to learn and to taste and to bring it all back home.

Mr. Adrià became El Bulli’s head chef in 1987, at the tender age of 25. Later, with a partner, he bought the place. He soon began closing the restaurant for many months a year, time he used for culinary experimentation. El Bulli received its third Michelin star in 1996. Mr. Adrià didn’t become truly internationally famous, Mr. Andrews writes, until he was profiled by Arthur Lubow in The New York Times Magazine in August 2003.

Mr. Andrews previously wrote a book on Catalan cuisine, and he has a deep understanding of Mr. Adrià’s culinary roots. He explains, as best he can, this chef’s slow and steady development. But Mr. Adrià still seems to have come out of nowhere.

How did he become the most talked-about chef on the planet? One of Mr. Adrià’s friends supplies this nugget: “His tongue is bigger than ours. He literally has a larger tongue than normal, with more papillae.”

It’s too soon to tell where Mr. Adrià’s cockeyed experimentation will lead him, or others. He is not even 50. But some of his achievements are already manifest. Thanks to him, one journalist has written, “everyone in Spain can make frozen foie gras dust.”
186 2010-10-06 Upside-down apple muffins with an irresistible sticky topping....
187 2010-10-06 HIRSCHFELD--Hannah Lissauer, passed away peacefully on October 5, 2010 at age 97. Beloved daughter, wife, mother, sister, Oma, great-grandmother and friend. Funeral service Thursday, October 7, 2010 11:15am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and...
188 2010-10-06 Henry R. Kravis, the billionaire private equity executive, has pledged $100 million to Columbia Business School, the largest gift in the school's history and the biggest donation he has ever made.     The money from Mr. Kravis, a co-founder of Koh...
189 2010-10-07 Would bankers blow up the economy if their own wealth was on the line?...
190 2010-10-07 After months of negotiations over roughly $4 billion in its debt, MGM said Thursday it had begun soliciting votes from secured lenders in support of a pre-packaged reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code....
191 2010-10-07 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the beleaguered film studio, unveiled on Thursday a bankruptcy plan under which it would hand over control to its lenders....
192 2010-10-07 Live analysis from Game 2 of the American League division series between the Yankees and the Minnesota Twins in Minneapolis....
193 2010-10-07 The price for the standard 32-page comic book will drop to $2.99 from $3.99....
194 2010-10-07 With Microsoft and Adobe having broached the topic of a potential merger, according to Bits, DealBook takes a look at what a union of the two might mean....
195 2010-10-07 Karolina Kurkova was surprised to discover what the contestants on America's Next Top Model ate....
196 2010-10-07 Microsoft's and Adobe's chief executives recently met to talk about the competitive threat from Apple....
197 2010-10-07 WIndows 7 upgrade now available again in a discounted three-pack...
198 2010-10-07 The television series "South Park" took aim at Nascar in its season premiere Wednesday night....
199 2010-10-07 Verizon Wireless says it expects to sell devices --phones and tablets--that would work on its older 3G network well into the next decade....
200 2010-10-07 By any measure, this is a buyer's market for existing businesses -- except when it comes to Web businesses....
201 2010-10-07 Researchers have offered several theories to explain these seemingly paradoxical findings. Some have faulted the increasing social isolation of medical education, training and practice. Others have pointed to the tendency for doctors to be highly critical of themselves and to blame themselves for their own illnesses. Still others, in light of the particularly high rates of suicide among female doctors, have suggested that workplace harassment may have a role.

Despite the many studies, theories and, more recently, student wellness programs and confidential mental health services offered by more and more medical schools, the grim statistics for medical students have hardly budged over the last generation. Up to a quarter of young doctors-to-be suffer from depression, more than half may be experiencing burnout, and a just more than 10 percent may be harboring thoughts of suicide.

These sobering numbers have remained unchanged in large part because our understanding of this issue has been hampered by inadequate research methodologies and insufficient financial support. We haven’t had the sophisticated tools needed to analyze the causes or appropriate interventions; and even if we did, we haven’t had the money to do anything with them.

Now two groups of researchers, using innovative methods and financed by medical school programs and departments with a keen interest in physician well-being, have published separate studies in The Journal of the American Medical Association that go beyond incidence statistics and theoretical considerations. Each study offers new findings about medical student distress and how the learning environment both fosters and exacerbates it. Read together, they offer disquieting views of the world in which tomorrow’s doctors are formed.

“There’s no arguing anymore over whether there’s a high prevalence of distress,” said Dr. Liselotte N. Dyrbye, lead author of one of the studies and an associate professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. “What’s important now is that we hold a mirror up to ourselves and ask why this is happening, because it is clearly not what we medical educators have intended.”

Previous studies have linked medical student distress to unprofessional behavior. But, as Dr. Dyrbye and her colleagues show in their research, different types of distress — professional versus personal — can have very different effects on a young doctor’s sense of what is right and wrong.

Surveying more than 2,500 medical students across the country, the researchers found that students who suffered from professional distress, more commonly referred to as burnout, a constellation of emotional exhaustion, detachment and a low sense of accomplishment, were more likely to admit to cheating on tests, lying about the status of a patient’s laboratory tests or physical exam and espousing less altruistic views regarding their role as physicians. Conversely, students who suffered from personal distress, defined as poor mental or physical quality of life or depression, were not more susceptible to these unprofessional behaviors and self-centered beliefs.

“There certainly is some overlap,” Dr. Dyrbye said. “But depression and burnout are two separate entities.”

One result of erroneously conflating the two types of distress is stigmatization of mental illness. According to the second study, conducted by researchers from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, medical students who are depressed or prone to depression often believe they are viewed as inadequate and incompetent by those around them.

“They feel this from every direction — from other medical students, faculty members, counselors, and even in their applications for residency training,” said the study’s lead author, Dr. Thomas L. Schwenk, a professor of family medicine at the University of Michigan. While depression can cause individuals to have negative and distorted views of their surroundings, “the culture of medical school makes these students also feel like they can’t be vulnerable or less than perfect.”

Given that students must compete with one another throughout medical school for postgraduate training positions, many have a difficult time admitting to any perceived weakness. For those who do and want help, there are more obstacles: with the sense that peers, faculty members and others are likely to judge distressed students as less competent, it is nearly impossible to find somewhere truly safe to turn.

But this “survival of the fittest” mentality can affect all medical students, not just those who are depressed or burned out. And it can affect patients by wearing away at a young doctor’s sense of empathy.

“If this is the way that students view each other,” Dr. Schwenk said, “how do they view their patients who are depressed or struggling with mental illness?”

More long-term studies are needed to test interventions and analyze the factors contributing to student distress. “We have to assume that starting in medical school, there’s a pipeline of experiences that leads to an increased risk of suicide,” Dr. Schwenk said. But without more evidence-based interventions, even the best intentions of medical educators will continue to do little to stem the tide of medical student distress and physician suicides.

That failure has already and will continue to come at a tremendous cost to doctors and patients. “I still believe that the people who are the most vulnerable are often the most empathic,” Dr. Dyrbye said. “They are the ones who get most attached and put the needs of the patient first.”

Dr. Dyrbye continued, “Until we know what really helps them and what works best, our learning environment will continue to eat away at our students’ empathy and altruism.”
202 2010-10-07 The Deal Professor examines a court ruling that failed to block 3M's tender offer for Cogent and whether 3M will succeed in getting a majority of the company's shares when the offer expires at midnight....
203 2010-10-07 A look at where the job openings, hires and separations are, by sector....
204 2010-10-07 A documentary on the life and career of Ayrton Senna, the great Brazilian Formula One driver, will open in theaters in Japan on Friday....
205 2010-10-07 Do not pass Go - seriously - in this satirical homage to the David Simon television drama....
206 2010-10-07 Man Group, the hedge-fund manager buying GLG Partners, rose the most in more than four months amid speculation that an unidentified U.S. bank may make an offer for the firm....
207 2010-10-07 In the last weeks of the campaign, a flood of corporate money is becoming the story as Democrats seek to shine light on where it comes from and Republicans defend the election-year spending as a constitutionally protected form of speech....
208 2010-10-07 The Washington Post Company said Sidney Harman had paid it just $1 to buy Newsweek. Meanwhile, Tina Brow addresses the rumors of a merger between the weekly magazine and The Daily Beast....
209 2010-10-07 Betfair, the world's biggest Internet betting exchange, set an indicative price range for its initial public offering that values the company at almost $2.3 billion at the top end....
210 2010-10-07 Giving up some -- possibly illusory -- short-term growth is a very reasonable price to pay for stability in the financial system, two economists write....
211 2010-10-07 Nearly two years after the revelation of Bernard Madoff's epic investment fraud, family members who were executives at his firm insist they had nothing to do with it, asking a judge on Wednesday to halt a bid to sue them for nearly $200 million....
212 2010-10-07 KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Karen McCarthy, who represented the Kansas City area in the United States House of Representatives but left amid accusations that she had misused campaign money, died Tuesday. She was 63.

Ms. McCarthy died at a nursing home in northeast Kansas, said Robert Kalkofen, manager of McGilley Midtown Chapel in Kansas City. She had been living at the home, in Johnson County, since spring 2009, when her family announced that she had Alzheimer’s disease. A family statement at the time also said that she had bipolar disorder and that it had gone undiagnosed for a decade.

Ms. McCarthy was among the handful of Democrats known as the “lucky 13” when they won in the face of the 1994 landslide that gave control of Congress to the Republican Party. She announced in late 2003 that she would not seek a sixth term.

She was elected to the Missouri House in 1976 after working as a high school teacher. In 1994 she handily beat Ron Freeman, a Republican, in the race to succeed Representative Alan Wheat, a Democrat who had stepped down to run for the Senate.

In March 2003, she fell on an escalator in a House office building and cut her head. The next day, she said she was an alcoholic and left for a monthlong stay at an Arizona rehabilitation center.

After returning, she planned to run for re-election. But with two candidates challenging her in the primary, she announced her resignation in December 2003.
213 2010-10-07 He readily admitted to being nervous — “probably more nervous doing that than taking the final shot in the game.”

Stoudemire said the Knicks signed off on the photo shoot, which was staged in California in July. The team probably will not mind the publicity as long as Stoudemire can fulfill the promise of his five-year contract and the responsibilities that come with it. The Knicks need him to score, rebound, defend and lead, and mostly to deliver a playoff berth.

He was spectacular in the Knicks’ preseason opener in Milan, but sputtered Wednesday in a 106-100 loss to the Minnesota Timberwolves. Stoudemire — or “Stoodemire” as the French announcer called him — had 11 points, 2 rebounds and 4 turnovers. He left the arena looking as if he had just stepped out of a tent at Fashion Week.

The Knicks were outrebounded, 62-35, and generally looked ragged, like a team that had been traveling through Europe for seven days and needed a break. They will get it now. They were scheduled to fly home Thursday and take Friday off before returning to practice on Saturday.

They have six more exhibition games to find a rhythm and get 10 new players fully integrated.

Raymond Felton, the new starting point guard, played an ineffective 29 minutes against Minnesota, finishing with 4 points, 4 assists and 5 turnovers. Danilo Gallinari (7 points) failed to match his energetic performance in Milan, going 3 for 13 from the field.

Two key reserves did impress: Toney Douglas had 12 points and a lot of hustle plays. The rookie Landry Fields had 13 points and continued to show a knack for making the right decisions.

The N.B.A. Europe Live schedule concludes Thursday, when F.C. Barcelona hosts the Los Angeles Lakers. Aside from added security, the games have been unaffected by the recent terror alert for American travelers. The Knicks explored museums, churches and restaurants in both Milan and Paris without restrictions.

Commissioner David Stern, speaking before the game, said the league had “taken all steps that we think are necessary and prudent to assure the safety” of the teams and league personnel.

“But we did not go into lockdown mode,” he said. “In other words, we let them enjoy the cities under our watchful eyes.”

The N.B.A. will soon open an office in Brazil and hopes to stage preseason games there in the next four years, Commissioner David Stern said before the game. There has never been an N.B.A. game in South America, which has produced a number of current N.B.A. players. ... In March, the league will hold its first regular-season games in Europe, when the Nets and the Toronto Raptors play twice in London. Stern wants to expand to Europe one day and is viewing the games as a sort of logistical trial run. He called the games “a response to lots of questions about whether we would in fact ever stage regular-season games in Europe.” The games are also intended to build momentum for the 2012 Olympic Games, which will be held in London.
214 2010-10-07 In a letter released this week, the Treasury Department inspector general said the office had opened an investigation into allegations by Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, and six other Republican senators that a senior administration official had improperly disclosed confidential taxpayer information in the case of Koch Industries during a background conference call with journalists.

Mr. Grassley called the matter “a very serious allegation.” The White House said it was a simple misunderstanding.

It grew out of a briefing that officials held for reporters in August in discussing possible changes in the tax code for corporations.

A administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity in the background briefing, pointed to Koch Industries as an example of “multibillion-dollar businesses that are structured as partnerships in ways that allow them to avoid paying sizable corporate taxes.”

Mr. Grassley, in requesting an investigation, said that the official’s statement implied “direct knowledge of Koch’s legal and tax status,” in possible violation of taxpayers’ privacy laws, and may have been “politically motivated.” The White House, in a statement, denied any improper accessing of confidential taxpayer information. “The official’s statement was not based on any review of tax filings and we will not use this example in the future,” the White House said.

As the November elections approach, Democrats have complained that well-financed conservative groups, including the Chamber of Commerce, Crossroads GPS, Americans for Prosperity, and Americans for Job Security — have improperly exploited gaps in federal tax and campaign finance law to finance attacks on Democratic candidates.

The Chamber of Commerce, for instance, was accused in a complaint filed last month by a liberal group of improperly funneling money for political work through its nonprofit arm — an assertion the chamber denies. Liberal groups are also questioning whether the chamber has allowed money from foreign corporations to be improperly used in the group’s political efforts. The chamber is spending at least $50 million this election season to promote candidates who have largely opposed increased business regulations.

The liberal blog Think Progress suggested this week that because the Chamber of Commerce’s general fund includes membership money from some foreign corporations, that money could be used in political activities in possible violation of a ban on foreign involvement in campaigns. While liberal groups like Move On quickly seized on the accusation, chamber officials said it did not use any foreign money to finance political activities, and they denounced the report as an erroneous and “desperate attempt to silence those who support free enterprise.”

Senator Baucus, the Democrat who leads the Finance Committee, asked the I.R.S. last week to conduct a broad review into “major” tax-exempt organizations to determine if any were misusing their tax-exempt status. Tax-exempt groups are banned from engaging in politics as their “primary” activity.

Mr. Baucus said “political campaigns and powerful individuals should not be able to use tax-exempt organizations as political pawns to serve their own special interests.”

But Senators Hatch and Kyl, in their own letter to the agency on Wednesday, said: “I.R.S. audits and investigations are specifically intended to be separated from the political process. We expect the I.R.S. will adhere to those standards despite requests to the contrary from high-level political officials.”
215 2010-10-07 A Motorola unit filed three lawsuits and a trade complaint against Apple, contending the maker of the iPad computer tablet and iPhone mobile phone is infringing 18 of its patents.

The complaints were filed Wednesday by Motorola Mobility, the mobile phone making unit of Motorola.

Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville, Ill., contends that Apple’s iPhone, iPad and MacBook computers infringe patents for a method for distributing message traffic, among others. Motorola seeks injunctions to block the infringement.

“Apple’s infringing activities have caused and will continue to cause Motorola irreparable harm,” according to one of the complaints in federal court in Chicago.

Motorola accused Apple of infringing six patents in a second case in Chicago. The third case, also involving six patents, was filed in federal court in Miami.

Motorola also filed a complaint with the International Trade Commission accusing Apple of infringing 18 patents.
216 2010-10-07 All teams are grappling with difficult personnel decisions dictated by the league’s salary cap. But despite dire projections in the economic downturn, the N.H.L. has had a slight rise in revenue. Without the associated rise in the cap, general managers would now be making far more draconian personnel decisions.

The results of this bright news? Corporate sponsorship is up, and American television has come calling after two decades of indifference.

HBO is fueling the run-up to the Jan. 1 Winter Classic by following the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Washington Capitals in only its second nonboxing “24/7” series. And ESPN and Fox are expected to bid for cable rights against Versus, the rights-holder from 2005 through this season. The league’s TV revenue is expected to rise, perhaps substantially, from the roughly $75 million a year it gets from Versus.

And then there is the hockey.

The N.H.L.’s 93rd season begins with five games Thursday, most notably the Carolina Hurricanes’ matchup against the Minnesota Wild in Helsinki; the Penguins’ opening of their new building, the Consol Energy Center, against the Philadelphia Flyers; and a clash of the league’s oldest teams, the Montreal Canadiens and the Maple Leafs in Toronto.

The Blackhawks were the feel-good story last season. Led by Jonathan Toews, 22, and Patrick Kane, 21, they made hockey the hottest ticket in Chicago and won their first Stanley Cup title in 49 years.

But within days, salary-cap issues forced them to begin jettisoning Dustin Byfuglien, Kris Versteeg, Brent Sopel, Ben Eager, John Madden, Cam Barker and Marty Reasoner, as well as both goalies, Antti Niemi and Cristobal Huet. It is perhaps the biggest turnover a Cup-winning team has experienced since World War II ravaged the roster of the 1942 Maple Leafs.

Pittsburgh and Washington are the league’s glamour teams. The Penguins, led by Sidney Crosby, who scored Canada’s Olympic gold-medal-winning goal, and Evgeni Malkin, are hoping to get back to the Stanley Cup finals, which they lost in 2008 and won in 2009.

Alex Ovechkin, the 48th-most powerful man in Washington, according to GQ magazine, will try to move on from the disappointing end to last season.

Ovechkin scored 50 goals and 109 points as the attack-minded Capitals won the Presidents’ Trophy as the top regular-season team. But he was also suspended twice for reckless hits, left the Olympics early when Canada trounced Russia, crashed out of the first round of the playoffs when the Capitals blew a three-games-to-one lead against Montreal, and committed the turnover that cost Russia the world championships final against the Czech Republic.

“We have to improve our mentality — we know we can play good offensively, but we have to play good defensively if we want to win,” Ovechkin said of the Capitals, although he might as well have been speaking about himself.

The Rangers begin their 85th season Saturday at Buffalo. Last season they missed the playoffs for the first time in five years, when they lost a shootout at Philadelphia in the last game. The Flyers went all the way to the Stanley Cup finals. That made Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit and Pittsburgh the only cities involved in the last three finals, a big reason playoff TV ratings have been so high after years of teams like Carolina, Anaheim and Ottawa.

But what if Olli Jokinen, now gone from New York, had hit his last shot in Philadelphia last April? Could the Rangers have wound up in the finals?

“You can’t think that way,” Coach John Tortorella said.

The Devils, who have made three straight first-round exits, have been wrestling with the salary cap after signing Ilya Kovalchuk to a 15-year, $100 million deal. The Devils, who host Dallas on Friday, were $3 million over the cap on Wednesday before making roster moves that left them with the minimum 20 players rather than the customary 23.

The Islanders open Saturday at home, also against Dallas. They cannot seem to escape the dark cloud that has followed them since 1993, the last time they advanced beyond the first round. Mark Streit, their workhorse defenseman, is out at least six months with a shoulder injury.
217 2010-10-07 Venus Williams is done for the season because of a left knee injury that has sidelined her for most of the second half of 2010. In a statement Wednesday, Williams said she was “very disappointed to announce that I will be unable to play” in the WTA Tour Championships at the end of October and the Fed Cup final between the United States and Italy in November.
218 2010-10-07 Clinton Portis, Washington’s two-time Pro Bowl running back, will be out at least a month with a groin injury, putting his future in doubt once again.

His injury leaves the Redskins with a very inexperienced backfield, too.

Coach Mike Shanahan said Wednesday that Portis had a third-degree separation of the left groin, with the muscle separated off the bone. Portis will not need surgery, and Shanahan estimated a recovery time of four to six weeks.

Portis was hurt in Sunday’s 17-12 win over the Philadelphia Eagles, when he was already starting to share more of the rushing load with Ryan Torain. Now the only two healthy tailbacks on the roster are Torain and Chad Simpson, who have combined for 70 carries in their N.F.L. careers heading into Sunday’s game against the Green Bay Packers.

KIWANUKA UNLIKELY TO PLAY The Giants are uncertain about when defensive end Mathias Kiwanuka will be able to return from a bulging disk in his neck, but it does not appear he will play Sunday in Houston. Kiwanuka, who did not play against the Bears, sought a second opinion on Tuesday. “There will be a time frame, if it’s a wait deal,” Coach Tom Coughlin said. “Once that time frame is met, then the decision would have to be made.” Kiwanuka has four sacks, tied with Osi Umenyiora for the team lead. MARK VIERA

AROUND THE LEAGUE Bears quarterback Jay Cutler was back practicing after leaving last week’s game against the Giants because of a concussion. ... Arizona Coach Ken Whisenhunt said the undrafted rookie quarterback Max Hall would make his first start Sunday against New Orleans, replacing the erratic Derek Anderson. (AP)
219 2010-10-07 “She was pretty much in a remote area, where there’s not a lot of officer traffic back there, so they probably would not have seen her,” Mr. Bell said at a news conference on Wednesday at Mount Vernon’s police headquarters.

The driver’s seat was tilted back, possibly explaining why the body went unnoticed, according to a law enforcement official.

Sergeant Scott said it was not clear how long the car had been parked where it was found. According to her family, Ms. Andrade had Type 1 diabetes, and Commissioner Bell said that preliminary results of an autopsy suggested the cause of death was an insulin overdose. But officials at the New York City medical examiner’s office said that more work was needed to make a determination. There were no signs of trauma, and no foul play is suspected.

A law enforcement official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the case was unresolved, said that Ms. Andrade “left a note with an aunt asking her to take care of her cats.”

Sergeant Scott said that Ms. Andrade was dressed in the same clothes she was believed to have been wearing when she disappeared from her home in Mount Vernon on Sept. 25.

On that day, Ms. Andrade had had a “verbal dispute” with her boyfriend, Sergeant Scott said.

“He went into another room, and when he came out, she was gone,” and so was her car, he said.

Sergeant Scott said that Ms. Andrade’s relatives said that she was four months pregnant, but that medical tests would be needed to verify that.

The Toyota was parked at the corner of Baldwin and Abbott Streets, two dead-end streets in a desolate stretch adjacent to the Bronx River and Metro-North railroad tracks, marked by low-slung industrial buildings and vast parking areas with chain-link fences. The intersection is about a block from the Mount Vernon border. The police building is used by detectives and plainclothes officers who work on gang and narcotics cases, and is not open to the public.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said the area near the police building was not normally off-limits to civilians. The vehicle was parked in a spot that was assigned to a police supervisor, though no one had been assigned to the spot in months, he said. He said the Internal Affairs Bureau checked to see if Ms. Andrade had any relationship to anyone at the police building, “and found none.”
220 2010-10-07 In recent years, the commission itself became a nest of corruption, as documented last year by the Inspector General of New York, Joseph Fisch. That investigation led to the replacement of its top officials, including both commissioners.

The commission is required to look into the background and integrity of more than 60 freight-handling, or “stevedoring,” companies, as well as individual longshoremen, before licensing them to work on the docks.

But Walter Arsenault, the commission’s executive director, said on Wednesday that for at least a decade, until this year, the agency’s checks on dock workers were so lax as to be almost meaningless.

Rather than really look into the companies, Mr. Arsenault said, the commission simply gave them temporary licenses that were renewed as a matter of routine. He said he could not say how long it had been since a company had earned a long-term license, because “There’s nobody at the commission who remembers when it was last done.”

In addition to more rigorous screening of people and companies, the commission has proposed that if a company is found unfit, it can operate only if it hires a monitor from a list of people named by the commission.

Mr. Arsenault said he could not claim that the longshoremen accused by federal prosecutors of helping smuggle more than a ton of cocaine would have been weeded out by the new licensing regimen, but he noted that the commission took part in the investigation, and suspended the men’s licenses as soon as they were charged.

But Senator Lesniak, a Democrat, said, “The Waterfront Commission right now is just trying to justify their own existence.”

Referring to the report by Mr. Fisch last year, Mr. Lesniak said of the commission, “they were cited for being corrupt, themselves.”

But Mr. Fisch said: “The Waterfront Commission of today nowhere resembles the Waterfront Commission that my office investigated. They have professionalized the office. I think it’s unwise to even consider eliminating the Waterfront Commission without affording this crew an opportunity to show what they can do.”

Officials of the International Longshoremen’s Association and several of its locals either declined to comment on Wednesday or were unavailable for comment. But some of them spoke against the changes at the commission, and even questioned the need for it, at a hearing held by Mr. Lesniak two weeks ago.

Harold J. Daggett, executive vice president of the union, said of the plan to install monitors at questionable companies — at those companies’ expense — “plain and simple, this is a tax on jobs” that “further jeopardizes the competitive balance of this port region against others.”

Mr. Arsenault said that in all likelihood, few of the companies would be required to have monitors. He also noted that over the years, elements of the union have been linked to the Genovese and Gambino crime families.
221 2010-10-07 In the bruising race for a Senate seat here in Colorado, one ad features a Denver obstetrician in her scrubs, saying women will lose control of their bodies if Ken Buck, the Republican nominee, wins. Another, from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, says privacy is at stake with a Buck victory over Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat.

The Buck campaign has said the attacks are simply an attempt to change the subject.

“The No. 1 issues are jobs and the economy, and Michael Bennet can’t run on that,” said Owen Loftus, a spokesman for the Buck campaign. “It’s a desperate effort by a desperate campaign.”

Mr. Loftus said Mr. Buck believed that life begins at conception and opposed abortion even in cases of rape and incest, as the ads say, but that his focus as a senator would be the economy.

Few Democrats think abortion alone will turn this year’s midterm elections for them; polls show Republicans leading in a generic “Which party would you vote for the Congress?” question. Here in Colorado, Democrats say the abortion issue more broadly conveys the message to moderate voters that Mr. Buck does not speak for them.

“People are growing more and more concerned about Ken Buck’s policies on the whole,” said Trevor Kincaid, a spokesman for the Bennet campaign. “Those polices are out of touch with mainstream Colorado.”

Mr. Bennet, a former city official in Denver, was appointed last year to fill a Senate seat vacated by Ken Salazar, a Democrat who is now secretary of the interior. In trying to tie social concerns to economics, Mr. Bennet on Tuesday unveiled a new agenda to advance opportunities for women, as business owners, workers and mothers. Protecting their rights to safe, legal abortion, he said, was part of that same fight.

But whether Mr. Buck is out of touch, or exactly in touch with his supporters, he has staked out some very conservative positions. He has suggested, for example, that Social Security and health care could perhaps be better handled by the private sector. (Though he later said he opposed privatizing Social Security.)

He also endorsed a ballot measure, Amendment 62, which would confer legal rights to “every human being from the beginning of biological development.” That endorsement opened him up to charges that he wants to make some common forms of contraception illegal, including birth control pills, which can hinder the attachment of embryos to the uterine wall.

Mr. Buck, a county district attorney north of Denver who is backed by the Tea Party, recently withdrew his endorsement of the “personhood” amendment, and now takes no position. His spokesman, Mr. Loftus, said at least three times in a telephone interview that Mr. Buck did not want to ban birth control pills.

But the new fight over abortion and the voting clout of women also says a lot about Colorado itself — and its contradictions.

It was among the first states in the nation, in 1967, to loosen restrictions on abortion. Then, in 1984, it became the first state to ban the use of state money for abortions in a referendum.

Women have achieved some power in politics here, but never the top jobs. Colorado currently has the highest percentage of women in its legislature in the nation — 38 percent — but has never had a woman serve as governor or United States senator.

New York Times/CBS News national polls also say that the political divide between men and women — more men than women gravitating toward Republican candidates, a pattern dating back to Ronald Reagan’s election as president in 1980 — is bigger than average heading into November. And between Mr. Bennet and Mr. Buck, that gender gap is immense. A CNN poll released in late September said that men were 15 percentage points more likely than women to support Mr. Buck, while women were 16 percentage points more likely than men to prefer Mr. Bennet.

“This isn’t a gap, it’s a canyon,” said Susan Carroll, a senior scholar at the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University, who said the average gender difference in presidential races was about seven or eight percentage points.

But whether the new ad barrage is about women, or abortion, or something else entirely, it has caught the attention of Stacy Gholz, a student who was walking through downtown Denver on a recent morning.

Ms. Gholz, 23, is the kind of voter who could decide the race. She described herself as unaffiliated and undecided, a Catholic, but a believer in abortion rights, brought up as a Republican but married to a Democrat. She voted for George W. Bush in 2004 and Barack Obama in 2008.

“I don’t think he has the right to tell a female what she can and cannot do with her body,” she said, referring to Mr. Buck. “But I’m still working it out,” she added, regarding her vote.
222 2010-10-07 Four years later, Hezbollah appears to be, if not bristling for a fight with Israel, then coolly prepared for one. It seems to be calculating either that an aggressive military posture might deter another war, as its own officials and Lebanese analysts say, or that a conflict, should it come, would on balance fortify its domestic political standing.

According to Hassan Nasrallah, the group’s leader, Hezbollah has increased its missile stocks to 40,000, compared with 13,000 during the 2006 war; Israeli defense officials do not dispute the estimate. (In 2006, Hezbollah fired about 4,000 missiles.)

Hezbollah rejoined Lebanon’s coalition government in 2008 as a full partner with veto power, a position of responsibility that many analysts say should discourage any thoughts of provoking a second destructive war with Israel. Yet, because of the party’s ties to Iran and its powerful militia, Hezbollah officials say they are ready to fight even if a war would do widespread damage.

There are other reasons that Hezbollah officials say they are feeling emboldened. Hezbollah’s patrons in Iran appear to have regained control after a year of internal challenges since the disputed June 2009 re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

Officials say Hezbollah proved to its constituents that it could quickly rebuild from the last war, completing a lavish reconstruction project with hundreds of millions of dollars in financing from Iran and donors in the Persian Gulf. Polished 10-story apartment blocks, completed this year, line the center of Haret Hreik, the Beirut suburb almost uniformly reduced to rubble because it housed many of Hezbollah’s top institutions and leaders.

New asphalt roads, designed and paid for by Iran, connect the interior and border villages of southern Lebanon — all Hezbollah areas — to the main coastal highway.

And perhaps most importantly, Lebanese analysts said, Hezbollah’s role in the government has paved the way for tighter cooperation with Lebanese intelligence units, and Lebanese officials have reportedly arrested more than 100 people suspected of being Israeli spies in the past two years.

The renaissance in southern Lebanon is on full display in Aita al Shaab. Almost destroyed in 2006, it has been ostentatiously rebuilt, and its population has increased by about 30 percent from its prewar level, to 12,000 inhabitants.

Party supporters have constructed dozens of enormous houses along the strategic hills that face the Israeli border, in areas that used to be mostly farmland. The houses, Hezbollah officials say, will complicate a future Israeli advance and could give Hezbollah fighters cover during ground combat.

United Nations peacekeepers and the Lebanese Army now patrol the hilly, wooded border, and under the terms of the United Nations resolution that ended the war, Hezbollah was supposed to demilitarize the area between the Israeli border and the Litani River, a distance of about 18 miles.

But Hezbollah appears to have done just the opposite. Its operatives roam strategic towns, interrogating foreigners and outsiders. New residents have been recruited to the border, and Hezbollah officials say they have recruited scores of new fighters, by their own estimates either doubling or tripling their ranks.

Hezbollah appears to have retained the support of the Shiite Muslims in southern Lebanon. “Hezbollah is not a foreign body. It is an organic, natural part of every house, village,” said Hussein Rumeiti, an official in Burj Qalaouay, a town where extensive fighting took place in 2006. “It is part of the Shia.”

Several independent Lebanese military analysts, who do not support Hezbollah, say they have seen evidence that Hezbollah has armed, trained and expanded its forces substantially enough to pose a major challenge to an invading Israeli force.

“We’re not wasting time,” said Mahmoud Komati, one of Hezbollah’s founders.

In addition to fortifying its ranks and replenishing its missile capacity, he said in an interview, Hezbollah has adopted a self-described policy of “strategic ambiguity” about whether it has acquired anti-aircraft capacity, advanced Scud missiles or other military equipment that could change the balance of forces with Israel. (The language consciously mirrors Israel’s doctrine of strategic ambiguity over its undeclared nuclear weapons program.)

Elaborating on themes that Hezbollah’s leader has repeatedly outlined in speeches, Mr. Komati said that the group wanted to maintain a deterrent balance with Israel. Hezbollah, he added, does not want to start the next war, only to burnish its capacity to retaliate.

“Today we are living the balance of fear,” Mr. Komati said. “This balance blocks war.”

Hezbollah also has become less coy about its strategic alliance with Syria and Iran. In the past, Hezbollah had signaled that it would not necessarily respond if one of its sponsors were attacked. Now, however, Hezbollah leaders have declared that they will find it difficult to stand aside if Israel or the United States bombs Iran’s nuclear facilities.

An assessment released last month by Jeffrey White, a former Defense Intelligence Agency official who is now a scholar at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said that a clash between Hezbollah and Israel was likely to be more destructive than the 2006 conflict and that it could rapidly escalate to draw in Syria or Iran.

Walid Sukaria, a retired general and member of Parliament who votes with Hezbollah but is not in the party, said that Israel would have to think twice before attacking any member of the “axis of resistance,” which includes Hezbollah, Syria and Iran. Hezbollah could not win such a war, Mr. Sukaria said, but could ensure enough mutual destruction to discourage Israel.

“A war would destroy Syria and Lebanon, but it would not be in Israel’s interest,” he said.

Along the border, a mixture of fatalism and bravado prevails.

Just up the hill from the Israeli hamlets of Avivim and Yir’on, an Iranian flag flutters on the ledge of the newly opened Iran Park in Marun al Ras, the Lebanese border village where Israel fought one of its first and most bruising battles in 2006.

A photograph of Iran’s president, Mr. Ahmadinejad, greets visitors to the terraced playgrounds and picnic gazebos.

“This will be the first place the Israelis destroy during the next war,” said Jihan Muselmani, 35, who was preparing a daylong picnic with her extended family from the coast.

Rabab Haidar, 28, said, “Even if they destroy it, we will build it up again.”

In Aita al Shaab, Mr. Jamil recently resumed construction on the second and third floors of his bombed house; his family has been living in the basement since 2006. A Christian friend from the neighboring village who sheltered Mr. Jamil’s family during the 2006 bombing, and who subsequently lost a leg to a cluster bomb, visited on a recent Sunday and denounced the war talk.

“We don’t want to die,” the friend said.

Mr. Jamil rebuked him. “Our destiny is to die,” he said.
223 2010-10-07 BEIJING — No one disputes Zhang Wuben’s talents as a salesman. Through television shows, DVDs and a best-selling book, he convinced millions of people that raw eggplant and immense quantities of mung beans could cure lupus, diabetes, depression and cancer.

For $450, seriously ill patients could buy a 10-minute consultation and a prescription — except Mr. Zhang, one of the most popular practitioners of traditional Chinese medicine, was booked through 2012.

But when the price of mung beans skyrocketed this spring, Chinese journalists began digging deeper. They learned that contrary to his claims, Mr. Zhang, 47, was not from a long line of doctors (his father was a weaver). Nor did he earn a degree from Beijing Medical University (his only formal education, it turned out, was the brief correspondence course he took after losing his job at a textile mill).

The exposure of Mr. Zhang’s faked credentials provoked a fresh round of hand-wringing over what many scholars and Chinese complain are the dishonest practices that permeate society, including students who cheat on college entrance exams, scholars who promote fake or unoriginal research, and dairy companies that sell poisoned milk to infants.

The most recent string of revelations has been bracing. After a plane crash in August killed 42 people in northeast China, officials discovered that 100 pilots who worked for the airline’s parent company had falsified their flying histories. Then there was the padded résumé of Tang Jun, the millionaire former head of Microsoft China and something of a national hero, who falsely claimed to have received a doctorate from the California Institute of Technology.

Few countries are immune to high-profile frauds. Illegal doping in sports and malfeasance on Wall Street are running scandals in the United States. But in China, fakery in one area in particular — education and scientific research — is pervasive enough that many here worry it could make it harder for the country to climb the next rung on the economic ladder.

China devotes significant resources to building a world-class education system and pioneering research in competitive industries and sciences, and has had notable successes in network computing, clean energy, and military technology. But a lack of integrity among researchers is hindering China’s potential and harming collaboration between Chinese scholars and their international counterparts, scholars in China and abroad say.

“If we don’t change our ways, we will be excluded from the global academic community,” said Zhang Ming, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. “We need to focus on seeking truth, not serving the agenda of some bureaucrat or satisfying the desire for personal profit.”

Pressure on scholars by administrators of state-run universities to earn journal citations — a measure of innovation — has produced a deluge of plagiarized or fabricated research. In December, a British journal that specializes in crystal formations announced that it was withdrawing more than 70 papers by Chinese authors whose research was of questionable originality or rigor.

In an editorial published earlier this year, The Lancet, the British medical journal, warned that faked or plagiarized research posed a threat to President Hu Jintao’s vow to make China a “research superpower” by 2020.

“Clearly, China’s government needs to take this episode as a cue to reinvigorate standards for teaching research ethics and for the conduct of the research itself,” the editorial said. Last month a collection of scientific journals published by Zhejiang University in Hangzhou reignited the firestorm by publicizing results from a 20-month experiment with software that detects plagiarism. The software, called CrossCheck, rejected nearly a third of all submissions on suspicion that the content was pirated from previously published research. In some cases, more than 80 percent of a paper’s content was deemed unoriginal.

The journals’ editor, Zhang Yuehong, emphasized that not all the flawed papers originated in China, although she declined to reveal the breakdown of submissions. “Some were from South Korea, India and Iran,” she said.

The journals, which specialize in medicine, physics, engineering and computer science, were the first in China to use the software. For the moment they are the only ones to do so, Ms. Zhang said.

Her findings are not surprising if one considers the results of a recent government study in which a third of the 6,000 scientists at six of the nation’s top institutions admitted they had engaged in plagiarism or the outright fabrication of research data. In another study of 32,000 scientists last summer by the China Association for Science and Technology, more than 55 percent said they knew someone guilty of academic fraud.

Fang Shimin, a muckraking writer who has become a well-known advocate for academic integrity, said the problem started with the state-run university system, where politically appointed bureaucrats have little expertise in the fields they oversee. Because competition for grants, housing perks and career advancement is so intense, officials base their decisions on the number of papers published.

“Even fake papers count because nobody actually reads them,” said Mr. Fang, who is more widely known by his pen name, Fang Zhouzi, and whose Web site, New Threads, has exposed more than 900 instances of fakery, some involving university presidents and nationally lionized researchers.
224 2010-10-07 Q. Microsoft Word sometimes crashes and I lose changes I just made to my file. What can I do?

A. To help prevent crashes, start by making sure you have installed all the available updates of Windows and Word on your computer.

Manually saving the file (the popular Control-S shortcut on Windows, or Command-S on the Mac version) is one way to retain more of your work. Although it does not replace manually saving the file at frequent intervals, recent versions of Microsoft Word include an AutoRecover function that can sometimes salvage a more recent version of a file after a crash.

To use the AutoRecover in Word 2010, go to the File menu and choose Options. On the left toolbar, click on Save. Make sure the checkbox is turned on next to “Save AutoRecover info every:” and then type the number of minutes between automatic saves of the file. The default is usually 10 minutes, but you can choose more frequent autosaves.

In Word 2007, you can get to the equivalent Save settings by clicking the Office Menu button, clicking on Word Options and clicking on Save in the left toolbar. In Word 2003, go to the Tools menu and choose Options. On most Mac OS X versions of Word, go to the Word menu, choose Preferences and click on the Save icon. The Word Options/Settings box also lets you turn on a checkbox to save a backup copy of your file on the computer; it’s in the Advanced options in Windows or the Save settings on a Mac.

After a system crash, Word’s AutoRecover function should kick in and show you the version of the file it saved on its own, which is hopefully newer than the last version you manually saved. Microsoft has more information on the AutoRecover function and where the files are kept on your computer at support.microsoft.com/kb/107686.
225 2010-10-07 Butoh, the dance form that developed in Japan in the late 1950s, was at first an approach to, or a philosophy about, movement, rather than a particular style. At early performances audiences were shocked by its dark expressionism, its emphasis on the grotesque, the shaven-headed dancers, white-painted bodies and contorted, eerily slow positions. Today that aesthetic is familiar and beloved, and Butoh’s dreamlike images and pared-down presentation has had a significant effect on Western dance.

A good deal of that familiarity is thanks to Sankai Juku, the all-male troupe that opened its first season at the Joyce Theater on Tuesday night with “Tobari,” subtitled “As if in an Inexhaustible Flux.” Founded in 1975 by Ushio Amagatsu, the company first won fame in France in the 1980s and soon became a fixture on the international touring circuit.

There is no doubt about the professionalism and accomplishment of Sankai Juku. You don’t have to know anything about Butoh to enjoy “Tobari,” which offers 90 minutes of meditative visual beauty that encapsulates all the visual markers of the form: a stark stagescape; the bald heads; the blank expressions made blanker still by the white powder that covers the dancers’ bodies; the creeping trajectories across the stage; the silent, open-mouthed cries of inexpressible anguish; the stunning physical mastery and control of the subtlest alterations in position.

Sankai Juku usually appears on bigger stages, but the intimacy of the Joyce has certain benefits for “Tobari,” which is less spectacular than many works by Mr. Amagatsu. The smaller space allows us to see up close the tiny shifts of fingers as curled tentacles or open flowers, to appreciate the infinitesimal rise from a crouch to a standing position, to feel time slowing down in the ritualized, repetitive actions.

“Tobari” takes place on a stage covered in soft white sand that gradually takes on the imprints of the men’s movements. The backdrop is a black sky, thickly studded with stars. A slightly elevated, shiny black oval in the center of the stage sometimes appears to reflect them with sparkling pinpricks of light; at other times it looks as smooth and glossy as a pond.

The work opens with one man crouching in a circle of light on a dark stage, the music a low hum as he slowly rises, face upturned, one hand lifted overhead. As he slowly sinks back, another figure appears from the darkness, and then a third. This emergence from nothingness and disappearance back into it is the fundamental theme of Mr. Amagatsu’s work, and perhaps of Butoh itself. It applies to both humans and nature, to our personal insignificance and equal importance in an unbreakable cycle.
226 2010-10-07 EPAULET in Brooklyn has opened a pop-up shop on the Lower East Side featuring new collaborations at 151 Orchard Street (at Stanton Street); (212) 477-1018; epauletshop.com. A party will be held tonight, from 7 to 9:30, to introduce the slim-fitting Gitman Vintage for Epaulet shirts (pictured, Loden, Ultraviolet Tartan, $165). Coming: a shawl-collar hand-knit cardigan made in a seven-person workshop on Prince Edward Island ($325); Thorogood No. 685 Boot, handcrafted in Merrill, Wis. ($245); Epaulet & Staple special-edition rivet chinos made with brushed cotton twill from Japan ($165). The store will close Oct. 30.
227 2010-10-07 ISSEY MIYAKE is in the details of the new Bao Bao collection (pictured, $615), which builds on his popular Bilbao style. The bag doesn’t arrive until November, but already there is a waiting list. It will be sold at the recently renovated Pleats Please at 128 Wooster Street (at Prince Street); (212) 226-3600; isseymiyake.com.

The new space is designed by Clouds Architecture Office, the architects Ostap Rudakevych and Masayuki Sono, whose recent projects include the Staten Island September 11 Memorial. The bag will also be sold at TriBeCa Issey Miyake at 119 Hudson Street (North Moore Street), which features a titanium sculpture by Frank Gehry.
228 2010-10-07 SARI-DRAPING tutorials and tea service are among the perks offered by Soigné Kothari at her new Madison Avenue boutique, Soigne K at 717 Madison Avenue (at 63rd Street); (212) 486-2890;

soignek.com. The first floor of the sleek minimalist space carries high-end dresses by contemporary Indian designers including Rohit Gandhi and Rahul Khanna (who made the dress worn by Ms. Kothari, right; $660). Upstairs has traditional evening wear and lavish Indian dresses by designers like Tarun Tahiliani, who designed Elizabeth Hurley’s wedding sari.

The store also carries jewelry designed by Ms. Kothari and others, including bamboo rings ($148) and semiprecious necklace sets with faceted black and green onyx ($1,300).
229 2010-10-07 The judge delayed the trial’s opening until Tuesday, allowing the government to adjust its strategy or appeal the ruling. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the government would be examining the judge’s opinion and deciding how to react to it.

Speaking in Washington, Mr. Holder seemed to play down the ruling’s significance.

“We are talking about one ruling, in one case by one judge,” Mr. Holder said.

“I think the true test is, ultimately, how are these cases resolved? What happens?” he continued, adding, “Can they be successfully resolved from the government’s perspective?”

Mr. Holder said history had shown that hundreds of terrorism and related cases had been resolved through pleas or convictions in civilian court. “I think it’s too early to say that at this point the Ghailani matter is not going to be successful,” he said.

Mr. Ghailani’s trial on charges he conspired in the embassy bombings in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, was scheduled to begin on Wednesday. The attacks, orchestrated by Al Qaeda, killed 224 people.

After Mr. Ghailani was captured in 2004, he spent nearly five years in C.I.A. custody in so-called black sites and later at the military prison at Guantánamo.

Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers — Peter E. Quijano, Steve Zissou and Michael K. Bachrach — had argued that their client was tortured while in C.I.A. custody, and that any statements he made or evidence derived from those statements, including testimony from the witness whose existence he disclosed, was tainted and inadmissible.

After the hearing on Wednesday, Mr. Quijano praised the ruling, saying, “This case will be tried upon lawful evidence, not torture, not coercion.”

He said the Fifth Amendment had to apply to Mr. Ghailani as much as to any other defendant.

“It is the Constitution that won a great victory today,” Mr. Quijano said. “We applaud the court for its courage and support for the law.”

Prosecutors say the disputed witness, Hussein Abebe, sold Mr. Ghailani the TNT used to blow up the embassy in Dar es Salaam. They say that Mr. Abebe agreed voluntarily to testify against Mr. Ghailani, and that his decision to cooperate was linked only remotely to the interrogation.

Mr. Abebe had been characterized by prosecutors as a “giant witness for the government.” On Friday, a prosecutor, Michael Farbiarz, explained in court that without Mr. Abebe’s testimony about selling the TNT to Mr. Ghailani, “the government has no way of putting such evidence in front of the jury at all.”

But in a three-page order, Judge Kaplan said that “the government has failed to prove that Abebe’s testimony is sufficiently attenuated from Ghailani’s coerced statements to permit its receipt in evidence.”

The judge said he felt it was appropriate to emphasize that the trial was still proceeding, and that if Mr. Ghailani were convicted he faced the possibility of life imprisonment.

He added that Mr. Ghailani’s status of “enemy combatant” probably would permit his detention as something akin “to a prisoner of war until hostilities between the United States and Al Qaeda and the Taliban end, even if he were found not guilty.”

The judge said he would issue a fuller opinion later.

Karen J. Greenberg, executive director of the Center on Law and Security at New York University who observed the hearings on Mr. Abebe and is a strong advocate for trying detainees in civilian court, characterized the order as a “step forward for the rule of law, and therefore it cannot be a setback for the government.”

“We now know that there are lines when it comes to torture, and this is one,” she added.

Judge Kaplan has not ruled on whether Mr. Ghailani was mistreated while in detention, but, in his decision, said he assumed for the purpose of his analysis that Mr. Ghailani was coerced during interrogation. The ruling excluding Mr. Abebe’s testimony will probably make the government’s case more complicated to prove and the trial longer.

During the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. Obama opposed the Guantánamo detention complex, calling it a recruiting symbol for terrorists. He initially ordered Guantánamo closed by January 2010, and later declared his intention to try terrorism suspects in federal court whenever feasible, igniting a debate over whether the civilian or the military system was better for such cases.

Critics of relying on the civilian system have said that defendants who have been held and interrogated as war criminals could be successfully prosecuted only by military tribunals or courts, with their less restrictive rules of evidence.

The judge did not elaborate on his observation that Mr. Ghailani could be detained in the military system if he were acquitted, but the comment spurred some debate among legal experts.

Ben Wizner, a senior lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, said the conventional wisdom about the Ghailani case was that the justice system works if he is convicted and fails if he is acquitted.

“But that’s not how we measure the effectiveness of a criminal justice system,” Mr. Wizner said. “The question is whether the government can present its case and whether the defendant can get a fair trial.”

Attorney General Holder, asked if the government was considering returning Mr. Ghailani to the military system and holding him indefinitely, replied, “We intend to proceed with this trial.”
230 2010-10-07 KEANSBURG, N.J. — If you tune in to any of this week’s candidate debates around the country, or watch any of the ads that are beginning to dominate the airwaves, you will hear that next month’s midterm elections are about all the things you probably thought they were about: job losses and federal spending, the health care law and the Obama agenda.

And yet, if Democrats lose their grip on Congress in November, President Obama will become the third consecutive president to see his party tossed from power on his watch — a sequence that has never happened before in the country’s tumultuous political history. This suggests that however much the issues of the moment may seem to be defining these elections, there are some deeper forces at work, too.

A conversation among a group of independent voters in this working-class town may illuminate at least one such longer-term trend.

The fast growth in the number of independent voters — a broad category that includes those who choose not to register with a major party even though they tend to identify with one more than the other, as well as a lot who are skeptical of both — has been making American politics more volatile. According to a Pew Center poll a few weeks ago, the Republican advantage at the moment is mostly grounded in the party’s 13-point lead among independents, which is about the same margin by which those voters supported Democratic candidates in 2006 and Mr. Obama in 2008.

In other words, independent voters have tended to side with whichever party can legitimately claim not to be in charge at the moment, and ideology doesn’t have a whole lot to do with it.

This tends to make strategists in both parties insane, since they spend most of their time trying to draw out the contrasts between the two parties, and it seems to them that the least the voters could do is pick a side and stick with it.

Democratic and Republican pollsters try to understand these voters by trapping groups of them behind panels of two-way mirrors and asking them lots of multiple-choice questions about the parties and the issues. Whom do they trust to handle the economy? Who stands up more to the “special interests?” That kind of thing.

But three New York consultants who specialize in corporate marketing, taking on tasks like predicting the behavior of shoppers in supermarkets, have been experimenting with a different approach. The three — Jeff Levine, a pollster who has worked for Democratic candidates, and the marketing consultants Claire Tondreau and Christopher Brace — have been convening small groups of self-identified independent voters who are friends or relatives of one another for focus groups in a participant’s living room.

No campaign or client is sponsoring the research, and no one is looking to “move” the voters with slogans or ad scripts. In fact, very little, if anything, is even mentioned about partisan politics. Instead, the facilitator asks the half-dozen or so voters to invent their own countries and to compare their idealized versions with the country they actually live in.

The focus group that met here in New Jersey on Monday included a bartender, a lawyer and a school bus driver. The dominant theme of the discussion, in which jobs and taxes came up only in passing, seemed to be the larger breakdown of civil society — the disappearance of common courtesy, the relentless stream of data from digital devices, the proliferation of lawsuits and the insidious influence of media on their children.

One woman described a food fight at the middle school that left a mess school employees were obliged to clean up, presumably because the children couldn’t be subjected to physical labor. A man complained about drivers who had grown increasingly hostile and inconsiderate on the roads, which drew nods of assent all around. Another described the Internet as just plain “bad.”

The economy was discussed mostly in connection with these other stresses. “We all think that if we had a lot of money,” one woman said, “everything would slow down and we could enjoy ourselves.”

These voters did not hate politicians. They simply saw both parties, along with the news media and big business, as symptoms of the larger societal ailment. And this underlying perception, that politicians in Washington conduct themselves just as childishly and with the same lack of accountability as the students throwing chicken casserole in the lunchroom, may well be the principal emotion behind the electorate’s propensity to vote out whoever holds power.

Bill Clinton certainly thought so, which is why his rhetorical emphasis on personal responsibility resonated with many independent voters. But as president, Mr. Clinton immediately found himself pulled into polarizing debates (gays in the military, “Hillarycare,” and so on) that contributed to his party’s undoing in the 1994 midterm elections. The same thing ultimately happened to George W. Bush, who promised a return to civility and core values and ended up running a White House in which every issue, from war to welfare, was heavily politicized. Now the tide threatens to swamp Mr. Obama, whose stirring call to “put away childish things” seems 100 years in the past.

Modern presidents win elections by promising to reform Washington, to make it more ennobling and more responsive to Americans overwhelmed by the speed of change. But once they are elected, they find themselves sucked into the capital’s partisan culture, caught up in familiar debates while the people who supported them struggle with a growing sense of chaos. And so the voters rebel again.
231 2010-10-07 Dr. Negishi, a Japanese citizen who has lived and worked in the for 50 years, said an early-morning phone call from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which awards the Nobels, did not catch him completely by surprise.

“There have been some people who have been mumbling about that,” he said during a Webcast news conference after the announcement, “and I began thinking of this and that.”

Drugs, plastics and many other industrial chemicals consist of large carbon-based molecules. However, getting one carbon atom to bind to another is often not an easy task. Nearly a century ago, a French chemist named Victor Grignard found that coupling a magnesium atom to a carbon atom pushed additional electrons to the carbon atom, making it easier to bond with another carbon atom.

That method worked, but not always perfectly, sometimes producing too many unwanted byproducts.

In 1968, Dr. Heck, working at Hercules Inc. in , Del., reported new chemical reactions that used palladium as the key ingredient for shepherding carbons together, but drawbacks included the need for an expensive palladium salt.

A Japanese chemist, Tsutomu Mizoroki, made a further advance in devising the first example of what is now known as the Heck or Mizoroki-Heck reaction. Dr. Heck, who had moved to the University of Delaware, improved on Dr. Mizoroki’s work, making the reactions more practical. The Heck reaction is used in the manufacturing of the painkiller naproxen, sold under various brand names including .

In 1977, Dr. Negishi used compounds to ease the mingling of carbon atoms on palladium, and two years later, Dr. found that boron compounds worked even better. With the palladium catalyst, the compounds can often be produced at lower temperatures with fewer solvents, reducing cost and waste.

“Palladium has this magic property that it can bind two different carbons, make them come very close together and then they react under very mild conditions,” Lars Thelander, chairman of the chemistry prize committee, said in an interview during the Nobel Webcast.

“It took all the way until 1990 before people really started to realize how great these things were,” he said. “And then it has just developed very quickly.”

Dr. Thelander said the committee had been thinking about awarding a Nobel for the palladium work for some years. “It is quite a complicated field and many players,” he said. “It took us quite a while to really sort out who was the real first ones and the ones worthy of the prize.”

Dr. Heck told The Associated Press, “I published this work in the early days; it just took a while for it to get appreciated.” He said the Nobel was “a nice thing to have, but I don’t think this is going to change my life.”

Another advance in the field ties in with this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics, which honored the discovery of atom-thin sheets of carbon known as graphene. Scientists recently attached palladium to graphene and then immersed it in water to carry out the Suzuki reaction.
232 2010-10-07 The radical challenge presented to the engineers at Bose, who've dealt with their share of radical challenges through the years, was to incorporate a high-quality, surround-sound audio system invisibly inside a flat-panel television set.     Dr. A...
233 2010-10-07 AITA AL SHAAB, Lebanon -- It was from this shrub-ringed border town that Hezbollah instigated its war with Israel in 2006, and supporters of the militant Shiite movement sound almost disappointed that they have not fought since.     ''I was expect...
234 2010-10-07 HIRSCHFELD--Hannah Lissauer, passed away peacefully on October 5, 2010 at age 97. Beloved daughter, wife, mother, sister, Oma, great-grandmother and friend. Funeral service Thursday, October 7, 2010 11:15am, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and...
235 2010-10-08 Air Products won an important decision in its takeover quest for Airgas as a judge in Delaware Chancery Court upheld a new bylaw that would move up the Airgas annual meeting....
236 2010-10-08 Nanex, the data provider, published a new analysis on Friday that contends that the single trade identified by regulators as touching off the stock market plunge on May 6 could not have been the cause....
237 2010-10-08 3M received 52 percent of Cogent's shares in its tender offer for the fingerprint identification company, despite opposition from some shareholders who thought 3M should make a higher bid than $10.50 a share....
238 2010-10-08 Larry Wilcox, a onetime TV actor on "CHiPs," has been accused of securities fraud, drawing attention to his penny-stock company. But what that company, the UC Hub Group, actually does is an open question....
239 2010-10-08 Our TimesOpen 2.0 series continued this week with our second event, where we talked about all things Open Government....
240 2010-10-08 One day after earning the endorsement of Bill Raggio, a Nevada state senator, the Senate majority leader landed the support of Dema Guinn....
241 2010-10-08 In spite of the unsettled situation in Baghdad, the affluent private sector is stepping in, taking bold initiatives....
242 2010-10-08 A tie vote goes to those opposed to selling the 87-year-old structure....
243 2010-10-08 Liu Xiaobo, 54, is the first Chinese citizen to win the Peace Prize and one of three people to have received it while incarcerated....
244 2010-10-08 In a lawsuit, Caitlin Sanchez, now 14, says she was rushed into signing a contract that denied her merchandising revenue and other fees she was promised for her work on the show....
245 2010-10-08 Since the downturn began in December 2007, the economy has shed, on net, about 5.6 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs....
246 2010-10-08 The dean of admission at Connecticut College calls the teacher recommendation the "wild card'' in the college application, and argues that sometimes the best reference letters come from teachers of classes in which the student struggled....
247 2010-10-08 The complete text of a statement experts on China say was written by Liu Xiaobo, a dissident who has been awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize while serving an 11-year jail term....
248 2010-10-08 Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway's billionaire chairman, said he avoids acquiring companies from leveraged-buyout firms because they focus on "exit strategy," Bloomberg News reported....
249 2010-10-08 The European Commission has spelled out its vision for taxing the financial sector, with a suggested two tax policy that it says would help fund development, fight against climate change and better combat the global economic crisis....
250 2010-10-08 Initial public offerings from the logistics unit of the Singapore wealth fund G.I.C. and a Philippine budget airline drew strong demand from investors, Reuters reported....
251 2010-10-08 Following up its exhibition of Flemish painting last year, the Musée Jacquemart-André in Paris has opened a new show that highlights the cross-fertilization of Flemish and French art, particularly in the works of Rubens and Poussin....
252 2010-10-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
253 2010-10-08 Société Générale's chief of communications told French radio that making Jérôme Kerviel pay the 4.9 billion euro fine decided Tuesday by a French court was "out of the question."...
254 2010-10-08 George Soros said that the United States financial regulation bill did not address the problem of a banking system that was "too connected to fail."...
255 2010-10-08 The Treasury Department announced a $1.5 billion lending initiative to promote small businesses at the state level....
256 2010-10-08 The International Securities Exchange is planning to start a second exchange for trading American stock options, The Wall Street Journal reported....
257 2010-10-08 Investcorp, the Bahrain-based investment bank, plans to float Moneybookers, the fast-growing European online payment firm it tried to sell last year, Reuters reported on Thursday....
258 2010-10-08 PRAGUE — Milka Planinc, the prime minister of the former Yugoslavia in the early 1980s and its first female premier, died Thursday in Zagreb. She was 85.

The Croatian state-run news agency HINA, quoting family sources, said Mrs. Planinc died in a clinic after a long illness.

Mrs. Planinc (pronounced plah-NEENTZ) was relatively unknown in Belgrade diplomatic circles when she was catapulted into the premiership of Yugoslavia in 1982 at the age of 58.

She was an early loyalist of Josip Broz Tito, the long-serving president of Yugoslavia.

As leader of the Communist Party in Croatia in the early 1970s, she helped crush the Croatian independence movement, purging nationalists and separatists and arresting dissidents, including the future Croatian president, Franjo Tudjman.

As prime minister of Yugoslavia from 1982 to 1986, she was credited with putting in place austerity measures that helped reduce the country’s debt, even as war, deprivation and the future disintegration of Yugoslavia loomed on the horizon.

A 1985 profile in The New York Times said that a poll had found Mrs. Planinc to be the most popular political leader in Yugoslavia.
259 2010-10-08 The Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in Citizens United has absorbed the bulk of the attention when it comes to recent changes on the campaign finance landscape.

But a series of other legal changes this year have also had an impact.

Fallout from another important case, Speechnow.org v. Federal Election Commission, is still emerging. In that decision, a federal court of appeals struck down individual contribution limits to independent groups that want to explicitly urge a vote for or against a candidate.

The decision, along with a pair of advisory opinions issued by the election commission, has led to the emergence this year of so-called super-PACs, or, technically, independent expenditure-only political action committees. They are able to engage expressly in advocacy and to accept unlimited contributions from corporations and individuals but must register with the elections commission and regularly disclose their donors.

More than three dozen groups have organized themselves in this manner. So far, however, they have still been mostly overshadowed by nonprofit groups organized under section 501(c) of the tax code, which include social welfare organizations, labor unions and trade associations. The popularity of those groups among political operatives is rooted in the fact that the Internal Revenue Service does not require them to disclose their donors.

The groups’ ability to protect the privacy of their donors was strengthened in August by a little-noticed statement released by the elections commission’s three Republican members.

A regulation requires groups to disclose, soon after the broadcast of an “electioneering” television commercial, the names of the donors who gave for the purpose of “furthering electioneering communications.” Even under this rule, many groups were still not regularly disclosing donors, contending that they had contributed for general purposes.

The Republican commissioners weakened the disclosure rule further, however, by concluding that donors have to be revealed only if they give for a specific advertisement. And because the commission is evenly split along party lines, the statement effectively loosened disclosure rules.
260 2010-10-08 At least 200 fishermen were missing after 15 fishing boats capsized in the Bay of Bengal during a storm, boat operators said Thursday. A wall of water whipped up by strong winds also flooded coastal areas, forcing about 150,000 people to flee their homes, officials said. A storm surge over the past two days has sent five-foot waves crashing into towns and villages along the coast, breaching embankments, washing away homes, flooding roads and leaving thousands homeless.
261 2010-10-08 HAVANA (Reuters) — Cubans faced a harsh new reality this week — dismissal slips — as the government began paring state payrolls in a cost-cutting move that has created job insecurity for the first time in years in the Communist country.

Workers were being laid off in countless industries, from hospitals to hotels, and in the biggest action to be made public so far, employees at a state-owned enterprise, the Special Protection Services Company, were told that the company would be shut down and 23,000 people let go.

It was the beginning of President Raúl Castro’s plan to cut 10 percent of the government’s work force, or about 500,000 people, by April in the most significant overhaul attempted since he succeeded his older brother, Fidel Castro, in 2008.

The layoffs, intended to improve efficiency and reduce Cuba’s budget deficits, are the first major job cuts since the 1960s. About 85 percent of the Cuban labor force works for the state, or more than five million people, many of them in unproductive jobs. The country’s population is about 11 million.

Not all Cubans, accustomed to guaranteed employment, have been taking the news in stride.

At the Havana Libre Hotel, where many jobs are being eliminated, Communist Party officials had to be brought in to calm down workers, hotel employees said.
262 2010-10-08 “Jim” is two or maybe three movies in one. There’s an angry downsizing drama, a sort of “Falling Down” for the derivatives age, that overlaps with a cautionary tale about modern medicine and genetic engineering, and these connect in a hazy way to a dystopian science-fiction fantasy set on a future earth populated by clones. What they all share is a reliance on cliché and a limited visual imagination that is aggravated, in the science-fiction segments, by the film’s minuscule budget.

To be fair, Jeremy Morris-Burke, a theater designer, began writing “Jim” as a play before deciding to teach himself how to make a movie, and this indie project — produced with his wife, Vanessa — represents his feature debut as writer, director, photographer and editor. He deserves praise for getting it made at all, and he does a good job of keeping the story straight as he moves back and forth among three distinct timelines. Unfortunately, each narrative strand is so packed with straight-out-of-writing-class dialogue that the film feels longer than its hour-and-46-minute running time.

Ms. Morris-Burke, a New York stage actress who, in addition to her producing duties, plays the wife (or former wife, depending on how you look at it) of the unemployed and debt-ridden protagonist, stands out in the small cast.

Written, directed and edited by Jeremy Morris-Burke; director of photography, Mr. Morris-Burke; music by Alexandre Tannous; production design by Suzanne Wang and Michael Byrnes; costumes by Rabiah Troncelliti; produced by Vanessa Morris-Burke and Mr. Morris-Burke; released by Area 23a. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes. This film is not rated.
263 2010-10-08 Federal officials have denied the state’s request to hunt endangered gray wolves in response to the predators’ increasing attacks on livestock and big-game herds. The state hoped to use a loophole in the federal Endangered Species Act and hold a “conservation hunt” for up to 186 wolves this fall. Daniel Ashe, United States Fish and Wildlife Service deputy director, denied the request on Thursday, saying that his agency supported sport hunting of wolves, but that it would not expect approval of Montana’s proposal to survive a legal challenge. A federal judge in August restored wolves in Montana and Idaho to the endangered species list after a lawsuit from environmentalists.
264 2010-10-08 Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.

In the 1970s, Barbara and Emily Hong of San Mateo dared only whisper about the man who visited the young sisters’ modest rented duplex on Second Avenue. “We referred to him as J. L. so people wouldn’t know who we were talking about,” said Barbara Hong, now 48.

At a time when Lennon’s life was a frenzy of rock music celebrity, he and his wife, Yoko Ono, took a detour from the limelight to San Mateo, forming an unlikely bond with the Hongs, a Chinese immigrant family, that lasted for years.

The Lennons also saved the family from destitution.

The story of this relationship has come to light on the eve of what would have been Lennon’s 70th birthday on Saturday, had he not been struck down by an assassin’s bullet in 1980. It is a previously unreported chapter in the biography of a public figure whose life has been dissected for decades.

The two families became acquainted around 1970, according to the Hong sisters, who were 8 and 9 years old at the time. The exact date is hazy, their memories viewed through the lens of childhood.

The families’ encounters are documented in a treasure trove of memorabilia and photographs. In the images, you can witness the evolution of Ms. Ono’s hairstyles from lengthy hippie strands to a short matronly bob. Lennon drew scribbles for the girls, images that elsewhere hang in galleries.

Yuan Bain Hong, the family’s Shanghai-born patriarch, was a practitioner of Chinese herbal medicine and acupuncture for spiritual and physical cleansing and healing, a novel concept in the United States in the ’70s. Emily Hong believes that an editor at Rolling Stone magazine, which was based in San Francisco, became familiar with her father’s work and spread the word in the music community. Keith Moon, the drummer for The Who, came for treatments, and eventually so did Lennon and Ms. Ono.
265 2010-10-08 What is a hero? For some, it’s a graffiti artist who turns tags into sculptures. For others, it’s a chef who dares to cook with real butter. For misers, it’s both, and more, at heroically low prices.

On Saturday Carlos Rodriguez, the artist known as Mare 139, discusses the evolution of his work from subway graffiti to public sculptures at an informal tour of his show “Freestyle Archityper 2” at Raw Space Gallery in Chelsea (3 to 5 p.m., 148 11th Avenue, at 21st Street). The exhibition is one of several free dance, theater and art shows taking place between Lower Manhattan and Harlem during the 10th annual NYC Hip-Hop Theater Festival, through Oct. 16. (For more events: hhtf.org/2010; 718-497-4282.)

A new documentary about John Lennon in New York emphasizes his life, not his death. In addition to home movies, Michael Epstein’s “LennonNYC” features footage from studio sessions and interviews with the musicians and recording engineers who worked with Lennon during the 1970s. Central Park SummerStage presents a free screening on Saturday, what would have been Lennon’s 70th birthday, in advance of the film’s official debut on PBS’s “American Masters” television series on Nov. 22. (7 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street; thirteen.org/lennon)

The Onassis Cultural Center in Manhattan invites you to compare your ideas of a modern-day hero with those represented by the Classical Greek artwork in its latest exhibition, “Heroes: Mortals and Myths in Ancient Greece.” Achilles and Ajax play a board game outside Troy; Odysseus escapes the Cyclops; and Alexander the Great shines in gold among the more than 90 pieces that make up the show. (Through Jan. 3; Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; 645 Fifth Avenue, at 51st Street; 212-486-4448, onassisusa.org; free.)

The Food Network’s 2010 New York City Wine and Food Festival is alive and cooking this week. Tastings and demonstrations range from $10 to hundreds of dollars. But at the Standard Hotel, talks with some of the city’s culinary heavyweights cost nothing. On Saturday contributors to Feast, a blog about the New York restaurant scene, talk with Tom Colicchio, of both Craft and “Top Chef,” and the pastry chef Christina Tosi, among others, beginning at 1:30 p.m. Or stop by the Blogger Lounge, where food personalities will be chatting up the editors of Eater, another dining blog, on Saturday and Sunday, from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (848 Washington Street, at West 13th Street, meatpacking district; nycwineandfoodfestival.com).
266 2010-10-08 “You kind of feel like you’re one of the chosen people,” Mr. McNaughton said.

Precisely. It is all part of an unprecedented effort by federal, state and local governments to stimulate demand for cars that have zero tailpipe emissions — and Nissan’s pre-emptive bid to corner the all-electric market much the way that dominated the early hybrid market with the Prius.

The government subsidies are shaving thousands of dollars off the Leaf’s $32,780 sticker price, while other benefits are piling up, like free parking in some cities and the use of express lanes on highways usually reserved for cars with multiple passengers.

In Tennessee, where a Leaf assembly plant is being built, Leaf drivers will be able to charge their vehicles free at public charging stations on 425 miles of freeways that connect Nashville, and .

“It’s almost shocking how many subsidies are available on the Leaf,” said Jeremy P. Anwyl, chief executive of the auto research Web site . “We are putting a lot of money behind this technology.”

Nissan expects the typical Leaf buyer to fit a highly desirable demographic: affluent, college-educated consumers in their mid-40s who are both environmentally sensitive and willing to take a chance that electric technology will be as safe and reliable as internal combustion engines.

Better still, about 85 percent of the people who have reserved a Leaf do not currently own a Nissan, giving the brand exposure to a new audience. Interest in the car has been so great that the company has stopped taking reservations for the initial production run — the Leaf is being built in , with assembly at the new plant in Tennessee beginning in 2012 — but Nissan has plans to sell as many as 500,000 electric cars worldwide by 2013.

The Obama administration has made electric vehicles a centerpiece of its drive to reduce the nation’s reliance on oil, and is pumping up subsidies with a goal of getting a million electric cars on the road by 2015. Proponents of electric cars also point to their zero tailpipe emissions, though the electricity to charge the cars creates emissions.

So far the only electric cars available in the are made by small companies, like , and are prohibitively expensive for most buyers (the is priced at over $100,000). Other automakers are in various stages of introducing electric vehicles to the market, and is preparing to bring out the , a $41,000 model that runs on electricity but is not all-electric because it has a gas engine to extend its driving range.

So for now, at least, the Leaf, which Nissan claims can travel 100 miles on a single battery charge, has the stage pretty much to itself. So Nissan is dedicating extensive resources to the introduction and is taking consumer outreach to new lengths.

The company has studied potential buyers in focus groups, on Internet dialogues and at Leaf “tour stops” at shopping malls across the country. Nissan has even hired a firm to make “home visits” to prospective buyers to make sure their garages are properly equipped for charging the vehicle and to answer other questions.

“These people are the visionaries who see the opportunity and want to be a part of it,” Trisha Jung, chief marketing manager for the Leaf, said of the customers who had reserved a Leaf. “They will be demonstrating every day that this is a practical technology.”

Mr. McNaughton, the Nashville lawyer, said he was unaware that he had even applied for a free 240-volt charging station for his home. But by filling out a questionnaire, he was selected to be one of 5,700 new Leaf owners to get the charging unit. In exchange, he agreed to let the EV Project — a $230 million national program financed by various government agencies, utilities and corporations — monitor his battery-charging habits.

A 240-volt home charging unit can give the vehicle a full charge in about eight hours, Nissan says.

Ken Muir, an engineer in , Calif., had a similar surprise when he first saw the Leaf at a mall last year. After mentioning his interest to a Nissan employee, he was contacted by the head of Nissan’s West Coast communications team, who arranged for Mr. Muir to get a personal test drive.

After putting down his $99 deposit, Mr. Muir met for an hour in his home with a technician from Nissan’s supplier of charging stations. “It’s been really amazing to get this amount of personal attention from a huge car company like Nissan,” he said.

He is also a bit giddy about the level of financial support he will get — the $7,500 federal tax credit as well as a $5,000 credit from the state of , and another $2,000 federal credit toward the purchase of a charging unit.

“I’ve wanted an electric car for 10 years, but I never expected it to make this much economic sense to get one,” Mr. Muir said.

The car itself will keep Nissan connected to its customers long after they drive it off the lot. A communication module installed in the Leaf’s -ion battery will send data to Nissan that monitors the condition of the battery and how it is being used. “It’s not a ‘Big Brother’ thing,” said Mark Perry, head of North American product planning for Nissan. If Nissan sees that a battery cell “has behaved outside the norm, we want to call you or e-mail you and say, ‘Come on in and let’s check it out.’ ”

The first Leafs go on sale in December in five states — California, , , and Tennessee, all of which are places where the EV Project is building charging stations.
267 2010-10-08 ABOUT This house, which is in turn-key condition, has been home to two writers, originally from New York City, for about six years. The couple credit the property’s surrounding 2.16 gently wooded acres for the sense of privacy — and for their toddler’s first word, “deer.” At the back of the property is an elevated area suitable as a building site for a studio or guest cottage. The property also has a fieldstone patio and large front porch. Next door, partly visible above an attractive twig-art fence, is another home.

Until the 1940s, when it was converted to a dwelling, the house was a small barn. Its exposed ceiling beams, large antique windows and wide-plank floors lend warmth and character to the open floor plan. At one end is a custom kitchen with stainless-steel appliances and butcher-block countertops. The dining area is at the center of the room, and the living area with a woodstove is at the far end. Off this space is a small room that can be used as a bedroom or office. The bathroom, with a tub surrounded by cedar walls, large viewing window and a washer/dryer, is on this floor.

From the center of the main level is a staircase that leads to the second floor, added in the 1980s. Here there are two bedrooms. Both have vaulted ceilings. The master has windows on three sides and a built-in air-conditioner. The second bedroom has a wall of floor-to-ceiling windows.

THE AREA The house is in Ulster County, about two hours from New York City. Shopping and services are about a mile away in the village center. Music and the arts, including the Woodstock Byrdcliffe Guild, the Maverick Concert series and the Woodstock Film Festival are a consistent draw for visitors and residents of the area. Hiking and swimming are minutes away.

THE MARKET This house is representative of entry-level pricing. The midmarket ranges from $450,000 to about $850,000. And more than 20 properties are for sale at the high end, from $1 million to $5 million.
268 2010-10-08 Anna Nagy, a spokeswoman for the Hungarian government, said that as the remnants of the sludge spill approached Budapest on Thursday night, the pH in the water was 8.1, within normal range and safe for fish and plants. “It has come down to a great extent,” from its high of 12 to 13 at the accident site, she said, adding, “so it seems the techniques and measures have been successful.”

The wave of dangerous red sludge that bored through the Ajka area on Monday, killing at least four people and sending more than 100 to the hospital with chemical burns, was still being diluted Thursday by a mix of natural forces and government cleanup efforts.

As the leading edge of the industrial waste, known as red mud, was carried to progressively larger rivers, its effects were diminished, although all life died immediately in the streams and river near the spill. There, Hungarian scientists had sought to neutralize the effect of the caustic alkaline substance by adding acidic material. The United States Environmental Protection Agency normally defines corrosive chemicals with a pH of 12.5 or greater as hazardous waste.

When the leading edge of the spill reached the main Danube around noon on Thursday, said officials from WWF-Hungary, a conservation group, it was still highly alkaline, with a pH of 9.8, far higher than is normal in the river. It was apparently further neutralized as the remnants of the sludge mixed with the waters of the mighty Danube.

“I would still expect the effects to remain within Hungary,” said Gabor Figeczky, the acting chief executive officer of WWF-Hungary.

On Thursday, some government officials said there had been no reports of fish deaths in the Mosoni Danube, a small branch river that runs parallel to the main river in a part of Hungary. But Mr. Figeczky said colleagues at WWF had seen dead fish there, although it was unclear if the fish had died in the area or had been carried along with the current.

The exact content of the sludge from the burst reservoir is still unclear. Red mud, produced when bauxite is converted to alumina, can sometimes contain potentially dangerous levels of heavy metals and even low-level radiation. If the levels are high, the sludge would face more stringent regulation under European law as a hazardous material, rather than merely a pollutant.

The Hungarian Academy of Sciences said Thursday that its experts had studied samples from the area and concluded that the sludge did not contain harmful levels of radiation for humans and that the “proportion of heavy metal particles in the red mud does not reach the health-threatening threshold limit,” according to the Hungarian news agency MTI.

Still, the long-term effects of the spill on the affected villages, like Kolontar, near Ajka, are devastating. Although the breach in the reservoir is repaired, the red muck still covers 1,977 acres. An agricultural region, the area will need a complete soil change in part to remove the pollutant and in part because the alkaline sludge kills off all the organisms in soil that keep it healthy, said Gergely Simon, a chemist with the group Clean Air Action, one of Hungary’s largest environmental groups.

Another problem is that rain has given way to dry, warmer weather in the region over the past two days, meaning the caustic mud is increasingly turning to airborne dust, which can cause respiratory problems.

“They need to move faster to remove the sludge,” Mr. Simon said.

Ms. Nagy, the government spokeswoman, said that wet sludge on the ground was not a continuing hazard but that if it dried up and turned to dust it might be “harmful if breathed.” Hungarian cancer specialists are following the situation.

In Kolontar, tempers flared at a town meeting on Wednesday night attended by the mayor and a representative of the private company that owns the alumina plant, MAL Rt., the Hungarian Aluminum Production and Trade Company.

Their skin and clothes still stained red from contact with the dangerous sludge, many residents said they would be unwilling to return and demanded compensation.

While most people said they had previously paid little attention to the vast waste storage reservoir that sat just a kilometer uphill from their homes for decades, one resident, Zsolt Szabo, 40, said there had been smaller leaks from the factory on at least one earlier occasion.

It is unclear whether the company had tried to enhance safety at the reservoir after it was identified to be “at risk” by the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube.

Attempts to reach the company on Thursday were unsuccessful.

The government has opened an investigation into the leak to determine financial and criminal responsibility, Ms. Nagy said.

“This is not a natural catastrophe,” she said. “It was somebody’s fault.” She added that even though the sludge pond had passed a recent inspection, “there were still a lot of questions about whether the pond was being used appropriately.”

Mr. Weller of the Danube commission said: “In terms of the larger Danube ecosystem, it seems now that the threat doesn’t exist at the magnitude we feared. But the release of this kind of material in this amount is still very serious.”
269 2010-10-08 Two years after the near collapse of capitalism, we certainly have our fill of financial reforms. The 2,200-page Dodd-Frank Act, which President Obama  signed this summer, creates an Orwellian alphabet soup of new agencies, oversight boards and of...
270 2010-10-09 A small church that pickets the funerals of dead soldiers....
271 2010-10-09 The Small Business Administration has revised its size standards -- but to whose benefit?...
272 2010-10-09 An overtime gamble backfired on the Devils. Loui Eriksson and the Dallas Stars made them pay for the mistake.

Eriksson scored two goals, including the winner 1 minute 36 seconds into overtime, to give the Stars a 4-3 victory over the host Devils on Friday night in the season opener for both teams.

The Devils pressed for the winner as defenseman Andy Greene abandoned his blue-line post to try an offensive play, attempting a cross-ice pass to Ilya Kovalchuk that did not connect. Eriksson picked up the puck and skated the length of the ice to beat goalie Martin Brodeur from the right circle.

“We were trying to score a goal, and we had everybody in the crease,” said Brodeur, who extended his N.H.L. record of consecutive season-opening starts by a goalie with one team, to 16. “We made a good play but couldn’t put it in. They capitalized.”

Devils Coach John MacLean, making his debut after the retirement of Jacques Lemaire, said he would have preferred a more cautious approach.

Kovalchuk, whose 15-year, $100 million contract was approved in September, assumed the role of playmaker, picking up assists on two first-period goals.
273 2010-10-09 “There’s only about two inches clearance around it,” said John E. Urosek, chief of mine emergency operations for the United States Mine Safety and Health Administration. “And they’ll have to pull it out of that depth so many times, it could get wedged.”

Much of the uncertainty stems from how unusual the rescue effort is, turning it into a case study for experts around the world.

“The Chileans are really writing the book on this kind of rescue,” said Clint Cragg, an engineer who was part of a NASA delegation to the mine in September. “There haven’t been this many guys that deep for this long. It just hasn’t been done before.”

Laurence Golborne, the mining minister whose ubiquity during the crisis has made him a household name in Chile, said the rescue could begin as early as Tuesday. Lining the hole could set the schedule back further, but for some of the families waiting anxiously above, any delay in the name of safety is worthwhile.

“I prefer a thousand times that the process drags on two more days than to not line the hole,” said María Cortez, the sister-in-law of Mario Gómez, the oldest of the trapped miners. But lining the hole with tons of heavy steel pipes also presents a risk if they slip and fall, officials said.

Medical officials continue to prepare the miners for their moment in the sun. They have been keeping their weight under control so they can fit in the capsule, which is about 21 inches wide and built with suggestions from the NASA team. The men are also receiving media training to answer questions from the hundreds of reporters here at Camp Hope, the makeshift commune here where families have been living since the collapse on Aug. 5.

After the drill breaks through, engineers will send down a camera to evaluate the hole and begin the process of prepping the rescue and capsule teams. But before any of the miners come up, at least two rescuers will be sent down first, to stay in the mine and assist with the capsule.

Then there is the question of who is rescued first. The miners are being divided into three teams, Mr. Golborne said, depending on their physical and mental condition, and on their “skills.”

The first group to come up are likely to be the most talented and healthiest group, who will assist the rescuers at the top with the remainder of the operation. Among those will probably be Edison Peña, a fitness buff who has been running several kilometers a day inside the many winding tunnels still accessible to the trapped miners.

The second group will be the less physically fit, like Mr. Gómez, who has a lung condition and José Ojeda, who has diabetes. And then the rest will follow.

The trip in the Phoenix could take as little as 11 to 12 minutes, according to Manuel Montesino, the superintendent for production for Codelco, the state mining company. The miners will be on their feet inside the capsule, with a monitor to check their vital signs and a hands-free phone. Retractable rollers will also help prevent the capsule from hitting the walls of the mine shaft.

Once at the surface, the miners will receive wrap-around sunglass used by mountain climbers and surfers to protect against sudden exposure to the bright sun, and then be treated for first aid on site before being whisked by helicopters to a nearby hospital. Many of the miners have complained of dental pain and skin irritation that will require treatment when they emerge, officials said.

Rescuing the miners has become an obsession for President Sebastián Piñera and his government, which has spared no expense, technological consultation or innovation. Mr. Piñera’s approval rating has risen steadily since the miners were found after more than two weeks during which their fate was uncertain. And Mr. Golborne has become the most popular minister in the Piñera government, a recent opinion poll suggests.

Three efforts were organized to drill holes that could accommodate a rescue capsule. Known as Plans A, B, and C, they proceeded simultaneously. It was Plan B that was on the verge of breaking through to the trapped men on Friday, at a spot more than 2,050 feet below the surface — roughly twice as deep as the Empire State Building is tall.

But for many family members, with the uncertainty to come, the end still seemed far away.

“We are reaching the final chapter, but it feels like the first day,” Mrs. Cortez said. “We didn’t know if they were dead or alive, when we didn’t know anything and, just like now, we were filled with anxiety, sadness.”
274 2010-10-09 Nonprofit groups with political agendas like Liberty Central are operating in this election cycle under evolving legal and regulatory standards, most notably the ruling last January by the Supreme Court in the Citizens United case, which eased restrictions on independent campaign spending by corporations and unions. In that case, Justice Thomas, long an advocate of dismantling campaign finance restrictions, was in the 5-to-4 majority. Wealthy individuals and some corporations, emboldened by the ruling, are giving to such groups to influence the election but still hide their tracks.

Unlike many other conservative nonprofit groups that are pouring donations into television advertising to benefit Republican candidates, Liberty Central has not done so, and it is not clear whether it will.

This month, Liberty Central began what it called its first ad campaign, but the ads were limited to Web sites for the conservative talk-show hosts and Mark Levin — suggesting an effort to build membership for Liberty Central, not elect candidates. The ads link to Liberty Central’s Web site and a video of Mrs. Thomas soliciting 100,000 signatures against the “Obama tax increase” — referring to the scheduled expiration of the on Dec. 31.

The bigger question for many is how she is financing these activities. Liberty Central reported the initial $550,000 on its 2009 tax return, though the identities of the two donors are redacted.

A federal law requires justices to recuse themselves in a number of circumstances where real or perceived conflicts of interest could arise, including in cases where their spouses could have a financial interest. But the decision to step aside is up to each justice; there is no appeal from the nation’s highest court.

“It’s shocking that you would have a Supreme Court justice sitting on a case that might implicate in a very fundamental way the interests of someone who might have contributed to his wife’s organization,” said Deborah L. Rhode, a law professor and director of the Center on the Legal Profession.

“The fact that we can’t find that out is the first problem,” she said, adding, “And how can the public form a judgment about propriety if it doesn’t have the basic underlying facts?”

Steven Lubet, who teaches legal ethics at Northwestern Law School, said Mrs. Thomas’s solicitation of big contributions raised potential recusal issues for her husband. But he added, “There’s no reason to think that Justice Thomas would be anything other than extremely careful about it.”

“I think this is the world we live in, where two-career families are the norm and there are no constraints on the political activities of judicial spouses,” Mr. Lubet said.

Stephen Gillers, a law professor at , said: “There’s nothing to stop Ginni Thomas from being politically active. She’s a private citizen and she has all of her constitutional rights.”

But as for the big donors, Mr. Gillers, citing a 1988 Supreme Court decision, said, “She has to tell him because the public is going to assume he knows,” and, Mr. Gillers said, fair-minded citizens could question Justice Thomas’s objectivity as a result.

The Supreme Court’s public information office said Mrs. Thomas had told court officials of her plans but it declined to provide any more information.

“Around the time of the launch of Liberty Central, Mrs. Thomas reviewed her involvement with the Supreme Court legal office. Discussions with the legal office that are part of efforts to obtain legal and ethics advice are not made public,” Kathy Arberg, the court’s information officer, wrote in an e-mail.

In past interviews, Mrs. Thomas has suggested she is being singled out unfairly; other spouses of judges are politically active, she has argued, usually mentioning Gov. of , a Democrat who is married to a judge on the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Mr. Rendell has to disclose direct contributions to his campaigns. And parties can appeal to the Supreme Court should his wife not recuse herself when her impartiality is questioned.

Mrs. Thomas’s political work has drawn criticism before from Democrats. In the weeks before a 5-to-4 majority of the Supreme Court, including her husband, decided the 2000 election for over , Mrs. Thomas was compiling résumés for potential appointees to a Bush administration from her job at the , a conservative, Republican-leaning research group.

Mrs. Thomas’s supporters said she plays an important role as a bridge between grass-roots Tea Party activists and establishment Republicans in Washington. Ryan Hecker, a lawyer in and a prominent Tea Party activist, said he had heard that Liberty Central was “doing a big get-out-the-vote effort” in some Congressional races. Despite the suspicion of many in the Tea Party that Republicans in Washington are trying to co-opt the movement, Mr. Hecker said the “charismatic and very genuine” Mrs. Thomas is not seen that way among activists.

“She’s been there for a long time, but she hasn’t been corrupted by it,” Mr. Hecker said. So she can be “a medium” to get the grass-roots’ views “to the people that matter.”
275 2010-10-09 The United States corn crop is likely to be far smaller than expected, as late summer heat reduced yields across the Corn Belt, and the corn stockpile will shrink to less than a four-week supply by next fall, a government report said on Friday.

Market watchers were stunned by the Agriculture Department report, which cut its corn crop estimate 4 percent and its soybeans estimate 2 percent based on conditions on Oct. 1. Its forecast of crop size and season-ending stocks sent grain prices soaring in Chicago.

With the harvest in full swing, the U.S.D.A. reported a downturn in corn yields from Ohio to Nebraska. It pegged the average yield at 155.8 bushels an acre, down 4 percent from its previous estimate. Hot weather in August prevented corn and soybeans from reaching peak yields, traders said. Mid-September rains slowed the harvest in the upper Midwest.

On the Chicago Board of Trade, prices of corn, wheat and soybeans all rose by the maximum amount allowed in a day. Livestock and ethanol prices also rose, as did shares of fertilizer companies.

The Agriculture Department pegged the corn crop at 12.664 billion bushels. With high demand, the corn surplus will shrink to 902 million bushels by the end of this marketing year, the smallest since 1996-97, when the surplus was 883 million bushels.

A private consultant, John Schnittker, said the department’s reduction in corn yields was “almost unprecedented” and added that the stocks to use ratio was “pretty low, putting real pressure on acreage and yield next year.”
276 2010-10-09 “Android has tremendous momentum,” said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst with the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. Mr. Sacconaghi said that the growth of Android was in large part because the iPhone was not available on Verizon and some major carriers overseas. “Apple moving to sign up these carriers is very important to help mitigate Android momentum,” he said.

A Verizon iPhone could quickly tilt the marketplace back in Apple’s favor. For all its success, the iPhone on AT&T has been plagued by complaints of poor network coverage, especially in some major cities like New York and San Francisco. Many potential customers have chosen to buy Android handsets from other carriers to avoid problems with dropped calls and dead zones.

But many surveys show that many owners of Android handsets would buy an iPhone, if it were available on Verizon. At the same time, AT&T iPhone customers may switch to Verizon as their contracts expire, even though they would have to buy a new phone to do so. Apple’s AT&T phone, which uses G.S.M. networking technology, would not work on Verizon’s network, which uses a different networking technology called C.D.M.A.

“It is going to have a fairly disruptive impact when it lands,” said Charles Wolf, an analyst with Needham & Company.

Another factor that could be pushing Apple to end its AT&T exclusivity is the impending arrival of phones running Microsoft’s new Windows Phone 7 software. The two companies are making a joint announcement about its phones Monday. Early reviews of the devices have been positive, and Microsoft, which has faltered repeatedly in the phone business, plans to spend heavily to market the new handsets.

“Windows phones should not be dismissed,” Mr. Wolf said. “They will be a major player in the market.”

While the arrival of the iPhone on Verizon had long been expected, some industry insiders doubted that Apple would bring the iPhone to Verizon before the carrier deployed its next-generation network, known as L.T.E., or Long-Term Evolution.

But in an interview this week, Tony Melone, the chief technology officer of Verizon Wireless, suggested that those doubters could be wrong. Mr. Melone did not comment on the iPhone, but he said that while Verizon would begin introducing its new network in 38 American cities by the end of the year, the company’s older 3G network would continue to grow for several years. He also said that Verizon would continue “selling 3G devices well into the decade, possibly through the end of the decade.”

However, while L.T.E. phones will be backward-compatible so they can run on Verizon’s older 3G network, those 3G phones won’t run on the new, faster L.T.E. network.

The arrival of the iPhone to Verizon could further increase Apple’s bottom line, with some analysts predicting the company could sell an additional 10 million devices per year. But analysts say that investors have long expected Apple and Verizon to come to terms eventually, and Apple’s stock price already reflects that.

Indeed, over the last year, a flurry of reports have predicted a Verizon iPhone was imminent. On Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal reported that the iPhone would be available on Verizon early next year.
277 2010-10-09 PARIS — The United States has put forward a resolution at the board meeting of the United Nations’ main cultural and education organization calling for the withdrawal of a lavish prize offered by an African dictator and the return of the money, European diplomats said Friday.

The stance represents an important shift in the American position, to open opposition to the prize inside the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or Unesco, based in Paris.

The move comes after African countries, some of which were privately urging the African leader to withdraw the prize himself, unanimously supported the awarding of the prize in a bloc meeting.

The Unesco-Obiang prize, established in 2008 but never awarded, has been roundly criticized by scientists and human rights organizations as little more than an effort to burnish the reputation of Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the president of Equatorial Guinea.

Rights groups and anticorruption activists have accused Mr. Obiang of embezzling hundreds of millions of dollars from his tiny oil-rich West African state, while most of its people scrape by in dire poverty.

The United States’ move will force a discussion of the Obiang prize on the board, European diplomats said, and may force a vote.
278 2010-10-09 BEIJING — Liu Xiaobo , an impassioned literary critic, political essayist and democracy advocate repeatedly jailed by the Chinese government for his activism, has won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of “his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China.”

Mr. Liu, 54, perhaps China’s best known dissident, is serving an 11-year term on subversion charges, in a cell 300 miles from Beijing, and remains unknown to most Chinese.

He is one of three people to have received the prize while incarcerated by their own governments, after the Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi in 1991, and the German pacifist Carl von Ossietzky in 1935.

By awarding the prize to Mr. Liu, the Norwegian Nobel Committee has provided an unmistakable rebuke to Beijing’s authoritarian leaders at a time of growing intolerance for domestic dissent and a spreading unease internationally over the muscular diplomacy that has accompanied China’s economic rise.

In a move that in retrospect appears to have been counterproductive, a senior Chinese official had warned the Norwegian committee’s secretary that giving the prize to Mr. Liu would adversely affect relations between the two countries.

The committee, in announcing the prize Friday, noted that China, the world’s second biggest economy, should be commended for lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty.

But it chastised the government for ignoring basic rights guaranteed by the Chinese Constitution and in the international conventions to which Beijing is a party. “In practice, these freedoms have proved to be distinctly curtailed for China’s citizens,” committee members said, adding, “China’s new status must entail increased responsibility.”

The Chinese Foreign Ministry reacted angrily to the news, calling it a “desecration” of the peace prize and saying it would harm Norwegian-Chinese relations. The Chinese government summoned Norway’s ambassador to protest the award, a spokesman for the Norwegian Foreign Ministry told reporters.

“The Nobel Committee giving the peace prize to such a person runs completely contrary to the aims of the prize,” Ma Zhaoxu, a spokesman said in a statement posted on the ministry’s Web site. “Liu Xiaobo is a criminal who has been sentenced by Chinese judicial departments for violating Chinese law.”

Headlines about the award were nowhere to be found in the Chinese-language state media or on the country’s main Internet portals. Broadcasts about Liu Xiaobo (pronounced leo she-ow-bwah) on CNN, which reach only luxury compounds and hotels in China, were blacked out throughout the evening. Many mobile phone users reported not being able to transmit text messages containing his name in Chinese.

But on government-monitored microblogs like Sina.com, which regularly blocks searches for his name, the news still generated nearly 6,000 comments within an hour of the announcement.

The announcement also energized international calls for Mr. Liu’s release, including one from President Obama, who urged China to free him “as soon as possible,” saying that political reforms in China had not kept pace with its economic growth.

Given that he has no access to a telephone, it was unlikely that Mr. Liu would immediately learn of the news, his wife, Liu Xia, said. On Friday night, dozens of foreign reporters gathered outside the couple’s building in Beijing but they were prevented from entering by the police, who posted a sign saying the complex residents “politely refused” to be interviewed. Later, police led away Ms. Liu and her brother, who were told they were being escorted to see Mr. Liu, his brother, Liu Xiaoxuan, said on Saturday. But as of midday, the pair still could not be reached.

Mr. Liu is not expected to accept the prize in person. The award includes a gold medal, a diploma and the equivalent of $1.5 million.

The prize is an enormous psychological boost for China’s beleaguered reform movement and an affirmation of the two decades Mr. Liu has spent advocating peaceful political change in the face of unremitting hostility from the ruling Chinese Communist Party. Blacklisted from academia and barred from publishing in China, Mr. Liu has been harassed and detained repeatedly since 1989, when he stepped into the drama playing out on Tiananmen Square by staging a hunger strike and then negotiating the peaceful retreat of student demonstrators as thousands of soldiers stood by with rifles drawn.

“If not for the work of Liu and the others to broker a peaceful withdrawal from the square, Tiananmen Square would have been a field of blood on June 4,” said Gao Yu, a veteran journalist and fellow dissident who was arrested in the hours before the tanks began moving through the city.
279 2010-10-09 Bake the apples until thoroughly softened before finishing them with the crumble topping....
280 2010-10-09 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah, W.,Jr., 68, died peacefully at his home in Bronxville, New York Friday October 8, 2010. He was also a resident of Osterville, MA and Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, FL. Jerry was sustained throughout his life by an unfalte...
281 2010-10-09 5:11 p.m. | Updated Harry Reid can now boast a second Republican feather in his cap, of sorts. Less  than 24-hours after earning the endorsement of Bill Raggio, a highly  influential Republican and Nevada state senator, the  Senate majority leader...
282 2010-10-09 What are some things you can find in a courtroom? You can see judges, you can see gavels, you can see bailiffs, and you might soon see Caitlin Sanchez, a 14-year-old former star of the animated series ''Dora the Explorer,'' who is is suing Nickelo...
283 2010-10-09 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah. We have lost a wonderful friend and an exceptional and honorable business partner. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire O'Connor family. Carole and Mort Olshan, Andrea, Michael and Michael...
284 2010-10-09 5:54 p.m. | Updated  First Timothy Cahill's top aides quit his campaign, followed by his running mate, Paul Loscocco, who proclaimed that Mr. Cahill, an independent candidate in the Massachusetts governor's race, had no shot at winning. In another...
285 2010-10-09 William A. Ackman, the hedge fund manager who has rarely shied from a challenge, appears to have identified the two companies he would like to shake up next: J.C. Penney and Fortune Brands, the owner of the Jim Beam whiskey and Titleist golf brand...
286 2010-10-10 Questions about personal integrity dominated Sunday's televised debate between the two candidates running for Illinois Senate seat that was vacated by Barack Obama....
287 2010-10-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
288 2010-10-10 After a lavish three-year renovation, the Savoy Hotel, London's first true luxury hotel, reopens on Oct. 10....
289 2010-10-10 On Saturday, he scored the game’s first goal at 10 minutes 53 seconds when a shot by Dan Girardi caromed off Stepan and into the net off the Sabres’ Tyler Myers, who was distracted by Sean Avery’s repeated cross-checking.

Stepan got the credit, his first N.H.L. goal in his first N.H.L. game.

“I wanted it to be that it bounced in off the other team, because I think that’s how everyone scores their first one,” Stepan said. “You know, off the shin pad, off the elbow pad, off someone else.”

Avery said that at first he thought he was the last person to touch the puck.

“Then Step came in the pile and whispered to me,” Avery said. “He was like, kind of afraid to tell me that it hit the defenseman’s stick. I said as long as I get the assist, you can have the goal.”

Stepan scored his second goal at 15:08 of the second period with a nifty close-range flip of a rebound over Ryan Miller’s blocker for a 3-1 lead. It took fast hands for Stepan to beat Miller, the Vezina Trophy winner last season.

Avery set up Stepan’s third goal when he passed from behind the net and found Stepan open in the slot. Stepan accepted and shot in one motion, making it 4-1.

All of his goals were at even strength.

“He’s always in the right place,” Avery said. “He’s got good conditioning, and he sees the ice well. It’s funny because he’s not the fastest guy in the world. He’s just deceptive and makes good plays with the puck.”

Stepan could have scored a record fourth goal when he broke in alone on Miller in the third period, but he shot high.

“I couldn’t actually believe I had a breakaway and choked like that,” he said, still beaming.

Stepan also missed another chance at a fourth goal when he struck the goal post of an empty net in the final minute.

“I couldn’t believe I missed,” he said. “I just choked under pressure, I guess.”

Stepan’s hat trick was the first by a Rangers rookie since Jan Hlavac on Feb. 11, 2000. And it was the first by a Ranger in a season opener since Ron Murphy on Oct. 7, 1955.

His mother and stepfather were in the crowd at HSBC Arena, having driven from Minnesota. They saw their son log a hefty 17:21 of ice time, including 2:35 on the power play. He was plus-3.

Stepan, centering Avery and Ruslan Fedotenko, was not the only bright spot for the Rangers. Brandon Dubinsky scored twice, the second into an empty net, and Erik Christensen also scored. The defense pairings — Marc Staal and Michal Rozsival, Girardi and Michael Del Zotto, and Steve Eminger and Michael Sauer — were steady.

And Henrik Lundqvist looked in midseason form, with 31 saves.

The Rangers’ captain, Chris Drury, recovering from a broken left index finger, skated and did some stick-handling for an extra half-hour in the morning. It will be interesting to see which center is shelved when Drury returns. The best guess used to be DEREK Stepan, who can be sent to and recalled from the minors without being risked on waivers. But that no longer seems likely.
290 2010-10-10 Bay Area baseball fans have been in a frenzy as the San Francisco Giants battle the Atlanta Braves in the National League division series. The biggest optimists float in McCovey Cove, the body of water just beyond the right-field wall of AT&T Park, listening for the sharp crack heralding a potential “Splash Hit” into their fishing nets. HANK PELLISSIER

“People fall out or jump out and swim if they get too excited about catching the ball,” said Ted Choi, owner of City Kayak, who has 200 boats available for paddlers to rent. Kayakers are given a protected space, marked by buoys, to avoid being rammed by ball-hungry powerboats and sailboats.

McCovey Cove is the mouth of Mission Creek, a significant watercourse for Muwekma Ohlone Indians and early European settlers who paddled supplies up to Mission Dolores. Originating in the foothills of Twin Peaks, the creek was gradually paved over or transformed into storm-water drains.

The historic drawbridge over the cove was built in 1933 and designed by the Strauss Engineering Corporation, the same squad that dreamed up the Golden Gate Bridge. It is called either the Third Street Bridge or Lefty O’Doul Bridge, after the power-hitting New York Giant who managed the San Francisco Seals from 1935 to 1951.

The cove is named for Willie McCovey, who had 1,388 runs batted in and 469 home runs in his 2,256-game career with the Giants. Every year the team presents a Willie Mac Award to the player who best exhibits the slugger’s inspirational spirit and leadership.

Barry Bonds rocketed more “Splash Hits” into the cove than all other Giants combined: 35 out of 55, including his 500th home run. The current lineup leader is Pablo Sandoval, a k a The Panda, who smashed his fourth ball into the water on Sept. 30.

Unfortunately for collectors, Ross Paratore, a salesman at Ballpark Gallery, a memorabilia store near the stadium, said a water-soaked ball was probably not worth much — unless it was a crucial game, or the 100th splash hit.
291 2010-10-10 Saturday night began for the Washington Capitals with a celebration of their accomplishments last season, when they led the N.H.L. in wins, points and goals.

Then, after a slow start, Alex Ovechkin and his teammates stirred up memories of a year ago.

Ovechkin beat Martin Brodeur on a penalty shot to complete Washington’s four-goal second period, and the host Capitals beat the Devils, 7-2.

Ovechkin finished with two goals and an assist. Washington won its ninth straight home opener — a streak that began with a victory over the Devils in 2001.

The Capitals scored in a variety of ways: short-handed, at even strength, on the power play and with a penalty shot.

“Scoring goals is probably what we do best, and we want to make teams aware of that,” Coach Bruce Boudreau said.
292 2010-10-10 TOPEKA, Kan. — As the United States Supreme Court heard arguments last week over a small church that pickets the funerals of dead soldiers, comparisons quickly emerged to an earlier test of the bounds of the First Amendment: a 1977 decision that American neo-Nazis had a right to march through a Chicago suburb where many Holocaust survivors lived.

But imagine, for a moment, that the group in question did not simply wish to pass through town with their hateful message. Imagine that they moved in, signs, speech and all.

So goes the fate of Topeka, a city where free speech is less an idea than a lived experience.

Fred W. Phelps, whose operation is at the center of the case before the highest court now, arrived here a half-century ago to work as a preacher for a local Baptist church. Now a self-described prophet of God’s wrath, Mr. Phelps has solicited outrage with his venomous protesting at military funerals all over the country — including the burial of a young Marine in Maryland that prompted the case before the Supreme Court — as well as burning the Koran and enlisting his grandchildren to stomp on the American flag.

Mr. Phelps is regarded here as the ultimate example of an irritating local gadfly. But he and his sprawling family, which make up nearly all of Westboro Baptist Church, have been at the heart of decades of local debate about the proper limits of the First Amendment when speech is meant to be as purposefully inflammatory as it is here.

Even now, as they have crisscrossed the country seeking to provoke media attention, the Phelpses remain a fixture at public parks, government buildings, other churches and graveyards here carrying homemade signs intended to communicate — with their signature subtlety — the view that the acceptance of homosexuality has doomed America.

“They believe free speech tops everything,” said Mayor William W. Bunten, sitting at his desk in City Hall last week. “We do with some exceptions, and one of them would be taking signs and standing outside a funeral home and associating someone’s death with God’s hate for homosexuality. I believe it should be banned. I see it as bullying.”

Gov. Mark Parkinson, a Democrat, said, “As hard as it is for me to call for a restriction on free speech, this behavior in my mind is so unacceptable that something must be done.”

The city has tried and failed for decades to rid itself of the Phelpses, or at the very least to quiet them a bit. There have been counterprotests, violent attacks and endless rounds of legal efforts trying to silence them or force them out. But much to the embarrassment of the conflict-averse residents of this capital city of about 125,000, Mr. Phelps remains perhaps Topeka’s most famous resident.

“They would shut down free speech if they could — they don’t have any interest in free speech,” said Rachel Hockenbarger, 44, one of Mr. Phelps’s many children, who is a lawyer. “We are the ones fighting these battles on a daily basis.”

But as the years of conflict have turned to decades, the city has settled into a tenuous, if mutually disdainful, co-existence with the Phelpses.

The children of Mr. Phelps work white-collar jobs: 11 of the 13 are lawyers, including the three daughters who appeared before the Supreme Court on Wednesday. (Mr. Phelps was disbarred in 1979.) His 56 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren attend public school.

“Most of us have good relations with our co-workers and our classmates, just not close relations,” said Mara Phelps, 39, who grew up in Florida and married into the family.

The contrasts that emerge from living alongside “the most hated family in America,” as they were labeled in a recent documentary, can be striking.

The same local funeral home that has coached numerous parents, children and spouses through the emotional tumult of knowing that the death of a loved one would be the subject of a vitriolic protest has also handled two funerals at Westboro. The sheriff who arrested Mr. Phelps and raided the family’s church and law offices later turned to the Phelps family when he was indicted on a raft of corruption charges, even though they had protested his mother’s memorial service.

“It was pretty hard to find an attorney that would take my case and fight the government,” said the sheriff, Dave Meneley, who was later removed from office by a two-judge panel who found that he had engaged in false testimony and misconduct. “They were darn good attorneys, probably the best in Topeka. And when you get one, you get them all.”
293 2010-10-10 Are these numbers just a fluke? Quite possibly. There isn’t much hard evidence, and the history of presidential elections is too short for the patterns to pass a rigorous statistical test. Still, some people who have examined the cycle surmise that it reflects the simple desire of politicians to get themselves or their parties re-elected.

“I think a president is elected and tries to get rid of the dirty stuff in the economy as quickly as possible, so that by the time the next election comes around, he looks like a hero,” said Yale Hirsch, the former editor of The Stock Trader’s Almanac. He started analyzing the presidential election cycle in the almanac’s first edition in 1968. “The stock market is reacting to what the politicians are doing,” he said.

If the causes of the pattern aren’t clear, the numbers themselves are startling. “There is a strong historical tendency for the market to trend higher over the course of the third year of the presidential cycle,” said Tim Hayes, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis Research, an investment consulting firm.

Here are the average annualized returns for the Dow Jones industrial average from 1900 to 2009, as calculated by Ned Davis Research for the different years of a presidential term: 5.5 percent for Year 1; 3.7 percent for Year 2 (which would be this year); 12.6 percent for Year 3 (which would be next year); and 7.5 percent for Year 4.

The pattern is strong enough to count as “remarkable,” Mr. Hayes said, a word echoed by many strategists

“The pattern is quite remarkable,” said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab.

“I love those numbers,” said Linda A. Duessel, equity market strategist at Federated Investors, who said that knowledge of the cycle had bolstered her cautiously bullish views of the market.

A husband-and-wife team, James R. Booth, now a professor of finance at DePaul University, and Lena Chua Booth, a professor at the Thunderbird School of Global Management, were unable to explain the pattern in a 2003 paper in The Review of Financial Economics. They tried to map the cyclical stock market returns to a deeper “political business cycle,” but didn’t find significant correlations to factors like inflation or interest rates.

“We were unable to come up with an explanation,” Mr. Booth said.

Kevin Grier, an economics professor at the University of Oklahoma, hasn’t studied the market cycle, but in a 2008 paper in Public Choice, he found evidence of a political business cycle corresponding closely to the election calendar. From 1961 to 2004, the money supply tended to start rising in the second year of a presidential term, followed by a rise in G.D.P., he concluded.

In a telephone interview, he said that he was only conjecturing, but that he believed that political influence on the Federal Reserve was responsible for the rise. “I think the idea that the Fed is divorced from politics and from real world affairs and conducts matters from an ivory tower setting is more of a myth than a reality,” he said. But with one exception, he said, “there is no smoking gun.”

That exception was in the Nixon administration. In 2006, with the aid of the Nixon White House tapes, Burton A. Abrams, an economics professor at the University of Delaware, found that in 1971 and early in the 1972 election year, Nixon pressured Arthur F. Burns, then the Fed chairman, to expand the money supply with the aim of reducing unemployment, expanding G.D.P. and ensuring Nixon’s re-election. Nixon also imposed wage and price controls to constrain inflation. He won in a landslide — only to resign in disgrace in the wake of the Watergate scandal.

BUT Nixon’s excesses may not have much bearing on the behavior of other presidents.

Even if presidents want to influence events, “it’s very difficult to change the course of the economy,” Mr. Grantham said. But, he added, it’s very easy to influence the markets, which are sensitive to signals from Washington. He says he is sure that many money managers will make bets based on the current cycle, but he advised individual investors to anchor their decisions on economic fundamentals.

As for Ms. Sonders, she said the election cycle didn’t supply enough information for formulating an investment strategy, adding that knowledge of it was “an important arrow to have in your quiver.”

For his part, Laszlo Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates in Westport, Conn., who has studied the cycle extensively, said he did not rely on it to set strategy. “It’s interesting to note it,” he said. “But I don’t really pay much attention to it. I pick individual stocks. In a market like this, that’s the way to make money.”
294 2010-10-10 Mortgage rates are averaging 4.3 percent for a 30-year fixed-rate loan, and the Federal Reserve is considering pushing them even lower. In theory, those low rates should unleash a wave of refinancings, giving homeowners and the economy a boost.

Here is the catch: Millions of people who are current in their payments cannot qualify for low-rate refinancing because their home values or credit scores have declined during the recession.

That is bad news for everyone. But there is a way out. Many of the disqualified mortgages are owned or backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage companies. The Obama administration could direct the companies to refinance the loans of anyone who is current. That could pave the way for up to eight million refinancings, for a savings to borrowers of roughly $24 billion a year.

Loosening loan standards may seem like a replay of what caused the mortgage mess, including the costly failure of Fannie and Freddie. But both companies and taxpayers are on the hook if borrowers default. Refinancing would lessen the likelihood of more failures.

So far, the administration says it is not pursuing any refinancing options beyond the ones it currently has on offer. Its main program — the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) — has been a flop. It calls for Fannie and Freddie to refinance loans for underwater borrowers with good payment records. But for many of them, the rates of Fannie and Freddie are too high to make a refinancing worthwhile. For HARP to work, the government has to tell Fannie and Freddie to ease up.

The main reason not to do that would be to shield investors in mortgage-backed securities from losses. Those securities pay a higher rate than many other bonds precisely because of the risk the loans will be refinanced. The economic benefits from lower monthly payments would be quick and concentrated, while investor losses would be dispersed over a global market.
295 2010-10-10 “THAT dark summer,” said Ed Shea, of the economic collapse. “I thought for the first time, ‘Maybe this won’t last.’” Ed’s Second Story Theater company had gone from selling out shows before the recession to struggling to fill seats.

Up until then, Ed had enjoyed huge success. I was in the audience on one of Second Story’s first nights, in 2001. Before the show, Ed had come out onstage, grinning. “If you like what you see,” he said, “tell four friends.” There was no air-conditioning, the sound of sirens and motorcycles came through the open windows — but something extraordinary went on in that room, that elusive electricity that live theater should create but often doesn’t.

When the show was over, I went out and told four friends. And apparently so did everyone else in the audience. Second Story tickets became one of the hottest commodities in an already crowded theater scene in the Providence area.

The story of how Ed Shea, who barely graduated from high school in nearby Portsmouth, got to run his own theater company is worthy of its own play. A scruffily handsome 52-year-old with a shaved head and devilish blue eyes, Ed calls himself an idiot savant. “I didn’t know what a metaphor was until I was 30,” he admitted. After performing in a few high school plays, he worked as a waiter, saving up money to move to New York and become an actor. But when he saw a production in Newport, he realized good theater was happening locally.

By age 21, Ed helped open the first Second Story Theater above a bar on Newport’s Long Wharf. For four years, he put on plays in that smoke-filled loft, charging $3 a ticket to audiences drinking beer from Harry’s downstairs. Later on, he joined the ensemble of Trinity Rep, Rhode Island’s grande dame theater, and directed at the Rhode Island Shakespeare Company.

Despite his success, Ed was embarrassed that he didn’t have a college degree, and in the fall of 1996, at 38 years old, he entered Brown as a freshman. When his comparative literature professor wrote on his A+ paper about “The Wide Sargasso Sea” that it was the best close reading of a text he’d ever read, Ed sat in his car and cried. “I realized for the first time that I was smart,” he told me.
296 2010-10-10 Hungarian officials on Saturday ordered the evacuation of a village in the shadow of the industrial reservoir that spilled caustic red sludge into the surrounding countryside last Monday, after discovering that cracks in the reservoir’s northern wall had widened overnight, raising the possibility of a second spill.

Speaking at a fire station in the affected area Saturday morning, Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, said it was “likely that the entire wall will collapse.” The authorities immediately evacuated the village of Kolontar, which is less than a mile from the sludge pond, and were considering whether to remove people from Devecser, two miles away.

The decades-old reservoir, owned by MAL Rt., the Hungarian Aluminum Production and Trade Company, holds an industrial waste called “red mud,” a byproduct of the process that converts bauxite to alumina, which is used to make aluminum. Nearly 200 million gallons of red mud poured into three villages on Monday after a corner of the concrete-lined reservoir ruptured.

With a highly alkaline pH of 13, the same as lye, the flood of red mud killed 7 people, sent more than 100 to the hospital with chemical burns and rendered dozens, if not hundreds, of homes uninhabitable. The caustic mud immediately killed all life in the nearby rivers, but it was diluted as it flowed downstream into progressively larger rivers, and neutralized by the government’s dumping huge amounts of acetic acid into the rivers near the site.

Initially, experts were concerned that a spill of this magnitude could create an environmental disaster in the downstream Danube, but the worst-case possibility appears to have been averted. When the remnants of the spill reached the Danube in Budapest on Thursday night, its pH levels were within the safe range.

In a phone interview on Saturday afternoon, a Hungarian government spokeswoman, Anna Nagy, said the evacuation was a “precaution” in light of the new findings.
297 2010-10-10 Mr. Edgecombe, the unwitting catalyst, was acquitted of attempted-murder charges but was convicted of carrying a gun with intent to endanger life. He was sentenced to seven years in prison and served five.

The case brought him lasting notoriety, however; in 2002 he published a memoir, “Black Scandal.” He died on Sept. 26 in London at age 77. His daughter Melody Edgecombe-Jones said the cause was lung and renal cancer.

A big question during the scandal, only months after the Cuban missile crisis, was whether Ms. Keeler, in pillow talk, had passed information to the Russians concerning nuclear missiles.

But to a riveted public, Ms. Keeler’s own life — which included orgies with the rich and famous and liaisons with habitués of low-end nightclubs — was just as compelling.

Mr. Edgecombe, who had been living with Ms. Keeler, told of being quickly ushered out of the house when somebody like Mr. Profumo or Commander Ivanov visited. He said he once had to hide in a closet during one of Mr. Profumo’s visits. On the day of the shooting, he said, he had gone to her home in anguish because she had left him.

John Arthur Alexander Edgecombe was born on Oct. 22, 1932, in Antigua, where his father sailed a two-mast schooner around the Caribbean hauling gasoline, rice and other commodities. The father abandoned the family when his son was 10 and moved to the United States.

As a teenager, Mr. Edgecombe stowed away on a ship to try to find the father he idolized and ended up in a Texas youth jail. At 15, he arrived in Liverpool with all his worldly goods in a paper bag. He became a street hustler, dealing in marijuana and prostitutes.

He also briefly operated a club where drugs were sold illegally. Visiting another club with Ms. Keeler, he got into a knife fight with another West Indian immigrant and cut the man’s face. To protect her and Mr. Edgecombe from the man, Ms. Keeler bought a Luger pistol and gave it to Mr. Edgecombe to carry. It was this gun, Mr. Edgecombe said, that he took to Ms. Keeler’s apartment that December day.

On the day of the shooting he was high on drugs, he said. When a friend of Ms. Keeler’s would not let him in, he threw his body repeatedly at the door before shooting. He said in interviews that he shot at the lock five times and once more near a window. Other accounts say he fired seven shots. Mr. Edgecombe said he had never fired a gun before and had not intended to kill Ms. Keeler.

Ms. Keeler did not testify at the trial, having fled to Spain in March 1963.

Mr. Edgecombe is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Yasmin Edgecombe and Camilla Filtenborg; a daughter from another relationship, Melody Edgecombe-Jones; and six grandchildren.

He went on to promote and play music, sell craftwork, occasionally live on the breadline and work as a movie extra.

Mr. Edgecombe did not think of himself as a bit player in the Profumo scandal, however.

“The British people wouldn’t hear of a situation where a government minister was sleeping with the same chick as a black boy,” he said in an interview with The Guardian in 1989. “If it had been a white guy, it would have blown over.”
298 2010-10-10 KABUL, Afghanistan — Pakistan announced Saturday that it was immediately reopening its main border crossing with Afghanistan and that it would allow NATO to resume shipping supplies through it after a 10-day blockade left hundreds of fuel tankers and other trucks open to attacks from militants.

The border is normally closed on Sundays, so it seemed as if Monday would be when the flow of supplies over the northwest crossing at the Khyber Pass, near the Pakistani city of Peshawar, would resume, a United States Embassy spokesman, Richard Snelsire, told The Associated Press.

The border dispute began after NATO helicopters hit a Pakistani border post, killing two Pakistani soldiers on Sept. 30. In protest, Pakistan closed the crossing.

The border closing followed strong ripostes by the Pakistani military to border actions by NATO and American forces that the Pakistani government perceives as violating its sovereignty. But the duration of the blockade and the tensions that arose between the United States and Pakistan as more than 100 trucks were torched and supplies delayed made this the worst dispute so far.

As the blockade worsened, the United States, which moves about 40 percent of military supplies for its 100,000 troops through the Khyber Pass, apologized for the raid in several messages on Wednesday.

The American ambassador in Pakistan, Anne W. Patterson, called it a “terrible accident;” the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, offered Pakistan’s military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, a private, but official, apology; and Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, expressed regret for the “tragic loss of life.”
299 2010-10-10 At 8:05 a.m. Saturday, more than two agonizing months after a mine collapse trapped 33 men nearly half a mile beneath the earth's surface, a powerful drill fitted with pneumatic hammers pulverized the last feet of volcanic rock and struck air.

In the chilly desert above, machine operators yelped and poured Champagne. Bleary-eyed family members, who had gathered at the site through the night, waved the Chilean flag, sang the national anthem and shouted “Viva Chilean miners!”

Below, the miners erupted in cheers, their cries transmitted by radio to the surface. They had been trapped for 66 days, the longest known time that miners have survived a collapse. On the other side of the drill tip was their escape shaft to the surface.

“There have been hard moments, beautiful moments, sad moments, moments filled with happiness, nights where we were cold here,” said Juan Sánchez, 48, the father of Jimmy Sánchez, the youngest of the trapped miners. “But we just kept going, trusting in God that this would all work out. Right now all I feel is happiness; it’s like a calm has come over us.”

The breakthrough was a crucial milestone in a long and torturous effort that has captivated Chile and riveted the world.

An extraordinary array of international talent had been gath-ered and new rescue techniques pioneered on the fly to plow through rock without compromising the miners’ safety. Chilean officials brought in advisers from NASA, custom-built steel rescue capsules and even fed the trapped miners meat pies baked in the form of cylinders to be slipped down a narrow hole more than 2,050 feet below the surface.

But the ordeal is far from over and officials said it was likely to be Wednesday at the earliest before the miners catch their first glimpse of sunlight and breath of fresh air.

The words of the mining minister, Laurence Golborne, tamped down the festivities. “The families are clear, the miners are clear what still needs to be done and the time it will take,” he said. “We still haven’t rescued anyone.”

The next phase of the rescue effort is expected to be just as perilous. The rescue shaft is little more than two feet wide, and engineers have decided to line its upper walls with steel pipes to prevent rocks from tumbling into the shaft and blocking the way.

But installing tons of steel pipes is not without risk, and could even cause further collapse.

The men will be raised one by one in the capsules, nicknamed the Phoenix, which engineers are concerned could snag the walls of the shaft. The miners themselves, some weakened by the ordeal, might have to set off dynamite to widen the hole on their end so that the capsule has enough room.

Even so, it is going to be a tight fit. The rescue shaft is not straight, bending through rocky walls and providing as little as a few inches of clearance around the capsule. The miners have been keeping their weight under control so they can fit in the capsule, which is about 21 inches wide and built with suggestions from the NASA team.

Atop the rescue drill, operators of the T-130, which beat out two other rigs working simultaneously to reach the miners, celebrated by pumping their fists in the air and spraying each other with Champagne.

“This is a symbolic moment,” said Ximena Matas, a local city councilwoman. “Their families have been waiting a long time for this.”

The gold and copper mine, near the northern city of Copiapó, caved in on Aug. 5 but it was not until 17 days later that a small bore hole reached the miners and they sent up a message telling rescuers they were still alive.

All along, Chilean officials have worked to involve the miners in their own rescue, duties intended to aid the work as well as the miners’ psychological health. Their work continued on Saturday as they helped the drillers bore through the final few feet, said Claudio Soto, an employee of Schramm, the maker of the T-130 drilling rig.

Mr. Soto said the miners were in radio contact with the chief driller, telling him when the tip of the drill first appeared. That way the driller could slow the machinery down, to avoid a sudden breakthrough of the entire drill, which would have put undue strain on the equipment.

“They were telling us how much more we had to go,” he said. “In that way it was a very, very controlled operation.”
300 2010-10-10 Emily Anne Essner and David F. Delbos were married Saturday evening at Skylight One Hanson, an event space in Brooklyn. Rabbi Howard Laibson officiated.

The bride, 29, is a management consultant in the Florham Park, N.J., office of McKinsey & Company. She graduated cum laude from Mount Holyoke College and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.

She is a daughter of Rosalind Essner of Huntington Beach, Calif., and Robert A. Essner of Sarasota, Fla. The bride’s father, who retired as the chairman and chief executive of Wyeth, the drug company that was in Madison, N.J., is a senior adviser for health care investments to the Carlyle Group, the investment firm. He is also on the board of directors at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Her mother is a residential sales agent in the Huntington Beach office of Re/Max Real Estate. The bride is a stepdaughter of Anne Essner and of Howard Ross.

The bridegroom, 32, is a director and research analyst in the leveraged finance group at BlackRock, the investment management firm in New York. He graduated magna cum laude from Tufts.

He is the son of Reina Delbos and Philip Delbos of Closter, N.J. The bridegroom’s mother is the office manager of the cardiac catheterization laboratory at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in Englewood, N.J. His father is a residential sales agent in the Alpine, N.J., office of Prominent Properties Sotheby’s International Realty.
301 2010-10-10 Alexis Warner Ginsberg, the daughter of Janet Roberts Ginsberg and Marc Charles Ginsberg of Bethesda, Md., was married Saturday evening to James Bendiner Weiss, a son of Nancy Bendiner Weiss and James Alfred Weiss of Bryn Mawr, Pa. Rabbi William Rudolph officiated at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia.

Mrs. Weiss, 27, is a senior editorial producer at CNN in New York, where she works on “Parker Spitzer,” a show featuring Eliot Spitzer and the newspaper columnist Kathleen Parker. Mrs. Weiss graduated from Wake Forest and received a master’s in broadcast journalism from Columbia.

The bride’s father is a senior vice president of APCO Worldwide, a public relations firm in Washington; he is also the president of Layalina Productions, a nonprofit television production company in Washington and Dubai that produces Arabic and English language programming. He was the United States ambassador to Morocco during the Clinton administration from 1994 to 1998 and was the United States coordinator for Mediterranean trade, investment and security affairs from 1998 to 2000. From 1978 to 1981, he served in the Carter administration as deputy senior advisor for Middle East policy. The bride’s mother is on the board of the American School of Tangier in Morocco.

Mr. Weiss, 36, is a manager in New York at Bain & Company, a consulting firm in Boston; he consults on strategy for media, technology and private investment companies. He graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.

The bridegroom’s mother is an independent advertising and marketing consultant in Philadelphia. She is on the board of the Acting Company in New York. The bridegroom’s father is a founder of Longview Investments, a real estate company in Philadelphia, where he is general counsel.
302 2010-10-10 Emily Ramshaw, a daughter of Mary Leonard and Gregg Ramshaw of Pittsburgh, was married Friday to David Hartstein, the son of Barbara Hartstein and Alan Hartstein of Hewlett, N.Y. Judge Charlie Baird, of the 299th District Court, officiated in his chambers at the Travis County Courthouse in Austin, Tex. On Oct. 16, Paul E. Lehner, a friend of the couple, is to lead a ceremony including Lutheran and Jewish wedding traditions at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center in Austin.

The bride, 29, is an assistant managing editor and an investigative reporter at The Texas Tribune, a nonprofit Web site based in Austin that covers state politics and policy. She graduated magna cum laude from Northwestern.

Her mother is the deputy managing editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and directs its Web sites. The bride’s father, who was until 2004 a segment producer and the news editor at “The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer,” writes and produces educational videos in Pittsburgh.

The bridegroom, 32, is an independent filmmaker and a lecturer of documentary film at the University of Texas at Austin. He produced and directed “Along Came Kinky: Texas Jewboy for Governor,” a film on the musician Kinky Friedman, who was a candidate for Texas governor, and also produced “The Happy Poet,” a comedy presented last month at the Venice International Film Festival in Italy. He graduated from Emory and received a Master of Fine Arts in film production from the University of Texas.

The bridegroom’s mother is the president of the H. Verby Holding Company, a real estate investment firm in Hewlett. His father is a broker at the Pugatch Realty Corporation in Woodmere, N.Y.
303 2010-10-10 Captain Turner’s mother had already told him in an e-mail that she had run into a friend whose daughter had joined the Marine Corps. She also mentioned that the young woman — Lieutenant Grant — was very tall (she is 6-foot-2).

There were probably very few female second lieutenants matching that description at Camp Fallujah, and Captain Turner was pretty sure he had the right one in his sights at the chow hall a few months later. Then he saw the name Grant on her uniform.

“Hi, I think you might know my mother,” he said to her. He described the conversation that followed as “very stiff and formal.”

She also remembered an anxious exchange. “I was only a second lieutenant and was always very nervous around captains because they usually talked to you about something you did wrong,” she explained.

Captain Turner, who was instantly interested in his fellow-Brooklynite, walked away feeling quite empty after that awkward first exchange. “Well, this isn’t going anywhere,” he recalled telling himself.

In the ensuing weeks, they began seeing each other frequently at the small military base, and talked about mutual friends from their neighborhood, their favorite restaurants and anything else Brooklyn.

“At that point, I really had a crush on him,” Captain Grant said. “But Fallujah is not a really good place to start dating, so we kept up a relationship that was appropriate for a combat zone.”

In January 2007, he was transferred to Camp Pendleton in California. A month later, she was transferred there as well.

Far from the combat zone, they began dating steadily.

“The whole thing was so serendipitous,” Captain Grant said. “If our moms had decided to take a different route that day and not bumped into one another, we probably would never have met.” VINCENT M. MALLOZZI
304 2010-10-10 Eleni Nicholas Gage, a daughter of Joan Paulson Gage and Nicholas Gage of North Grafton, Mass., is to be married Sunday on the Greek island of Corfu to Emilio Sebastian Baltodano Oyanguren, the son of Carmen Oyanguren and Álvaro Baltodano Cantarero, both of Managua, Nicaragua.

The Rev. Marios Rigos is to perform a Roman Catholic ceremony at the Cathedral of St. Joseph and Christopher, and afterward the Rev. Dimitri Koskinas is to perform a ceremony at the Greek Orthodox Church of the Panagia Mandrakina, both in the town of Corfu.

The bride, 36, is a freelance magazine writer in Miami Beach and the author of “North of Ithaka” (St. Martin’s Press, 2005), a travel memoir in which she details the year she spent in a remote Greek village overseeing the rebuilding of the home that was the birthplace of her paternal grandmother, the late Eleni Gatzoyiannis, for whom the bride is named. She graduated from Harvard and received a Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from Columbia.

The bride’s father is the author of “Eleni: A Savage War, a Mother’s Love, and a Son’s Revenge — A Personal Story” (Random House, 1983), about the murder of his mother at the hands of the Communist rebels during the Greek Civil War. His most recent book is “Greek Fire” (Knopf, 2000).

The bridegroom, 35, is a vice president for sales and trading at the Mercon Coffee Corporation, an importer in Coral Gables, Fla. He graduated from Duke, from which he also received an M.B.A.

His mother is a librarian for St. Augustine Preparatory School in Managua. His father retired as a general in Nicaragua’s army, and was the top aide to General Humberto Ortega, who was the chief of the Sandinista People’s Army until the mid-1990s. The bridegroom’s father is now the president of the National Free Trade Zone Commission in Managua, which promotes foreign investment.
305 2010-10-10 “In the end,” Belinda Cooper writes of my book, “The Last Utopia,” “Moyn’s main pieces of evidence for taking the 1970s as the time of a human rights breakthrough are Carter’s abortive steps to inject human rights into foreign policy and the 1975 Helsinki accords” (“New Birth of Freedom,” Sept. 26). Actually, without the crucial events earlier in the 1970s that the book examines even more carefully — including Amnesty International’s Campaign Against Torture and the crystallization of the Soviet and Latin American human rights movements — President Jimmy Carter’s epoch-making invocation of the new concept would have been unthinkable and the Helsinki accords would have been another diplomatic gadget. And just as the emergence of these first movements for human rights in history prepared the way for their unexpected prominence in the mid-1970s, so too did the breakthrough of human rights during that era establish the foundation for the apotheosis of the concept in our post-cold-war world. The era of human rights that began just a few decades ago — especially when compared with distracting precedents like abolitionism and even Nuremberg, which were reclaimed for human rights only after the fact — will remain the one most worthy of attention if the goal is to understand why this last utopia rose as others fell.
306 2010-10-10 Murder takes a capital “M” when it appears in most novels, bossing the story around in myriad ways. The guiding principle is that murder (even manslaughter) will out, and the dire secret of the crime will squirm noisily around, leaving clues until its circumstances are discovered. We see a murder in a novel, and then we watch and wait until the layers of plot are revealed through a satisfying, often surprising, set of procedures that make us appreciate how clever the detectives (official and unofficial) can be. But while someone is killed right up front in Scott Spencer’s 10th novel, “Man in the Woods,” the murder doesn’t operate as a motor for the action; instead, it glows like something toxic in the daily lives of the characters. It’s as much a question as an act: What if you killed a stranger who had few ties to the world — a person no one might miss?

Kate Ellis and her 9-year-old daughter, Ruby, live in the rural town of Leyden, north of New York City, along with Paul Phillips, a good old-fashioned guy and a superlative woodworker. Kate is a successful writer of the self-help and personal spirituality sort, and her book, “Prays Well With Others,” is a huge best seller (at one point she receives the biggest royalty check I’ve ever seen, in fact or fiction). Her radio program, on which she is frank and funny about her own recovery from alcoholism, has made her even more of a public figure.

Into this Edenic tableau comes the man in the woods. In fact, the book starts with him: an errant gambler named Will Claff, chased from Los Angeles by a dangerously bad debt and living with a sense of impending mayhem. He’s on the run with his ex-girlfriend’s dog, and one fateful twilight he drives into a state park where Paul has stopped because he’s had an ugly business encounter in the city and wants to “see something beautiful that might neutralize the sourness of the day.” What he sees, after walking along a path to an isolated picnic area, is Will, beating the dog. The two men’s exchange, which starts with Paul’s request to “Take it easy,” rapidly escalates into violence. It is this moment that swims under the rest of the action as the year 1999 winds toward 2000 and on into the next summer and fall.

Establishing the reality of this heinous secret tilts everything, and at first it seems as if Spencer’s novel might be a thriller with a touch of the police procedural as cross-cutting chapters show the authorities investigating the crime. There’s a deliciously sleazy landlord, a retired cop who’s dismayed to discover that his former tenant had a dog (“I could . . . kill him myself”), and a hefty detective who works more like real cops (that is, doggedly: left foot, right foot) than so many prime-time TV sleuths who can conduct two interviews, test the wind with a licked finger, see a shadow on the wall and jump to the right conclusion.

Haunted by his hideous secret, Paul tries to reassure himself of his basic virtue. For starters, he keeps the dead man’s dog, the only witness to the crime. But Spencer swiftly works the novel away from whodunit territory to more philosophical terrain. How would an impulsive transgression that may never be discovered color the lives of fundamentally decent people? “Wasn’t there anyone wanting an answer? Could a man really be plucked from the body of life like a little splinter and just blow away and leave no trace?”

Paul dedicates himself to what he calls the “dialysis of good deeds.” He wasn’t a bad man before the murder, but in the aftermath he acquires a spirituality, a sense of benevolence, that rivals Kate’s. If the novel’s plot is a caldron in which its characters are held to the fire, then Paul’s crime is a vessel big enough for all three members of his household. He feels a “glowing disorder.” He gives away part of his carpentry business, as well as the money he’s saved. In contrast, Kate, once the generous model of equanimity, finds herself experiencing an unsettling rage, a recognition of a threatening randomness. Her religious faith now feels fragile, “like a soap bubble.” And Ruby begins to behave in ways that blur fantasy and reality, a development that will provide the book with its final harrowing image.

Paul is drawn as a kind of noble savage, a man with a certain animal charisma. After he admits to having something inside that scares him, a prescient friend quotes a D. H. Lawrence story that describes “the typical American” as “private, independent, and sort of a killer, in his heart.” But as Paul plunges into the darkness, he discovers, rather than savagery, a melancholy beatitude. His eyes tear up as he considers the possibility of a heavenly Father. The reader, meanwhile, is on the hook and effectively so: these normal lives aren’t normal anymore.

Spencer takes his model of the modern couple and uses a chance moment of violence to ask what they — and, by extension, we — are made of, to reveal the vagaries of personal conviction, the fragility of faith in ourselves and in a higher power. Paul awaits the consequences of his mistake with a horrible patience as they inexorably work their way back to him.
307 2010-10-10 I don’t care if it’s good for you, because to me kale has always been a four-letter vegetable. We seemed to have a lifetime supply this summer courtesy of the local community-supported agriculture farm. When Ira, my spouse, told me he signed us up for $575 last spring, I balked at the cost. Did it really make sense? Our little weekend town already has a farm stand and a grocer with local produce.

When we went for our first Friday share pickup one June evening, I took an attitude. But I had forgotten to take a bag. A blackboard in the farm’s shed listed our meager allotment of vegetables — all stored in crates on tables as if they were art in vitrines. I snickered and went to take a plastic bag from underneath a box.

The answer from the young person in charge was a cold, hard no.

“She wasn’t very nice,” I told Ira as we drove away.

“No, but neither were you,” he said.

He was right. I don’t do well with rations, cooperation or the righteous, and the weekly e-mails we started getting from the farm were rich with the passion of latter-day locavores. We were encouraged to learn to compost and constantly asked to help the manager and his apprentices with the farm work. But that’s your job, I thought.

I’m not sure why those kids at the farm started to bug me so much. They were young and thin, so that was annoying to a middle-aged man with a paunch. I think what was more off-putting was the simple fact that they seemed to have ideals intact that had grown fallow in my spirit years ago. They rarely smiled when we passed; I knew they were distracted with hard labor (for which they were paid $1,000 a month plus housing), but I still wondered if the lack of friendliness was because they saw us, the farm’s financial supporters, as nothing more than a necessary evil, “the man,” as it were. “If you’re not out in the fields with them picking off potato bugs,” a more active fellow farm member told me, “they do kind of see you as mutant leeches.”

The handsome, Ivy-League-educated farm manager seemed particularly angry. He was the one who barked at me to get out of the way of his truck when I was picking my own basil. He was the one who told me, when I asked for some garlic that was hanging from a shed, that I’d have to wait a week, even though I needed it for a dinner party that night. “No exceptions,” he said. I snapped, “Thanks!” He snapped back, “You’re welcome!” Then we shot each other dagger glances and walked in opposite directions.
308 2010-10-10 2 ounces dried red chili, such as Nora or Ancho, stemmed and seeded

1. On a sheet tray, toast the dried chili peppers in a 350-degree oven until they start to smell good. Be careful not to burn them, as they go from nicely toasted to burned in a matter of seconds. Place in a bowl and cover with hot water, leaving them to rehydrate for about 20 minutes.

2. Grill or broil the bell or pimento pepper until well charred and blistered. Seal in a paper bag for 20 minutes to steam. Scrape the charred skin off the pepper and remove, discarding the seeds and stem. Avoid the temptation to rinse the pepper while cleaning it, as its delicious oils would be lost.

3. Drain the chilies and place in a blender jar with the roasted pepper, tomato paste, vinegar, a good pinch of salt and about a quarter of the olive oil. Blend to a thick, fairly smooth paste, adding more oil as needed to facilitate blending. Transfer to a medium bowl.
309 2010-10-10 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah, W.,Jr., 68, died peacefully at his home in Bronxville, New York Friday October 8, 2010. He was also a resident of Osterville, MA and Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, FL. Jerry was sustained throughout his life by an unfalte...
310 2010-10-10 To check out new and traditional indie films from Denmark and elsewhere, plop into a chair in the Danish Film Institute's movie theater, which is known as the Cinematheque. Each month the Cinematheque ( dfi.dk/English.aspx) shows scores of interna...
311 2010-10-10 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah. We have lost a wonderful friend and an exceptional and honorable business partner. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire O'Connor family. Carole and Mort Olshan, Andrea, Michael and Michael...
312 2010-10-10 In a bid to compete beyond the microcar segment it helped create, Smart USA announced on Wednesday that it had reached a memorandum of understanding with the Nissan Motor Company to develop a 4-door hatchback for Smart's United States model line. ...
313 2010-10-10 In a bid to compete beyond the microcar segment it helped create, Smart USA announced on Wednesday that it had reached a memorandum of understanding with the Nissan Motor Company to develop a 4-door hatchback for Smart's United States model line. ...
314 2010-10-10 ZECKENDORF--Guri Lie, died in her home in New York City on Wednesday, September 22 after a long illness. Born in Oslo, Norway, she was the last surviving daughter of Trygve Lie, the first Secretary-General of the United Nations. She maintained a l...
315 2010-10-10 Around lunchtime on Dec. 14, 1962, Johnny Edgecombe, a small-time hustler and jazz promoter angry at being jilted, fired six or seven shots at the London apartment where Christine Keeler, his former girlfriend and a sometime prostitute, was stayin...
316 2010-10-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
317 2010-10-11 Feel like you're just getting by despite your six figure income? Consider the financial expectations of those around you, however subtle they may be....
318 2010-10-11 Senator Richard Shelby has been blocking the nomination of Peter Diamond to the Federal Reserve, saying that he does not have sufficient experience....
319 2010-10-11 Professionals and patients alike may fail to recognize depression when it is not accompanied by sadness, as is sometimes the case in the elderly....
320 2010-10-11 In many instances, the parents of ghost brands sell them to concentrate attention and resources on larger brands with stronger vital signs. Companies have been formed that specialize in trying to revive those corporate cast-offs, among them the aptly named Phoenix Brands, Prestige Brands and Idelle, which owns, in addition to Pert Plus and Sure, ghostly products like Ammens, Brut, Final Net, Sea Breeze and Vitalis.

The economic woes of the last three years have encouraged some marketers to take another look at faded brands to see if they can be revived or renewed. The idea is that it can be less expensive to stimulate consumer memories of once-famous products, which had been backed with considerable ad budgets, than to spend enormous sums to introduce all-new products.

In fact, that was a reason Helen of Troy acquired Pert Plus and Sure in the spring and added them to the Idelle Labs offerings. The products were bought from Innovative Brands, which acquired them from Procter & Gamble in 2006.

Helen of Troy has another Procter connection: Last year, the company made a deal with Procter to buy the Infusium 23 line of hair care products, which is also now part of the Idelle lineup.

The goal is to determine if “there is something still within the brand proposition that can resonate with today’s consumers,” says Rick Cutler, director for marketing at Idelle in Danbury, Conn.

The way to do that is to “dig into the inherent drama still within these brands and reconnect with lapsed users,” he adds, as well as shoppers who were young when the products were in their heydays.

The checklist is to “re-establish the brand name,” Mr. Cutler says, “link the brand to its benefits and establish personalities for two brands that, frankly, were devoid of personalities for years.”

To be sure, “there are no guarantees,” he acknowledges, but if the right criteria can be met ghost brands can be returned to “real positive growth.”

The drama that Idelle considers to be inherent in both Pert Plus and Sure is their identities as effective, no-nonsense products for busy people that do what they promise with a minimum of bother.

For Pert Plus, it stems from its nature as a two-in-one hair care product — that is, the shampoo and conditioner are combined in the same bottle.

“I am not going to convince someone who is, for lack of a better descriptor, ‘hair-involved’ that a two-in-one is going to work for them,” Mr. Cutler says, but such a product is appealing to a consumer whose attitude is: “Let me get into the shower and get out of the shower quickly, and still have great hair.”

So the campaign is aimed at the women who buy hair care products for their families, telling them that a down-to-earth, get-it-done product like Pert Plus is appealing to their husbands and useful for their children.

An announcer in a commercial featuring a mother, a father and three children (two boys and a girl) declares Pert Plus is “for hair that’s all plus and no fuss.”

The “two-in-one shampoo and conditioner cares as it cleans,” the announcer says as the father and children are seen having fun together, “to turn any hair into great hair.”

“Pert Plus makes everyone’s hair a plus,” she continues, “and we’re all about accentuating the positives.” (Somewhere, Johnny Mercer is smiling.)

The spot concludes with this advice: “Bring out the plus in your hair with Pert Plus.”

Those points are echoed in the text of a print ad, which also offers additional selling points like the product’s ability to work “quickly and easily” and how it “rinses away fast.”

These words appear at the bottom of the print ad: “Find out what all the Plus is about. Go to pertplus.com.”

Likewise, Mr. Cutler says, Sure is bought by consumers who “just want deodorant to do its job.”

“They don’t want to see it, feel it, smell it,” he adds. “They just want trusted protection.”

That provides the approach for the campaign for Sure, which carries the theme “Be 100 percent Sure.”

“Accept nothing less than 100 percent protection,” an announcer says, declaring that Sure gives “unstoppable wetness protection and unbeatable odor protection.”

“When you need to go the extra mile, Sure offers unconditional protection you can rely on,” he says. “So all day you’re superprotected for anything that comes your way.”

That is underscored with the presence of a superhero behind a package of Sure that dominates the commercial. The superhero, wearing a cape, takes flight as the announcer wraps up his spiel.

The print ad also shows a package of Sure throwing a superheroic shadow under the headline “Be superprotected.” The text repeats the points made in the commercial and ends, “Be sure to visit suredeodorant.com.”

Madison Avenue Consortium, which is creating the campaigns, was opened last year by Miriam Quart, who worked with Idelle at a previous agency, CasonNightingale, and produced some ads for Infusium 23 last year.

“Idelle’s brands are about strong name and brand equity,” Ms. Quart says, but they lack a certain something that the ads are intended to provide.

For example, research on Pert Plus indicated that “people recognize the brand, but didn’t understand what it stood for,” she adds, so the campaign focuses on the no-fuss attributes in a “straightforward and accessible” fashion.

“With the economic downturn, people have gone back to basics,” Ms. Quart says, and Pert Plus “is trusted, affordable” and “a quick solution to good hair.”

“It’s a fun, lively, optimistic campaign that’s all about the Plus,” she adds, which is “a cool double entendre” because in Pert Plus, “the Plus is the conditioner.”

The campaign presents Pert Plus to mothers as the hair care brand for the family, Ms. Quart says, because “mothers want to make sure their families are a great reflection on them.”

The fact the commercial concentrates more on the father and children than the mother is also meant to signal that women who like to buy shampoos and conditioners for themselves, not to be shared with their families, can buy Pert Plus for everyone else in the household — cutting down on the total number of bottles in the bathrooms.

The two-in-one aspect of Pert Plus also comes in handy now that children “are showering and bathing more often,” Ms. Quart says, as they take part in sports and other after-school activities.

The idea that the family in the campaign is somewhat larger than in most ads is no accident, she adds, because “we do know from data that Pert users usually have a household body count of five-plus.”

For Sure, the “Be superprotected” and “Be 100 percent Sure” themes are intended to be “the ‘Raise your hand’ for today’s consumer,” Ms. Quart says, referring to the brand’s longtime slogan when it was owned by Procter, “Raise your hand if you’re Sure.”

“It was a good campaign for the time,” she adds of “Raise your hand,” but it was “played out” so there was no thought given to reviving it.

In tests, the new themes received positive responses as “fun and memorable,” Ms. Quart says, among both men and women. (There are Sure varieties specifically for each sex, but the campaign is for the unisex versions.)

The direct approach of the campaign reflects what consumers want in an antiperspirant and deodorant, she adds: “We want it to work. We don’t want to stink. We want it to last all day.”

Hmmmmm. Sounds like what agencies and advertisers want from their ads.

And the promise that Sure will make those who use it “feel invincible” throughout the day is also evocative of the economy, Ms. Quart says.

“We understand what today’s consumer is up against,” she adds. “A lot of people are feeling a little beaten down.”

“This brings up your spirits, elevates you to feel you can conquer your day,” Ms. Quart says, as your antiperspirant and deodorant “is going to work hard and strong.”

Feeling ‘superprotected’ and ‘invincible’ are good words to put out there,” she adds.

Indeed. They may give consumers a belief they have more than a ghost of a chance against their challenges.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.
321 2010-10-11 Al Jean, an executive producer and the longtime show runner of "The Simpsons," tells ArtsBeat, "I haven't been fired yet, so that's a good sign."...
322 2010-10-11 The actress is selling two older works because she's "going a bit more modern."...
323 2010-10-11 Microsoft introduces final details of its new mobile operating system, Windows Phone 7....
324 2010-10-11 Microsoft introduces final details of its new mobile operating system, Windows Phone 7....
325 2010-10-11 Under the terms of the deal, Gymboree shareholders will get $65.40 a share in cash, a premium of 57 percent to Gymboree's share price on Sept. 30....
326 2010-10-11 This weekend, co-vocabularists have generously improved upon existing book titles....
327 2010-10-11 What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners....
328 2010-10-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
329 2010-10-11 Crispin Odey, one of London's most vocal hedge fund managers, is no longer enamored of Barclays and is now placing his bets on Lloyds Banking Group....
330 2010-10-11 France is ready to drop objections to a key part of a law to tighten rules on hedge funds in exchange for concessions from London, moving to end a row that threatened to harm relations with Washington, Reuters reported....
331 2010-10-11 Microsoft's antitrust settlement with European regulators is having little effect on the browser market, prompting a renewed debate about the effectiveness of such antitrust remedies....
332 2010-10-11 The Small Business Administration published a final rule revising upward the size standards that determine eligibility for S.B.A. programs in three broad sectors of the economy....
333 2010-10-11 LOS ANGELES (AP) — Leona Gage, who in 1957 was named Miss USA but lost the title the next day when pageant officials learned she was married and had two children, died here Tuesday. She was 71.

The cause was heart failure, her son Robert Kaminer told The Associated Press.

Born Mary Leona Gage in Texas, she was Miss Maryland USA in the 1957 Miss USA competition in Long Beach, Calif., a precursor to the Miss Universe pageant.

Ms. Gage told reporters after winning that she did not even have a boyfriend. “I want to wait until I’m 26 before I become seriously interested in the opposite sex,” she said, according to The Baltimore Sun.

Just a day later her background was exposed. Ms. Gage had been married twice, both times at age 14, and the first marriage had been quickly annulled. She had her second child at 16. She had also lied about her age: she was 18 but told pageant officials she was 21.

“I’m glad it’s over with now,” Ms. Gage said at the time. “I knew the Miss Universe rules forbade a married girl from entering the contest, but I thought I had a chance. I took it and lost.”

She said that she had entered the contest because she needed money, and that she had not expected to win. She was, she added, “most grateful I was Miss USA for a day.”
334 2010-10-11 ¶Grey, part of the Grey Group unit of WPP, was awarded two large worldwide assignments. GlaxoSmithKline expanded its relationship with Grey by consolidating the duties for its Panadol line of pain relievers there; total billings were estimated at $100 million. Grey had handled the work in some Asian countries and Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, another WPP agency, handled the brand in most other markets. Also, the Sony Corporation chose Grey to create a global campaign next year for its Bravia line of TV sets; billings were not disclosed.

¶Relativity Media, West Hollywood, Calif., selected Carat, part of the Aegis Group, to handle United States media planning and buying duties for theatrical marketing, which includes 10 to 12 movies to be released in the next year. Adweek.com estimated that ad spending could total close to $200 million. Relativity recently acquired the marketing and distribution operations of Overture Films, which had used PHD, part of the Omnicom Group, as its media agency. Susan Taylor, executive vice president and managing director for the Carat West unit of Carat, led the efforts to land the account; she had previously held a similar post at PHD.

¶Verizon Communications, New York, chose Lopez Negrete Communications, Houston, as its agency for ads aimed at Spanish-speaking consumers for the company’s landline telephone, high-speed Internet and FiOS television services. Spending was estimated at $40 million to $50 million. GlobalHue, New York, had handled the account, which includes duties like creative, media planning and buying, promotions and event marketing; GlobalHue will continue to create campaigns for Verizon Wireless aimed at African-American and Hispanic consumers.

¶Imperial Brands, Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., expanded its relationship with Meter Industries, New York, by naming Meter as agency of record for the introduction of 4 Orange Premium vodka. Billings were not disclosed. Meter created a campaign to introduce another vodka for Imperial, Sobieski.

¶Kevin Roddy, chief creative officer at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, left over what was described as a disagreement over the future direction of the office, the agency said. For the time being, four executive creative directors will assume Mr. Roddy’s duties.
335 2010-10-11 In landing with the Knicks, Felton is moving from one offensive extreme in Larry Brown’s deliberate halfcourt sets in Charlotte to D’Antoni’s preferred pace of organized chaos.

“We’ve got to find that medium where Raymond doesn’t go too fast,” D’Antoni said. “There’s a time to push and a time to calm it down. I think we’re doing better on it, and that’s something we’ll learn as we go forward. A lot of that’s in Raymond’s head, and he’ll set the tone, the rhythm of the game, and push as fast as he can without getting out of control.”

Push, but not too hard. Pull back, but not too much. Somewhere, there is a medium for Felton to locate. Stoudemire should make that hunt easier. In five seasons in the N.B.A., Felton has yet to play with a multifaceted forward like Stoudemire.

“He does everything,” Felton said. “We’re definitely going to try and get our own chemistry together, and that’s what practice is for and the preseason is for.”

In Phoenix, Stoudemire partnered with Steve Nash for six years in one of the league’s most potent pick-and-roll duos. The chicken-and-egg-type question of who benefited more in the relationship will be answered this season when they play without each other.

“It was a difficult situation, to be honest with you,” Stoudemire said of leaving Phoenix. “Playing with Steve was a great opportunity for both of us. We worked well with each other. We elevated both of our games. It was a great, great friendship and relationship there, so it was a tough decision for me to leave Phoenix. But Steve is a phenomenal player. I’m sure he’s going to be O.K. and vice versa.

“I don’t want to put any extra on Raymond because Steve is a phenomenal player and he works extremely hard at his craft. But Raymond is special at his own craft, and we’re looking forward to him reaching his full potential and working hard every night.”

Felton’s more immediate impact will be on defense, where he is a hard-nosed ball hawk. In Charlotte last season, Felton’s scoring average was 12.1 points, his lowest since his rookie season in 2005-6, but he shot a career-high 45.9 percent. He was the first line of defense in a unit that allowed the fewest points per game at 93.8.

Once acclimated, Felton will be an upgrade over the point guards since D’Antoni has arrived. But the Knicks also spent $25 million over three years to secure him and missed out on several developing but capable point guards in the last two draft classes.

“These last two practices, I think he’s getting a better feel about what we need to do,” D’Antoni said. “I don’t think he had that in Europe at all.”

The Knicks conducted an open practice at Madison Square Garden on Sunday. Mike D’Antoni told the crowd, “We do know one thing: we don’t know how the year will go, but you won’t get a more hard-working group than you have now.” To prove the point, the Knicks spent most of the hour and a half zipping up the court and diving into the stands for loose balls, while scrimmaging and working on a full-court press. For fans, it was their first in-person glimpse of the reconstructed Knicks, who have yet to play a preseason game in the United States. The Russian center Timofey Mozgov elicited cheers after several putbacks and blocks, and his status seemed to grow with each productive play. “He must be 9-feet-6,” one onlooker said of the 7-1 Mozgov.
336 2010-10-11 Some antigun people think that if more women carry concealed guns, they are more at risk. But a gun represents a greater change in a woman’s ability to defend herself than it does for a man.

Most women do not have the strength or the fighting skills to fend off an attacker. The gun levels the field.

But I feel strongly that both women and men who choose to legally carry concealed weapons need to be trained by professional instructors.

The writer is the author of “Armed & Female: Taking Control.”

I’d like to see a law requiring any bar or restaurant that allows patrons to carry concealed loaded weapons on its premises to post a warning on its door.

I would not go to such a place, and I think others might like that option as well. Cigarette packages carry warnings of their danger; why not bars with guns?

Even in the days of the Wild West, it was unambiguous saloon policy in several towns to check the guns at the door. I recently watched a rerun of “Gunsmoke” in which Marshal Matt Dillon and Miss Kitty, the barkeep, made sure there were no firearms allowed in Dodge City barrooms because they knew from practical experience that guns and alcohol just didn’t mix.

Of course, they didn’t have the National Rifle Association back then stirring up trouble by demanding that Second Amendment rights be extended to drunken, out-of-control customers in a bar.

As a pediatrician, I read with interest your recent article about gun control and the movement of crime-related firearms across state lines (“Study Ties Lax State Gun Laws to Crimes in Other States,” news article, Sept. 27).

Even in California, where gun laws are considered effective, we see pediatric patients who are victims of gun violence or accidents involving firearms in the home. It’s a national problem.

A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study of violence in young adults revealed that homicide is the second leading cause of death for children age 10 to 24, with 84 percent of those deaths due to firearms.

I urge parents to remember that if they choose to have a gun in their home, to keep it locked and unloaded and to store ammunition separately. Too often, the firearms purchased for protection of loved ones are the same firearms that cause unintended injuries and deaths.
337 2010-10-11 “The enemy is lying in wait to create problems,” Mr. Sajednia said in comments published by the ISNA news agency. “We must not give them opportunities to hurt the revolution.”

Mr. Sajednia was the latest top security official within days to directly address the possibility that worsening economic conditions could spill over into civic anger.

“With economic pressure they intend to push the country toward chaos, riots and insecurity, and want to bring about civil disobedience,” another senior Tehran police commander, Ismael Ahmadi-Moghaddam, said in a speech at Friday Prayer in Tehran this month. “The police are completely aware of the nature of this conspiracy,” Mr. Ahmadi-Moghaddam told worshipers.

Iran’s economy showed some obvious signs of strain late last month when the United Arab Emirates restricted foreign currency dealings by Iranian banks with operations in Dubai.

The move was seen as part of a tightening of money flowing to and from Iran in line with international sanctions against the country’s nuclear program, which Western nations fear could be a front for the pursuit of nuclear weapons.

The currency restriction plunged Iran’s own foreign exchange market into trouble as traders sought to sell holdings of the rial, the national currency, anticipating it would fall in value. At the peak of the problem, Tehran traders reportedly skirmished with the police outside Iran’s Central Bank, protesting its initial refusal to trade rials for dollars and other foreign currencies.

The Central Bank has since eased some restrictions but still limits exchanges of rial to the equivalent of $2,000.

Unrest in currency markets coincided with a strike by gold traders at the Tehran bazaar and in a number of cities across the country in reaction to plans to introduce a 3 percent tax on gold transactions. Iran’s influential bazaar merchants have expressed fear that such a tax could herald further government skimming of their profits.

It was the second time this year that bazaar merchants have gone on strike to protest an administration intent on reducing dependence on oil money for government revenue.

In July, large parts of the Tehran bazaar went on strike for 12 days in protest of proposed income-tax increases. Web sites close to Iran’s political opposition reported that a well-known textile merchant was killed when pro-government paramilitaries raided the bazaar demanding that shopkeepers reopen for business.

In a sign that Iranian authorities would take a more measured yet still decisive approach to possible disturbances, last Thursday, Tehran’s chief prosecutor said the judiciary would prosecute those who “disturb public order” by closing the bazaar or engaging in speculation. His comments echoed an earlier warning from the Tehran provincial governor, Morteza Tamadon, that the government would be tough on merchants trying to pass on price increases to consumers.

“If prices increase, this can only be due to taking unfair advantage and psychological warfare,” Mr. Tamadon said in comments published on Fars News on Wednesday. “This has nothing to do with reforming price controls or plans to ‘targetize’ subsidies. There are some who have disrupted the feelings in the bazaar and are taking advantage.”

Reforming Iran’s vast and inefficient subsidies system has been the stated objective of successive administrations since the end of the Iran-Iraq war in 1988, but it remains an extremely delicate subject because average Iranians have come to rely on the subsidies.

Price supports amount to $4,000 per family per year, according to a recent report by the International Monetary Fund.

Officials have maintained a wary silence about the exact dates when the subsidies will be eliminated and the likely price levels of formerly subsidized goods. Officials have, over the past several days, announced large-scale stockpiling of essential food products, which, it is hoped, the government will be able to distribute in the event of sudden price increases. Low-income consumers have been promised coupons for cooking oil and rice in a further move intended to allay fears.

But cash reimbursements intended to compensate families faced with higher prices have not yet been made, despite assurances late last month that such reimbursements would be credited to bank accounts well before the onset of price increases. Iranian press reports have estimated that the value of these payments could be as little as $24 per month, meaning that a family of four would receive less than one-third of the government help provided under the current subsidy regime.

I.M.F. analysts say that energy prices could shoot up 4 to 20 times current levels as a result of removing price supports. Government critics have expressed fears that such a “price shock” could reignite inflation which, according to Iran’s Central Bank, fell below 10 percent in May after spending years in double digits.

On Thursday, a labor leader in the unemployment-ravaged western Iranian province of Hamedan warned of protests if the government did not improve the situation of workers in anticipation of the removal of subsidies.

In recent months, Web sites close to Iran’s political opposition have periodically reported isolated industrial action by workers who have remained unpaid over the course of months.

“Given that the implementation of this plan will definitely lead to higher prices, we expect the government to support workers and families,” Ahmad Mabudi, the labor leader, a senior official in the Hamedan Islamic Labor Council, told a group of workers’ representatives in comments published by the ILNA news agency.

“The opinions of the workers need to be taken into account otherwise we will see large protests by workers around the country,” Mr. Mabudi said.
338 2010-10-11 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) — Trucks carrying NATO supplies began flowing again Sunday through an important border crossing into Afghanistan , ending an 11-day closing imposed by Pakistan to protest an American helicopter strike that accidentally killed Pakistani soldiers.

The reopening of the border crossing at Torkham, along the famed Khyber Pass, happened a day earlier than expected.

Following an apology from top American officials last week, Pakistan announced Saturday that Torkham would be reopened. The crossing is usually closed Sundays, however, and the United States had said it did not expect trucks to begin moving again until Monday.

It was not clear whether the decision to allow the vehicles through on Sunday was a goodwill gesture by Islamabad, or a pragmatic move to relieve the backlog of vehicles.

During the blockade, militants destroyed about 150 trucks and wounded some drivers and police officers.

“I am very happy that our difficult days have finally ended and we are through now,” Khan Rehman, a driver, said minutes before he drove the first truck into Afghanistan just after noon.

Throughout the Torkham closing, NATO said the blockade did not affect its ability to keep troops supplied because hundreds of trucks still crossed into Afghanistan every day through Central Asian nations to the country’s north and through one border crossing in Pakistan’s southwest that remained open. But the reopening does reduce strain on the supply line.
339 2010-10-11 The new Web language and its additional features present more tracking opportunities because the technology uses a process in which large amounts of data can be collected and stored on the user’s hard drive while online. Because of that process, advertisers and others could, experts say, see weeks or even months of personal data. That could include a user’s location, time zone, photographs, text from blogs, shopping cart contents, e-mails and a history of the Web pages visited.

The new Web language “gives trackers one more bucket to put tracking information into,” said Hakon Wium Lie, the chief technology officer at , a browser company.

Or as Pam Dixon, the executive director of the World Privacy Forum in , said: “HTML 5 opens Pandora’s box of tracking in the Internet.”

Representatives from the World Wide Web Consortium say they are taking questions about user privacy very seriously. The organization, which oversees the specifications developers turn to for the new Web language, will hold a two-day workshop on Internet technologies and privacy.

Ian Jacobs, head of communications at the consortium, said the development process for the new Web language would include a public review. “There is accountability,” he said. “This is not a secret cabal for global adoption of these core standards.”

The additional capabilities provided by the new Web language are already being put to use by a California programmer who has created what, at first glance, could be a major new threat to online privacy.

Samy Kamkar, a California programmer best known in some circles for creating a virus called the “Samy Worm,” which took down in 2005, has created a cookie that is not easily deleted, even by experts — something he calls an Evercookie.

Some observers call it a “supercookie” because it stores information in at least 10 places on a computer, far more than usually found. It combines traditional tracking tools with new features that come with the new Web language.

In creating the cookie, Mr. Kamkar has drawn comments from bloggers across the Internet whose descriptions of it range from “extremely persistent” to “horrific.”

Mr. Kamkar, however, said he did not create it to violate anyone’s privacy. He said was curious about how advertisers tracked him on the Internet. After cataloging what he found on his computer, he made the Evercookie to demonstrate just how thoroughly people’s computers could be infiltrated by the latest Internet technology.

“I think it’s O.K. for them to say we want to provide better service,” Mr. Kamkar said of advertisers who placed tracking cookies on his computer. “However, I should also be able to opt out because it is my computer.”

Mr. Kamkar, whose 2005 virus circumvented browser safeguards and added more than a million “friends” to his MySpace page in less than 20 hours, said he had no plans to profit from the Evercookie and did not intend to sell it to advertisers.

“That wouldn’t have been difficult,” he said. Instead, he has made the code open to anyone who wants to examine it and says the cookie should be used “as a litmus test for preventing tracking.”

A recent spate of class-action lawsuits have accused large media companies like the Fox Entertainment Group and , and technology companies like Clearspring Technologies and Quantcast, of violating users’ privacy by tracking their online activities even after they took steps to prevent that.

Most people control their online privacy by adjusting settings in today’s most common Web browsers, which include Internet Explorer by , Firefox by , Safari by and Opera, which is used mostly in and and on mobile devices.

Each browser has different privacy settings, but not all of them have obvious settings for removing data created by the new Web language. Even the most proficient software engineers and developers acknowledge that deleting that data is tricky and may require multiple steps.

“Now there are so many sources of data storage, it’s very hard for browser manufacturers to handle that,” Mr. Cox said.

Mr. Kamkar and privacy experts say that makers of Web browsers should agree on one control for eliminating all tracking capabilities at once. “There should be simple enough controls to take care of every single thing,” said Ms. Dixon, who added that some browsers automatically collected large amounts of data unless a user told them not to.

Mr. Lie acknowledged that such companies “do have a lot of power.” But he said they worry that the privacy settings they develop could be too strict. For example, he said Opera once tried to put more controls on certain types of cookies, but users in complained that the controls prevented a popular social networking site from working properly.

But software developers and the representatives of the World Wide Web argue that as technology advances, consumers have to balance its speed and features against their ability to control their privacy.

“You can do more, but you need to be aware of how your information might be used or misused,” Mr. Jacobs said. “It’s the human questions.”
340 2010-10-11 Unlike the Bloomberg financial information service, Bloomberg Government will not require separate hardware to operate. For $5,700 a year for each user (a discount will be available for government users), subscribers will be able to gain access to the system through their personal computers.

The idea for the service was born in part from what Bloomberg executives saw as an opening in the Washington media market. As numerous Web sites, blogs and even traditional policy-focused outlets like National Journal have ramped up their coverage of political news, reporting on the less glamorous aspects — how the legislative sausage is made — has become less of a priority for many news organizations.

“There has been a bloom in news around political reporting,” said Kevin Sheekey, chairman of Bloomberg Government. “There’s been at the same time a sort of hidden but very sharp decline in coverage of government apart from politics, in terms of what government is doing and regulating, and the impact that will have on segments of the economy. That part of press coverage of our society has probably dropped off tenfold. That’s where Bloomberg is stepping in.”

Many news organizations are coy about their ambitions, preferring to let their journalism speak for itself and content to let others speculate about what designs they have on the future. Not Bloomberg. And Bloomberg Government is an unmistakable signal that the company is positioning itself to be not only a major media player in Washington, but the dominant one.

“Our aspiration is to be the most influential news organization in the world,” said Mike Riley, the managing editor of Bloomberg Government in Washington. “I think Bloomberg sees a great opportunity here, and they are wisely investing on the front end,” he added, declining to say exactly how much the company has spent building the service over the last nine months. “Suffice it to say, it’s not inexpensive.”

Bloomberg’s existing Washington bureau employs 175 journalists apart from the nearly 40 journalists and analysts Mr. Riley has hired so far for Bloomberg Government. He plans to hire 60 more by the end of the year, half of them journalists, half policy experts like trained economists.

By the end of 2011, Bloomberg Government expects to have 150 journalists and analysts on staff. Counting nonjournalists, plans call for Bloomberg Government to expand to 300, which would make the company’s Washington office the largest for a news organization not based in the capital.

Bloomberg’s investment in the staff alone will be in the area of $30 million a year.

If Bloomberg Government is a success, the company would like to replicate the model on the state level, providing the same kind of information and analysis about state contracts and legislation — a vast potential market that many local news organizations have retreated from in recent years.

Bloomberg has experienced near-uninterrupted growth since its namesake founded the company after being fired from Salomon Brothers in 1981. Its revenue — 85 percent of which comes from sales of its signature financial news and data terminals — was $6.3 billion last year. This year the company expects to hit the $7 billion mark, well on its way to hitting a goal of $10 billion in revenue by 2014, a feat that would make it larger than Yahoo. It now employs 2,400 people in its various news divisions across the world.

Bloomberg has moved into other areas of media — some profitable, some not. Its television network and the newly acquired BusinessWeek, which it bought from McGraw-Hill last year. Called Bloomberg Businessweek,  terminal sales dipped slightly in 2009 to 279,000 from 287,000 the year before as financial services companies tightened their belts. The average Bloomberg terminal subscriber pays $20,000 a year, the company said.

An enterprise like Bloomberg Government, with its hefty subscription fees, can help the company grow and keep it better insulated against downturns in the financial market, to which its terminal business is susceptible. In explaining why they decided to start Bloomberg Government, executives are quick to point out that even during the recession, the federal budget and spending by businesses to lobby in Washington rose continuously.

Bloomberg Government’s creators have tried to make the service a one-stop-shopping experience for any piece of data that exists about the federal government and the corporations that work on its behalf.

Separate pages have been created for all members of Congress. With the click of a mouse, users can learn just about any piece of information about their representative or senator: top political contributors and amounts donated, legislation sponsored, even spouses’ names. E-mail addresses for the staffs of each Congressional office — from chief of staff to scheduler — are also available and updated regularly by Bloomberg contractors who call Congressional offices every few weeks to double-check the information.

Maps of all Congressional districts are also available, marked with each hospital and corporate headquarters in the area. Bloomberg eventually plans to list the lobbyists who represent those institutions and how to reach them.

Information in similarly fine detail is available about corporations: how much money they have donated to political candidates, what government contracts they have been awarded, who the leading corporate officers are and how to contact them.

This mine of data will be available alongside the work that Bloomberg writers will produce. Their newsroom, which will be in a space on K Street where Google’s offices formerly were, will operate as a hybrid research firm-wire service, with Ph.D.-level analysts being paired with journalists to produce reports.

Jenn Higgins, a principal at the Capitol Health Group, a boutique health care lobbying firm in Washington, has been a tester for the service since July. She said she has already canceled subscriptions to other Washington publications.

If Bloomberg Government catches on, she said, half in jest, it could make her job as a lobbyist obsolete. “If I live outside Washington, this is a pretty big universe of information I pay a lobbyist to know,” she said. “I guess I think at the end of the day a computer can’t take someone to Capitol Hill to meet a member of Congress. Until that happens, I think I’ll be O.K.”
341 2010-10-11 The Shubert Foundation’s grants to arts organizations have increased to $18.2 million this year, up from $17.6 million in 2009, according to a report being released by the foundation this week. Grants ranging from $5,000 to $275,000 have been given to around 450 companies nationally by the nonprofit organization. Theater companies in 42 states received most of the money, around $13 million, while dance companies received $2.5 million. The remainder was distributed to other performing arts groups, professional theater training programs and charitable agencies. In New York, Lincoln Center Theater was one of the top beneficiaries, receiving $275,000, along with American Ballet Theater ($200,000) and Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater ($155,000). Smaller companies like Elevator Repair Service were awarded around $5,000.
342 2010-10-11 Leon Botstein likes to raise eyebrows with the thematic programs he presents with the American Symphony Orchestra, and at a glance the subject of the orchestra’s season opener at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday evening, James Joyce, may seem slightly quirky, since only one of the three works Mr. Botstein conducted made use of Joyce’s writing.

But a musical pulse and symmetry suffuse Joyce’s work, and his way of reconfiguring the English language has something in common, conceptually, with the way contemporary composers have treated notes, rhythms and timbres. That may explain why works like “Ulysses,” “Finnegans Wake” and “Chamber Music” have inspired composers of many stripes, including John Cage, Stephen Albert, Nils Vigeland, Victoria Bond and Libby Larsen.

Some of their works could have enlivened Mr. Botstein’s program considerably, but he had something different in mind. He devoted the first half to two composers whose music Joyce knew and admired, George Antheil and Othmar Schoeck, and the second half to Matyas Seiber’s “Ulysses” (1947), an introspective, slightly dour setting of a fragment of Chapter 17 of Joyce’s novel.

Seiber’s dark, soft-edged orchestration suits the text, an obscure astronomical discussion between Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus; the most interesting action, melodically and harmonically, occurs in the often involved, shimmering choral writing. Christian Reinert sang the solo tenor line in the calm, meditative manner that Joyce’s hypnotic text seems to demand.

The Seiber proved more thought provoking than exciting. That could also be said of Othmar Schoeck’s “Lebendig Begraben” (1926), a creepy 40-minute setting of Gottfried Keller’s cycle of poems about being buried alive. Joyce heard the work during a visit to Zurich in 1935 and liked it so much that he sought out the composer.
343 2010-10-11 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah, W.,Jr., 68, died peacefully at his home in Bronxville, New York Friday October 8, 2010. He was also a resident of Osterville, MA and Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, FL. Jerry was sustained throughout his life by an unfalte...
344 2010-10-12 After the Giants beat the Braves on Monday in Atlanta to win their division series, tickets for the first game between the Giants and the Phillies in Philadelphia on Saturday jumped 7 percent....
345 2010-10-12 Two properties in south Florida -- one new, the other reopening after an extensive renovation - are the latest entrants in the growing field of gay hotels and resorts....
346 2010-10-12 A bankruptcy professor examines Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's attempt to get the studio's creditors to agree to a prepackaged bankruptcy....
347 2010-10-12 Data from the Interactive Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers show an increase in digital advertising revenue for the first half of 2010....
348 2010-10-12 Times readers share their own time-tested tips for saying something in an essay that might not shine through elsewhere in an application....
349 2010-10-12 Does your dog droop when you leave the house? It may be a sign that your pet is a pessimist....
350 2010-10-12 In a radio interview, Carl P. Paladino, the Republican nominee for New York governor, said that he had "definitely stepped on my message" in recent weeks....
351 2010-10-12 Carl P. Paladino acknowledged making some mistakes in his campaign for governor, but he blamed the press for holding him to a different standard than his opponent....
352 2010-10-12 Sinatra Family Estates will bottle two wines with familiar imagery of Ol' Blue Eyes....
353 2010-10-12 Pfizer agreed to buy the maker of pain medication for $3.6 billion in cash, in the giant drug maker's first major deal since its blockbuster purchase of Wyeth last year....
354 2010-10-12 Hedge fund filings show that investors like Carl C. Icahn and Douglas A. Hirsch are betting on Blackstone upping its $4.7 billion bid for Dynegy, and may put up a fight if it resists....
355 2010-10-12 Hedge funds received net deposits in August of $11.3 billion, the largest since February, as investors increased their appetite for risk, according to TrimTabs Investment Research and BarclayHedge....
356 2010-10-12 Petronas Chemicals is looking to raise as much as $4 billion in a Malaysian initial public offering, exceeding earlier estimates of over $2 billion as it hopes to tap on strong global investor demand for Asian stocks....
357 2010-10-12 The French economy minister rebuffed United States criticism that demands for tough new European Union rules on hedge funds were protectionist, but she also signaled she was ready to compromise....
358 2010-10-12 The swelling outcry over fast-and-loose foreclosures has thrust the Obama administration back into the uncomfortable position of sheltering the banking industry from the demands of an angry public....
359 2010-10-12 Sarah Posner, left, of Religion Dispatches and Robert Jones of the Public Religion Research Institute discuss changing public opinion of gay rights.
360 2010-10-12 The Coast Guard was searching Monday for six New Jersey men who failed to return from a weekend fishing trip. The search for their 32-foot vessel, the Black Magic, initially focused on the area near where the men had planned to go fishing for tuna, about 85 miles east of Atlantic City. But the search was expanded to include Martha’s Vineyard after a Coast Guard radio tower there picked up a mayday call around 1 a.m. Monday, Petty Officer Jonathan Lindberg said. A recording of the call was played for family members of the missing, one of whom recognized the voice as that of her husband. The weather in the area was mostly calm over the weekend.
361 2010-10-12 Rudy Fernandez, a Portland Trail Blazers swingman from Spain, was fined $50,000 by the N.B.A. for comments his European agent, Gerard Darnes, made last week. On a Portland radio show and in e-mails to reporters, Darnes defended Fernandez, who had said he was homesick and no longer wanted to play in the N.B.A.
362 2010-10-12 Corn futures surged on Monday, hitting two-year peaks and leading other agricultural commodities higher on the second session of strong gains after the government slashed its crop outlook, initiating worries of higher prices for food and biofuels.

Copper and gold prices rose as well, lifting the 19-commodity Reuters-Jefferies CRB index, which extended Friday’s two-year high even though crude oil fell.

Corn rose 5 percent in Chicago futures trading after soaring 9 percent on Friday.

Soybeans, sugar and coffee also had sharp gains in the two sessions on worries that agricultural supplies would tighten from smaller harvests forecast for this year. Ethanol futures in New York surged 9.9 percent to close at $2.185 a gallon. Corn is the main feedstock for ethanol production.

The biggest two-day run-up for corn since 1988, it brought back memories of early 2008, when record high grains prices led to sharply higher food prices.

“For sure, with higher feed grain prices there is potential for upward price pressure particularly on pork, poultry and beef,” said Luke Mathews, commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.

The dollar rose slightly, but that did not derail gains in commodities.

The dollar’s fall has encouraged the commodities rally during the last month, as investors speculated that the Federal Reserve would soon undertake new stimulus measures to support the economy.
363 2010-10-12 To compensate for ambiguities like unclear signage at the centers, the bill, set to be announced on Tuesday, would require, among other things, signs at the entrance and in the waiting rooms to inform women that the center does not provide abortions or contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and that it does not provide referrals for those options, either. Signage would also need to make it clear if no licensed medical professional is on the staff.

There is nothing misleading about the E.M.C. Web site, which boldly announces its agenda in red: “Fighting for life in NYC — the abortion capital of America.” Nor is there anything neutral about what women hear once they are seated across from a staff person at any of those centers.

But the vague signage, the E.M.C. centers’ intentional proximity to Planned Parenthood services, and some of the other centers’ more misleading Web sites can make for confusion. “I think they are deceiving women purposely,” Ms. Quinn said. “But even if you yielded that they weren’t, given how potent the emotions, the politics, isn’t it just smart for us to know who provides what and who doesn’t?”

The signs are not exactly as onerous as the scripts that abortion providers in South Dakota have been required by law to say: that abortion will “terminate the life of a whole, separate, unique, living human being.”

Unsurprisingly, Chris Slattery, the president of E.M.C. Pregnancy Centers, considers the New York bill excessive. “They don’t do pro-life counseling,” Mr. Slattery said, referring to Planned Parenthood. “Why don’t we have on Planned Parenthood’s door ‘No pro-life counseling, only pro-abortion counseling’ — O.K.? Let’s just have a level playing field.”

In Mr. Slattery’s mind, his centers are more upfront than Planned Parenthood’s: when asked, he says that he opposes abortion; Planned Parenthood, he argues, never admits to what he believes is an anti-adoption, pro-abortion agenda.

In fact, Planned Parenthood, which has long supported adoption, has seen some of its chapters recently enhance their own adoption counseling. But some conflicted women might imagine that a place so closely associated with abortion rights could not possibly be the right place to hash out the decision — an assumption of polarization seems to kick in reflexively. Based on facts, not just feelings, the crisis pregnancy centers are clearly not an unbiased place for a woman to sort through that choice, and the sooner she knows it, the better.

The term “crisis pregnancy center” is not one of those overly determined phrases that one side or the other of the abortion debate insists upon, but of late, most anti-abortion advocates seem to prefer calling them pregnancy resource centers. It sounds lulling and neutral, does it not? Like the ideal, nonpartisan place where a woman could assume people would understand the depths of her moral dilemma. A pregnancy resource center with no loaded history or agenda whatsoever — if only there were more of them.
364 2010-10-12 “For this kind of nuisance to take place and even unnerve my wife from being able to get out of the car and into our house is preposterous,” the woman’s husband, David Moreno, wrote to Mr. Patterson.

A man from the border city of Douglas, Victor Eastridge, has had cows come up onto his front porch, knocking down everything in their path. He said he has 40 acres of land and has put up fencing, but the aggressive animals still manage to force their way onto his property.

“I am sure there was a time when this law made sense, but today it does nothing except benefit the rancher at the expense of me and my neighbors and other citizens around the state,” Mr. Eastridge said.

Eliminating the law would put undue hardship on ranchers, industry officials say. “We live by the policy of good neighbors,” said Patrick Bray, executive director of the Arizona Cattlemen’s Association. “Ranchers try to maintain their fences as best they can. But it takes a lot of work, and cattle have a mind of their own. To put the liability on the ranchers if an animal gets out would be devastating to our industry.”

Still, the irritation that roaming cows sometimes cause is real.

Jerald Duke, who grew up on a ranch in rural New Mexico but now lives in a neat residential neighborhood northwest of Albuquerque, said he and his wife, Nancy, have awoken to mooing and seen cows munching on their tiny front yard. “They make a mess in the grass,” he said. “We’ve had to chase them away.”

To get to Soothing Meadows Drive, where the Dukes live in a community surrounded by walls, the cows cross a cattle guard in the road, which is supposed to keep them out. On a recent afternoon, there were 15 cows grazing in the scrub brush a short walk from the Dukes’ home and large piles of dung ringing the neighborhood playground. “I think animals of any nature should be contained,” Mr. Duke said. “It’s like if I let my dog roam all over the neighborhood.”

Laws throughout the West are already less cow-friendly than they were generations ago. Some states, like California, have open-range policies in only some rural areas. In Arizona, cows are restricted in incorporated areas, which reduces conflicts in cities but not necessarily in outer suburbs that bump up with ranch land.

In southern Phoenix, a heifer made headlines over the summer by breaking out of a fenced-in ranch and escaping onto the South Mountain Preserve, where it roamed free for two months before some real-life cowboys hired by its owner managed to bring it in. Under state law, it was the owner’s responsibility and not the city’s to catch the runaway animal. Bryant Rockwood, a Phoenix police sergeant, told The Arizona Republic: “We could put a rope on it but then what would we do? We don’t have any place to take it.”

In a well-known incident from 2003, an Arizona man was arrested in the shooting a cow that had wandered onto his property east of Flagstaff. The recent death of the man, Kent Knudson, revived talk of his case.

On roadways in open-range states, ranchers are not liable for cow-car collisions if they show they tried to keep their cattle on their land. The industry says it is not as though the highways have become bovine obstacle courses. “The chances of hitting wildlife are probably higher than hitting livestock,” said Mr. Bray of the Arizona ranchers group, whose family owns more than 250 head of cattle.

Paul Forbes, an iron worker from outside Albuquerque, struck what he thought was a cow while driving his sister’s pickup. A police officer who investigated could find no injured animal nearby but determined that it was probably a cow from the nearby Kings Ranch that caused the accident. “After examining the damage on the front of the vehicle, I did observe some black cow hair, consistent with Mr. Forbes’s statement,” the report said.

Border Patrol agents are on the lookout for cattle while patrolling for illegal immigrants along the Southwest border. In May, a Border Patrol agent was killed after his vehicle hit a bull on U.S. Route 281 in South Texas late one night. It was the second such fatality, following the death of an agent whose vehicle struck a cow on Arizona 86 west of Tucson four years ago. Last month, another Border Patrol vehicle struck a cow in southern Arizona, although there were no injuries reported.

“A big black steer in the middle of the road in rural Arizona, you’re not going to see it,” said Mr. Patterson, the Arizona legislator. “Under open range, it’s your fault. There have been cases where the survivors have to pay not only for a funeral but for the dead cow.”
365 2010-10-12 “French women are exhausted,” said Valérie Toranian, editor-in-chief of Elle magazine in France. “We have the right to do what men do — as long as we also take care of the children, cook a delicious dinner and look immaculate. We have to be superwoman.”

The birthplace of Simone de Beauvoir and Brigitte Bardot may look Scandinavian in employment statistics, but it remains Latin in attitude. French women appear to worry about being feminine, not feminist, and French men often display a form of gallantry predating the 1789 revolution. Indeed, the liberation of French women can seem almost accidental — a byproduct of a paternalist state that takes children under its republican wings from toddler age and an obsession with natality rooted in three devastating wars.

“At the origin, family policy wasn’t about women, it was about Germany,” said Geneviève Fraisse, author of several books on gender history. “French mothers have conditions women elsewhere can only dream of. But stereotypes remain very much intact.”

Or, as the philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy put it: “France is an old Gallic macho country.”

France crystallizes the paradox facing many women across the developed world in the early 21st century: They have more say over their sexuality (in France birth control and abortion are legal and subsidized), they have overtaken men in education and are catching up in the labor market, but few make it to the top of business or politics.

Only one of France’s top companies is run by a woman: Anne Lauvergeon is chief executive of the nuclear power giant Areva and mother of two young children.

Having those children is relatively easy in France, one reason Paris seems to teem with stylish career women with several offspring.

At 31, Fleur Cohen has four children and works full-time as a doctor at a Left Bank hospital. As she drops her youngest at nursery in stilettos and pencil skirt you would never guess that she gave birth only three months ago.

Child No. 4 wasn’t “planned,” Ms. Cohen said, but it doesn’t change all that much: Instead of three children, she now takes four on the Metro in the morning and drops them at the public school and subsidized hospital nursery. She joked that children are probably the best way to reduce your tax bill. Irrespective of income, parents get a monthly allowance of €123, or about $170, for two children, €282 for three children and an additional €158 for every child after that. Add to that tax deductions and other benefits, and the Cohens pretty much stopped paying tax after baby No. 3.

Across town, Ms. de Marsac snapped on a plastic glove, inserted two fingers between Clara Pflug’s legs and told her to think of the wings of a butterfly as she contracted her birth canal muscles. The French state offers mothers 10 one-on-one, half-hour sessions of perineal therapy to prevent post-pregnancy incontinence and organ descent — and to improve sex. Ten sessions of free abdominal exercises follow; Ms. de Marsac promises Ms. Pflug a “washboard tummy.”

French women have on average two babies, compared with 1.5 in the European Union overall.

Asked by foreign delegations about “le miracle français,” Nadine Morano, the feisty family minister and mother of three, says bluntly: “We spend the most money and we offer good childcare, it’s as simple as that. Our country understood a long time ago that to reconstruct a nation you need children.”

The 1870 defeat by a much more fertile Prussia led to first efforts to encourage childbirth. Then came the losses of World War I. Since 1920, when the gold Medal of the French Family — to honor mothers of eight or more — was created, expenditure on pro-breeding policies has blossomed. Last year, €97 billion, or 5.1 percent of gross domestic product — twice the E.U. average — went on family, childcare and maternity benefits.

Emblematic in this regard are the “écoles maternelles,” free all-day nursery schools set up a century after the French revolution in part, said Michelle Perrot, a historian, to stamp out the lingering influence of the Roman Catholic Church.

La Flèche houses the oldest école maternelle in France. At 8:30 a.m., parents drop off toddlers as young as two. Classes end at 4:30 p.m. but a free municipal service offers optional childcare until 6:30 p.m. Children are guaranteed a place in “maternelle” from the age of three and 99 percent of them attend.

Katy de Bresson, a single mother of two, called the enrollment of her son Arthur a “mini-revolution.” Free of all childcare costs, she could return to work full-time. “I am a lot happier and a lot more self-confident since then.”

Working mothers being the norm, Isabelle Nicolas, a nurse whose youngest son, Titouan, is in Arthur’s class and who quit work after his birth, feels pressure to return. “I spend a lot of time justifying myself,” she said. “In France you are expected to do it all.”

But ask any mother here whether school had changed the life of her husband and the answer is “non.”

“The school is called ‘maternelle’ for a reason,” said principal Anne Leguen. “In France, children are still considered to be the responsibility of mothers.”

Forty percent of French mothers undergo a career change within a year of giving birth, compared with 6 percent of men. Both parents have the right to take time off or reduce their hours until the child turns three — but 97 percent of those who do are women.

Women spend on average five hours and one minute per day on childcare and domestic tasks, while men spend two hours and seven minutes, according to the national statistics office Insee.

In Paris, Ms. Cohen’s husband is a doctor, too. But she bathes all four children, cooks and does the Saturday shopping — largely, she insists, by choice. “If I didn’t prepare food for my children, I would feel less like a mother,” she said.

At work, meanwhile, she plays down motherhood. She sneaks down to the hospital nursery to nurse her baby son, and tries to stay longer than her male colleagues in the evenings. Otherwise, “everyone will just assume that I’m leaving because of my children and that I am not committed to the job.”

A majority of medical graduates in France are female. Yet all 11 department heads in her hospital are men.

“French men have always been slow to give up power,” said Jean-François Copé, parliamentary leader of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s center-right party, who is defending a bill to oblige companies to fill 40 percent of boardroom seats with women.

The French Republic made “equality” a founding principle, but women were allowed to vote for the first time only in 1945. Since a 1998 law obliged political parties to have an equal number of men and women candidates on their party lists, parties have tended to pay fines rather than comply.

Women leaders come under close scrutiny in what is after all the home of couture. Ms. Morano recalls being mocked on television for wearing the same jacket several times. Ms. Lauvergeon likened her outfit to “armor.”

Four pieces of equal pay legislation have passed since 1972. But in 2009, even childless women in their forties still earned 17 percent less than men.

“A patriarchal corporate culture,” is the main barrier facing women in French companies, according to Brigitte Grésy, author of a 2009 report on gender equality in the workplace.

France is Latin not just in its culture of seduction, but also in its late work hours, Ms. Grésy said. And the disproportional weight of a small number of male-dominated engineering schools in grooming the elites has done its part in excluding women from power. Xavier Michel, president of École Polytechnique, points out that the number of female students has risen tenfold from seven to 70 since he graduated in 1972 — but that leaves it at just 14 percent.

Simone Veil was 18 when French women first voted and 28 when she was allowed to open her own bank account. At 38, as health minister, she pushed through the legalization of abortion. “A lot has changed, but a lot hasn’t,” she says today. More comfort to her than many of the laws in recent years is the fact that more fathers push strollers through her neighborhood.

Ms. Fraisse, the philosopher, says more than two centuries after France got rid of the king as the father of the nation, it needs to get rid of the father as the king of the family. “We had one revolution,” she said, “now we need another one — in the family.”
366 2010-10-12 Microsoft on Monday formally unveiled its Windows Phone 7 mobile operating system, which it hopes will give it a greater presence in the rapidly expanding market for smartphones.

Phones running the new software will be available on AT&T’s network starting on Nov. 8, said Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, at a news conference in New York. Later in the year, the phones will be available from T-Mobile, and in 2011, from Verizon and Sprint. AT&T will initially offer three phones, at $200 each.

In all, the operating system will run on nine new phones, made by LG, Samsung, HTC and Dell, Mr. Ballmer said. Some will have keyboards, he said, while others will be exclusively touch screen.

Windows Phone 7 has been in production for two years, and is the culmination of a long effort by Microsoft to assert itself in the smartphone market, which has grown exponentially over the last few years. Smartphones now account for 23 percent of all mobile phones sold in the United States, according to the research firm Nielsen. Apple’s iPhone, Google’s Android operating system and Research In Motion’s BlackBerry have taken the lead in new sales, while Microsoft has lagged behind.

Microsoft’s earlier mobile software was based on the design and interface of its Windows desktop operating system. Although those phones showed some early promise, their growth slowed drastically when Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007.
367 2010-10-12 Miners were pulling up from the ground twisted bundles of copper and silver that were shaped like the stalks of a plant, suggesting that veins of metals and minerals were proliferating underground with almost florid zeal.

Pools found around other mines seemed to have extraordinary properties. Dip an iron bar into the cerulean waters of the vitriol springs of modern-day Slovakia, for example, and the artifact will emerge agleam with copper, as though the dull, dark particles of the original had been elementally reinvented. “It was perfectly reasonable for Isaac Newton to believe in alchemy,” said Dr. Newman. “Most of the experimental scientists of the 17th century did.”

Moreover, while the alchemists of the day may not have mastered the art of transmuting one element into another — an ordeal that we have since learned requires serious equipment like a particle accelerator, or the belly of a star — their work yielded a bounty of valuable spinoffs, including new drugs, brighter paints, stronger soaps and better booze. “Alchemy was synonymous with chemistry,” said Dr. Newman, “and chemistry was much bigger than transmutation.”

For Newton, alchemy may also have proved bigger than chemistry. Dr. Newman argues that Sir Isaac’s alchemical investigations helped yield one of his fundamental breakthroughs in physics: his discovery that white light is a mixture of colored rays, and that a sunbeam prismatically fractured into the familiar rainbow suite called Roy G. Biv can with a lens be resolved to tidy white sunbeam once again. “I would go so far as to say that alchemy was crucial to Newton’s breakthroughs in optics,” said Dr. Newman. “He’s not just passing light through a prism — he’s resynthesizing it.” Consider this a case of “technology transfer,” said Dr. Newman, “from chemistry to physics.”

The conceptual underpinning to the era’s alchemical fixation was the idea of matter as hierarchical and particulate — that tiny, indivisible and semipermanent particles come together to form ever more complex and increasingly porous substances, a notion not so different from the reality revealed by 20th-century molecular biology and quantum physics.

With the right solvents and the perfect reactions, the researchers thought, it should be possible to reduce a substance to its core constituents — its corpuscles, as Newton called them — and then prompt the corpuscles to adopt new configurations and programs. Newton and his peers believed it was possible to prompt metals to grow, or “vegetate,” in a flask. After all, many chemical reactions were known to leave lovely dendritic residues in their wake. Dissolve a pinch of silver and mercury in a solution of nitric acid, drop in a lump of metal amalgam, and soon a spidery, glittering “Tree of Diana” will form on the glass. Or add iron to hydrochloric acid and boil the solution to dryness. Then prepare a powdery silicate mix of sand and potassium carbonate. Put the two together, and you will have a silica garden, in which the ruddy ferric chloride rises and bifurcates, rises and bifurcates, as though it were reaching toward sunlight and bursting into bloom.

Add to this the miners’ finds of tree- and rootlike veins of metals and alchemists understandably concluded that metals must be not only growing underground, but ripening. Hadn’t twined ores of silver and lead been found? Might not the lead be halfway to a mature state of silverdom? Surely there was a way to keep the disinterred metal root balls sprouting in the lab, coaxing their fruit to full succulent ripeness as the noblest of metals — lead into silver, copper to gold?

Well, no. If mineral veins sometimes resemble botanical illustrations, blame it on Earth’s molten nature and fluid mechanics: when seen from above, a branching river also looks like a tree.

Yet the alchemists had their triumphs, inventing brilliant new pigments, perfecting the old — red lead oxide, yellow arsenic sulfide, a little copper and vinegar and you’ve got bright green verdigris. Artists were advised, forget about mixing your own colors: you can get the best from an alchemist. The chemistry lab replaced the monastery garden as a source of new medicines. “If you go to the U.K. today and use the word ‘chemist,’ the assumption is that you’re talking about the pharmacist,” said Dr. Newman. “That tradition goes back to the 17th century.”

Alchemists also became expert at spotting cases of fraud. It was a renowned alchemist who proved that the “miraculous” properties of vitriol springs had nothing to do with true transmutation. Instead, the water’s vitriol, or copper sulfate, would cause iron atoms on the surface of a submerged iron rod to leach into the water, leaving pores that were quickly occupied by copper atoms from the spring.

“There were a lot of charlatans, especially in the noble courts of Europe,” said Dr. Newman. Should an alchemist be found guilty of attempting to deceive the king, the penalty was execution, and in high gilded style. The alchemist would be dressed in a tinsel suit and hanged from a gallows covered in gold-colored foil.

Newton proved himself equally intolerant of chicanery, when, in his waning years, he took a position as Master of the Mint. “In pursuing clippers and counterfeiters, he called on long-nurtured reserves of Puritan anger and righteousness,” writes James Gleick in his biography of Newton.

“He was brutal,” said Mark Ratner, a materials chemist at Northwestern University. “He sentenced people to death for trying to scrape the gold off of coins.” Newton may have been a Merlin, a Zeus, the finest scientist of all time. But make no mistake about it, said Dr. Ratner. “He was not a nice guy.”
368 2010-10-12 In France, a Paradox in Equality for Women
369 2010-10-12 Child Protective Services investigated more than three million cases of suspected child abuse in 2007, but a new study suggests that the investigations did little or nothing to improve the lives of those children.

In 1974, Congress passed the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, designed to encourage more thorough and accurate reporting and record-keeping in child abuse cases. In New York, for example, there are now Child Protective Services offices in every county, paid for in part with federal funds.

Researchers examined the records of 595 children nationwide, all at similar high risk for maltreatment, tracking them from ages 4 to 8. During those years, Child Protective Services investigated the families of 164 of these children for suspected abuse or neglect. The scientists then interviewed all the families four years later, comparing the investigated families with the 431 families that had not been investigated.

The scientists looked at several factors: social support, family functioning, poverty, caregiver education and depressive symptoms, and child anxiety, depression and aggressive behavior — all known to increase the risk for abuse or neglect. But they were unable to find any differences in the investigated families compared with the uninvestigated in any of these dimensions, except that maternal depressive symptoms were worse in households that had been visited.

One possible interpretation of this result would be that the investigated families were at greater risk to begin with, and that the investigation helped them to recover to the expected level of risk. But if this were so, the authors write, households with recent investigations would have greater risk than households with more distant investigations. Statistical analysis found no such association. They concluded that Child Protective Services investigations had little or no effect.
370 2010-10-12 Supervision and regulation must be the “first and main line of defense” against risks to the financial system, Ms. Yellen said, because monetary policy has other objectives and is “too blunt an instrument” to contain such risks. That position is in line with a central belief of Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed’s chairman.

Effective supervision should focus on the accumulation of high levels of risk and leverage, Ms. Yellen said, sources of vulnerability that are shared by multiple institutions, and the interconnectedness of the system.

Banking supervision and regulation were a focus of the annual meeting last week of the International Monetary Fund. On Sunday, the Institute of International Finance, a global association of commercial and investment banks, said that many countries were piling on regulations too rapidly and giving too little time for new rules to take effect, and warned that bank lending and economic growth could be curtailed as a result.

But the same day, the Group of Thirty, a private association of finance leaders, called for “urgent action” on macroprudential supervision. “As we have seen, a focus on individual institutions and markets, absent a systemic view, cannot ensure financial stability and resilience,” said Roger W. Ferguson Jr., a former Fed vice chairman who led the working group that prepared the Group of Thirty’s report.

Ms. Yellen, who was a member of that working group, threw her support behind its findings on Monday.

She argued against the idea, fashionable before the 2008 crisis, that business cycles had been tamed and that markets were self-correcting. “That view lies in tatters today as we look at tens of millions of unemployed and the trillions of dollars of lost output and lost wealth around the world,” she said.

Regulators had been “lulled into complacency by a combination of a Panglossian worldview and benign experience,” she said. Turbulent events — like the Latin American debt crisis and the savings-and-loan disaster in the 1980s; the Asian financial crisis and the failure of the giant hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in the 1990s; and stock market declines in 1987 and 2000-1 — appeared to be manageable at the time.

“We appeared to have entered a new period of stability,” Ms. Yellen said. “We even gave it a name: the Great Moderation. We were left with a mirage of a system that we thought was invulnerable to shock, a financial Maginot Line that we believed couldn’t be breached. We now know that this sense of invincibility was mere hubris.”

She also spoke favorably of the Dodd-Frank overhaul of Wall Street, which President Obama signed in July and which expanded the Fed’s mandate, and of proposed global bank regulations, known as Basel III, that will gradually force banks to hold more and higher-quality capital. And she said that regulators should compel financial institutions to have enough liquidity and not to rely too much on unstable, short-term financing.

Ms. Yellen said the new regulatory system should incorporate automatic safeguards and straightforward rules, and involve extensive international coordination. While recognizing that “overly strict supervision” posed dangers, she said that policy makers “had veered disastrously too far in the direction of laissez-faire, with consequences we know too well.”

She concluded by saying: “Next time I hope we can say, ‘We did see it coming, and we did something about it.’”
371 2010-10-12 Dogs can be worried and pessimistic just like people, researchers report in a new study in Current Biology. And they aren’t talking about basset hounds: those dogs just look as if they expect the worst.

What the scientists say is that dogs that exhibit anxiety when left home alone by their owners may have bigger problems — they may be in a permanent bad mood.

This pessimistic outlook may not otherwise be easily apparent in a dog’s other characteristics, like running speed or learning ability, the study reports.

Dogs are similar to humans in the role that emotional state plays in decision making, said Michael Mendl, a veterinary scientist at the University of Bristol and the study’s lead author. The study’s researchers looked at 24 dogs in shelters in Britain.

They placed the dogs in isolated settings and observed their reactions — many barked, jumped on furniture and scratched at the door.

Then they placed bowls in two rooms. One bowl contained food, while another was empty. After training the dogs to understand that bowls can sometimes be empty, and sometimes full, they began to place bowls in ambiguous locations.
372 2010-10-12 Here are some differences between Christine O’Donnell, the Republican Senate nominee in Delaware, and Chris Coons, her Democratic opponent.

Here are some differences between Christine O’Donnell, the Republican Senate nominee in Delaware, and Chris Coons, her Democratic opponent.

Has Had to Deny Being

Position on Scrapple (a Fried Mash of Hog Byproducts) as Stated at Weekend Festival

HIM “It is an acquired taste.”

HER In 2003, to work for a conservative educational organization.

HIM Around 1970, when parents relocated from Connecticut.

HER “I’ll go to Washington and do what you’d do. ... I’m you.”

HIM As county executive, balanced budget and even cut own pay.

Quote From Own Party to Live Down

HER Karl Rove: “There’s just a lot of nutty things she’s been saying.”
373 2010-10-12 The stock market was flat Monday as traders waited for a week of reports that would give them a better view of where the economy was headed.

The Dow Jones industrial average remained in a 52-point range throughout the day, ending 10 points above the 11,000 level.

Traders have been pushing the stock market higher over the last two weeks, expecting that the Federal Reserve will act in the coming weeks to stimulate the economy and drive interest rates lower. If the Fed announces an expansion of its bond-buying program at its next meeting in early November, traders assume that investors will resume buying stocks because low interest rates will make bonds less appealing.

Tom Samuels, managing partner at Palantir Capital Management, said the stock market had welcomed disappointing reports in recent days because that added to expectations that the Fed would act soon.

“The market is trying to convince itself that good news is good news and bad news is good news,” Mr. Samuels said.
374 2010-10-12 The families’ demands have echoed those of victims’ relatives after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States, but they have been amplified by the lengthy delay in holding the London inquest, which is the first comprehensive public inquiry into what have become known in Britain as the 7/7 attacks.

In the United States, the principal public investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks was conducted by a presidential inquiry known as the 9/11 Commission — headed by a former New Jersey governor, Thomas Kean — which was appointed a year after the attacks and reported in May 2004.

In Britain, the delay in opening the inquest has been officially explained as necessary to allow the police and other security agencies to complete their own investigations.

Part of the delay has also been attributed to an unsuccessful legal action by the widow of one of the London attackers for the inquest — or, properly speaking, the inquests, since Lady Hallett’s task is to inquire simultaneously into the deaths of each of the 52 victims — to be broadened to include the deaths of the suicide bombers themselves. A judge finally rejected that bid six weeks ago.

The widow, Hasina Patel, who was married to Mr. Khan, the lead bomber, argued through her lawyer that the bombers’ families, “through no fault of their own, have equally suffered the loss of a relative,” and that her own court costs should be paid out of Britain’s publicly funded legal aid system, like those of the victims’ families. Her bid was quashed by an appeals court judge who said that she had repeatedly refused to help the police with their inquiries into the bombings, and had provided “not an iota of evidence” to show how her participation in the inquest could help reveal the facts behind the attacks.

The emotional context for the inquest, which is expected to last until spring, was set early on by the inquest’s own counsel, Hugo Keith. After warning the families that some of the questions raised by the victims’ relatives may never be fully answered, he sketched out the circumstances of the attacks, in which the suicide attackers detonated backpack bombs on three packed subway trains and one bus in a busy London square.

Mr. Keith said the bombings were “acts of merciless savagery which could only outline the sheer inhumanity of the perpetrators.”

“The bombs struck down men and women, the old and young, British nationals as well as foreigners,” he said. “They had no regard to whether the victim was Christian, Muslim, a follower of any of our great faiths, an adherent to none. They were just traveling on the London transport system.”

The first day of the hearings concentrated on the playing of audio and video recordings assembled from the time of the attacks, which underlined the sense of bewilderment and chaos as the bombs detonated in close sequence at the height of the morning rush. Mr. Keith cited a cellphone text message from Mr. Khan to Mr. Tanweer that suggested that the attack had been put back by 24 hours at the last moment on the early morning of July 6.

Lady Hallett, 61, said that she had not yet decided whether she had the power — or whether it would be in the national interest — to close any of the inquest sessions to the news media and the public.

As with the last inquest in Britain to become a focus of attention on a similar scale, the long-delayed investigation into the 1997 death in a Paris car crash of Diana, Princess of Wales, top officials of Britain’s major police and security agencies, Scotland Yard, MI5 and MI6, are expected to be called as witnesses.

The 2005 bombings constituted the worst terrorist attack in Britain’s history. Top officials of the country’s security services have acknowledged publicly that the attacks exposed systemic weaknesses in their ability to spot and track terrorist threats, including staffing shortages and the sharing of intelligence between the various agencies involved.

But they have said that urgent steps have been taken to correct the deficiencies, including large increases in budgets, staffing levels and the recruitment of individuals with the language skills and ethnic backgrounds to infiltrate terrorist cells.

However, the upgrading of the security services, much of it invisible to the public, has done little to assuage the anger that is widespread among the relatives of those who died in the London attacks.

Graham Foulkes, whose 22-year-old son, David, died on a subway train, said that the relatives’ fury had been stirred by what they saw as the security agencies’ efforts to continue to hide behind a screen of secrecy about what they knew before the attacks.

He cited the case of Mr. Khan, the lead bomber, who was photographed by MI5 with Mr. Tanweer two years before the attacks, as part of undercover surveillance of another Islamist militant. “They knew he was a bomber, and they knew his intent,” Mr. Foulkes said. “So I want them to be decent, honest and straight with me.”
375 2010-10-12 Child Protective Services investigated more than three million cases of suspected child abuse in 2007, but a new study suggests that the investigations did little or nothing to improve the lives of those children.     In 1973, Congress passed the ...
376 2010-10-12 O'CONNOR--Jeremiah W.,Jr. We will always cherish our memories of Jerry. A dear friend, a wonderful mentor and a man who exemplified the very best of human spirit, charitable responsibility, family values and intellectual honesty. Deban and Tom Fle...
377 2010-10-12 Photo of Air Force machine gunner testing their weapons while flying over Kandahar province in Afghanistan...
378 2010-10-13 The flamboyant British financier Guy Hands accuses Citigroup of deceiving him during the auction of the EMI Group, which Mr. Hands's private equity firm bought for $6.7 billion in 2007....
379 2010-10-13 Many believed Steven Rattner had set his cap for Treasury secretary, a possibility that probably vanished after a scandal at the New York State pension fund....
380 2010-10-13 An Underdog’s Campaign Fights on
381 2010-10-13 In Idaho, a Democratic congressional candidate is leading in one of the most Republican districts in the nation....
382 2010-10-13 A seat on the armed services panel will go to Republican from district, John Boehner says....
383 2010-10-13 The automaker's chairman said its shares were likely to be priced at $20 to $25 in G.M.'s initial public offering in November....
384 2010-10-13 As Apple's stock reached a high, the company announced a news media event next week that will focus on the Mac OS X operating system....
385 2010-10-13 Bing is adding a social layer to its search results, with a little help from Facebook....
386 2010-10-13 The F.D.A. safety announcement focuses on emerging questions about bisphosphonate drugs that treat osteoporosis....
387 2010-10-13 Is the president's campaign rhetoric hurting his re-election prospects and the future of the Democratic party?...
388 2010-10-13 A new tasting room, multimedia center and shop called Vinorama is giving visitors access to the flavors of Swiss wines....
389 2010-10-13 The 20 finalists for the National Book Awards include 13 women....
390 2010-10-13 On the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy's inauguration on January 20, the Kennedy Center in Washington will honor him with a star-studded concert....
391 2010-10-13 How the recession is impacting marriage rates, new free car maintenance and other consumer-focused items from Wednesday's Times....
392 2010-10-13 Bold-faced names in finance, media and politics came out for a party celebrating Steven Rattner's new book "Overhaul."...
393 2010-10-13 Warren Buffett and Henry Kravis are clashing over the debt restructuring of Energy Future Holdings, The New York Post reported....
394 2010-10-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
395 2010-10-13 Hedge funds chalked up their strongest gains in 16 months in September, helped by climbing stock prices around the world, Reuters said, citing data from Singapore-based fund tracker Eurekahedge....
396 2010-10-13 The Tribune Co. said Tuesday that it reached agreement with more parties to its bankruptcy as it tries to bring its publishing and broadcasting business out of Chapter 11....
397 2010-10-13 Warren Buffett, who last month called himself "a huge bull" on the United States, said the euro faces "a real challenge" after the currency posted its biggest quarterly gain in eight years....
398 2010-10-13 Visitors looking to avoid the crowds of the FIAC contemporary art fair, but retain the buzz of "now" art, can try a satellite show at the flagship perfume store of the Guerlain chain...
399 2010-10-13 Some of the world's most successful hedge fund managers said they have turned more bullish on the stock market against a backdrop of stronger corporate and consumer balance sheets, as well as low interest rates....
400 2010-10-13 Federal bank regulators took a first step on Tuesday to spell out how they would use a new law to seize and dismantle large, failing financial institutions so that taxpayers are not on the hook, as they were in the 2008 financial crisis....
401 2010-10-13 SKS Microfinance raised $350 million in an initial public stock sale, and then ousted its chief executive, Suresh Gurumani, months later without explaining why....
402 2010-10-13 Robert Goodnough, a painter whose stylistic evolution from vibrant, Cubist-inspired abstractions to Color Field canvases made him one of the least definable members of the second-generation Abstract Expressionists, died on Oct. 2 in White Plains. He was 92 and lived in Thornwood, N.Y.

The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Eric Brown, a partner at the Tibor de Nagy Gallery.

In a career that lasted more than half a century, Mr. Goodnough (pronounced GOOD-now) eluded the neat categories that art critics relied on to codify the work of the Abstract Expressionists. He moved among the second-generation members of the school but at the same time stood apart, and his work — kinetic, calligraphic dashes of primary colors in his early career, and subtle pastels beginning in the 1970s — often flirted with figuration.

“I like to work freely, to slash with the brush and let loose,” he once told an interviewer. He then added, confoundingly, “I also like to work carefully and with discipline.”

Allergic to self-promotion and stylistically mercurial, he never achieved a success commensurate with his talent, although he exhibited at the blue-chip galleries Tibor de Nagy and André Emmerich for most of his career. Instead he achieved the ambiguous fame of being known as one of the most underrated artists of his generation.

Robert Arthur Goodnough was born on Oct. 23, 1917, in Cortland, N.Y., and grew up nearby in Moravia, in the Finger Lakes region. After earning a fine-arts degree from Syracuse University in 1940 he was drafted into the Army and served in the field artillery, painting portraits and murals at military installations.

In 1946 he moved to Manhattan. He studied at the Ozenfant School of Fine Arts and attended Hans Hofmann’s celebrated summer school in Provincetown, Mass., where he met the artists Alfred Leslie and Larry Rivers and the critic Clement Greenberg. At meetings of the Club, a famous downtown discussion group made up mostly of abstract painters, he became friends with Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko.
403 2010-10-13 Even so, the F.D.I.C. said Tuesday that its board had agreed to propose a rule spelling out how it will handle the claims of creditors under the new authority.

“Shareholders and unsecured creditors should understand that they, not taxpayers, are at risk,” Sheila C. Bair, the F.D.I.C. chairwoman. said.

The proposal would require the creditors of a large financial firm to suffer losses if the firm fell apart. It would “absolutely bar” additional payments to shareholders and holders of long-term senior debt and subordinated debt, who would not be treated better than other creditors. “All creditors must expect to absorb losses in any liquidation,” the notice of the proposal said.

But the proposal would give the F.D.I.C. board some flexibility to make payments to certain creditors if the payments were for “essential operations,” or help to maximize what can be later recovered from the company’s assets and minimize losses.

The F.D.I.C. would have to take a recorded vote on such payments, in the name of accountability, and the payments could be recouped if the money recovered from the firm was ultimately insufficient to pay back any temporary government lending to help liquidate the company. After that money was recouped, or “clawed back,” the financial industry would be charged a general assessment to “cover any shortfalls,” the proposal says.

Critics have warned that allowing any discretion to make payments to creditors could be dangerous. They fear it could accelerate the failure of an institution by encouraging creditors to flee or call in loans.

Ms. Bair said the proposed regulation “represents a significant narrowing of the discretion provided under Dodd-Frank for differentiation among creditors, consistent with the law’s overarching public policy objective to maximize market discipline and make clear that all equity and unsecured debt holders are at risk.”

The proposal also specifies that secured creditors would only be protected up to the value of their collateral. It encourages corporate borrowers to put up “highly liquid and easy-to-value collateral, such as U.S. government obligations,” against their short-term debts. The proposal, which will be subject to a period of public comment before it is completed, leaves unanswered several questions, including the logistics of taking apart a failing firm and how to impose a levy on the financial industry if the government has to step in to provide temporary financing. Officials said those issues would be addressed in additional rule making.
404 2010-10-13 A special court of review has dismissed a public reprimand of Texas’ top criminal courts judge, who closed her court at 5 p.m., preventing lawyers from filing a last-minute appeal hours before their client, Michael W. Richard, was executed. The Commission on Judicial Conduct issued Judge Sharon Keller a “public warning,” but she appealed, claiming that the commission exceeded its authority and violated the state’s Constitution. The court of review said the warning was not allowed by the Constitution and state law.
405 2010-10-13 The marriage of the Boston Red Sox and Liverpool F.C. may be delayed.

A week after the owner of the Red Sox, New England Sports Ventures, bid for the storied but financially troubled English soccer team, a rival offer has emerged as a decision on the fate of the club nears.

Peter Lim, a billionaire from Singapore, has offered £320 million, or about $509 million, for Liverpool, £20 million more than New England Sports Ventures. Lim said that he would buy the team using his own money, which would erase the team’s debts and leave £40 million, or about $60 million, for purchasing players.

“My offer provides a firm financial platform from which the club can rebuild,” Lim told Reuters in a statement.

Lim’s bid throws an already chaotic sale into further turmoil. Swimming in debt, the club’s owners, Tom Hicks and George Gillett Jr., agreed to relinquish their authority in the sale of the team to Martin Broughton, the club’s chairman, and the board. But they reneged on the agreement, saying that Broughton did not properly consider higher offers.

Hicks and Gillett have maintained that the club is worth a lot more than £300 million, and Lim’s higher offer appears to lend some credence to their argument. If the sale to New England Sports Ventures is approved, Hicks and Gillett could perhaps walk away with nothing. A higher bid might leave them with something.

Last week, Hicks and Gillett tried to appoint friendly board members to block the sale of the club to New England Sports Ventures, which the board then approved.
406 2010-10-13 “We had record revenue,” Stacy J. Smith, the chief financial officer at Intel, said in an interview. “It was a very good quarter.”

More than two years ago, Intel unveiled a new type of low-power chip, Atom. Intel hoped the product would carry it into growing areas like smartphones, Web-ready TVs and set-top-boxes.

The company’s growth plans hinged on success in these types of devices, and the flashy release of the Atom brand reflected Intel’s lofty aspirations.

A host of rival chip makers like Broadcom and Freescale toil away in relative obscurity making the chips that go into household objects and consumer electronics devices. These companies tend to let device manufacturers enjoy the limelight and spend little on building their own consumer brand.

Intel, by contrast, has established one of the most well-known brands on the planet. A recent survey from Interbrand, a brand consulting firm, ranked Intel as the seventh-best global brand, just behind companies like Coca-Cola and McDonald’s. Intel’s brand ranked higher than that of most of its customers, including Apple, Hewlett-Packard and Dell, and higher than Nike and Disney. And no other company that makes only computing components appears on Interbrand’s list of the top 100 brands.

“Intel benefited from a unique time and place through the incredible rise of the PC,” said Regis McKenna, a veteran Silicon Valley marketing and strategy expert. “It was able to put its name out there and sort of drive the marketplace, and it took advantage of that.”

But in recent weeks, a number of Intel-based products have arrived that make little mention of the company’s presence. Sony, for example, just started championing its Internet TV, a shimmering, flat-screen television with only a white Sony logo amid a sea of black. Sony’s Web site showcasing the new TV points first to the set’s ability to run software from Google and buries a mention of Intel’s chip at the bottom of the page.

Similarly, Cisco just released its Umi video conferencing system, which allows consumers to make high-quality calls through their TVs. An Intel-based set-top-box handles the tough work processing video data. When promoting the new system, Cisco executives did not talk about Intel’s helping hand.

Such behavior is unheard-of in the PC market, where Intel’s logo appears on the products and in the ads of companies like H.P. and Dell. Intel’s lavish co-marketing deals are well-known in the PC business and have sat at the heart of antitrust lawsuits against the company. Intel has been accused of using co-marketing deals and rebates to keep customers from switching to rival chips.

When it comes to TVs, Intel has started an extensive ad campaign that highlights its behind-the-scenes role in a number of products, including the gear from Sony, Google and Boxee. The Intel ads talk about the merits of “smart,” personalized television fueled by a Web connection.

“We think, in fact, that there will be a way to make a huge impact on consumers,” Mr. Nucci said. “We’ve given ourselves permission to start with a fresh set of eyes as we started moving into these new spaces instead of just borrowing from the past.”

Logitech has also made a device that runs Google’s TV software, and has opted to engrave Intel’s name and the Atom logo on the top of the product.

“Intel stands for quality and performance,” said Eric Kintz, a vice president at Logitech. “It is a little early to tell if it will resonate with consumers, but I think there’s some additional value.”

Mr. Kintz pointed out that the set-top boxes coming to market resemble full-fledged computers in the amount of work they handle and the software they run. Such traits play to Intel’s strengths in making fast chips and to its reputation with consumers and software developers, Mr. Kintz added.

The flurry of sales of the company’s chips in TV and set-top boxes seems to bode well for Intel’s consumer aspirations. The company sold one million chips aimed at smart TVs last quarter, and its only prominent loss was getting shut out of Apple TV.

If Intel can string together enough of these deals and establish its technological dominance in the market, it may well be able to extend its brand once again, according to marketing experts.

“Certain brands have the permission to do things, and Intel has the permission to have this discussion with consumers,” said Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer of Coca-Cola. “It’s only a matter of time until it’s off and running here.”
407 2010-10-13 The trial of Mr. Ghailani has been widely anticipated since last year, when he became the first Guantánamo detainee moved into the civilian system. After he was captured in 2004, he spent nearly five years at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and, earlier, in overseas jails run by the Central Intelligence Agency, where his lawyers have said that he was tortured.

In the trial, there are expected to be no references to Guantánamo and the C.I.A.’s so-called black sites — or to the claims of torture — because the government and the defense agreed to limit their focus to the events around the 1998 attacks.

And last week, the judge, Lewis A. Kaplan, barred prosecutors from using a key witness who had been identified and located through the interrogation of Mr. Ghailani while he was in C.I.A. custody.

That witness, Hussein Abebe, was expected to testify that he sold Mr. Ghailani the TNT used in the Tanzania bombing; prosecutors had said that without his testimony, they had “no way of putting such evidence in front of the jury.”

One of Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers, Steve Zissou, told jurors that Mr. Ghailani, a Tanzanian man in his mid-30s, was innocent at the time of the attacks, an immature, trusting, naïve “creature of his surroundings” who enjoyed watching cartoons and had been duped by a group of men who turned out to be part of the East Africa terrorism cell.

“Bin Laden used his tortured vision” of Islam, Mr. Zissou said, “to indoctrinate many young men around the world.” Mr. Ghailani, he said, was “neither a member of Al Qaeda nor does he share their goals.”

He added: “Did he know what his friends were planning? Did he know what Al Qaeda was planning?” The answer was no, Mr. Zissou said.

He also contended that Al Qaeda used “lies — big lies, small lies” — to get people to assist it.

It became clearer, meanwhile, how prosecutors intend to prove their case, even without Mr. Abebe. Mr. Lewin said, for example, that jurors would hear from welders who sold Mr. Ghailani the gas tanks used in the attacks.

The evidence will also show that Mr. Ghailani and other conspirators escaped together to Pakistan one day before the attacks, the prosecutors said, adding that Mr. Ghailani used a false name and a fake passport.

“The defendant’s jobs were done,” Mr. Lewin said. “He didn’t want to get caught, so he didn’t stick around.”

The trial’s first witness, John Lange, who was the American chargé d’affaires in Tanzania, described being seated in a meeting in his office when he heard “a very low rumbling noise,” and then high glass windows blew in, landing on him and his colleagues.

None of them were seriously hurt, but he recalled leaving the building and seeing a man lying on the ground amid the wreckage, his body blackened and charred.

“He was in his last gasps of life — just trying to breathe and laying there,” Mr. Lange said. He added, “I have no medical training, and I wasn’t going to be able to help him.”

Among the spectators in the courtroom were several victims and victims’ relatives, including Sue Bartley, who lost two family members in the attack in Nairobi: her husband, Julian L. Bartley Sr., the consul general, and her son, Julian L. Bartley Jr., a college student who had been working as an intern in the embassy.

“It’s always hard,” she said after observing the first day of proceedings. But she says she is “glad the trial is taking place now” and is prepared for future trials when additional fugitives are caught.

“We have the greatest confidence in our justice system,” she added.
408 2010-10-13 The N.F.L. said Tuesday that Nike would become the league’s exclusive maker of licensed on-field apparel including uniforms, clothing worn on the sidelines and fan gear. Nike replaces Reebok, whose agreement is expiring.

Terms of the deal were not announced. But the league said its contract with Nike was for five years and would begin in April 2012. Reebok has a 10-year contract with the N.F.L. that was originally worth at least $250 million to the league.

Nike and Reebok are the two largest players in the sports-apparel market, and they have battled to secure licensing deals with various professional leagues and top players in tennis, golf and other sports.

The deals to secure the licensing rights with the leagues are expensive. But they often pay for themselves because professional athletes are so ubiquitous that they effectively are billboards for the apparel makers who actively market high-performance gear to consumers.

“It’s another opportunity to put the swoosh on world-class athletes, and that’s what they’re all about, and it’s how have they’ve operated for a long time,” said Matt Arnold, a consumer analyst at Edward Jones & Company in St. Louis.
409 2010-10-13 This is not what a recovery is supposed to look like.

In Atlanta, the Bank of America tower, the tallest in the Southeast, is nearly a fifth vacant, and bank officials just wrestled a rent cut from the developer. In Cherry Hill, N.J., 10 percent of the houses on the market are so-called short sales, in which sellers ask for less than they owe lenders. And in Arizona, in sun-blasted desert subdivisions, owners speak of hours cut, jobs lost and meals at soup kitchens.

Less than a month before November elections, the United States is mired in a grim New Normal that could last for years. That has policy makers, particularly the Federal Reserve, considering a range of ever more extreme measures, as noted in the minutes of its last meeting, released Tuesday. Call it recession or recovery, for tens of millions of Americans, there’s little difference.

Born of a record financial collapse, this recession has been more severe than any since the Great Depression and has left an enormous oversupply of houses and office buildings and crippling debt. The decision last week by leading mortgage lenders to freeze foreclosures, and calls for a national moratorium, could cast a long shadow of uncertainty over banks and the housing market. Put simply, the national economy has fallen so far that it could take years to climb back.

The math yields somber conclusions, with implications not just for this autumn’s elections but also — barring a policy surprise or economic upturn — for 2012 as well:

¶At the current rate of job creation, the nation would need nine more years to recapture the jobs lost during the recession. And that doesn’t even account for five million or six million jobs needed in that time to keep pace with an expanding population. Even top Obama officials concede the unemployment rate could climb higher still.

¶Median house prices have dropped 20 percent since 2005. Given an inflation rate of about 2 percent — a common forecast — it would take 13 years for housing prices to climb back to their peak, according to Allen L. Sinai, chief global economist at the consulting firm Decision Economics.

¶Commercial vacancies are soaring, and it could take a decade to absorb the excess in many of the largest cities. The vacancy rate, as of the end of June, stands at 21.4 percent in Phoenix, 19.7 percent in Las Vegas, 18.3 in Dallas/Fort Worth and 17.3 percent in Atlanta, in each case higher than last year, according to the data firm CoStar Group.

Demand is inert. Consumer confidence has tumbled as many are afraid or unable to spend. Families are still paying off — or walking away from — debt. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, estimates it will be the end of 2011 before the amount of income that households pay in interest recedes to levels seen before the run-up. Credit card delinquencies are rising.

“No wonder Americans are pessimistic and unhappy,” said Mr. Sinai. “The only way we are going to get in gear is to face up to the reality that we are entering a period of austerity.”

This dreary accounting should not suggest a nation without strengths. Unemployment rates have come down from their peaks in swaths of the United States, from Vermont to Minnesota to Wisconsin. Port traffic has increased, and employers have created an average of 68,111 jobs a month this year.

After plummeting in 2009, the stock market has spiraled up, buoying retirement accounts and perhaps the spirits of middle-class Americans. As a measure of economic health, though, that gain is overstated. Robert Reich, the former labor secretary, notes that the most profitable companies in the domestic stock indexes generate about 40 percent of their revenue from abroad.

Few doubt the American economy remains capable of electrifying growth, but few expect that any time soon. “We still have a lot of strengths, from a culture of entrepreneurship and venture capitalism, to flexible labor markets and attracting immigrants,” said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. “But we’re going to be living with the overhang of our financial and debt problems for a long, long time to come.”

New shocks could push the nation into another recession or deflation. “We are in a situation where our vulnerability to any new problem is great,” said Carmen M. Reinhart, a professor of economics at the University of Maryland.

So troubles ripple outward, as lost jobs, unsold houses and empty offices weigh down the economy and upend lives. Struggles in Arizona, New Jersey and Georgia echo broadly.

In 2005, Arizona ranked, as usual, second nationally in job growth behind Nevada, its economy predicated on growth. The snowbirds came and construction boomed and land stretched endless and cheap. Then it stopped.

This year, Arizona ranks 42nd in job growth. It has lost 287,000 jobs since the recession began, and the fall has been calamitous.

Renee Wheaton, 38, sits in an old golf cart on the corner of Tangerine and Barley Roads in her subdivision in the desert, an hour south of Phoenix. Her next-door neighbor, an engineer, just lost his job. The man across the street is unemployed.

Her family is not doing so well either. Her husband’s hours have been cut by 15 percent, leaving her family of five behind on water and credit card bills — more or less on everything except the house and car payment. She teaches art, but that’s not much in demand.

“I say to myself ‘This can’t be happening to us: We saved, we worked hard and we’re under tremendous stress,’ ” Ms. Wheaton says. “My husband is a very hard-working man but for the first time, he’s having real trouble.”
410 2010-10-13 Husniya al-Araj, 60, said she was born in a cave nearby, in an orchard of olive and almond trees. But when she reached her family lands this week, she cried out in shock. She pointed to a newly plowed field in front of her that she said was part of her family property, but that seemed to have been taken over by the settlers. It was now surrounded by a shiny new barbed-wire fence and planted with young vines.

Mahmud Ahmad Hazama, a relative who takes care of the Araj family property, said the barbed-wire fence went up in July. Folded in his wallet was a handwritten record of every change and every complaint Mr. Hazama had made to the Israeli Army and police since 1995.

“They ask me for documents,” he said. “We have all of them. The last thing they asked for was a topographic map.” He said he had received no answers so far.

Micky Rosenfeld, an Israeli police spokesman, said the police were aware of the problems. Every complaint is investigated, he says, but sometimes the culprits turn out not to be settlers, and sometimes there is not enough evidence to know. In some cases, the complaints do lead to arrests of settlers, he says.

Tamar Asraf, spokeswoman for the Binyamin Council, which represents the settlers in this region, said that for the most part the olive harvest passes peacefully, but that there were Palestinians and settlers who cause damage to one another. “We condemn them both,” she said.

Mr. Hazama’s relatives, like many other families, found their olive trees intact but empty of fruit. They argued that the olives must have been stolen by settlers, though they had no proof.

In other villages to the north, like Yanoun, Jit and Imatin, olives were stolen from hundreds of trees in the past few days, according to Rabbis for Human Rights, an Israeli organization that helps Palestinians farm lands in trouble spots year-round.

This was the first time the villagers of Turmus Aya and Al-Mughayer had been able to have access to their lands in six months. To do so, they need permission and protection from the Israeli Army, for a few days for plowing in springtime and a few days for picking in the fall. In the past, unprotected visits to the land ended with many stories of attacks by extremist settlers and burned cars.

This time, soldiers were guarding the villagers from the hilltop where the outpost, Adei Ad, sits. Three soldiers in khaki uniforms were sitting under one of Mr. Abu Aliya’s trees, almost camouflaged among its iridescent leaves while mountain gazelles sprang across the hills.

Adei Ad was established in the late 1990s on state and private Palestinian land, according to Israeli records. Though it was established without any official authorization, the Israeli Ministry of Housing and Construction provided financing for some of the infrastructure.

About 30 families live in trailers at Adei Ad, which has been scheduled for removal for seven years. The settlers have now put up an “eruv,” an elevated string on poles that encircles a community and allows observant Jews to carry objects within the proscribed area on the Sabbath. Mr. Abu Aliya has no idea what the string is for, but he says it runs right through his land.

This year, the harvest was less of a celebration, and more a show of perseverance. The Palestinian Authority governor of the Ramallah district, Laila Ghannam, joined the olive pickers and ate breakfast with the mayor of Turmus Aya under a tree.

“Our presence here is proof that this is our land and we will never give it up,” she said.

Members of a new unit from the authority’s Ministry of Agriculture were also out in the fields with notebooks, documenting the villagers’ complaints and counting the poisoned trees. They took samples of wilting branches to send to an Israeli laboratory for testing in the hope that the results could be used as future evidence in an Israeli court.

Mr. Abu Aliya, who has lost about half of his 300 olive trees, made a promise. “The moment the settlers leave,” he said, “I’ll make a big celebration. I’ll slaughter a buffalo.”
411 2010-10-13 Consumers use plenty of recycled paper products — though often not of their own volition. According to the Natural Resources Defense Council, while less then 10 percent of paper products purchased for the home contain any recycled content, about 60 percent purchased for out-of-home locations do.

Darby Hoover, senior resource specialist at the council, said that while consumers might not balk at the quality of recycled toilet paper at restaurants and hotels, when it came to purchasing it themselves, they were swayed by decades of advertising promoting softness.

“Now there’s so much softness being sought, but how much do we need?” Ms. Hoover asked. “If you’re only looking at softness as you’re choosing, then you’re missing the environmental impact.”

When Consumer Reports rated 16 brands of toilet paper in 2009, Small Steps ranked 14th, bested by brands including Charmin and Cottonelle on factors like softness and wet strength. Still, Marcal was deemed a good value, and one of just six brands the magazine recommended, given, as the article stated, that, “you’re willing to trade some softness for a greener roll that’s 100 percent recycled.”

Introduced in 1950, Marcal products used recycled paper from the outset, although initially for strictly practical reasons: When the founder, Nicholas Marcalus, first entered the paper business in the 1940s, he faced wartime wood pulp shortages. It was not until 2009 that the company rebranded its products, which were previously known simply as Marcal, as Marcal Small Steps, and adopted the tagline “A small, easy step to a greener Earth.”

Much of Small Steps’ recycled paper comes from the curbside recycling program in New York.

“We tend to think of New York as our urban forest since we don’t make our products from cutting down trees,” said Ms. Jolda, of Marcal.

Dwarfed by major players like Kimberly-Clark, whose brands include Cottonelle, Scott and Kleenex, and Procter & Gamble, which counts Charmin, Bounty and Puffs among its products, Marcal’s market share in paper product categories ranks only in the low single digits, but the company has grown markedly over the last year.

In the 52 weeks ending Sept. 5, for example, as revenue totals in the overall toilet paper category dropped 1.1 percent, Marcal grew 11.8 percent, and while facial tissues sales over all dropped 3.5 percent, Marcal grew by 7.3 percent, according to the Symphony IRI Group, a market data firm whose totals do not include Wal-Mart.

In 2009, Marcal, which tends to feature its full line of products in advertisements, spent a total of $6.8 million on advertising, far less than toilet tissue brands Charmin ($65.9 million) and Cottonelle ($35.2 million), according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.

Kimberly-Clark is also going after eco-minded consumers with a sub-brand of its Scott brand, Scott Naturals, which was introduced in 2009.

“We wanted to come out with products that you can’t distinguish the quality from other mainline products in the category,” said Aric Melzl, senior brand manager for Scott. “We referenced off products like our own Scott Extra Soft Tissue.”

To that end, Scott Naturals’ products are only partly made of recycled content, with the toilet paper using the least at 40 percent and napkins the most at 80 percent.

“You can have a product that’s 100 percent recycled with a smaller following or you can have Scott Naturals, where you choose to deliver the quality that folks are expecting with more mass appeal and a bigger business and more impact on the environment than a business that has a smaller following,” Mr. Melzl said.

On its Web site, the Natural Resources Defense Council rates the environmental impact of paper products, with green being best, followed by yellow and red. Scott Naturals earned a yellow. Small Steps received a green rating, as did brands like Seventh Generation and eco-friendly store brands by CVS and Whole Foods, all of which are made 100 percent of recycled material. Like all Procter & Gamble brands evaluated by the group, Charmin was given the worst rating: red.

“Our consumers count on Charmin for its softness, absorbency and strength,” Lisa H. Jester, a Procter & Gamble spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail message responding to questions. “We do not use recycled fiber in our tissue, as the process of recycling can break and damage the fibers, which could lead to less strength, absorbency and softness.”
412 2010-10-13 The rise in prices is a good indication of how volatile the market has become for commodity futures in basic farm products like corn or wheat.

Grain prices started to shoot up over the summer on reports of a catastrophic drought in the major wheat-producing regions of Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. Prices rose not only for wheat, but also for corn and soybeans, since those grains are interchangeable as animal feed and a drop in wheat production could mean increased demand for the other grains.

Corn prices surged again on Friday after a new report from the United States Agriculture Department said this year’s corn crop would be smaller than expected. The harvest is forecast to be 3 percent lower than the 2009 crop, which set a record.

The crop will still probably be the third-largest on record, but demand for corn to be used as animal feed on American farms, in ethanol production and for exports remains high, so supplies are expected to be tight.

December corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade reached a high of $5.84 a bushel in trading on Tuesday. In late June, similar corn futures were trading as low as $3.43. That is a 70 percent jump.

Dr. Good said the average price for the new crop, which will encompass sales through next August, is expected to be a record, at about $5 a bushel, well above the $3.95 average price for the last three crops.

The government’s latest harvest forecast suggests that corn supplies into next year will be “precariously tight,” said Don Roose, president of U.S. Commodities, a consulting and brokerage firm in West Des Moines, Iowa. “At these levels, we have to cut back on our usage,” he said. “We can either cut back on exports, our ethanol consumption or our feed.”

It is not yet clear who will be forced to cut corn consumption.

Federal ethanol mandates mean that production of biofuel from corn will remain high, regardless of price. The export market is also going strong.

Dermot J. Hayes, a finance and economics professor at Iowa State University, said there appear to be signs of what he called panic buying by some Asian purchasers of American grains for animal feed. He said they are continuing to buy even though prices are rising out of fear that prices could go much higher.

“The psychology is, you need corn or soybeans for your diets and let’s just buy now rather than wait,” Professor Hayes said.

A wild card in the export market is China, which has not historically been a significant buyer of American corn. China surprised experts when it made some purchases earlier this year, but it is not clear if it will be a major buyer of the current crop.

“Everybody will be watching that closely, to see if China is in the market or not,” said Dr. Good.

The price increases are good news for American grain farmers, who stand to get far more for their crops than they anticipated when they planted them in the spring.

But they mean hard decisions for livestock and dairy farmers, who were hard hit during the recession and have only recently begun to recover.

Those farmers are likely to respond to higher feed prices by cutting the size of herds, or at least not increasing the number of animals they raise, say farm economists and industry executives. Many farmers will also sell animals at a slightly lower weight. Both those factors will cut supplies of meat and dairy products, eventually pushing prices up.

A similar outcome is expected for the poultry industry.

Other foodstuffs are not likely to see as strong an impact, according to economists.

That is because the cost of basic grains makes up only a small fraction of the total cost of most manufactured foods that contain them, such as breakfast cereals or bread. A large part of the cost of those items comes from transportation, processing and marketing.

The federal government forecasts that food prices will rise as much as 1.5 percent this year and 2 to 3 percent next year. The average annual increase in food prices over the last 10 years was 2.9 percent.

Despite the high commodity prices, economists do not expect a return to the raging food inflation of 2008, when worldwide demand surged and costs were propelled higher by peaking fuel prices. That led to a 5.5 percent increase in food prices in the United States in 2008 and much higher food inflation and food shortages in developing countries.

The Agriculture Department is scheduled to release an updated estimate of this year’s crop yield next month.

“There will be a lot of attention focused on the next crop report,” said Joseph Glauber, the department’s chief economist. “It just appears to be a very, very tight situation, and so there will be a lot of volatility.”
413 2010-10-13 The Constitutional Court dismissed the longstanding treason trial of the opposition presidential candidate Kizza Besigye, left, on Tuesday, saying the state had violated his constitutional rights by placing him on trial at the same time in a military court and a civilian high court. Mr. Besigye has twice lost to President Yoweri Museveni in elections marred by allegations of widespread voter fraud and state-orchestrated violence. He fled to South Africa after the 2001 election, saying his life was in danger. He was arrested on his return in 2005.
414 2010-10-13 The Kenyan stars Robert Kipkoech Cheruiyot and Martin Lel have pulled out of next month’s New York City Marathon because of leg injuries.

Lel won in New York in 2003 and 2007 and is a three-time London Marathon champion. The New York Road Runners, the organizer of the event, announced Tuesday that Lel had a right leg injury.

Cheruiyot is out with a groin-muscle injury. He has won the Boston Marathon four times, most recently in 2008, and was the runner-up in New York last year.

The Nov. 7 men’s race will be headlined by the New York City debut of the marathon world-record holder Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia. Meb Keflezighi will be defending his race title.
415 2010-10-13 A recipe for Pasta With Caramelized Onion, Swiss Chard and Garlicky Bread Crumbs....
416 2010-10-13 Broil, roast, whisk, boil and eat....
417 2010-10-13 SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) — The chipmaker Intel posted stronger-than-expected third-quarter results on Tuesday and said its sales could rise about 2.7 percent sequentially in the final quarter of the year.

The first major technology company to post its third-quarter results, Intel forecast revenue of $11 billion to $11.8 billion in the final three months of 2010, in line with analysts’ expectations of $11.32 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.

Third-quarter net profit was $2.955 billion, or 52 cents a share, compared with $1.86 billion in the year-ago quarter. That was slightly higher than the 50 cents a share expected by analysts.

“It looks fairly well in line with consensus, a little upside,” said Chris Caso, an analyst at the Susquehanna Financial Group. “The revenue guidance for the December quarter is about in line with the Street, or a little better.”

Since the bellwether Intel warned in August about weak consumer demand for personal computers, semiconductor stocks have surged in part on expectations that the worst may be over for the technology sector, and investors are looking for signs of strength to back their bets — or sell.

Intel’s revenue in the quarter ended on Sept 25 was $11.1 billion, a bit above the $10.99 billion expected by analysts.
418 2010-10-13 This is not what a recovery is supposed to look like.     In Atlanta, the Bank of America tower, the tallest in the Southeast, is nearly a fifth vacant, and bank officials just wrestled a rent cut from the developer. In Cherry Hill, N.J., 10 perce...
419 2010-10-13 Pfizer will buy King Pharmaceuticals for $3.6 billion (M)...
420 2010-10-14 The potential bids follow an announcement by Pfizer last week that it was considering selling the drug capsule business, Capsugel....
421 2010-10-14 Jeff Francoeur misses his friends with the Mets, but he is happy to have rediscovered his hitting stroke and to be in the playoffs....
422 2010-10-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
423 2010-10-14 By the end of Thursday, it appears that investors and analysts alike had lost their optimism about a potential (and potentially complicated) Yahoo-AOL-private-equity deal....
424 2010-10-14 On Friday, the once-glittering landmark restaurant in Central Park will be reincarnated as a $2.5-million visitor center, food court and retail shop....
425 2010-10-14 France has decided to subsidize two industries pummeled by the digital age: newspapers and recorded music....
426 2010-10-14 Ms. McColl will oversee the collective bargaining process for more than 30 national and regional contracts and act as the union's representative with other labor groups and government officials....
427 2010-10-14 DealBook looks at the financial executives who are on Fortune magazine's latest "40 Under 40" ranking of business's hottest rising stars....
428 2010-10-14 A new analysis by the Employee Benefits Research Institute questioned whether even subsidized coverage is too expensive for many Americans....
429 2010-10-14 Published studies of 1,065 patients showed reboxetine worked. Unpublished studies of 3,033 showed it did not....
430 2010-10-14 New York Online: a new tool for deciding where to spend a night out, the U.F.O. sighting in Manhattan, and a poll about bicycle lanes....
431 2010-10-14 Apple is bringing the iPad to Verizon Wireless in bundles with the carrier's portable hot spot services....
432 2010-10-14 Words daubed in Hebrew on Palestinian property allegedly vandalised by militant Israeli settlers....
433 2010-10-14 A wave of dividends from the private-equity industry, fed by a new mountain of buyout debt, has some investors raising their eyebrows, The Wall Street Journal reports....
434 2010-10-14 Facebook and Microsoft announced a partnership that would give the results on Microsoft's Bing search engine a social twist - and could help both companies compete against a common adversary, Google....
435 2010-10-14 European diplomats worked on Wednesday to break a deadlock in talks aimed at tightening controls on hedge funds in the E.U., with officials saying they were considering delaying or granting opt-out clauses on the most controversial parts of the la...
436 2010-10-14 Announcing an effort to tighten regulation after the financial crisis, Michel Barnier, the European commissioner for financial services, said that for the auditing sector, "the status quo is not an option."...
437 2010-10-14 A judge in New York has dismissed a lawsuit brought by investors who sought to compel Countrywide Financial and two subsidiaries to buy back home loans it modified....
438 2010-10-14 Facebook and Microsoft announced a partnership on Wednesday that will give the results on Microsoft’s Bing search engine a social twist — and could help both companies compete against a common adversary, Google.

The new feature allows people who use Facebook to see Bing search results that incorporate information from their friends, like restaurant recommendations.

When a user searches for something like a movie, place or product on Bing, information about how many of their friends “liked” that item on Facebook and related links they have shared will appear alongside the results. The Facebook data will help determine how prominently these will appear, said Yusuf Mehdi, a senior vice president for online business at Microsoft.

“It isn’t just about the common connections between data and the offline world, it’s about the connections between people,” Mr. Mehdi said.

Mark Zuckerberg, a founder and chief executive of Facebook, said the move was a deepening of the company’s current partnership with Microsoft.
439 2010-10-14 Four federal agents did not violate federal civil rights laws when they killed a Muslim cleric in a raid in Michigan last year, the Justice Department said Wednesday. It said no further criminal investigation of the four Federal Bureau of Investigation agents who shot the imam, Luqman Ameen Abdullah, or of other agents in the raid was warranted. Mr. Abdullah was shot 20 times as agents tried to arrest him during a raid in Dearborn as part of a stolen-goods sting operation. The agents were previously cleared by Michigan’s attorney general.
440 2010-10-14 But he said the government’s first step would probably be to set limits on how much BPA can be released into the air or water by factories that use the compound.

“This is a step in a journey,” Mr. Enei said. “Once you’re on the list, it signals Canada will do something.”

While Canadian industry groups did not respond to requests for comment, the decision was condemned by the American Chemistry Council.

“Environment Canada’s announcement is contrary to the weight of worldwide scientific evidence, unwarranted and will unnecessarily confuse and alarm the public,” Steven G. Hentges, who leads the polycarbonate and BPA group at the council, said in a statement.

Rick Smith, the executive director of Environmental Defence, a group that lobbied for the designation, said he hoped that the government would ban BPA from infant formula can linings.

“This toxic designation is a very strong regulatory power that gives them firm legal footing on any number of things,” Dr. Smith said.

However, Dr. Smith agreed that the toxic designation was likely to bring an abrupt end to a variety of food-related uses for BPA, even without new regulations or laws. Refillable polycarbonate bottles for adults — once popular because of their clarity, light weight and durability — largely vanished from the market after negative publicity around BPA about two years ago.

In addition to food containers, BPA is used to produce some of the epoxies that line cans used for soft drinks, fruits and vegetables.

BPA is widely seen as a test case in an era of mounting worry about household chemicals, pollution and the possible links between illness and environmental exposures, especially in fetuses and young children.

Many scientists believe that it is an “endocrine disruptor,” a term applied to chemicals that can act like hormones. Studies using lab animals and cell cultures show that BPA can mimic the female hormone estrogen.

Last year, the Endocrine Society, a scientific group, issued a 34-page report that said there was strong evidence of adverse health effects from endocrine disruptors, including harm to the reproductive system, causing malformations, infertility and cancer.

In the United States, about half a dozen states have banned BPA in children’s products. The federal government has taken no action, saying there is no proof of harm in humans. But health and regulatory agencies have concerns about BPA and have commissioned more studies.

In a statement, Dr. Josh Sharfstein, the principal deputy commissioner at the Food and Drug Administration, said the agency was working with the National Institutes of Health “and other partners to advance scientific understanding of BPA and inform our decisions.”

In an extensive study of BPA retained by Canadians’ bodies that was published in August, Statistics Canada, a government agency, found that almost no one escaped the chemical and that the highest concentrations of the compound were found in teenagers, with younger children a close second.

The presence of a chemical in the body, however, does not necessarily mean it is harmful.

Canada’s designation is at odds with Europe’s approach. Last month, the European Food Safety Authority released an update that concluded that “data currently available do not provide convincing evidence of neurobehavioral toxicity of BPA”

But France and Denmark have independently imposed temporary bans on some uses of BPA.
441 2010-10-14 The crowd roared at his introduction and eagerly anticipated his every move. It took awhile for him to deliver.

His first pass was a turnover, and his first shot was an errant 18-footer. But the crowd swooned as Stoudemire drove hard for an early dunk attempt, and the disappointment was palpable when he was instead fouled at the rim. His first field goal was a jumper. His first dunk did not come until late in the second quarter, on a nifty bounce pass in the lane from Wilson Chandler.

Stoudemire turned on the star power in the third quarter, when he scored 16 points on jump shots and driving layups, drawing fouls on seemingly every close attempt. He finished with an impressive line: 9 for 13 from the field and 12 for 15 from the free-throw line.

Timofey Mozgov made his first N.B.A. start and continued his bid to become the Knicks’ first-string center. He played just 16 minutes but was energetic early on and finished with 5 points, 3 rebounds, 2 steals, an assist and 4 fouls.

Stoudemire owned the evening. The referees owned the second quarter.

In a vivid display of the league’s new crackdown on whining, officials handed out four technical fouls in 16 seconds and ejected the Celtics’ Kevin Garnett. Jermaine O’Neal drew the first technical, for yapping at the referee Zach Zarba. Garnett then complained to Kane Fitzgerald, who called two consecutive technicals — an automatic ejection — when Garnett refused to stop. Garnett laughed in disbelief before leaving the court.

Moments later, Mozgov picked up a technical for saying something to the referee Kevin Fehr. Considering Mozgov’s limited English, it was not clear what he might have done to earn the call.

“It was Russian language,” Mozgov said. “I don’t know why technical foul.”

Otherwise, Mozgov enjoyed his debut. He scored the Knicks’ first 4 points on a pair of midrange jumpers, assisted Raymond Felton on a backdoor layup and broke up an alley-oop lob to O’Neal.

Mozgov surely avoided a more bruising N.B.A. introduction when the Celtics’ other O’Neal (Shaquille) decided to rest his sore right hip — “my arthritic, 28,000-point-scoring hip,” as he called it. O’Neal is likely to play when the Knicks and Celtics meet again Saturday in Hartford.

Stoudemire may play sparingly over the Knicks’ next four preseason games, in deference to his surgically repaired knee and to his experience. The Knicks play back-to-back games on Saturday and Sunday and another set on Tuesday and Wednesday. He could skip a game in each set, or just play a quarter.

“We don’t want to grind him in the dirt,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said. “He’s in great shape, and we’re just trying to be cautious.”

Stoudemire has been durable since having microfracture knee surgery in 2005. But his contract is uninsurable, and the Knicks are taking no chances. They held him out of the world championships over the summer.

Much of the Knicks’ rotation remains in flux with five exhibition games left to play. Mozgov has the edge at center, but D’Antoni could still use Stoudemire there, as he did to open the second half Wednesday.

The Knicks are still waiting for breakout performances from three critical players: Danilo Gallinari, Chandler and Felton. Gallinari again struggled with his shot, going 2 for 8 from the field and finishing with 11 points. Chandler was merely steady, finishing with 13 points and 5 rebounds. Felton, the new point guard, missed 8 of 11 attempts and finished with 7 points and 6 assists.

Asked what he hoped to see by Oct. 22, when the Knicks close out the preseason against the Toronto Raptors, D’Antoni said, “Hopefully, a better team.”
442 2010-10-14 The Global Sourcing Forum was known for many things. Controversy and intrigue were not among them.

The forum typically draws hundreds of corporate executives and foreign government officials from around the world to New York City each year for two days of speeches and panel discussions focused on outsourcing, the process in which a company or government agency contracts with an outside firm, often in a different country, to perform services once done in-house. Last year, some 1,000 people representing more than 25 countries attended the event at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. This year, the forum was to be held on Wednesday and Thursday at the Marriott Marquis in Times Square.

But late last week and throughout the weekend, word had spread that the Global Sourcing Forum had been abruptly canceled. By Wednesday morning, the event’s Web site — globalsourcingforum.com — was a blank page with two green bars across the top. David Etzler, the chief executive of OutsourceWorld, the conference company that produces the forum, had told some attendees that the firm was seeking bankruptcy protection.

The forum’s cancellation illustrated the logistical, financial and legal fallout that happens when a long-planned global business conference is suddenly shut down in New York City.

Contingents from across the country and the globe — Bangladesh, China, Poland, Uruguay — had already arrived in New York and spent thousands of dollars in registration fees, sponsorships and hotel costs. Sleek brochures had been designed. Former and current executives of major corporations and institutions were scheduled to speak or sit on panels, including those from Johnson & Johnson, Viacom, Amazon.com and the World Bank. Hotel rooms and banquet space had been booked.

Officials from Ghana, seeking to create public-private partnerships out of the networking they would do at the forum, spent $20,000 from a project, financed by the World Bank, to be a co-sponsor of the event. Bangladesh spent more than $100,000 on sponsorship, airfare and hotel costs for a large delegation.
443 2010-10-14 According to Paul Watanabe, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts-Boston, Mr. Cahill represents a specific political type. “They may be their only vote,” Mr. Watanabe said. “But right up to when the polls close on Election Day, they’ve got the food out and the band ready to play, with the balloons about to fall from the ceiling. And there’s something endearing about that.”

Besides, maybe betrayal is a good thing.

A month ago, Mr. Cahill, a youthful 51, was running as an independent, far behind the Democratic incumbent, Deval Patrick, and the Republican candidate, Charlie Baker, and slightly ahead of the Green-Rainbow candidate, Jill Stein. He was presenting himself as a champion of the beleaguered middle class and a political outsider, no matter that he has been the state treasurer for the last eight years, and an elected official for nearly a quarter-century.

In fairness, he has some outsider street cred. One of nine children in a family acquainted with job loss and hardship, he graduated from Boston University, ran a restaurant and defied the odds to win a seat on the City Council. In 2002, he beat even greater odds to become state treasurer, thanks in part to a late-inning television ad that featured his daughter Kendra, then 10, sweetly saying, “Tim for Treasurer.”

Mr. Cahill spent most of this decade as one of the state’s top elected Democrats, but in recent years has not hesitated to criticize Mr. Patrick. Disillusioned, and seeing no upside to forcing a primary, Mr. Cahill resigned from the party and selected an obscure former Republican legislator, Paul Loscocco, as his running mate for lieutenant governor. A fateful choice, it would turn out.

The Cahill-Loscocco signs soon went up, and interest in a Cahill-Loscocco administration gradually went down; the knock against Mr. Cahill was that he tended to be long on talk but short on policy. The Republicans, meanwhile, attacked him as a spoiler who would take away some of the anti-incumbent votes that rightfully belonged to Mr. Baker.

First, two of Mr. Cahill’s top aides resigned late last month, with one asserting that the candidate had no shot. But these resignations were soon overshadowed by the events of Oct. 1, a singular day in the political annals of the commonwealth.

On this day, Mr. Cahill’s little-known running mate, Mr. Loscocco, stood beside Mr. Cahill’s Republican opponent, Mr. Baker, to announce that he was withdrawing from the Cahill ticket. “Tim cannot win,” said Mr. Loscocco, whose name, alas, will still appear on the ballot with that of the man he has declared a loser.

The Boston Globe noted that Mr. Loscocco highlighted the moment’s awkwardness when he also said: “I am here to do whatever I can as part of Tim’s team — excuse me, Charlie’s team.”

Mr. Cahill was about to walk into a breakfast meeting in South Boston when his campaign manager called to say that “something was up” and that Mr. Loscocco wanted to talk to him. He learned of the withdrawal at roughly the same time as the state news media.

After struggling with the news, Mr. Cahill responded as any politician might, by wondering how all this would be perceived. Then, he said, his wife, Tina, told him: “We’ll deal with it.” And clarity came.

Later that day, reporters packed the hot room at Cahill headquarters in Quincy, many expecting to hear the candidate say he was dropping out. Instead, he attacked the defection as a “backroom deal,” declared the role of lieutenant governor to be useless anyway, and vowed to continue.

“Never give in, never give in, never give in. In all things large or small, great or petty, never, never, never give in,” Cahill said, reading Churchillian words that he had hastily jotted down at the end of his prepared statement, words that his wrestling coach would summon before a match.

Moments later, a television reporter, declared by his news station to be “widely regarded as the most provocative political reporter in New England,” asked a provocative question wrapped in faux courtesy: “Is it possible you’re in denial, sir?”

Since that day — which, to quote Churchill’s ally, will live in infamy — Mr. Cahill says he has noticed a sympathy bump. At first the defection was a “complete disaster,” he said, designed to deliver his campaign a death blow. But, he added, “It’s become us versus them. People who thought I didn’t belong are saying, ‘Stay in it.’ ”

Sitting in that bar in Wrentham, beneath televisions broadcasting the Sox-free playoffs, Mr. Cahill said he had not forgotten how people around the state “were literally asking me how Kendra was.” He said he sensed then that something was “moving,” and hopes now for similar momentum — created this time not by the simple words of a child, but by the complicated actions of men.

As a result, the Cahill campaign is milking the betrayal for all it is worth, as some supporters black out the Loscocco name on campaign posters, while others purposely keep it intact as a potent reminder.

Mr. Cahill, meanwhile, has alleged in a lawsuit that several former staff members conspired to benefit his Republican opponent. The lawsuit includes e-mails that strongly suggest some inside plotting in advance of Mr. Loscocco’s defection. At a Wednesday hearing, a judge ordered the former staff members to submit sworn statements about whether they shared any campaign secrets with Mr. Baker; the aides responded that Mr. Cahill’s campaign plotted to run state lottery ads in a way that would benefit his bid.

Mr. Loscocco has responded to the suit by claiming that the Cahill campaign had plotted with Democrats to pull votes from Republicans — a charge he neglected to mention in his news conference a week earlier. He has offered no evidence to support the claim, however, and is generally regarded to have burned all bridges, behind him and before him.

“He’s not taking calls or making any further comments,” said a spokesman for Mr. Loscocco.

In the end, though, the truth is: Mr. Cahill has almost no chance of winning.

“I do believe that he believes there’s going to be this moment” in which voters say, “I’m looking for a third choice,” Michael Goldman, a veteran political consultant for Democrats, said. “But people who know this stuff say: ‘Unlikely.’ ”

Meanwhile, Jennifer Nassour, the chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party, describes Mr. Cahill as a spoiler of a candidate who will pull no more than 6 percent of the vote. “To me, Tim Cahill means nothing,” Ms. Nassour said. “He’s just there.”

He certainly is, and he is determined to stay there. Before rising from his seat in the Weymouth bar to face the rain, he shared a few Churchillian thoughts. He said that quitting would send the wrong message to workers and dreamers. “If I quit,” he said, “maybe it means they should.”

Then out the underdog went, into the Massachusetts political muck. If elected, he has vowed that his first act as governor will be to demand someone’s resignation, and you know who you are.
444 2010-10-14 Re “Antigay Attacks Reported at Stonewall and in Chelsea” (news article, Oct. 5):

This violence happens every day and in all places. Every day lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people endure violence from strangers, neighbors, families, co-workers and classmates. We face judgment simply because of who we are. We remain second-class citizens.

While policy makers and presidents have much work to do to ensure the equality of all of their citizens, the real power to prevent this violence does not sit in Congress or the White House — it is with every person in this country.

This is not a gay issue; this is everyone’s issue. What we need to do is simple and can happen right now: We need to challenge ourselves to understand that our casual dismissal of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, like the phrase “that’s so gay,” fuels a culture of violence and that the impact is real — we are beaten up, even in “safe” places like Chelsea and the Stonewall Inn.

But if every one of us were to commit right now to respecting people and demanding that respect for everyone, then we would end this culture of violence.

“How could this happen?” you ask. Because we let it happen. Don’t let it happen again.

The writer is executive director of the New York Anti-Violence Project and coordinator of the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs.
445 2010-10-14 He added: “It was a very hard real estate climate. The most important thing when you have a house for sale is selling it.”

The new house, at 106 East 71st Street, which opens to the public Thursday, looks rather like the old house: a 25-foot-wide limestone confection built at the turn of the last century and rehabbed by a foreign investor, according to its broker, Carrie Chiang of the Corcoran Group, who is listing it for $28.8 million (yearly taxes are $100,000). Last week, 18 design outfits were finishing up 17 rooms on six floors, seemingly relieved to be on familiar turf.

“It’s never, ever happened before — the house was locked; we couldn’t get in,” Noel Jeffrey, a decorator who practices a maximalism found on the 1940s-to-1970s continuum, said of last spring’s real estate debacle. (Mr. Jeffrey has participated in 12 Kips Bay show houses since his first, in 1976.)

“This is a much better location,” he said, adding hastily, “Not that there’s anything wrong with the Upper West Side.”

Mr. Jeffrey’s Hollywood-glamorous bedroom, freighted with a pumped-up Syrie Maugham-style bed, its enormous parts tufted in a silvery faux-shagreen print, fit easily into the new space. At each end of the room, sheer white-striped silk curtains hung like gigantic negligees.

While Mr. Jeffrey highlighted old-school decorating tips, like adding a black suede ribbon to off-the-shelf white shades and reshaping the room from a rectangle to a giant lozenge with those sheer curtains, his peers were largely engaged in a different type of decorating.

The Kips Bay show house has always been a certain kind of marketing opportunity for designers — a victory lap that comes with a community responsibility. This is because its promotional benefits accrue vaguely to the design profession as a whole, rather than its individual practitioners. That is, the show house reminds the world what it is that decorators actually do. It is rare for design firms to gain clients from the endeavor, which is time- and labor-consuming, and expensive as well. Or it used to be.

But now that most decorators have products to sell — furniture, rug and wallpaper collections, books — they can move these objects into a show house room and hope for a more direct response from their audiences. Indeed, this year, three outfits — Jennifer Post, Vicente Wolf and 2Michaels, a firm of twin-sister decorators named Jayne and Joan Michaels — have an arrangement with Gilt Groupe, the invitational discount luxury site, to sell most of the things in their rooms in an online pop-up shop “open” from Nov. 4 to 9.

Some rooms were all product, like the house’s front hall, which was filled with $25,000 worth of Jean Paul Gaultier’s pillow-furniture for Roche Bobois — essentially, a high-end futon look with Mr. Gaultier’s rock ’n’ roll fabrics on the company’s classic ’70s-era Mah Jong sofas. The net result seemed plucked whole from Lady Gaga’s N.Y.U. dorm room, or perhaps from a fantasy of Pamela Des Barres’s.

Mr. Wolf, whose last Kips Bay show house was in 1991, explained his decision to be in this year’s house: “I think our times call for experience,” he said. “It’s a chance for the average person to walk into one of your rooms. It shows what decorators do, instead of the stupid TV shows that say you can do it for $5.”

Also, he has a book out this week.

Mr. Wolf had accessorized a paneled library — “no one else wanted it,” he said, proudly, of the room — with oversize, swoopy, Philippe Starck-inflected white furniture from his signature line, VW Home. There were the familiar high-backed wing chairs, like escapees from the Royalton, when it was a ’90s power den, and his huge, white wedge-shaped banquette. Behind it stood a clutch of four-foot-high white porcelain statues of Mao, which looked like Pop Art pieces rather than souvenirs from the Cultural Revolution, though Mr. Wolf said a friend had warned him that they were too reactionary.

Darren Henault, who designed two dressing rooms, one for “him” and one for “her,” observed: “My job isn’t to save people money. It’s to spend people’s money well.”

Mr. Henault left a career in advertising 15 years ago to become a decorator, and he likened decorating to the creation of a good stock portfolio. Between his two rooms, he said, he had assembled $1 million worth of furniture and artwork.

“You can track these pieces for the last 100 years, in the same way that you can track a stock, and see how their value has increased,” he said, pointing to a Jules Leleu vanity ($175,000), a giltwood table (also $175,000) and a bronze cabinet ($144,000).

Here, he said helpfully, handing over a stack of crisp white index cards, each printed with the particulars of one piece, in the style of an auction catalog. For new investors, he said, there was an entry-level work: a photograph of a young woman decked out in a 1940s-style fur stole clutching a liter of Coca-Cola ($6,500), by Alex Prager, a young California photographer whose images owe a lot to the works of Alfred Hitchcock and who, Mr. Henault noted, was in a photography show at MoMA right now.

“You want a hot stock tip?” he said. “Run to Yancey Richardson and buy an Alex Prager, and you’ll double your money in the next year or so.”

MANY decorators seemed to be showing off their eye for contemporary art, or perhaps just their relationships with various galleries. Eve Robinson, who had drawn the white trophy kitchen — and what can you do in such a kitchen? — hung two stunning domestic still lifes by the photographer Laura Letinsky.

Joan and Jayne Michaels commissioned Stephen Antonson, a Brooklyn artist, to make an egg-shaped faux fireplace in wood and plaster ($7,000, and it takes an eco-flame insert, they said) for their tiny room, and brought in other egg- and bird-like objects that otherwise seemed to have no relationship to one another. The most intriguing piece was a tower of acrylic vitrines filled with what looked like ancient stone Buddha heads but turned out to be sculptures by Long-Bin Chen, a Taiwanese artist who makes pieces out of the Yellow Pages, Sotheby’s catalogs and other paper products. The heads were as soft as velvet; you could see the spine of the Yellow Pages behind each one.

Across the hall, Elizabeth Pyne, a granddaughter of Betty Sherrill, former president of McMillen Inc., had blanketed her little room in brushed gold and aqua linen. Her grandmother, she reported, had made away with the excess fabric and was planning an outfit with it. “She told me I always order too much,” said Ms. Pyne, who is 30 and in charge of McMillen Plus, a division of McMillen devoted to younger clients.

Ms. Pyne had decorated with art, too: there was a mandala made from fake eyelashes by Meg Strecker and a little wire tree by Pablo Avilla that looked like a Lewis Carroll drawing. But the most compelling artwork was a piece made by Ms. Pyne’s mother, Ann Pyne, a principal of McMillen. On a television framed in gold linen played a film that Ann Pyne had made of her own mother, Mrs. Sherrill, brandishing clippers.

“It’s my dream and my mother’s nightmare,” the younger Ms. Pyne said, describing how Mrs. Sherrill would arrive at their house in Southhampton, N.Y., and clip the privet and move the furniture around. The film was an exploration of that relationship, she explained.

Later, by e-mail, Ann Pyne described it as a film-school effort, with obvious themes. “But I feel quite affectionate toward the footage,” she wrote, “and I am so glad I have it, and my mother, still alive.”

She added: “By the way, don’t think this whole scenario didn’t repeat on Thursday. When I came to get something from Elizabeth’s room I saw all sorts of flower arrangements that had magically appeared. Elizabeth thinks this is funny, but it drives me insane. How she got up those three flights of stairs with flowers and vases and her cane and all the congestion of objects and workmen in the stairwell I don’t know.”

Ed Ku and Etienne Coffinier were inspired, they said, by a 1963 fashion photograph from Harper’s Bazaar by Melvin Sokolsky, who placed a model in a glass bubble and set her in front of Paris scenes. Maybe the best part of their room — all bronze grass cloth and silvery cerused wood custom furniture that recalled Frank Lloyd Wright — was a whorl of black smoke on a white panel above a sectional sofa, a piece by Norman Mooney, an Irish artist living in Brooklyn. In the adjoining bathroom, Mr. Ku and Mr. Coffinier filled a tub with startling and lovely hand-blown glass bubbles made by Suzan Etkin, a glass artist.

On the top floor, Jennifer Post was padding around in white terrycloth mules — installation slippers, she said, that she buys from the InterContinental Hotel in Los Angeles. Tiny, toned and prone to aphorisms, Ms. Post looked more like a yoga instructor than a decorator as she pivoted between the his-and-hers massage room, the lounge and the outdoor terrace she had smoothed over in her own image.

“I will only work on a Bentley; it can’t be a BMW,” Ms. Post said, pointing out furniture from her new collection — a massive slab of a sofa with Jean-Michel Frank lines, covered in charcoal cashmere, and hunky armchairs covered in Maharam chenille.

Ms. Post is something of a brand herself, and all the elements of her franchise were on display: the black-and-white palette, the movie-mogul minimalism. Every one of her clients gets a black-cushioned, custom bronze bench, she said, sitting down on one. Also, they get pet rocks: glazed black river rocks she harvests in Los Angeles and New York. (You can have them, too, for $20, $30 and $40, when Gilt Home puts Ms. Post’s room online.)

On a landing on the fourth floor, Robert Verdi and Deirdre D’Elia had covered the walls in soot-gray grass cloth studded with nailheads. Sconces by Lindsey Adelman — glass bubbles nodding from brass plates — added to the steampunk effect.

“It’s like an old submarine,” Mr. Verdi said, plopping down on his love seat. “But in grass cloth.”

A white wool rug in an exaggerated basketweave by a German artist prompted a reverie: “I feel like Martha Stewart would want it and be jealous that we had it,” he said. “I always wanted to make rubber bracelets stamped with WWMW, you know, What Would Martha Want. Or What Would Oprah Want, because they are our deities. I figured that’s how I’d make my money.”
446 2010-10-14 Dwell Studio, the home accessories and furniture manufacturer, is opening its first shop, in the bedding department at ABC Carpet & Home, on Oct. 19.

The company, known for geometric patterns like Pyramids (shown on pillow, top right), has begun producing lush patterns of birds and flowers, including Peacock (shown on dark gray pillow) and Vintage Blossoms (shown on middle pillow and duvet cover).

Why the shift from geometry to fat little birds?

“The very geometric look was appropriated by the bigger box stores,” said Christiane Lemieux, who owns the company with her husband, Joshua Young. Dwell fought back with what she calls an eclectic yet modern line influenced by the fashion runway.

The shop’s furniture and accessories will include decorative pillows ($54 and up), sheet sets ($260 and up), cribs ($980) and upholstered bed frames ($1,990 and up). ABC Carpet & Home, 888 Broadway (19th Street); (212) 473-3000, extension 3558; abchome.com.
447 2010-10-14 But there are pockets of resistance. The number of farmers’ markets, for example, has more than doubled over the last decade, according to a recent federal Agriculture Department report. There are 6,132 registered markets around the country, up 16 percent in the last year. And the consumers who shop at those markets are the sort of people Abe’s Market hopes to attract online.

“People want to buy from other people,” Mr. Demb said. “There are very few opportunities to meet the people who make your products. We look at Abe’s Market as a limitless farmers’ market.”

The Web site offers plenty of getting-to-know-you yarns, starting with the tale of Abe. There are also introductions to Mr. Polin, whose “first job was vending peanuts and Frosty Malts at Cubs and White Sox games,” and to Mr. Demb, who spent childhood summers on sales calls with his grandfather Morton Einbinder, a wholesale grocer. Today, Mr. Polin is a veteran brand manager whose credits include marketing campaigns for Clorox and Capital One. Mr. Demb is a former investment banker and co-founder of Dale and Thomas Popcorn.

Abe’s merchants build individual profile pages, called seller stories, to introduce themselves. For example, Michael Cochrane, the co-founder of Yumnuts in Norwalk, Conn., is a second-generation nut man. He was inspired to create a line of naturally flavored cashews by working with his father, an international nut broker. Erin Krug, a former science teacher in Hanover, Pa., started Krug’s Eco-Logic after friends urged her to sell the creams she had concocted to treat her young children’s sensitive skin. And Karl Wald had a life-changing adventure in Sri Lanka, which led him to create Mr. Ellie Pooh, a Brooklyn company that sells notebooks made with recycled elephant dung.

And the stories keep on coming. On Oct. 18, Abe’s Market plans to introduce Abe’s Live, a streaming online broadcast where sellers will tell their stories and demonstrate products in real time. This is all part of a phenomenon that branding experts call “my story” marketing: a style of reaching out to consumers that emphasizes the people behind the products.

“It’s hugely about humanizing the businesses and connecting who they are with the imputed values of their target customer set,” said Nancy F. Koehn, a historian and brand expert at the Harvard Business School. “That’s a long way from ‘four out of five dentists recommend Trident for their patients who chew gum’ — or Mrs. Olson talking to you, saying your marriage will fall apart if you don’t use Folgers. It’s a very different kind of game, going down to layers that ‘Mad Men’ never dreamed of.”

Abe’s Market is hardly the only company emphasizing stories. Etsy, an online bazaar for handmade goods, also encourages personal storytelling and claims to have facilitated $179.4 million in sales during the first half of this year. Another e-commerce start-up, The Daily Grommet (slogan: “Fresh Finds, True Stories”), encourages customers to embrace the spirit of “citizen commerce” by spending money with business owners who share their values.

But can all this storytelling be converted into dollars for Abe’s Market, which takes 30 percent of each sale it brokers? Several angel investors are banking on that, including Toby Coppel, the former head of Yahoo Europe, Index Ventures and the Accelerator Group. (Abe’s Market would not disclose how much seed capital these investors have provided.)

“Given Richard and Jon’s excellent track record, I think this is a very interesting investment,” Mr. Coppel wrote in an e-mail. “Abe’s is building a very strong buyer community that is extremely passionate about organic and natural products and wants to connect with the people behind the products they buy.”

So far, revenue at the eight-employee company is modest: Mr. Demb expects Abe’s Market to make $1.5 million in sales for its vendors in 2011. Since May, sales dollars have doubled every 30 to 45 days, he added.

One challenge for Mr. Polin and Mr. Demb will be to maintain enthusiasm for the online experience offered by Abe’s Market and its vendors — rather than just enhancing the reputations of individual sellers. Most of Abe’s vendors maintain their own Web stores, which means customers are not locked into buying through Abe’s Market. But Mr. Polin says he believes that consumers will choose to do their one-stop natural goods shopping at Abe’s.

“We’re often cheaper than buying with our manufacturers directly,” he added, explaining that Abe’s Market offers shipping promotions and gets discounted package rates with U.P.S. He also says that Abe’s sellers agree to offer their products at the same price or cheaper than they appear elsewhere. Above all, Mr. Polin says that Abe’s role as a curator of healthy, eco-friendly goods will appeal to a growing segment of Americans.

Abe’s Market sellers sound happy to come along for the adventure. After all, Abe’s offers the kind of exposure that many tiny companies cannot afford individually. “Our manufacturers are great at manufacturing products,” Mr. Polin said. “We’re great at selling products. Let them do their thing; let us do our thing.”

Zhi Tea does its thing in Austin, Tex. Jeffrey Lorien, 48, who also goes by Dr. Oolong, said he started Zhi Tea in 2007 because, “I wanted to put a face and people into this industry, rather than these faceless brands.”

Mr. Lorien opened his Web store in July 2007, “to little fanfare,” he recalled, laughing. He built his brand slowly, by word of mouth, handing out samples of his favorite blends at a local farmer’s market, evangelizing tea wherever he could. Today, his products appear in more than a hundred boutiques and restaurants and at a dozen Whole Foods stores.

One of 50 vendors on Abe’s Market when the site opened last year, Mr. Lorien is scheduled to be the first guest on Abe’s Live next week, appearing through a video feed. Mr. Lorien expects the people from Abe’s Market to interview him, asking the kinds of questions that will bring his “Doctor Oolong” side to life: “They’re always asking about me and my story and making it human.”
448 2010-10-14 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — United States import prices fell 0.3 percent in September, as a drop in petroleum prices offset gains in food and other nonfuel goods, a Labor Department report showed Wednesday.

The September decline in overall import prices followed a 0.6 percent rise in August.

Analysts surveyed before the report had expected import prices to fall 0.2 percent in September.

Petroleum and fuel import prices both fell 3.1 percent in September in their first month-to-month declines since June.

In the 12 months through September, overall import prices rose 3.5 percent. That year-to-year rise has fallen from a high of 11.4 percent in January.

In recent months, the year-on-year rise in nonpetroleum import prices also has slowed. In the 12 months through September, they were up 2.9 percent.

However, a weakening dollar on expectations the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further could push the price of many imported goods higher in coming months.
449 2010-10-14 Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive, said he was “pleased to report” that the bank’s losses were easing and that he remained cautiously optimistic. Mortgage delinquencies, Mr. Dimon said, had leveled off and he expected credit card charge-offs to continue to fall. Still, he warned that losses remain elevated and could climb higher if the economy worsened.

JPMorgan emerged from the global financial crisis in better shape than many rivals. But like other big banks, it still confronts potential losses stemming from bad home mortgages and the legal fallout from the spiraling foreclosure mess. Morgan’s Chase Retail Services announced earlier this month that as many as 56,000 mortgages had documentation problems, prompting calls for an industrywide investigation and a nationwide freeze on foreclosures.

On Wednesday, the bank announced it had expanded its review to about 115,000 loan foreclosure files in 41 different states, and would correct the documentation issues and resubmit them within weeks. The move effectively will temporarily delay the bank’s foreclosure sales in most of the country, although it stops short of the nationwide moratorium that Bank of America announced earlier this week.

Douglas L. Braunstein, Morgan’s newly appointed chief financial officer, said on a conference call with journalists that the bank was “comfortable with the process” and believed it acted appropriately since the underlying data on the forms was accurate.

Even so, he acknowledged that fixing the problems would be expensive and the legal costs, stemming from both the state attorneys general investigation and private lawsuits, could quickly mount.

“It will cost us some money to make sure we go back and it is done right,” he said. “The whole mortgage issue costs us so much money now, to me it is incremental” to the costs we are already bearing. But Morgan had offered some good news in its latest results. For the third consecutive quarter, the bank set aside significantly less money to cover current and future losses.

Overall, Morgan set aside about $3.2 billion, a 67 percent drop from the $9.8 billion it allocated for losses a year ago. That sharp reduction was driven by modest improvements in housing and the job market, as well as signs that credit card borrowers were in better shape. Indeed, Morgan benefited by a $1.5 billion, or an after-tax gain of about 22 cents a share, from lowering the money it set aside for credit cards, as record charge-off levels start to slow.

However, the bank did set aside about $1 billion to cover faulty mortgages that it is obligated to repurchase from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and private insurers. It also set aside another $1.3 billion to cover future mortgage-related litigation. Together, the charges reduced after-tax earnings by about 33 cents a share.

But Mr. Dimon stopped short of saying the economy was turning around. Unlike the previous quarter, when Morgan bought back $250 million of its stock, the bank did not announce additional share repurchases.

Nor did Mr. Dimon announce plans to begin restoring regular quarterly dividend payments to shareholders, but instead hinted that that investors would have to wait until 2011.

Mr. Dimon had previously said that he would await further improvement in the economy and more clarity about minimum capital requirements to be imposed by regulators before contemplating a restoration of the dividend. Such a move, he indicated, could come in the second half of 2010. While the results were better-than-expected, the bank still faces headwinds. Its investment bank posted a $1.3 billion profit, about 33 percent less than a year ago.

Despite fears that stock trading volumes would be sharply lower, stock underwriting fees were down slightly from the previous quarter and the bank profited from the resurgence in corporate bond deals in the early fall. It was also helped by about a $142 million reduction in the money it set aside to cover current and future losses.

Trading results in fixed-income, currency and commodities trading, which suffered a highly publicized loss in the second quarter, fell about 38 percent from a year ago, to $3.1 billion.

Chase’s consumer businesses, meanwhile, showed some improvement as losses began to ease. The credit card division posted a $735 million profit, after nearly two years of bleeding red ink.

The retail bank earned about $907 million, although the mortgage business continues to lose money — albeit less than the bank projected. In September, Mr. Dimon said home mortgages are on track to lose about $5 billion, compared to the $7 billion that the bank had projected earlier this year. But in another troubling sign, revenue fell by about 7 percent, as the bank took in less fee income on deposit accounts.

Morgan’s commercial bank reported record quarterly revenue, while its asset management business also posted solid results. Profit in its treasury services unit, which recently underwent a leadership change, fell 17 percent from a year earlier.
450 2010-10-14 By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED     On Tuesday night, Steven L. Rattner was surrounded by an assemblage of stars from the financial and media worlds at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan. Chief executives and powerful politicians had gathered to ...
451 2010-10-14 WEYMOUTH, Mass.     The rain beat down last week on a modest South Shore shopping center waiting to receive an underdog candidate for governor. It soaked two men trying to revive a dead car in the parking lot and caused the gray afternoon to sag l...
452 2010-10-14 OTTAWA -- The government of Canada formally declared bisphenol A, a chemical widely used to create clear, hard plastics, as well as food can liners, to be a toxic substance on Wednesday.      The compound, commonly known as BPA, has been shown to ...
453 2010-10-14 Guy Hands and David Wormsly face off in federal court over lawsuit brought by Hands's private equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners against Citigroup for its role in sale of EMI Group record label; Hands accuses Wormsley, at one time close frie...
454 2010-10-14 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. - In the first-base clubhouse at Tropicana Field, Tampa Bay Rays owner Stuart Sternberg found Carl Crawford, his star left fielder, about to face the news media moments after the end of the division series late Tuesday night. ...
455 2010-10-14 WEYMOUTH, Mass.     The rain beat down last week on a modest South Shore shopping center waiting to receive an underdog candidate for governor. It soaked two men trying to revive a dead car in the parking lot and caused the gray afternoon to sag l...
456 2010-10-15 The far left is seen as having more party influence than the far right....
457 2010-10-15 C.C. Sabathia? Catfish Hunter? Reggie Jackson?...
458 2010-10-15 Apple is announcing... something on Wednesday. Determining what that will be, exactly, has been the talk of the tech blogosphere....
459 2010-10-15 Photographs from Switzerland, Afghanistan, Germany and Washington....
460 2010-10-15 Pictures of the Day: The Swiss Alps and Elsewhere
461 2010-10-15 How did Steven Rattner become an investment adviser to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg? DealBook explains....
462 2010-10-15 On Tuesday, some of the underground warrens they worked in are opening to the public for the first time, after a $700,000 restoration that will allow a rare glimpse into ancient Roman pageantry....
463 2010-10-15 In the Milan Issue, the Italian capital of fashion, design and business is explored to a T....
464 2010-10-15 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
465 2010-10-15 Mr. McCann, the National Book Award-winning author; Mr. Anderson, the filmmaker; and Mr. Wilson, the actor and frequent collaborator of Mr. Anderson, were all contributors to Analecta, the literary magazine of the at the University of Texas at Aus...
466 2010-10-15 The orchestra's goal was to commission four composers to help celebrate its 40th anniversary....
467 2010-10-15 In this week's Patient Money column, Walecia Konrad explains what this year's open enrollment period means to consumers....
468 2010-10-15 Two economists debate the importance of the China-United States exchange rate and what the two countries should do about it....
469 2010-10-15 HasWifi lets people know if a particular flight offers Internet access....
470 2010-10-15 UBS, the largest Swiss bank, says it has been in talks with "dozens" of proprietary traders worldwide who are considering setting up hedge funds as banks seek to comply with new American rules aimed at curbing risk, Bloomberg News reported....
471 2010-10-15 Bank of America said on Thursday it would hire up to 1,000 small business bankers by 2012, expanding into an area once the exclusive domain of its smaller rivals....
472 2010-10-15 PRAGUE (AP) — Jiri Krizan was expelled from high school and blocked from attending college because the Communists who once ran Czechoslovakia didn’t like his father’s politics.

Mr. Krizan, a screenwriter, overcame those hurdles to help Vaclav Havel, president of Czechoslovakia and later of the Czech Republic, draft demands for basic human rights — a manifesto that helped bring down the Communist government in 1989 — before becoming a trusted presidential adviser when Mr. Havel took power.

Mr. Krizan died of a heart attack on Wednesday in the eastern village of Branky, Jan Krystof, of the TOP ’09 political party, said Thursday. He was 68.

Despite being blacklisted from college for years, Mr. Krizan wrote screenplays for more than a dozen movies, including “Shadows of a Hot Summer,” directed by Frantisek Vlacil, one of two films to win the top award at the 1978 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, which features movies from Eastern Europe.

In 1989, he helped Mr. Havel draft a petition known as “A Few Sentences” that called on the Communist authorities to release political prisoners and recognize freedom of speech and other basic human rights.
473 2010-10-15 When Ana Ivanovic left the court for a bathroom break after holding serve in the opening game against Barbora Zahlavova Strycova at the Generali Ladies in Linz, Austria, she was ahead by 1-0. When she returned, the match was tied, 1-1. Ivanovic was docked 4 points for taking too long in the bathroom — she said she felt ill from eating yogurt. Despite the violation, Ivanovic defeated Zahlavova Strycova, 6-3, 6-2, to reach the quarterfinals.
474 2010-10-15 That testimony “cannot be squared with the facts,” Judge Kaplan wrote. “That testimony, the court finds, was false,” he wrote again.

The government had identified and located Mr. Abebe through the interrogation of Mr. Ghailani when he was in an overseas C.I.A.-run jail, where Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers say he was tortured.

Prosecutors argued that Mr. Abebe’s testimony — which they said was critical because they said he had sold Mr. Ghailani the TNT used in the Tanzania attack — should be admitted because his decision to cooperate was only remotely linked to Mr. Ghailani’s interrogation and had been made voluntarily.

Judge Kaplan rejected those contentions. “The link between the C.I.A.’s coercion of Ghailani and Abebe’s testimony is direct and close,” he wrote.

As his trial went into its third day on Thursday, prosecutors continued to present their case, without Mr. Abebe and without another Tanzanian witness.

The other witness had been expected to testify about Mr. Ghailani’s role in helping to buy the truck used to carry the bomb in the Tanzania attack, the judge noted, citing information from prosecutors. But the witness recently “changed his mind and refused to appear,” the judge said.

The witness’s refusal highlights the challenge prosecutors have had in bringing a case 12 years after a crime that occurred overseas. The F.B.I. originally identified five witnesses who would testify about Mr. Ghailani’s role in buying the truck, prosecutors told the judge. Of the others, two have died and one is missing, the government said.

Other prosecution witnesses tied evidence found at the scene of the Dar es Salaam blast to the truck that carried the bomb, and in turn to Mr. Ghailani.

An F.B.I. agent, Gregory Carl, testified on Thursday that he had found a piece of steel stamped with a vehicle identification number, and another agent, Charles Ruiz said that he had searched Tanzanian records and found that the number corresponded with a white Nissan Atlas truck. A Tanzanian man said he had brokered the sale of that truck to Mr. Ghailani shortly before the attack. The Ghailani case has been seen as a test run for trying other detainees, like Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, in civilian court.

The judge’s decision last week to bar Mr. Abebe’s testimony was praised by the defense and has contributed to the debate over where to try other detainees.

Judge Kaplan said in his opinion that he “remains convinced that the C.I.A.’s predominant motives in coercing Ghailani to reveal what he knew about his explosives supplier were intelligence-oriented.”

But he added, “if the government is going to coerce a detainee to provide information to our intelligence agencies, it may not use that evidence” — or fruits of that evidence that are so closely tied to coerced statements, as in this case — “to prosecute the detainee for a criminal offense.”

Prosecutors had no comment on Thursday. They said last week that they disagreed with the decision to bar Mr. Abebe’s testimony and felt that it merited an appeal but feared that a long delay could be a hardship for witnesses from Africa.
475 2010-10-15 The race has attracted big names — former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York campaigned with Mr. Tran and former President Bill Clinton is scheduled to headline a rally for Ms. Sanchez on Friday.

Mr. Tran, a state assemblyman who is a formidable power in the Vietnamese political community, has managed to amass more than $1 million, he said. The Sanchez campaign declined to release its most recent fund-raising figures, but in June the campaign had nearly $1.3 million on hand.

Although there has been little public polling, a recent survey by a conservative group showed Mr. Tran within striking distance of the incumbent. He is counting on a base of conservative voters — whom he called “anti-incumbent, anti-Democrat and anti-Sanchez” — and the Vietnamese community to propel him to a win next month. Ms. Sanchez is clearly feeling the pressure, calling him a “failed Sacramento politician” in the hopes that voters like their state leaders even less than they like their Washington ones.

“I would never go on some kind of suicide mission,” Mr. Tran said in a recent interview near his office in a part of town known as Little Saigon. “This area has one of the lowest Congressional turnouts, so you can put your arms around the coalition relatively easily. A substantial number of people will cross party lines to vote with their background.”

During a September interview with Univision, Ms. Sanchez remarked that “the Vietnamese” and Republicans were trying to take the seat from her, a comment that Mr. Tran seized on and that sent an uproar through the conservative blogosphere. Ms. Sanchez has since said that she was referring only to Mr. Tran’s supporters.

“Yes, those Vietnamese and Republicans who are supporting him are trying to take the office — that’s what an election is about,” Ms. Sanchez said. “But to say that I was on a racist rampage is just ridiculous.”

After news of Ms. Sanchez’s comments surfaced, Mr. Tran said she was a “trying to create a wedge where there isn’t one.” He said there had rarely been tensions between the two communities.

For its part, Ms. Sanchez’s campaign bristled at a particularly nasty Tran campaign mailer, a hefty booklet in Vietnamese that showed several unflattering photographs of Ms. Sanchez, including one of her speaking with Ramón Castro, Fidel Castro’s oldest brother, in Cuba — a potentially powerful image for those who fled Communism. (Mr. Tran has also taken to repeatedly using the term “socialist conspiracy” when referring to Ms. Sanchez’s votes for the economic stimulus and health care bills.)

In a list comparing the candidates, the leaflet described Mr. Tran’s beliefs as “conservative and maintaining traditional Asian values.” It pointed out that Ms. Sanchez was divorced and described her way of life with a term that roughly translates to “loose” or “carefree.”

While the Vietnamese community makes up roughly 9 percent of the vote here, history has shown that these residents go to the polls in far larger numbers than their Latino counterparts, who are estimated at more than 60 percent of registered voters and make up a substantial part of Ms. Sanchez’s base. Her supporters acknowledge that a low turnout could hand Mr. Tran a victory.

The Vietnamese community here is hardly new — refugees began flocking to Westminster, just six miles west, in the 1970s. But they have come to political power more slowly.

“The real change is the heightened understanding, the heightened interest of that community — there has been a bump in the numbers of the Vietnamese in the school board and City Council,” said Adam D. Probolsky, a Republican political strategist. “These communities have a new sense of empowerment and a new organized effort to elect some of their own.”

Claudia Alvarez, a Santa Ana city councilwoman and supporter of Ms. Sanchez said it was unfortunate that “two communities are really fighting over the same pieces of the pie,” rather than electing another immigrant from other parts of the county.

“There is a lot of cynical attitude in the Hispanic community and the sense that nothing in government matters,” Ms. Alvarez said. “My fear is we are going to lose because of that divide and apathy.”
476 2010-10-15 Apple said Thursday that Verizon Wireless would begin selling the iPad at its stores on Oct. 28.

The announcement is the latest sign that the relationship between Apple and Verizon is warming up. Verizon is expected to begin selling Apple’s iPhone early next year.

Verizon will not be selling 3G versions of the iPad, which work over a cellular data network. Instead, it will sell bundles that include the iPad’s Wi-Fi models and its own mobile hot spot device, which essentially allows users to connect to the Internet in any place that has 3G service.

The bundles will cost $630 for a 16-gigabyte model, $730 for a 32-gigabyte model and $830 for 64 gigabytes. Verizon will offer a monthly $20 plan to customers for up to 1 gigabyte of data. Verizon will also offer all three iPad models as stand-alone products.
477 2010-10-15 The City Council, however, did not share the sentiment. The council last week voted against the resolution 3 to 2, on the grounds that it was outside the city’s purview to weigh in on the statewide proposition.

“The reality is that Valero is our corporate neighbor, and they are a huge stabilizing force of property tax and sales tax revenues,” said Alan Schwartzman, one of the council members who voted with the majority. “Why are we poking them in the eye? Let’s let the state voters decide.”

Company officials were not shy about lobbying the city government to remain neutral on Proposition 23. “We have held the view that it’s not appropriate for the city to weigh in on this particular issue that has such a substantial impact on our business,” said Chris Howe, a spokesman for the refinery.

Mayor Elizabeth Patterson of Benicia, a vocal opponent of Proposition 23, accuses Valero of doing more than just lobbying.

The city has been trying to lease 1.2 acres of land owned by Valero for a solar installation to power a water-pumping station. Before the council voted on Proposition 23, Ms. Patterson said that a company executive told her that Valero would rent the unused property for $140,000 a year. She said that amount would doom the installation.

“The message was delivered with vitriol,” she said. “It was clear it would be punitive.” Mr. Howe denied that the city government’s debate about Proposition 23 has had any bearing on the prospects for the lease.

Benicia, like dozens of Bay Area communities, has adopted its own goals for rolling back greenhouse-gas emissions. While Valero is by far the biggest source of these emissions in the city, the financing for Benicia’s efforts to fight climate change comes from Valero.

As part of a $14 million settlement agreement, the company is paying for much of the implementation of Benicia’s climate-action plan over the next five years.
478 2010-10-15 GREENBURGH, N.Y. — Donald Fehr, nominated to be executive director of the N.H.L. Players Association, was at the Rangers’ practice rink Thursday to meet with players.

Fehr chatted easily with reporters during practice but said he would have no comment on the meeting or on issues of substance.

He said the Rangers were the 12th or 13th of the 30 N.H.L. teams he would meet with, and that he expected the session to last around 90 minutes. He also said that he expected the players’ vote on his nomination to be concluded by the first week of November.

In earlier comments, Fehr said he was impressed by the hockey players’ intelligence and by their resolve to repair their formerly fractious union. He said Thursday that his impressions had not changed after his first dozen meetings.

“I’ve spent a lot of time around elite-level athletes and Olympic athletes,” said Fehr, who was the head of baseball’s players union from 1986 to 2009 and who also played an advisory role with the United States Olympic Committee.

“You don’t reach that level unless you can think,” Fehr said of the players.

He said that a big topic of conversation in meetings with players was the possibility of a work stoppage in the N.F.L. in 2011.
479 2010-10-15 On Thursday, the University of Mississippi announced the successor to its former mascot, a white-goateed, cane-toting Southern plantation owner that many have criticized as racist and anachronistic. The new mascot? The Rebel Black Bear.

Supporters of the old mascot were quick to find flaws. For one, an artist’s design shows a brown bear, not a black one. The animal was chosen based on the short story “The Bear” by William Faulkner, himself a former student, in which a bear is killed. Not exactly inspiring on the football field. And how original is a bear mascot?

“There are many, many other schools with bears — U.C.L.A., Maine, Brown,” said Brian Ferguson, a 2007 graduate and the director of the Colonel Reb Foundation, a group that supports bringing back the old mascot, which was retired from sporting event sidelines in 2003. “We might as well be called P.C.U. — Politically Correct University.”

School administrators say they want to balance tolerance with tradition at Ole Miss (itself a nickname for a slave owner’s wife). The school has discouraged Confederate battle flags at football games, discontinued “Dixie” as the unofficial fight song and raised enrollment of black students to 14 percent, from 5.8 percent in 1995 (though Mississippi is nearly 40 percent black).

Fans are divided over whether the university has become more open-minded or just too conscious of its reputation beyond the South. The committee of students that picked the mascot said it hoped to avoid any racial significance in the design. One finalist had gray-colored skin because, said Margaret Ann Morgan, 19, a committee co-chairwoman, “it is a combination of black and white.”

The Rebel Black Bear won an online poll this month, with support from 62 percent of students, alumni, staff and faculty members and season ticket holders. That beat the two other finalists: Hotty Toddy (a muscular man named after the school cheer) and the Land Shark (an allusion to the football team’s “voracious” defense).

As for Colonel Reb, his fans are not surrendering. The Colonel Reb Foundation’s leaders will dress in replicas of his costume and tour the state next week, talking to members of the local news media and trying to reverse the school’s decision. “We’re not giving up,” Mr. Ferguson said. “The Rebel Black Bear is just not the tradition we’re used to at Ole Miss.”
480 2010-10-15 In the first nine months of the year, Mr. Singer and four people tied to his firm have donated $250,000 to Mr. Donovan’s campaign, which raised just over $1 million during that period.

Even in New York, where Wall Street money flows to just about every candidate for statewide office, the generous support from Elliott Management stands out — and is, according to government watchdogs, potentially troubling.

“Any time a candidate is receiving effectively a fourth of his or her income from basically the same sources, you’re going to be beholden to them at some level,” said Dave Levinthal, a spokesman for the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group in . “It’s hard to hang up the phone when they’ve been such a dedicated patron.”

Asked about contributions from people associated with Elliott Management, a spokeswoman for the Donovan campaign, Lam, defended Mr. Donovan’s support for Wall Street.

“In a time when people across our state are struggling to find a job or keep their jobs,” she said in a statement, “the last thing any elected official should do is demonize any particular industry or employer just for the sake of headlines and campaign contributions.”

Still, Ms. Lam said that Mr. Donovan, the district attorney, would prosecute “all criminals, be they on State Street, Main Street or Wall Street.”

In a later e-mail, Ms. Lam added, “Dan has said repeatedly that if people feel that contributing to the campaign allows them special treatment or influence, they would be mistaken.”

Mr. Donovan’s Democratic rival, , a state senator from the Upper West Side, has benefited from Wall Street’s largess as well. He has accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations from employees at financial firms, including $25,000 from those with ties to Elliott Management. But the donations from Elliott represent less than 1 percent of his overall fund-raising, compared with about 25 percent for Mr. Donovan’s.

As big and hedge funds have come under fire, Mr. Singer of Elliott Management, who describes himself as a Barry Goldwater conservative, has become a major force in Republican politics.

He has donated more than $4 million, mostly to candidates who, like him, are alarmed by the federal government’s attempts to regulate Wall Street in the wake of the banking crisis. Over the summer, Mr. Singer, 66, held a $1 million fund-raiser at his home for Senate candidates who opposed legislation to overhaul the financial system.

But Mr. Donovan is the only candidate for state attorney general whom Mr. Singer has supported in this election cycle, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics, a nonpartisan organization that tracks state campaign financing.

A person close to Mr. Singer said that he had been encouraged to support Mr. Donovan by Mayor , who made much of his fortune on Wall Street, and who has endorsed the candidate. This person insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about Mr. Singer’s donations.

A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, confirmed that account. Mr. Singer declined to comment for this article.

Mr. Donovan has received $50,000 from Mr. Singer; $50,000 from Mr. Singer’s son, Gordon, who works at the firm; and donations of $50,000 each from two other employees, and from the spouse of one of those employees, campaign finance documents show.

Mr. Donovan’s conciliatory approach to Wall Street would be a break from the recent past, if he were elected. Under Mr. Spitzer, the attorney general’s office became a muscular, widely feared force on Wall Street, shining a spotlight on longstanding abuses, like the doctoring of research reports by stock analysts, who were supposedly offering objective information to the public, to help their banking colleagues win business. An investigation led by Mr. Spitzer into the practice resulted in a landmark $1.4 billion settlement from 10 firms.

Though less single-minded, Mr. Spitzer’s successor, , has brought several high-profile cases against Wall Street firms. He charged senior executives at Bank of America with fraud in connection with the firm’s purchase of , and made public the bonuses paid to executives of banks that received federal bailout money.

Mr. Schneiderman has tried to make Wall Street a major issue in the campaign, saying that Mr. Donovan is too cozy with the industry. “Dan Donovan took big money from Wall Street and says he’ll go easy on them,” Mr. Schneiderman says in one campaign advertisement.

“Schneiderman will police Wall Street, fighting crime wherever it occurs,” the advertisement says.

Some on Wall Street are, perhaps not surprisingly, dismayed at the prospect of Mr. Schneiderman’s election. Even so, Mr. Donovan has had trouble raising money. Mr. Schneiderman has received $3.35 million in campaign contributions since the beginning of the year, while Mr. Donovan has raised $1,025,000, just a third of that, according to the latest filings in September. Both candidates have raised more since then, but those figures will not be disclosed until next week.

At the same time, Mr. Donovan’s words are giving fodder to his detractors, who say he has become a mouthpiece for Wall Street. In a recent interview, he said he had no intention of “disturbing the ” of the industry.

Eric R. DiNallo, a former aide to Mr. Spitzer who ran against Mr. Schneiderman in the Democratic primary and has also taken donations from financial firms, said that Mr. Donovan should reassess that attitude.

“That’s the wrong approach for the attorney general’s office,” Mr. DiNallo said, “that the government is to be like Victorian children, seen but not heard.”
481 2010-10-15 VIENNA (Reuters) — The OPEC cartel agreed on Thursday to retain a supply policy that has been in effect for nearly two years, setting aside concerns that a weak dollar would drive the price of oil too high for a fragile economy.

Representatives of Ecuador, which holds the rotating presidency of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, confirmed the no-change decision.

Earlier, a delegate told Reuters that ministers had been “100 percent” in agreement that no change in policy was needed.

Oil prices did not react to the OPEC news, which had been widely expected, but they held relatively firm, settling at $82.69 a barrel, down 32 cents, drawing support from the dollar’s weakness.

The market has risen above the $70 to $80 price range that the world’s top exporter, Saudi Arabia, has said is ideal for producers and consumers. Speaking just before Thursday’s meeting, its oil minister said the kingdom was happy with the oil market for now.
482 2010-10-15 J. K. Rowling, the author of the Harry Potter books, still cannot make a years-old plagiarism charge disappear. A lawsuit in a British court accusing Ms. Rowling of partly copying a 1987 book, ''The Adventures of Willy the Wizard,'' by Adrian Jaco...
483 2010-10-15 The former Tavern on the Green will reopen to the public on Friday, reincarnated as a $2.5-million visitor center, food court and retail shop, temporarily replacing the once-glittering landmark restaurant in Central Park, which shuttered on New Ye...
484 2010-10-15 SEOUL, South Korea -- Even in the middle of a loud and bustling outdoor market, her voice drops to a whisper when she agrees to reveal the two secret ingredients that make her kimchi so popular with her customers.     ''Fermented-anchovy paste and...
485 2010-10-16 Patrick Blindauer's figure of speech is not a metaphor, a simile, a personification, or an antithesis....
486 2010-10-16 The Mississippi Department of Corrections confirmed Governor Barbour’s role in the five cases, noting that the specific orders were signed July 16, 2008:

• Bobby Hays Clark was pardoned by the governor. He was serving a long sentence for manslaughter and aggravated assault, having shot and killed a former girlfriend and badly beaten her boyfriend.

• Michael David Graham had his life sentence for murder suspended by Governor Barbour. Graham had stalked his ex-wife, Adrienne Klasky, for years before shooting her to death as she waited for a traffic light in downtown Pascagoula.

• Clarence Jones was pardoned by the governor. He had murdered his former girlfriend in 1992, stabbing her 22 times. He had already had his life sentence suspended by a previous governor, .

• Paul Joseph Warnock was pardoned by Governor Barbour. He was serving life for the murder of his girlfriend in 1989. According to Slate, Warnock shot his girlfriend in the back of the head while she was sleeping.

• William James Kimble was pardoned by Governor Barbour. He was serving life for the murder and robbery of an elderly man in 1991.

Radley Balko, in an article for Slate, noted that none of the five men were given relief because of concerns that they had been unfairly treated by the criminal justice system. There were no questions about their guilt or the fairness of the proceedings against them. But they did have one thing in common. All, as Mr. Balko pointed out, had been enrolled in a special prison program “that had them doing odd jobs around the Mississippi governor’s mansion.”

The idea that those men could be freed from prison and allowed to pursue whatever kind of lives they might wish while the Scott sisters are kept locked up, presumably for the rest of their lives, is beyond disturbing.

Supporters of the Scott sisters, including their attorney, Chokwe Lumumba, and Ben Jealous of the , have asked Governor Barbour to intervene, to use his executive power to free the women from prison.

A spokeswoman for the governor told me he has referred the matter to the state’s parole board. Under Mississippi law, the governor does not have to follow the recommendation of the board. He is free to act on his own. With Jamie Scott seriously ill (her sister and others have offered to donate a kidney for a transplant), the governor should move with dispatch.

The women’s mother, Evelyn Rasco, told The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson, Miss.: “I wish they would just hurry up and let them out. I hope that is where it is leading to. That would be the only justified thing to do.”

An affidavit submitted to the governor on behalf of the Scott sisters says: “Jamie and Gladys Scott respectfully pray that they each be granted a pardon or clemency of their sentences on the grounds that their sentences were too severe and they have been incarcerated for too long. If not released, Jamie Scott will probably die in prison.”

As they are both serving double life sentences, a refusal by the governor to intervene will most likely mean that both will die in prison.
487 2010-10-16 For many Americans, the surge of corporate money flooding into the fall campaigns, much of it from conservative groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Crossroads GPS, has seemingly upended the political system after a landmark campaign finance decision this year by the Supreme Court. In recent weeks, the influx of money has brought warnings from President Obama and Democrats about the threat of “big money” buying elections.

But the opening of the floodgates has been many years in the making, the result of a carefully waged campaign — “long-term ideological warfare,” Mr. Smith called it — to roll back Watergate-era campaign finance restrictions through attacks in Congress, in the courts, at the Federal Election Commission and in the court of public opinion.

At times, the conservatives’ strategy has relied on aggressive and sometimes novel legal challenges in the courts to finance restrictions. At other times, it has involved simply blocking reforms sought by Democrats, as Mr. McConnell succeeded in doing last month by keeping the Senate from voting on a White House-backed plan to force greater public disclosure of the sources of political donations.

“We keep chipping away and chipping away and chipping away,” said Michael Toner, a veteran Republican campaign-finance lawyer who served with Mr. Smith on the commission and also pushed for deregulation.

In the role of intellectual powerhouse is Mr. Smith, who returned to Ohio in 2005 after his stint on the commission and formed a conservative research center meant to counter what Republicans saw as an overload of liberal campaign finance watchdog groups.

Among the tacticians are longtime Republican election-law lawyers like Mr. Toner and Benjamin L. Ginsberg, who between them have represented a number of the most prominent Republican candidates and organizations in the last two decades.

At the commission, Donald McGahn, a rock guitar-playing, Atlantic City-born lawyer who served for years as a lawyer to Tom DeLay and other Republicans and learned the trade from Mr. Ginsberg, provides the election commission’s most powerful voice of opposition to what he often sees as intrusive government meddling in elections.

From his perch outside the capital beltway, the Indiana lawyer James Bopp Jr. — who brought the lawsuit in the Citizens United case — has proven remarkably aggressive and successful, to the surprise of even some of his conservative colleagues, in posing a series of legal challenges to campaign laws.

And at the center of it all, or usually above it, is Mr. McConnell himself, the chief architect of the push for deregulation. He still keeps a Darth Vader action figure in his Senate office as a proud reminder of the nickname given to him in the 1990s by progressives pushing for further limitations on political spending.

Conservatives opposed to campaign finance restrictions acknowledge that they are driven partly by raw political motives and the belief that fewer limitations on wealthy individuals and companies would mean more money for Republicans. That notion is borne out by the contributions Mr. McConnell, other members of his party and now outside groups have received over the years from donors in major industries like tobacco, pharmaceutical and casinos.

Beyond that, conservatives say they are guided by less partisan motives: the fervent belief, shared by some liberal groups like the A.C.L.U., that the First Amendment should prevent the government from enacting campaign finance restrictions that can chill free speech, even if it means giving anonymity to donors and rights to corporations.

“There’s a common ideological mind-set that I think we all share,” Mr. Toner said.

Years ago, Mr. McConnell would describe the fight he was waging as lonely. But today, he and his colleagues find themselves with the wind at their backs — and itching to knock down more rules, like limitations on the “soft money” that political parties can raise, individual contributions, and direct corporate fund-raising to candidates.

“There’s still thousands of pages of regulations on the books untouched,” said Mr. Bopp, who is currently handling more than a dozen legal challenges to campaign finance restrictions. (In one key case on appeal, Mr. Bopp argued this month against fund-raising limits imposed on candidates and political parties by the City of San Diego.)

Even veteran Democratic strategists and campaign lawyers who favor tighter restrictions on political money grudgingly acknowledge the deftness, and increasing success, of their conservative rivals.

“They’re smart, they’re aggressive and they’re well-funded,” said David Donnelly, a director for the liberal advocacy group Public Campaign. He paused before adding, “And the results are very troubling.”

The legal and political attacks have been fueled by wealthy conservatives, foundations and groups. Mr. Bopp, for instance, is the lawyer for the James Madison Center for Free Speech — which Mr. McConnell helped found in 1996 — and nearly all of the $1.7 million that the center raised in private donations from 2006 to 2008 then went to Mr. Bopp’s own law firm for litigation costs, according to a review to be released next week by Public Campaign and Common Cause, another group that advocates tighter campaign restrictions.

In addition, the Republican National Committee has paid Mr. Bopp’s firm more than $1 million in legal fees since 2003, according to the groups’ report.

Fred Wertheimer, the dean of campaign finance advocates and president of the liberal advocacy group Democracy 21, said the push to loosen funding restrictions threatens “a return to the wild, wild west” in the pre-Watergate reform era, when campaigns were sometimes financed through bags stuffed with cash from anonymous donors.

Ellen Weintraub, the senior Democratic commissioner on the election panel, is not quite so pessimistic, but she says of her opponents: “It’s a happy time for them.”

Commission hearings are often dominated by verbal jousting between Ms. Weintraub and Mr. McGahn, who brings not only a laissez-fare approach to campaign finance but a rapid-fire command of case law to support his view.

“I see myself certainly stopping or containing the role of the government to limit it to what the courts have said the proper role is,” Mr. McGahn said.
488 2010-10-16 A jury in Louisiana ruled that Johnson & Johnson owed the state nearly $258 million for misleading Louisiana doctors about the possible side effects of Risperdal, an antipsychotic medication. The ruling came in a suit filed by the state attorney general, Buddy Caldwell, against a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary, Janssen Pharmaceutical, charging misrepresentation and fraud. The suit said Johnson & Johnson and Janssen sent letters to more than 7,500 doctors and made more than 27,000 phone calls that improperly claimed its schizophrenia drug Risperdal was safer than competing medications and minimized its link to diabetes. Michael Heinley, a spokesman for Johnson & Johnson’s Ortho-McNeil Janssen Pharmaceuticals division, said the company would appeal. “We believe the jury was not appropriately instructed on applicable legal standards and that critical and highly relevant evidence was excluded,” he said Friday.
489 2010-10-16 “There is a constant threat of violence that we live with,” said Charles Rice-Gonzalez, 46, a writer and gay rights advocate who has been working in the South Bronx for two decades. “I was horrified, disgusted and angered by the attacks. I wouldn’t say I was surprised or shocked.”

In the week since the police announced the first arrests of several gang members in the assaults, Mr. Rice-Gonzalez and Arthur Aviles, co-founders of the Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance, have begun planning a self-defense class at their theater in Hunts Point. David Matthews, 43, another gay rights advocate who works in the South Bronx, said he was looking over his shoulder with a new vigilance.

And Mr. Mitchell, who said he can be himself in his neighborhood because people there watched him grow up, is taking care when straying beyond its borders. He has been beaten up before, he said, and the recent attacks are never far from his mind. “That could have been me,” he said. “You never know when someone is going to turn on you.”

In many respects, gay people in the lowest-income neighborhoods face the same challenges and threats as other gay New Yorkers.

The Department of Education reported 862 incidents of harassment based on sexual orientation in the 2008-9 school year. More than 40 percent of the 1,700 homeless youths in the Safe Horizon Streetwork Project, a citywide victims’ assistance program, identify themselves as gay or transgender.

But in dozens of interviews this week, gay and lesbian residents said it could be especially difficult to be gay in the Bronx, given the macho culture of the street, the local gang codes and the storefront churches that call homosexuality a sin.

“If I walk around wearing tight jeans and looking non-hood, I feel the tension,” said Ruben Porras, 29, who grew up in Morris Heights, where the attacks occurred. “If I’m walking by some Bloods, I’ll walk tougher.

“But if I’m in Chelsea,” he said with a laugh, “I’ll act very differently.”

If the Bronx has no Chelsea, a Manhattan neighborhood that wears its gay identity proudly, it does have its public gay life. Some bars sponsor gay nights — Tuesdays at Mi Gente Café on Unionport Road are popular — but the scene is scattered, without the security that an enclave like Chelsea or the West Village provides.

“It’s loose and it’s not centralized, but there is a gay community in the Bronx,” said Mr. Rice-Gonzalez, whose theater acts as something of a clearinghouse for gay culture in the borough.

When Mr. Rice-Gonzalez was growing up in the Soundview neighborhood in the 1970s and ’80s, there were few gay organizations, making for “a very clear sense of isolation,” he said.

“There wasn’t a queer voice in the Bronx,” Mr. Rice-Gonzalez said. “There was no way for gay men to meet each other unless you ran into someone downtown.”

Today, several groups offer services and counseling to gay people, including the Bronx Community Pride Center, Bronx AIDS Services and the Hispanic AIDS Forum. Harassment and even violence against gays are not uncommon, but the Oct. 3 attacks in Morris Heights have struck a nerve because of their brutality and extent — 11 suspects; 4 victims, including the brother of one of the men who were tortured; and a 20-hour rampage involving cigarette burns, sodomy and beatings with baseball bats.

Mr. Porras, who said he knew some of the men arrested, offered an explanation of the attacks informed by life on those same streets. He said the men, who belonged to the Latin King Goonies, a subset of the Latin Kings, were not overtly hostile to gays. He compared the gang to a father who tolerated gay people — as long as they were not in his family.

“People will embrace it so long as it’s not someone they are claiming as their own,” he said.

The trouble began, the authorities said, after one gang member saw a 30-year-old man, who was suspected of being gay, with a 17-year-old who wanted to join the group. Gang members assumed the men had slept together; they punished them, another teenager and the older man’s brother.

Morris Heights is a tight-knit community where neighbors know one another by nicknames. Old men stand in bodegas discussing the day’s headlines. On a recent afternoon, young men on Burnside Avenue argued about the price a chop shop would pay for a Toyota.

A 29-year-old mother stood outside a bodega, two blocks from the house where the attacks occurred, reading newspaper accounts of the arrests. She said she was horrified by the violence, but she acknowledged that gay people, including a man in her building, made her uncomfortable.

“It’s hard for me to handle,” said the woman, who declined to give her name for fear of gang reprisals. “It’s something that’s not normal in a household.”

Yet her feelings about homosexuality are conflicted, which gay advocates say is not unusual. “I watch a lot of gay porn,” she said. “It’s very intriguing to me. Why are they so interested? What pleasure do they get?”

In neighborhoods where gangs are common, some churches offer a message of tolerance. But several gay residents said a growing number of congregations made them feel attacked from two sides.

“I feel assaulted every weekend because of the hate speech from sidewalk preachers,” Mr. Rice-Gonzalez said. “They say gay people need to repent, they’re going to hell.”

State Senator Rubén Díaz Sr., a Pentecostal minister who represents the South Bronx, is a vocal opponent of gay marriage. Many gay leaders noted that the statement he released condemning the recent attacks made no mention of homosexuality.

In an interview, Mr. Díaz, a Democrat, said: “I don’t support violence against anybody. I would ask for the maximum penalty to anyone that abuses another human being.” But he added, “I’m against gay marriage, and I always will be.”

New York has long been a refuge for gay people. But many have been dismayed by an assault this month on a gay man at the landmark Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village, followed by the Bronx attacks and remarks this week by the Republican nominee for governor, Carl P. Paladino, who said gay pride parades were “disgusting.”

“If this is the oasis in our country,” Eliza Byard, executive director of the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, said, “it doesn’t feel that great right now.”
490 2010-10-16 “This has been a remarkable achievement for veterinary science, evidence of the commitment of numerous countries,” the Food and Agricultural Organization said in its statement.

Still to be decided is how much virus to keep frozen in various countries’ laboratories, along with tissue from infected animals and stocks of vaccine, which is made from live virus. Virologists like to have samples handy for research, but public health experts, fearing laboratory accidents or acts of terrorism, usually press to destroy as much as possible. The smallpox virus is officially supposed to exist only in two lab freezers, one in Atlanta and one in Moscow.

Rinderpest is thought to have originated in Asia and spread through prehistoric cattle trading; it was in Egypt 5,000 years ago. It never became established in the Americas (though there was a small outbreak in Brazil 90 years ago), nor in Australia or New Zealand. Cattle infected with it would have started dying aboard ship and the herd would be slaughtered or quarantined on arrival.

But it reached Africa in the late 19th century, with devastating consequences. The near total destruction of herds meant widespread famines; in one of those, a third of the population of Ethiopia died, according to the Food and Agricultural Organization.

It was apparently introduced to Abyssinia, which is now Ethiopia, in cattle from India imported by the Italians during their campaign to conquer Abyssinia, said Dr. Jeffrey M.B. Musser, a rinderpest expert at Texas A&M’s veterinary school. Some experts believe it was deliberate, as a form of biological warfare, he said, while others contend that it was accidental.

It also infected game animals, like giraffes and antelopes, but did not kill as many of them.

For centuries, cattle owners and local veterinary officials fought the disease with slaughter, quarantine and crude immunization efforts. As with smallpox, many tried “inoculation” — cutting open the skin and introducing pus or tissue from infected animals, sometimes treated with heat or chemicals, hoping to cause minor infections that would create immunity. But these efforts sometimes just spread the disease.

Then in the 1950s, Walter Plowright, a British veterinary pathologist working in Africa, developed a successful vaccine using live, weakened virus produced with the same cell-culture techniques pioneered for polio.

The global effort to eliminate rinderpest was officially begun in 1994. It relied on the vaccine and a network of field agents and laboratories that could hunt for and confirm outbreaks.

Nine years passed between the last known case and this week’s de facto declaration that the disease was gone, but such timelines are typical in disease eradication. Many diseases resemble one another, and the authorities need both time and frequent blood testing to be sure one is really gone. The last case of smallpox was seen in Somalia in 1977, but the disease was not declared eradicated until 1980. (In April, there was a brief scare in Uganda when doctors reported a new case; it turned out to be chicken pox.) Veterinary diseases need longer surveillance; while mothers will carry sick children many miles to a doctor, herders often just have to let animals die.

The virus that caused a worldwide outbreak in 2002 of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, was effectively contained by mid-2003. The last known case, caused by a lab accident, occurred in 2004, but SARS is not considered eliminated because it is assumed to persist in bats, wild civets and perhaps other animals, and could return.
491 2010-10-16 But financial stocks were hit hard, down more than 1.7 percent, the most of any sector. On Wednesday, 50 state attorneys general announced that they were investigating the practices of the mortgage servicing industry. Concerns over the extent to which the foreclosure problems would hit banks’ bottom lines were evident in the stock market on Thursday, and the declines continued on Friday. First Horizon National was down nearly 8 percent at $10.03. SunTrust Banks was down 4.7 percent at $24.38, and Bank of America declined nearly 5 percent, to $11.98.

Citigroup, the most actively traded of the banks, was more than 2.7 percent lower at $3.95. JPMorgan Chase was down more than 4 percent at $37.15, and Capital One declined 7.6 percent at $36.86.

“The financial sector is still being impacted by this issue of the foreclosure conundrum,” said Brian A. Bethune, an IHS Global Insight economist. “It is very hard to say how that is going t0 play out.”

And while the market has long been anticipating the Fed measures, economists downgraded the potential impact of new quantitative easing by the Fed. Some analysts said the market had already accounted for the effect of any easing measures, which the presidents of the regional banks had been discussing for weeks.

“They are all moving in that direction,” said Mr. Bethune. “All the chairman is doing is summarizing and pulling it together. It is pretty clear where they are going. The question is, Will it impact the economy? And the answer is yes, but it is not going to be overnight.”

Paul Ashworth, an economist with Capital Economics, said such quantitative easing measures might lower long-term interest rates and stimulate the stock market “a bit more.”

But he added, “At this stage, $500 billion or even $1 trillion is probably just not going to do it.”

“With mortgage rates and corporate bond yields already close to record lows, however, we doubt that would have any meaningful impact on the wider economy,” Mr. Ashworth wrote in a research note.

There were also new economic statistics to mull over on Friday. Retail sales for September were a rare bright spot, climbing by 0.6 percent over all and beating forecasts.

The rise came after upward revisions to August and July, both of which projected a stronger picture of consumer spending in the third quarter than previously thought.

“Consumers are starting to pick up spending after a relatively weak showing in the first half of the summer despite a steady stream of poor news on the employment and financial fronts,” said Chris Christopher, the IHS Global Insight United States economist.

Inflation was 0.1 percent, with the core index flat for another month, the Commerce Department reported.

Quarterly results continued to trickle out, with results from bellwether stocks affecting the direction of some of the main indexes.

General Electric reported that its third-quarter profit fell 18 percent, with revenue soft from sales of industrial equipment, although orders for industrial goods and services grew.

Its shares were down more than 5 percent at $16.30.

Google shares buoyed the Nasdaq. Google reported on Thursday that revenue climbed 23 percent and net income rose 32 percent. On Friday the share closed up more than 11 percent at $601.45.
492 2010-10-16 China’s spate of public agitation for political reform continued Friday, as more than 100 Chinese intellectuals and dissidents signed and posted an online letter asking that the Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo be released from prison and that government security officers stop harassing his wife, Liu Xia. In line with Charter 08, the pro-democracy manifesto that Mr. Liu co-authored and which led to his imprisonment, signers of the new letter also asked that government leaders “make good on their oft-repeated promise to reform the political system.”

The letter added, “This will require it to guarantee the rights of Chinese citizens as they work to bring about peaceful transition toward a society that will be, in fact and not just in name, a democracy and a nation of laws.” The letter follows another public manifesto, posted online Monday and quickly censored, which attacked the Communist party’s censorship and demanded an end to all curbs on press freedom. Both letters refer to other statements in recent months by Premier Wen Jiabao which appear to urge the Communist Party to give its citizens more basic freedoms and to restructure the political system.

Meanwhile, a leading dissident and supporter or Mr. Liu, Ding Zilin, was reported to have vanished, last heard from in the Yangtze River delta town of Wuxi on Oct. 8, days after Mr. Liu’s prize was announced. Ms. Ding leads the group Tiananmen Mothers, which has fought to force the government to recognize the hundreds of demonstrators killed by troops during the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989. Miu Xia alerted outsiders to her disappearance late Thursday, urging the public to pay attention to her case. Local police officers were reported to have promised that they would look into the disappearance.
493 2010-10-16 The question now is not whether the Fed will resume the debt-buying strategy known as , but how much it will buy, and how quickly, analysts said. Mr. Bernanke did not offer such details.

The stock markets, which have risen since the Fed took an incremental step in August toward additional monetary easing, largely shrugged off Mr. Bernanke’s remarks, though new stimulus efforts would probably raise equity prices, at least in the short run. Stocks ended mixed, with the Dow Jones industrial average slightly lower and the & Poor’s 500-stock index up slightly.

In the past, the Fed sometimes changed rates when the market didn’t expect it. But in this difficult economy, it felt it had to telegraph its moves well in advance so as not to disturb markets or other major economies.

The economic outlook offered by Mr. Bernanke was sobering. He said that the rate of growth was “less vigorous than we would like,” and that the unemployment rate was likely to “decline only slowly” next year, even as the recovery gains steam.

Mr. Bernanke centered his analysis on the Fed’s “dual mandate” to foster maximum employment and price stability. He said that inflation was “too low” relative to the desired rate of “about 2 percent or a bit below,” and that unemployment was “clearly too high” relative to Fed officials’ long-run forecast of 5 to 5.25 percent.

“Given the committee’s objectives, there would appear — all else being equal — to be a case for further action,” Mr. Bernanke said.

Mr. Bernanke noted that one key measure of inflation — the price index for personal consumption expenditures, which excludes food and energy prices — had fallen to about 1.1 percent over the first eight months of this year, from about 2.5 percent in the early stages of the .

Weighing in on a debate that has preoccupied Fed officials, Mr. Bernanke planted himself on the side of those who view the high unemployment rate — 9.6 percent — as an outcome of the sharp in economic demand that followed the , rather than of structural factors like a mismatch between workers’ qualifications and the skills required by employers.

But Mr. Bernanke acknowledged, with greater candor than Fed officials usually have, the tension between the two parts of the Fed’s mandate.

“Whereas monetary policy makers clearly have the ability to determine the inflation rate in the long run, they have little or no control over the longer-run sustainable unemployment rate, which is primarily determined by demographic and structural factors, not by monetary policy,” he said.

In interviews, economists at the conference here offered mixed reactions.

“The Fed is trying to achieve too much,” said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at . “They want to stimulate demand, but there are a lot of nonmonetary factors that are inhibiting the economy, including distressed mortgages and foreclosures, the need for households to save, and a whole array of factors deterring businesses from hiring.”

John B. Taylor, a Stanford economist, disagreed with Mr. Bernanke’s conclusions. “From my perspective, the cost-benefit analysis would suggest that it wouldn’t be a good idea to do a big, massive quantitative easing because the gains are quite small in terms of the impact on interest rates,” he said.

“If the economy has a negative shock, or continues to grow as slowly as it has, it’s going to be sliding toward ,” he said. “The Fed can’t sit on its hands,” he added, and should pursue additional action “as long as it has an effect — even if it’s small.”

Dean Maki, chief economist at Capital, said more Fed action “should be positive for economic growth, though the amount is uncertain.”

The Fed lowered short-term rates to nearly zero in December 2008 and then pursued its first round of quantitative easing beginning in 2009. By April this year, it had bought $1.7 trillion in mortgage-related debt and to put downward pressure on long-term rates.

As recently as the spring, the Fed was considering when and how it would begin to raise interest rates. But as the recovery stumbled, the Fed reversed course, and by late summer it was debating how best to prop up the recovery.

Mr. Bernanke cautioned that “unconventional policies have costs and limitations that must be taken into account in judging whether and how aggressively they should be used.”

He admitted that the debt-buying strategy was largely untested. “We have much less experience in judging the economic effects of this policy instrument, which makes it challenging to determine the appropriate quantity and pace of purchases and to communicate this policy response to the public,” he said.

And he acknowledged a fear that new asset purchases might “reduce public confidence” in the Fed’s ability to eventually make a smooth return to normal monetary policy and lead to “an undesired increase in inflation expectations.” But he said he was confident that the Fed could tighten policy when the time came.

Along with more quantitative easing, the Fed could communicate that it intended to keep short-term interest rates low for even longer than markets expected. That could help lower longer-term rates, as they partly reflect expectations of future short-term rates. But Mr. Bernanke appeared to play down that option, saying it would be difficult to convey that intention “with sufficient precision and conditionality.”
494 2010-10-17 A Consumer Reports app, $9.99, lets shoppers to take a photo of a bar code and see what the magazine has said about that product....
495 2010-10-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
496 2010-10-17 The average price of tickets for Game 3 of the A.L.C.S. at Yankee Stadium fell by almost 10 percent after the Yankees lost Game 2....
497 2010-10-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
498 2010-10-17 Credit: Ayman Oghanna for The New York Times
499 2010-10-17 The team learned to hunt for bargains rather than always paying top dollar for players....
500 2010-10-17 HARTFORD (AP) — Kevin Garnett scored 20 points and Paul Pierce added 16 to help Boston beat the Knicks, 97-84, in front of a pro-Celtics crowd of 15,318 on Saturday night at the XL Center.

Danilo Gallinari led the Knicks (1-3) with 20 points and made 6 of 11 shots. Wilson Chandler added 17 points and Raymond Felton 16.

“They got into us in the third quarter,” said Knicks Coach Mike D’Antoni, adding: “We were up 10, and they really got into us, which is good. It’s good that we can try to figure out what to do and try to get some scoring.”

Knicks forward Amar’e Stoudemire, who has averaged 24.3 points in his first three preseason games, rested Saturday, replaced in the starting lineup by guard Toney Douglas.

D’Antoni said the move was strictly precautionary, with the game opening a stretch of four in five days for the Knicks. Stoudemire, signed to a five-year, $100 million deal in the off-season, is likely to be in the lineup Sunday against Washington.

Delonte West (lower back) did not make the trip for the Celtics, after undergoing a magnetic resonance imaging test earlier in the day.
501 2010-10-17 Arleen Bandler and Madeleine Faith Price were married Friday evening at Napi’s, a restaurant in Provincetown, Mass. Susan F. Brand, a Massachusetts justice of the peace, officiated.

Ms. Bandler, 70, and Ms. Price, 65, are psychotherapists in private practices in Nyack, N.Y. They are also certified psychoanalysts.

Ms. Bandler graduated, cum laude, from Brooklyn College, from which she also received a masters in education. She also received a masters in social work from New York University. She is a daughter of the late Evelyn Schaeffer and the late Joseph Schaeffer, who lived in Brooklyn.

Ms. Price graduated from Barnard College and received a master’s in social work from N.Y.U. She is a daughter of the late Sophie K. Price and the late Dr. Louis A. Price, who lived in Forest Hills, Queens.

Ms. Bandler’s first marriage ended in divorce, as did Ms. Price’s.
502 2010-10-17 Julia Mara McCarthy and Paul James Leeming were married Saturday at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in New York. The Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, the dean of the cathedral, performed the ceremony, with the Very Rev. James Parks Morton, an Episcopal priest and the bridegroom’s godfather, taking part.

Mrs. Leeming, 32, is an architect in New York for Sage & Coombe Architects. She graduated magna cum laude from Yale, from which she also received a master’s in architecture.

She is the daughter of Marija Pavlovich McCarthy and John T. McCarthy of Woodbury, Conn. The bride’s father retired as a United States ambassador. He was the ambassador to Tunisia from 1991 to 1994, and the ambassador to Lebanon from 1988 to 1990. From 1985 to 1988, he was the deputy chief of mission in Pakistan. The bride’s mother teaches painting at the Washington Art Association in Washington, Conn. Her work is on display at the Roxbury Library in Roxbury, Conn., and the New Britain Museum of American Art in New Britain, Conn. In December, her work will be displayed at the Contemporary Art Network, a gallery in New York.

Mr. Leeming, 33, works in New York as an executive director of research in the wealth management division at UBS, the Swiss bank. He graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara.

He is the son of Pamela E. Leeming and David A. Leeming of Rhinebeck, N.Y. The bridegroom’s mother retired as a sixth-grade teacher at the Calhoun School, a private school in New York. His father retired as an English professor at the University of Connecticut. He has written several biographies, including one on James Baldwin.
503 2010-10-17 Shannon Lynn Corliss and Gregory Seth Wiener were married Saturday at Round Barn Farm in Waitsfield, Vt. Deborah A. L. Rosmus, a Vermont justice of the peace, officiated. Immediately before that, Karen G. Gartner, a friend of the bride’s family, led a ceremony that incorporated Jewish and Christian traditions.

The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is a project editor at John Wiley & Sons, the publishing house, which has its headquarters in Hoboken, N.J. She manages the editorial process for college mathematics and statistics textbooks. She graduated from Colby College, cum laude. She is a daughter of Linda G. Corliss of Castleton, Vt., and the late Frederick R. Corliss.

The bridegroom, 30, is a senior vice president at Campbell Lutyens & Company, a London financial advisory firm. He advises institutions like pension funds, endowments and insurance companies on their investments. He graduated from Middlebury College, cum laude. He is a son of Robyn S. Wiener and Sanford M. Wiener of Atlanta.

The couple met in April 2007 at a mutual friend’s housewarming party in Brooklyn.

“I thought she was the most beautiful girl there,” Mr. Wiener said. Another friend introduced them, saying that, since they both loved food, they would “have a lot to talk about.”

They did. Ms. Corliss mentioned her wish list of restaurants where she wanted to dine. The list was topped by El Bulli, the Michelin three-star restaurant in Spain, north of Barcelona in the Mediterranean town of Roses.
504 2010-10-17 In contrast, in the period leading up to the 2006 midterm elections, the war in Iraq and concerns about terrorism trumped all other issues in national Times/CBS News Polls. Amid broad dissatisfaction with the war in Iraq that year, American voters ushered in a new Democratic majority in Congress.

But the priorities of Americans shifted drastically in 2008, as the economy took a severe turn for the worse.

In the Edison/Mitofsky exit polls on Election Day in 2008, with the country in the midst of an unfolding financial crisis, the economy was chosen by more than 6 in 10 voters as the most important issue facing the country, while 1 in 10 chose the war in Iraq (those voters were more apt to be Democrats) and another 1 in 10 cited terrorism (voters who were mostly Republicans and conservatives).

John Mueller, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, said the “rubber band theory” explained the lack of interest in the war. “People mainly think about domestic issues, particularly economic ones, and from time to time their attention is pulled away by international events, but their natural tendency is for it to snap back to what they’re really interested in.”

Lack of focus should not be confused with support for the war.

On the contrary: Americans’ assessments of the war are grim. A majority in the Times/CBS News Poll said the United States should not be involved in Afghanistan now, up 15 percentage points since December. And most said the war was going badly, down from its peak but well above the reading in the early years of the war, when broad majorities said it was going well.

Mark Janssen, 54, an independent voter from Traer, Iowa, was one of the few Times/CBS News Poll respondents citing the war in Afghanistan as the most important problem facing the country. In a follow-up interview, Mr. Janssen said, “The economy is terrible, but if nukes get into the wrong hands, it’s going to make all this other stuff seem insignificant.”

Speaking about the candidates, Dr. Mueller explained: “They would talk about it if they thought it would win them votes. It just doesn’t have much political traction. The big thing is the overwhelming impact of the economy, which is certainly straightforward and obvious.”

The Democratic Party is split over the war, with many elected Democrats uneasy with or opposed to President Obama’s decision to send more troops. That makes it all the more likely that Democratic candidates will avoid bringing up the issue with voters.

With the poor economy contributing to a favorable electoral climate for them, Republicans have no particular political need to bring up the war — which, in any case, most Republican political leaders support. Republican voters are the most apt to support the war, and to say the United States is doing the right thing by fighting.

Until the unemployment rate begins to fall significantly, most Americans seem to feel that they cannot afford to focus on the war.

“Jobs are the prevailing issue for everyone right now — we need to focus on jobs,” said one poll respondent, Michael Santalucia, a 47-year-old Democrat from Beavercreek, Ohio.

“I don’t know how much we can do about Afghanistan right now, but we can do something about jobs here.”
505 2010-10-17 “It certainly is disturbing as a life-long pro-Israel Jew, not to mention pro-Israel public official, to be labeled that way,” Mrs. Schakowsky said.

While political analysts regard Mrs. Schakowsky’s seat as safe, Mr. Pollak’s Israel-centric campaign has made for one of the tightest races in the Ninth District in the last 50 years. She considers it a trumped-up wedge issue, but is not ignoring Mr. Pollak’s criticism.

She conceded that her contest is “exemplary of some of the tension within the community,” largely over whether President Obama’s policies have been sufficiently supportive of Israel.

Mr. Obama and Mrs. Schakowsky have been criticized by some Jews for their connections to the left-leaning Jewish organization J Street, which describes itself as strongly pro-Israel but believes that Israeli government policies should not be exempt from criticism.

Last week, the American Jewish Committee released the results from its latest annual survey, which showed a 10-point drop over the past year in Jewish support for Mr. Obama’s handling of U.S.-Israel relations.

The question of Israel is also playing out in the 10th Congressional District, which has the state’s largest Jewish population. Dan Seals, a Democrat, and Robert Dold, a Republican, are fighting for the seat being vacated by Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a Republican running for the United States Senate.

“Because of the current discussions involving Middle East peace, there is a heightened scrutiny of American policy,” said Alan Solow, a prominent Chicago lawyer who is the chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations. “And there is some angst in the community in terms of how this is going to turn out.”

The issue is coloring political campaigns around the country, he said, but it may be especially influential in Chicago-area races because “somebody from our community is president of the United States.”

Besides its role in the two North Shore Congressional races, relations with Israel could be a factor in the all-but-announced mayoral campaign of Rahm Emanuel, who is seeking support from among Chicago’s 80,000 Jews. As Mr. Obama’s former chief of staff, he is closely associated with the administration’s Israel policy.

“There may be some who I suppose could say, to some extent, that Rahm is responsible for things that some in the community don’t like about the Obama administration,” Mrs. Schakowsky said. “But my prediction is there would be overwhelming support.”

Mr. Emanuel has not commented directly on the issue, but Lori Goldberg, his spokeswoman, gave the Chicago News Cooperative a copy of a letter of support that Michael Oren, the Israeli Ambassador to the United States, sent last week to Mr. Emanuel.

Mrs. Schakowsky and Mr. Pollak will continue their debate tonight at a forum hosted by the To Protect Our Heritage PAC, a pro-Israel group whose endorsements have been an issue for some candidates.

Earlier this year, Alexi Giannoulias, Mr. Kirk’s Democratic opponent in the Senate race, did not attend a similar candidate forum hosted by the group. Peggy Shapiro, the PAC’s co-chair, said Mr. Giannoulias had agreed to participate but then backed out. Kathleen Strand, Mr. Giannoulias’ spokeswoman, said that an invitation was never accepted. She said that despite the PAC’s claim that it is nonpartisan, it actually is a conservative group.

Ms. Shapiro rejects the characterization, saying that more than half of the group’s members are registered Democrats. “Jews have tended to be reflexively Democratic and we are not,” Ms. Shapiro said. “We are in the center looking at individuals.”

For the November election, the group has endorsed 13 Democrats for House and Senate races, and 18 Republicans.

It has donated to Mrs. Schakowsky in previous years, but has yet to make an endorsement in the Ninth Congressional race.
506 2010-10-17 How are the most developed countries handling preparations for the boom in the elderly population — and for the budget-busting expenditures that are sure to follow?

For a majority, not very well.

Unless governments enact sweeping changes to age-related public spending, sovereign debt could become unsustainable, rivaling levels seen during cataclysms like the Great Depression and World War II, according to the S.& P. report.

If the status quo continues, the report projects, the median government debt in the most advanced economies could soar to 329 percent of gross domestic product by 2050. By contrast, Britain’s debt represented only 252 percent of G.D.P. in 1946, in the aftermath of World War II, the report said.

So what is to be done?

For starters, governments should extend the retirement age, says Marko Mrsnik, the associate director of sovereign ratings in Europe for S.& P. and the lead author of the report. Another no-brainer, he says, is that governments should balance their budgets.

Alas, private citizens often don’t see the logic in curbing public benefits in order to maintain national solvency. Witness France last week, where more than one million people took to the streets to protest pension reform that would raise the minimum legal retirement age to 62 from 60.

Moreover, global aging experts say, measures like pension reform are inadequate, piecemeal responses to the giant demographic shift that is upon us.

If the cost of maintaining aging populations could lead to World War II-era levels of government debt, a solution to the crisis will require a mass-scale collaborative response akin to the Manhattan Project or the space race, says Michael W. Hodin, who is an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and researches aging issues.

Governments, industry and international agencies, he says, will have to work together to transform the very structure of society, by creating jobs and education programs for people in their 60s and 70s — the hypothetical new middle age — and by tackling diseases like Alzheimer’s whose likelihood increases as people age.

“What we need is a very fundamental and profound transformation that is proportionate to the social shifts that are upon us and that is truly innovative in the public arena, innovation that is driven by industry,” says Mr. Hodin.

Here’s one simple suggestion: Influential international organizations, government agencies, companies and academic institutions should take up aging as a cause, the way they have already done for the environment. Although the United Nations, for example, set eight “millennium development goals” — ensuring environmental sustainability, promoting gender equality, and so on — for 2015, the list did not include ensuring the sustainability and equality of aging populations.

“This is quite unacceptable that aging hasn’t been included in these goals,” says Baroness Greengross, a member of the House of Lords in Britain and chief executive of the International Longevity Centre U.K in London.

Here’s another suggestion: Governments with national health programs or other state coverage could start curbing the growth in medical spending ahead of the looming elderquake.

If countries wait to act, says Peter S. Heller, a senior adjunct professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University, they will have to scramble reactively to cut their budgets in response to burgeoning older populations, the way Greece, Ireland and Spain have done recently. At the same time, he says, politicians must also start educating citizens to understand that greater longevity may entail personal sacrifices, like increased savings and a willingness to pay higher shares of their medical and long-term care costs.

But the carrot may be a better approach than the stick, says Laura L. Carstensen, a professor of psychology at Stanford and the director of the Stanford Center on Longevity. She describes her outfit as a multidisciplinary research center whose “modest aim is to change the course of human aging.”

Rather than uniformly extending the retirement age, she says, governments and the private sector could develop incentives that motivate older people to remain in the work force. Those incentives might include bonuses for people who work until they are 70, exempting employers from paying Social Security taxes for employees over retirement age, more flexible work schedules, telecommuting options, and sabbaticals for education and training.

“Maybe culture needs to change first,” says Professor Carstensen, “and policy will follow.”

FINALLY, some governments and companies may need attitude adjustments so they can view aging populations not as debt loads but as valuable wells of expertise.

“I rather dispute your calling it a problem,” said Lady Greengross when I called to ask her how governments could better handle global aging. “It’s a celebration.”

As one example of how to embrace aging populations, she cites an equality act, recently passed by British legislators, that prohibits discrimination against older people (among others) seeking goods and services like car rentals or mortgages. Separately, she says, Britain next year will eliminate its default retirement age of 65, allowing people to remain in the work force longer.

“In the long run, I’d like to see age irrelevance,” Lady Greengross says, “where people aren’t just labeled by their birthdays.”
507 2010-10-17 Clarceen Caldwell, a retired Muni driver, approached Jesus Romero Jr. to try to convince him to vote against a November ballot measure that takes aim at the pay of San Francisco’s bus drivers.

“Have you heard of Proposition G?” Ms. Caldwell asked Mr. Romero, a former marine, as he filled up his white Ford F-250 in the Portola neighborhood on Thursday morning.

Ms. Caldwell, an outgoing 63-year-old who is helping her former union fight the popular campaign, made her pitch: Proposition G will not fix Muni’s problems. It will only cut drivers’ pay.

The measure would set salaries by collective bargaining instead of by the unique provision in San Francisco’s charter that guaranteed Muni operators the second-highest wages of any transit workers in the country.

The average pay for the 2,200 members of San Francisco Transport Workers Union Local 250-A is $29.50 an hour.
508 2010-10-17 Virtually on a whim, he applied to Harvard Law School and, after passing the admittance tests, borrowed tuition money from his sister and enrolled. He received his law degree in 1940.

After working as a clerk for Judge Learned Hand at the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, he served in the Army during World War II, seeing action in Sicily, Italy, France and Germany.

In 1944, near Toulon, France, he was part of an artillery observation unit that encountered three German officers. Relying on his Yiddish, he convinced the Germans to surrender a force of 78 men to his 13-man unit, a feat for which he was awarded the Silver Star.

On leaving the military, he served as a law clerk for Justice Felix Frankfurter of the United States Supreme Court.

Mr. Henkin, an ardent New Dealer, worked for the State Department’s United Nations bureau and its Office of European Regional Affairs from 1948 to 1956. He played a main role in negotiating the United Nation’s 1951 Refugee Convention, which set forth the standards defining refugees, their rights and the legal obligations of nations toward them.

In 1956 he was invited by Columbia University to spend a year studying the legal issues involved in the control and verification of nuclear weapons, the subject of his first book, “Arms Control and Inspection in American Law” (1958).

Several works on law, foreign policy and diplomacy followed, including “The Berlin Crisis and the United Nations” (1959) and “Disarmament: The Lawyer’s Interests” (1964).

After teaching law at the University of Pennsylvania for five years beginning in 1958, he returned to Columbia, where he taught at the law school into his 80s.

His highly influential “Foreign Affairs and the Constitution” (1972) explored the Constitution’s division of power between the president and Congress on matters pertaining to foreign affairs, a quest that took on particular urgency against the backdrop of the Vietnam War, then still in progress.

How did it come about, Professor Henkin asked, that the president gained the initiative in waging war, when, taken as a whole, the Constitution favors Congressional over presidential power?

“Every grant to the president, including those relating to foreign affairs, was in effect a derogation from Congressional power, eked out slowly, reluctantly, and not without limitations and safeguards,” Professor Henkin wrote, in a typically lucid and graceful passage.

Over time, however, circumstances trumped principles, he wrote. “The structure of the federal government, the facts of national life, the realities and exigencies of international relations, the practices of diplomacy, have afforded presidents unique temptations and unique opportunities to acquire unique powers,” he concluded.

He returned to the subject in 1990 with “Constitutionalism, Democracy and Foreign Affairs,” a much more impassioned book, that warned of the dangers of an imperial presidency and insisted on the importance of human rights as a cornerstone of American foreign policy. Professor Henkin waged a multifront struggle to extend universalist ideas of human rights and the reach of the law. “He pushed back forcefully against the Roman observation that in war — and perhaps in foreign relations generally — the law is silent,” Sarah H. Cleveland, a law professor at Columbia, said in an interview with the Columbia Human Rights Law Review in 2007.

In his books, he took on such issues as compliance with international law (“How Nations Behave,” 1968) and the underlying principles of human rights (“The Rights of Man Today,” 1978).

At the Aspen Institute’s Justice and Society Program, for many years directed by his wife, a human rights lawyer, he taught international law to more than 300 judges, including four future Supreme Court justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Anthony M. Kennedy, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor.

Professor Henkin’s close ties to the United States government allowed him to serve as a go-between for human rights organizations and Congressional committees drafting rights legislation. He also filed numerous amicus briefs in Supreme Court cases including, most recently, Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, a 2006 case in which the court rejected the Bush administration’s plan to try Guantánamo Bay detainees before military commissions.

In addition to his wife, Professor Henkin is survived by their three sons, Joshua, of Brooklyn; David, of San Francisco; and Daniel, of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.

Professor Henkin took a lofty view of his own government’s international responsibilities. He often felt let down.

“In the cathedral of human rights,” he wrote in a well-known passage in a 1979 article, “the United States is more like a flying buttress than a pillar — choosing to stand outside the international structure supporting the international human rights system, but without being willing to subject its own conduct to the scrutiny of that system.”
509 2010-10-17 “We clearly have a very strong interest in ensuring that any antipiracy activities are being done for the purpose of reducing illegal piracy, and not for other purposes,” said Nancy J. Anderson, a deputy general counsel and vice president at Microsoft. “Under the terms of our new nongovernmental organization software license, we will definitely not have any claims and not pursue any claims against nongovernmental organizations.”

Software piracy inquiries against advocacy groups and media outlets in other former Soviet republics are less common than in Russia, but they have occurred. This year, the police in Kyrgyzstan raided an independent television station, and its employees said a lawyer retained by Microsoft had played a role.

In China, experts said they were not aware of many cases. They pointed out that if the security services wanted to hound or close advocacy groups, they had many other ways of doing so.

But China has been a minefield for American technology companies, including Microsoft, Yahoo and Google, which have grappled with the country’s Internet censorship, and it appears that Microsoft is hoping to avoid new controversies there.

Microsoft’s offer “will surely promote the health of nongovernmental organizations in China,” said Lu Fei, director of a clearinghouse for these groups.

Software piracy is widespread in the 12 countries covered by the new program, and Microsoft has long urged governments to curb it. But in Russia, officials used the intellectual property laws against dissenters.

The security services in Russia have confiscated computers from dozens of advocacy organizations in recent years under the guise of antipiracy inquiries. Some of these groups did have illegal software, and the authorities have said they are carrying out legitimate efforts to curtail software piracy. But they almost never investigate organizations allied with the government.

Microsoft had long rejected requests from human-rights groups that it refrain from taking part in such cases, saying it was merely complying with Russian law.

But now, the organizations would be automatically granted the software licenses without even having to apply for them, meaning that any programs that they possessed would effectively be legalized. That essentially bars the company’s lawyers from assisting the police in piracy inquiries against the groups.

Ms. Anderson of Microsoft said the company was trying to quickly prepare the automatic licenses for the 12 countries, a process that includes translating them, ensuring that they comply with local laws and disseminating them to the authorities.

Microsoft already provides actual copies of software free to some nonprofit groups. It said that in its last fiscal year, it gave out half a billion dollars worth of programs in more than 100 countries. But it has also found that this policy is not well known in some countries.

In Russia, nonprofit groups said they had already noticed a striking change in Microsoft’s attitude toward these piracy cases. In one notorious inquiry, plainclothes police officers raided a group in Siberia, Baikal Environmental Wave, and seized its computers in January. Baikal Wave’s leaders said they had used only licensed software, but they were unable to get help from Microsoft.

The case was a focus of the article last month in The Times. After it was published, Microsoft gave Baikal Wave free updated versions of software for all its computers and asked the police to drop the inquiry.

The police have not yet formally done so, but Baikal Wave said it was pleased with Microsoft’s reaction and the new program of automatic software licenses.

“The security services will now know that they will not be able to harass nonprofit and human rights organizations and take their computers,” said Galina Kulebyakina, a co-chairwoman of Baikal Wave. “It is outrageous what they did, and now that will no longer happen to others.”
510 2010-10-17 Mangold’s approach to life is in his Twitter biography, where he writes, “I try to find the humor in everything while promoting the virtues of being manly.” Thus his hobbies include grilling, golf, fine dining, video games, the Dave Matthews Band and classic cars.

Yet Mangold also loves his wine. Sure to go over well inside the locker room was this statement: “I’m a cabernet guy. I’ve enjoyed blends. When you start mixing different things, like when you get a cab sav and then a cab franc together with a little merlot, it’s excellent.”

Mangold did not grow up in Napa Valley, surrounded by crushed grapes. Instead, appropriate to his position, he grew up in Centerville, Ohio. While his parents sometimes drank wine with dinner, Mangold consumed pickle juice before football games to prevent cramping. From pickle juice to the finest blends, his palate developed over time.

At Ohio State, Mangold occasionally ordered wine with dinner once he turned 21. But after the Jets selected him in the 2006 draft, he started dining in Manhattan, where he befriended the sommelier at BLT Steak. That led to the Napa Valley trips during successive bye weeks in 2008 and 2009. (Mangold will instead travel to Ohio next week, where his Archbishop Alter High School team will be honored.)

On those California trips, one couple from Hong Kong recognized Mangold and asked for his autograph, amazed by the lineman at the winery. But it was mostly Mangold who was awed. Anderson could tell the year and make of the wine simply by smelling it. She showed him how the wine was made, under the old-world process known as elevage, raised with as much care as a newborn.

Mangold visited a dozen wineries in 2008, mostly smaller ones that required an appointment. He met winemakers. He tasted wine straight from the barrel, and tasted the grapes while they were fermenting. He learned the proper tasting technique.

“I watch him at dinner,” his teammate Brandon Moore said. “I’m like: ‘You’re supposed to be the best, toughest, meanest center in the game. And you’re smelling wine and taking trips to Napa?’ But that’s him.”

Mangold realized he loved wine — really, really loved it — when he opened a 2005 cabernet from his trip to California and was transported back to Napa Valley with one sip. He decided to learn more after that but resolved to never become what he called a wine snob.

In one corner of his basement, Mangold built a makeshift wine cellar, where he stores more than 200 bottles reserved for special occasions. He supplements that supply with weekly trips to Gary’s Wine & Marketplace, of which Mangold said: “Apparently, I go there way too much. It’s like my Cheers. There’s a real possibility I’m Norm.”

Teammates may tease Mangold the wine connoisseur — “Sometimes, I’m like, ‘Dude, you’re an offensive lineman,’ ” Slauson said — but they ask for advice. Quarterback Mark Sanchez once called Mangold before a date, as did lineman Rob Turner, who married the woman to whom he served Mangold’s recommended bottle (a Napa Valley merlot, 2006).

In the wake of receiver Braylon Edwards’s arrest on suspicion of drunken driving this season, Mangold stressed that his wine consumption was a hobby.

During an interview last week in the Jets’ cafeteria, Mangold said that if the Jets won the Super Bowl, he would celebrate with Vineyard 29’s cabernet. But for his last meal, he would try Screaming Eagle, which he never purchased because it costs several thousand dollars a bottle.

Eventually, Mangold wants to make his own wine, even in small quantities. Until then, he hosts the occasional tasting for teammates and always orders for the offensive line at dinner. (One infamous story among the Jets is that offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson did not appreciate Mangold’s choices when stuck with one hefty bill. Mangold said he did not expect Ferguson to pay.)

Last year, Mangold did a vertical tasting, trying the same Silver Oak blend from 1998 to 2004. His party of 10 offered several opinions. Mangold stood alone.

“I was off the chart,” he said. “I was the weird one.”

Teammates would agree. Mangold spent his formative years as a freestyle swimmer. He does not care for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, an organization he insults playfully on Twitter. He even started an account for Moore with a colorful user name that incorporates his nickname, Meat.

Moore countered with critical accounts of Mangold’s storytelling ability, mentioning long tales that lacked punch lines followed by “silence, crickets — lots of crickets.”

Mangold drew the bulk of his personality from his parents. From his father, Mangold took a humorous approach to life (but not his father’s storytelling ability, Moore said).

From his mother, Mangold took the most even of temperaments. Much like with his wines, Mangold called this “a nice blend.” His teammates, for instance, have never seen him mad. Well, maybe once last season against Atlanta. But nothing beyond that.

This personality lends itself to football. Most centers fall into one of two categories: physical or smart. Mangold, blending again, is both. Slauson said Mangold sometimes looked like a karate master, a giant Bruce Lee in shoulder pads, who defeated defensive tackles with leverage, incredible hand speed and the occasional judo chop. But Mangold is also notable for how his mind works. He processes information faster than most linemen, so fast, in fact, that he takes on some responsibilities usually reserved for quarterbacks.

“With so many things happening at once, Nick has the uncanny ability to decipher,” the offensive line coach Bill Callahan said. “When all hell’s breaking loose, he’s calm.”

Most teams double-team premier defensive tackles, but the Jets can leave Mangold alone against them. In that way, he is like cornerback Darrelle Revis, deserving of his own island, Mangold Island, if you will.

“That would be a rusty, filthy island where people wear ripped jeans and stay in hotel rooms that are half price,” tight end Dustin Keller said. “But they would serve wine, and only the finest for Nick Mangold.”
511 2010-10-17 Marzieh, the great diva of Persian traditional song, who was silenced after the Islamic Revolution in 1979 but who re-emerged years later outside Iran as a singer and a highly public supporter of the resistance, died on Wednesday in Paris. She was 86 and had defected to France in 1994.

Her death, of cancer, was announced on the Web site of the National Council of Resistance of Iran, the opposition group, founded in 1981 and based in France, of which she was a member. Survivors include a son and a grandchild.

A household name in prerevolutionary Iran, Marzieh (pronounced mar-ZEE-eh) was as closely identified with her country’s music as the great Egyptian chanteuse Umm Kulthum was with hers. Marzieh began her career in the early 1940s and was for decades a ubiquitous presence on radio and in concert. Over the years she performed for many world leaders, including the Shah of Iran, Queen Elizabeth II, de Gaulle and Nixon.

Marzieh, whose rich, throaty mezzo-soprano was often likened to Édith Piaf’s, was famed for her vast repertory, said to span a thousand songs. She was known in particular for her expressive interpretations of songs of love — ill-fated love, unrequited love, everlasting love — many of which were settings of the work of the renowned Persian lyric poets of the Middle Ages and afterward.

Marzieh was born Ashraf os-Sadat Mortezai in Tehran in 1924. Her father, a moderate Muslim cleric, and her mother, who was descended from a family of artists and musicians, encouraged her to pursue a life in music. She studied for years with some of the greatest masters of Persian song before beginning her career in 1942 under the stage name Marzieh, a popular Iranian name meaning laudable or agreeable.
512 2010-10-17 A young couple, struggling to secure the most beneficial education for their autistic 4-year-old son, disagrees on what’s best for him. The separate paths the spouses explore eventually threaten their marriage in “Love and Communication,” a new drama by James J. Christy.

Presented by the Passage Theater Company in Trenton, “Love and Communication” is an earnest look at the many frustrations and uncertainties challenging the parents of children with autism. The play also considers how love and good intentions are not enough when people fail to understand each other.

Rob (Chris Stack), who favors traditional therapy, is bent on enrolling his son at an exclusive private school and pursues Julia (Lena Kaminsky), its not unattractive director, to gain admittance. His wife, Megan (Julianna Zinkel), is intrigued by an alternative program offered through a costly DVD series promoted by Silverman (John Jezior), an Internet guru who begins to take a personal interest in her situation.

Meanwhile, the couple tangles with the public school system bureaucracy, represented by Regina (Ashley B. Spearman), a caseworker. Late in the play, she questions whether any kind of therapy makes much of a difference other than to reassure parents that they did their best for their child. “At the end of the day he’ll still have autism,” Regina observes grimly. “You know what’ll change? You’ll feel better, that’s all.”

A disconsolate story, the play is marred by a startling revelation during the second act that nearly derails Mr. Christy’s otherwise carefully wrought study in parental desperation. After that major, unexpected and somewhat risible bump — not to be revealed here — the drama manages to get back on track as Rob and Megan try to reconcile their issues.

The closed-down nature of autism might be seen as an analogy for the difficulties the adults experience in communicating. Mr. Christy, who is the father of a child with autism, writes thoughtfully about the emotional and economic pressures that people in such families face. Through Regina, the playwright also notes that minority households probably suffer even more.
513 2010-10-17 The hot pink and lime green signs at 16 Handles, a new frozen yogurt cafe in Jericho, N.Y., lend a cheerful energy to the space. They also serve a purpose: to give directions to customers as they move through the stations at this serve-yourself shop.

Collect a cup (small, medium or large) or an edible waffle cup ($1 extra) at the “start here” counter. Then make your way down the line of 16 handles, each dispensing a different flavor from eight frozen yogurt machines. Take as much or as little as you would like.

A rotating roster of more than 25 flavors includes rich red velvet, cookies and cream, margarita tart, pistachio and creamy banana. Screens mounted on each machine detail the nutritional content of the yogurt on tap. All are probiotic (containing live bacteria) and kosher; most are nonfat and gluten-free as well. Two nondairy sorbets and a “no-sugar-added” chocolate and vanilla are available every day.

Spoon on carob chips, blueberries, granola, mochi or any of the more than 40 toppings available and head to the “weigh and pay” station. Servings are 49 cents per ounce.

“I think people love the option of having their portions controlled,” said Susan Cohen, a co-owner with her husband, Bruce, and their partner, Scott Silverman. “You can eat for $1 as a sample or $8 as a meal replacement.”

The six-week-old Jericho store, the first 16 Handles franchise on Long Island (the flagship is in the East Village in Manhattan), has colorful banquettes and stylish white counter stools. Cups can be composted, and furnishings are made from recyclable materials.
514 2010-10-17 “So what’s happened to our Jews?” the agronomist Koryako asks his neighbors, grinning slyly. “Children, old men — I haven’t glimpsed a Jew all day. It’s as if they’d never existed. And only yesterday they were all coming back from the market with 12-kilo baskets!”

The Jews are indoors today because the Nazis have occupied their Ukrainian town. It is June 1942, a year into the campaign to exterminate the Soviet Union’s Jewish population. Thirty-three thousand people, nearly all Jews, have been killed at Babi Yar. Another 20,000 are dead in Berdichev, birthplace of the Soviet writer Vasily Grossman. In his short story “The Old Teacher,” published in 1943 as the mass killings were still under way and before the world comprehended their extent, Grossman draws a vivid portrait of Koryako’s unnamed town on the eve of genocide as it “lay stifling, gripped by something foul and dark. Something vile had awoken; stirred by the Nazis’ arrival, it was now reaching toward them.”

Accompanying the Red Army as a war correspondent, Grossman knew the foul and dark all too well. He would eventually spend more than a thousand days at the front, composing articles and stories and gathering material for “Life and Fate,” the greatest Russian novel of the war. Throughout his career, as demonstrated in “The Road,” a wide-ranging collection of Grossman’s fiction and journalism, he reported on the most epoch-­making turns of his country’s history. For today’s reader, Grossman’s work excavates from the Soviet rubble vital artifacts of the bitter, the tragic, the self-sacrificing, the indomitable and, ultimately, the inspiring.

In “The Old Teacher,” Grossman’s skillfully layered story about the occupied town, an elderly Jew, Rosenthal, watches as the residents of his apartment building turn on one another. Yet he’s also witness to surprising, redemptive acts of compassion. As the story shifts its point of view, the town’s commandant and Gestapo chief prepare to eliminate the local Jews, fearing, in a bit of grim irony, that mass murder will impose a “nervous strain” on their men. The story marches to its historically foreordained conclusion at a ravine, but not before Rosenthal is given another opportunity to contemplate human kindness and those who remain in the town see, from the flames and smoke in the distance, that their liberators are on the way.

Grossman’s obvious patriotism and the dangers he shared with the Red Army’s soldiers did not keep him from falling out with Soviet authorities. The manuscript of “Life and Fate” was confiscated by the K.G.B., which found it ideologically unsound, not to mention populated by too many Jews. The Soviets also blocked publication of “The Black Book,” an account of German atrocities that Grossman compiled with Ilya Ehrenburg. Barely able to get his later work into print — “They strangled me in a dark corner,” he explained — Grossman died in 1964.

“Life and Fate” was smuggled out of the country and published in English in 1985 in a translation by Robert Chandler. Now, in assembling “The Road,” Chandler has worked with a team that includes his wife, Elizabeth; the translator Olga Mukovnikova; and a Russian literary critic, Yury Bit-Yunan. Their collaboration has resulted in a volume that is sensitive to Grossman’s often lyrical language and frames each entry within its time through comprehensive notes.
515 2010-10-17 To G.M.’s credit, it passed up the temptation to use one of the alpha-numeric model names that automakers seem to think denote luxury. Instead, G.M. dusted off Regal, a name used from 1973 to 2004 — even on the last Buick remotely associated with teenage kicks, the Regal Grand National muscle car of the ’80s.

The new Regal also has sporting pretensions, but not of the drag-racing sort. This front-drive car takes careful aim at a tricky sales target: the so-called premium sedans that are a cut above mainstream family cars, but not quite full-fledged luxury cars, either. In this class, the lovely Volkswagen CC is the style champ and the Acura TSX is the low-key performance benchmark.

The Regal is certainly ready for its close-up. This might be the best-looking sedan from any American automaker, more this-season-sophisticated than even G.M.’s higher-priced Cadillac CTS.

Though the arched roofline is an Audi signature and the rear deck in profile suggests BMW, the Regal doesn’t come across as Euro-generic or a carbon copy, which wags suggest is what the “CC” stands for in the Volkswagen sedan that pays homage to the Mercedes CLS. I kept walking up to the Regal, shaking my head and thinking, “This can’t possibly be a Buick.”

And for a car that starts at $26,995 for the Regal CXL (my test car was $31,780), or $29,495 for the superior CXL Turbo, the cabin also seems more European than G.M. cars of an earlier vintage. The seats are supportive and especially handsome, with stitched leather that’s repeated on door panels. The three-point steering wheel looks and feels robust, as does the saddle-horn-shaped shifter for the 6-speed automatic transmission.

The Buick matches the VW’s rear legroom at 37.3 inches and improves on the slightly smaller Acura by 3 inches. The Regal’s trunk, at 14.2 cubic feet, is the roomiest of its main competitors.

The clean, shapely center console raises one questionable design point. The multifunction display seems to want to be a touch screen. Instead, it’s controlled by a single knob that toggles through audio, navigation and vehicle functions. The plastic knob is a budget version of the gleaming metal wonders in expensive German cars. The system isn’t ideally integrated, to the point that I had to pull out the driver’s manual.

But after my first befuddled journey, the hair-pulling subsided and some advantages were revealed. The navigation system is comprehensively mapped and lightning-quick. When I entered addresses, the system needed to see only a couple of letters before homing in on the city or street I wanted, with no frustrating hangups.

Considering all the lost decades when Detroit’s sedans looked indifferent on the outside and cheesy on the inside, the Regal’s refined design means it’s already won 90 percent of the battle.

The other 10 percent, unfortunately, is the Regal’s base 4-cylinder engine. The upgraded Regal Turbo, which arrives in showrooms in December, will cost an extra $2,500. But it’s the best $2,500 a Buick buyer will ever spend.

Whichever engine you choose, the Regal feels German-solid, and it’s hushed and composed at cruising speed. But contributing to that solidity, the Regal is the heaviest car in its class at 3,600 pounds.

Pulling too much weight for its 182 horsepower and wimpy 172 pound-feet of torque, the base Ecotec 2.4-liter engine begins to quail when asked to motivate the Buick with any urgency.

And while Buick’s decision to offer only 4-cylinder engines seemed a brave vote for fuel efficiency, the base model’s E.P.A. mileage is a so-so 19 city, 30 highway m.p.g. In one uncomfortable comparison, the less costly Hyundai Sonata has a 2.4-liter engine with more horsepower (200) but still manages 35 m.p.g. on the highway.

Mash the gas to merge or climb hills and the Buick’s power plant makes stressed-out noises that I never want to hear again from a $30,000 car.

But the Regal Turbo I drove felt like an entirely different car. It might as well be, with 220 horses and 258 pound-feet of torque — 50 percent more than its weak sister — and a more sophisticated ride-and-handling package.

I might emphasize that I’m not lauding the turbo simply because it’s faster. Instead, the turbo, like a benign dictator, keeps the interior peace because it doesn’t need to flex its power to show who’s in charge.

Whether from 20 or 80 miles per hour, the turbo generates smooth waves of power with no need to stomp the accelerator; the engine helps to make the Buick feel like a premium car. With a worthwhile option group that kicks the Regal Turbo’s price up to $32,190, you get distinctive 19-inch wheels and tires, a Harmon Kardon audio system, rear side air bags, high-intensity headlamps and, most tellingly, G.M.’s Interactive Drive Control System.

As with many luxury cars, this system lets drivers select settings that adjust an adaptive suspension, steering, transmission, throttle and stability control. Touring mode aims for a cushy, cruising vibe. Standard occupies a middle ground. The Sport setting firms up the shocks and steering, lends the throttle and transmission a jolt of aggression and lets drivers push harder before the stability control intervenes.

The resulting Regal is appealingly planted, confident and especially quiet. The sole turbo drawback is that torque steer could be better controlled; if you jam the throttle, the power-stressed front tires twist the steering wheel in your hands.

Around year-end, the Regal Turbo will get an optional 6-speed manual transmission. For a Buick, that’s as wild a touch as a D.J. turntable on a banker’s desk. Next year, an even sportier Regal GS will almost certainly use the same engine, tweaked to make more than 250 horsepower. An auto-show concept of the GS featured all-wheel drive, 20-inch wheels, Recaro seats, Brembo brakes and even a flat-bottom steering wheel.

Ultimately, even the Regal Turbo isn’t as much fun to drive as the Acura or VW, although the shortfall wouldn’t be so glaring if Buick hadn’t overstated its car’s European dynamics. Whether it’s from Deutschland, Detroit or, oh, Canada, this Regal plays a more relaxed game at a price that makes it worth cross-shopping against rivals.

But if you do take a spin in the base Buick, a tip: no matter the look on the salesman’s face, floor the gas and keep it there until it runs through a gear change or two. If you’re not troubled by the frenzied whirrings or languid pace, consider it $2,500 in your pocket. For everyone else, the Regal Turbo is the premium sedan that’s worth the premium.
516 2010-10-17 “When I was a student in agriculture economics,” Smith told me, “many said that if farmers would spend less time on the field and more time marketing, they would make more money for themselves than they would out in the field. Most farmers tend to fall in that category, including Dan and me.” But they had a secret weapon: 25-year-olds.

Two years ago, they hired Adrian Smith, then 23, to run the beanery. Soon her girlfriend, Anne Riordan, was hanging around and lending a hand. Now Smith is more involved on the business side, and Riordan has taken charge of the beanery, a restored barn where the harvest from the farm’s 600 various acres is taken for cleaning, sorting and bagging, using mostly old equipment that Smith has bought from farms that scaled up years ago.

One of C.P.O.’s employees, a puckish, fast-talking 32-year-old named Tycho Dan, offered to use his background in retail and activism to set up and manage the New York market and wholesale division. Now Cayuga Pure Organics sells its products at seven markets in New York, where it shares warehouse space with other vendors.

Like other farmers his age, Dan — who throws around phrases like “supply chain” and “value-added” and refers to the farmers’ market as the “core tool” — understands that selling little brown bags of beans and barley is nice, but you’ve got to turn them into something else if you want to make money. And so the farm’s different grains are milled into flour (C.P.O. is a partner in Farmer Ground Flour, a mill in nearby Trumansburg) and made into products that best bring out their flavors.

“Twenty years ago, nobody really talked about the flavor of wheat,” said Smith, who researches heritage grains from around the world. “Now we have whole tasting sessions; there was one at the French Culinary Institute.”

To get those flavors out there, they have contracted with Orwasher’s bakery to make a whole-wheat loaf and with the Ravioli Store to make fresh buckwheat soba, emmer-wheat and spelt pasta; they recently started selling bean spreads. Oat-flour chocolate-chip cookies and pancake mix are in the works. “That’s really the future for us, if you want to talk about marketing,” Dan said.

Smith and Lathwell know where the future lies: at 65 and 60 respectively, they are looking to their employees to take over the farm when it gets to be too much. (Lathwell will leave the company by the end of the year.)

“At some point we have to slow down, whether we want to or not,” said Smith, sitting in a clearing near his home, which is also a bed and breakfast. “The whole model of the old family farm that got passed down generations is really not changing, because traditional families are not what they used to be to a large extent. My kids have no interest, but we have these young people who are terribly interested.” Smith is excited that Adrian Smith (no relation) and Riordan want to take over C.P.O., especially because few women operate mechanized farms.

For the moment, Smith is enjoying his work too much to retire. By bringing quality ingredients to New York’s tables, he has discovered the true meaning of value-added. “Part of what motivates me, and also the young people working with us, is that we are all being part of something that we believe in,” he said. “So many people have work, but they don’t find it very meaningful. I spent my whole life not knowing what I wanted to do until we started C.P.O. Now I feel like I’ve hit it . . . at age 65.”

1. Rinse the chicken and put in a medium saucepan. Add 7 cups water and set over high heat. When the water is about to boil, skim the surface, then add the onion, cinnamon sticks and 1 tablespoon salt. Reduce to a gentle simmer and cook for 45 minutes. Remove 3 cups of stock and reserve. Cook the chicken for 30 minutes more.

2. Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Add the freekeh and stir until it is well coated. Let toast, stirring, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Pour in the stock and add the ground cinnamon, allspice, ½ teaspoon salt and ¼ teaspoon pepper and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer, covered, for 30 minutes or more, until the freekeh is cooked to your liking. (At this point if the stock has all been absorbed, turn off the heat, recover the pot and let steam while you prepare the chicken. If the freekeh is too wet, drain excess stock and let steam as above.)

3. Transfer the chicken to a chopping board and cut into 4 or 8 pieces, keeping the skin or not, as desired. Spoon the freekeh into a shallow serving bowl and arrange the chicken pieces on top. Garnish with cilantro, lemon, additional salt, pepper and ground cinnamon, if desired. Serve immediately with a bowl of plain yogurt. Serves 4. Adapted from “Lebanese Cuisine,” by Anissa Helou.

Note: Freekeh is available at cporganics.com.

1. Combine the flours in a bowl and mix together thoroughly with a whisk or fork.

2. In a medium bowl, with the back of a large spoon or with an electric mixer, beat the butter with the sugar, salt and vanilla until smooth and creamy but not fluffy, about 1 minute with the mixer. Add the flour and mix just until incorporated. Scrape the dough into a mass and, if necessary, knead it with your hands to be sure the flour is completely incorporated.



3. Form the dough into a 12-by-2-inch log. Wrap and freeze for at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.



4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line two cookie sheets with parchment paper or aluminum foil, dull side up. Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Unwrap the dough log and use a sharp knife to cut the cold dough into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Place the cookies at least 11/2 inches apart.



5. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes, until the cookies are light golden brown at the edges. Rotate the pans from top to bottom and from front to back halfway through the baking time to ensure even baking. Let the cookies firm up on the pans for about 1 minute before transferring to a rack with a metal spatula. Let the cookies cool completely before storing. The cookies are delicious fresh but are even better the next day. Makes about 48 cookies. Adapted from ‘‘Chewy Gooey Crispy Crunchy Melt-in-Your-Mouth Cookies,’’ by Alice Medrich, to be published in November.
517 2010-10-17 THROUGH eyes as blank as a tilapia’s Stephen and Timothy Quay contemplate a world that is curious, doubtful, beastly and deranged. These identical twins, 63, have chronicled their world in more than two dozen richly detailed short and full-length animated films known for their gloomy beauty and haunting weirdness.

The Quays — born in Pennsylvania, based in London for 40 years— are late-Victorian artist-moralists trapped in a post-nuclear universe, Lewis Carrolls whose Mad Hatter would have done unspeakable things to Alice.

“Our films are dark fairy tales with elements of grotesquerie and the pathological,” Stephen Quay said on a recent afternoon.

Timothy added, “We set them in a twilight world, midway between sleep and wakefulness.”

The brothers were touring the Mütter Museum, a 19th-century repository of curiosa at the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, garbed somewhat disappointingly in chinos and sweaters. They were filming manikins, anatomical anomalies and bizarre surgical instruments for an as-yet-untitled documentary on the museum and its adjoining 340,000-volume library. Next fall the short will be screened as part of a symposia at the Mütter, the Museum of Modern Art in New York and, in Los Angeles, at the uncategorizable Museum of Jurassic Technology. Bankrolled by a $287,000 grant from the Pew Center for Arts & Heritage, the project is the latest attempt by a museum to expand its audience by enlisting artists to interpret its collection. The brothers’ disquieting art films are largely created with stop-motion animation, whereby the illusion of movement is achieved by painstakingly nudging each oddment — say, a puppet or a wood screw — within a scene. “Stephen and Timothy see their job as coaxing the latent stories out of discarded, overlooked and long-forgotten objects,” said David Spolum, a lecturer at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia who teaches a course on the Quays. “They believe static things have inner lives and want to be worshiped as gods.”

Among the assorted artifacts that the Art Clokeys of existential dread considered during their two-week shoot were an ovarian cyst the size of a Shih Tzu, a sliver of John Wilkes Booth’s thorax, Grover Cleveland’s jaw tumor and the preserved corpse of the Soap Lady, whose fatty tissues decomposed into a congealed asphalt-colored substance called adipocere.
518 2010-10-17 NELSON--James Hissom, Jr.,MD, (Jim). Died on October 5th, 2010 at age 84, in Charleston, SC after a lengthy illness. Born in Marietta, OH, he entered the Navy at an early age serving in the Pacific during WWII. Remaining in the Navy, he obtained t...
519 2010-10-17 This year, signs are emerging that Baghdad is ready to do business. The tolls of war are still very evident, however, and several recent suicide bombing attacks show that the city  and Iraq as a whole  have a long way to go. But in marked contrast...
520 2010-10-17 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30-10/16/2010 In my heart always. Your daughter, Wendy...
521 2010-10-17 WEISS--Doris T. October 16th. Happy Birthday. Beloved and sadly missed. Love, Bernie...
522 2010-10-18 Steve Jobs predicted that the iPhone would beat Google's Android system and the "fragmented approach" Google has created. He also said the BlackBerry wouldn't catch up with the iPhone....
523 2010-10-18 Northeast Utilities said on Monday that it has agreed to acquire NStar for $4.3 billion in stock, in a merger that will create one of the biggest power utility companies in the country....
524 2010-10-18 Having set up Microsoft's cloud computing systems, Ray Ozzie will soon leave his post as Microsoft's software chief....
525 2010-10-18 The stock market has rallied going into the midterm elections, which sounds as if it could be good news for the Democrats. But history shows incumbent parties do best in midterm elections when the market has been falling....
526 2010-10-18 Michelle Obama can move stock markets, so write the Economix blog....
527 2010-10-18 A spoof news release carries the headline "Radical Chevron Ad Campaign Highlights Victims."...
528 2010-10-18 An ad campaign by Chevron seeking to address critics of energy companies is spoofed by pranksters....
529 2010-10-18 The first lady wears an outfit, and in (oftentimes correct) anticipation that it will become the latest new thing, the company that makes those clothes typically gets a healthy boost in its stock price....
530 2010-10-18 Brian Kilmeade, a co-host of "Fox & Friends, apologized Monday for comments he made last week about Muslims and terrorists....
531 2010-10-18 A newly revived theater in Naples is the site for an original opera with a famous cast....
532 2010-10-18 Pfizer will pay Biocon $200 million initially and up to $150 million in additional payments. Biocon is one of India's largest biotech companies....
533 2010-10-18 Facebook is talking to application developers about how they handle personal data, after a report said some applications had been improperly sharing data with outside companies....
534 2010-10-18 A statement from China's official state-run news agency expresses displeasure at the prospect of more asset purchases by the Federal Reserve....
535 2010-10-18 The film, about a romance between a Bosnian woman and a Serbian man, had its permit withdrawn amid rumors it depicted a romance that blossoms after the woman is raped by the man....
536 2010-10-18 What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week....
537 2010-10-18 Citigroup has the most to lose from its showdown over EMI, the British music company, as the lawsuit threatens to expose details of its boom-time deals to public glare less than two years after it was bailed out by American taxpayers, Reuters Brea...
538 2010-10-18 The tailoring profession or its leading members....
539 2010-10-18 A police officer was shot twice in the leg on Sunday night after an exchange of gunfire in a building in East New York, Brooklyn, the police said. The officer and a suspect, who was also shot three times, were in stable condition.

The officer, Richard Ramirez, 29, was among three plainclothes officers who observed a man riding his bicycle on the sidewalk, and when the man saw the police, he ran into a building at 454 Bradford Street, authorities said.

The officers, who were part of an anticrime unit, chased the man, who sources said was 17 and from Brooklyn. When the man was unable to enter an apartment on the third floor, he turned and fired on the officers; a German-made gun with six expended rounds was found at the scene, said the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly.

Mr. Kelly made his comments at a news conference at Kings County Hospital Center, where Officer Ramirez was taken with injuries that were not life-threatening, according to a hospital spokesman. He was undergoing surgery late Sunday evening to remove a bullet from his calf. The alleged shooter, whose name was not released, was taken to Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center and was also undergoing surgery.

At the news conference, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg praised the officers. “If Officer Ramirez and his team had not confronted the suspect, the shooter would still be on the street, and he may well have killed innocent New Yorkers,” he said.

Neighbors said shootings were not uncommon in the area. “It’s an ongoing saga around here,” said Terrence Brown, 40. “Sooner or later, it has to change, because we’re killing each other off.”
540 2010-10-18 Nine Vietnamese fishermen detained by China near disputed islands in September, who were set free last week and then lost at sea, have been located and taken to safety, the Vietnamese government said Sunday. China freed the sailors on Oct. 11 — one month after they were detained in the latest episode of long-running territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
541 2010-10-18 You argue that the Obama administration should release more information about its “targeted killing” program and allow the program to be reviewed by the courts. We agree, and our lawsuit, which you mention, makes exactly these arguments.

But we do not, as you state, propose that the courts should “conduct a full-blown trial in absentia of every assassination target.” Rather, we argue that, outside the context of armed conflict, the government can carry out targeted killings only as a last resort to protect against concrete, specific and imminent threats to life — conditions that would render prior judicial process infeasible.

What we ask is that the court require the government to disclose the standards under which it adds terrorism suspects, including Americans, to government kill lists, and ensure that those standards are consistent with domestic and international law.

After the countless errors and abuses of the last decade, it is surely obvious that no president should have the unreviewable power to kill anyone, anywhere, whom he deems to be an enemy of the state.

Mr. Jaffer is deputy legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union. Ms. Kebriaei is an attorney with the Center for Constitutional Rights.
542 2010-10-18 Citigroup has the most to lose from its showdown over EMI, the British music company. Barring an 11th-hour settlement, the bank is scheduled to start defending itself in court on Monday against allegations that it tricked Terra Firma, the private equity firm led by Guy Hands, into buying EMI for £4.2 billion ($6.7 billion) in 2007. The only way Citi can avoid the confrontation is to agree to restructure the £3 billion it lent Terra Firma to finance the deal.

Mr. Hands staked his reputation on EMI, the label that is home to the Beatles and Katy Perry. He is now doubling down with a bet that Citi doesn’t want details of its boom-time deals to be exposed to public glare less than two years after it was bailed out by American taxpayers.

David Wormsley, Citi’s lead financial adviser on the EMI transaction, is accused of encouraging Terra Firma to raise its offer by telling Mr. Hands that a rival firm, Cerberus Capital Management, was still in the race. Citi denies the allegations, arguing that Terra Firma’s board had already authorized the bid before the conversation took place.

Still, relying on a jury is risky for Citi. E-mails disclosed in preliminary court filings already reveal bankers celebrating fees earned from the deal. Other juicy details could emerge at trial. Moreover, if Citi loses, it might be forced to pay hefty damages.

Terra Firma may be willing to settle if Citi loosens the covenants on the EMI loan. That would free the buyout firm from having to make regular cash injections to avoid default. Even then, however, the business would still have too much debt: applying the same multiple as a listed rival, Warner Music, EMI is probably worth at least £1 billion less than the current face value of Citi’s loan.

An out-of-court settlement also has drawbacks. For one, other disgruntled clients could be encouraged to try a similar approach. But even if Citi mounts a successful defense, Terra Firma investors may agree to prop up EMI until 2015, when the loan matures. The longer EMI struggles, the longer the impasse — and the embarrassment — continues.
543 2010-10-18 Lee’s 10.28 strikeout-to-walk ratio was the second best among qualifiers since 1900, trailing only Bret Saberhagen’s 11.00 mark for the Mets in the strike-shortened 1994 season. Lee was far ahead of the record until walking 11 batters the final two months.

This all happened in a season Lee began on the disabled list with a left abdominal strain. He did not make his first start until April 30.

“Cliff has as good a job of command as anybody I’ve ever seen, and the confidence in his ability to throw the ball where he wants,” said Nolan Ryan, the Rangers’ president and a Hall of Fame pitcher who struck out and walked more batters than anyone else in major league history. “He really is a treat to watch pitch.”

John Smoltz, a former Cy Young Award winner for Atlanta who is part of the TBS broadcast crew for the series, put it even more succinctly.

“I’m in awe,” he said. “I’m not in awe of a lot of things, but I’m in awe. He makes it look pretty easy.”

Lee has been building toward this for the last several years. In his Cy Young season for Cleveland in 2008, Lee went 22-3, pitched 223 1/3 innings and walked 34, about 20 fewer than he had in his two previous 200-inning seasons. Last year, he had a similar ratio with the Indians and Philadelphia.

“It’s just experience,” he said before the Rangers worked out Sunday in the Bronx. “The more you do something, the better you should become at it. It’s something that I’ve every year tried to improve on, and I’m going to continue to try to improve on it.”

Traded to Seattle before this season, Lee decided to use Safeco Field and the speed of outfielders Ichiro Suzuki and Franklin Gutierrez to his advantage.

“That was one of my goals coming into spring training,” Lee said. “Pitching in Seattle, it’s a pitcher’s park. I knew we had a great defense and a great pitcher’s park, so why should I walk guys?”

He did not walk any in his first start. Or his second. Or his third. It took 22 1/3 innings before he threw four balls to somebody. He did not walk his first left-handed batter until Aug. 16, more than a month after the Mariners traded him to Texas on July 9. Tampa Bay’s Carlos Pena drew it.

“With all the things that go on within a game, you almost have to pitch around somebody,” Smoltz said. “He won’t.

“I go back to Roger Clemens being the most dominant strike-zone pitcher I can remember, along with Pedro Martinez. I cannot think of another guy who dominated guys with no fear at all of walking guys.”

But what about Smoltz’s teammate Greg Maddux, who averaged fewer than two walks per nine innings?

“Maddux did it better than anyone without striking people out,” Smoltz said. “He might have gone the entire year without walking a batter if he cared about statistics.”

That is precisely Lee’s objective. “I’d like to throw a full season without walking anyone,” he said. “I know that’s probably unrealistic, but if you make every single team you face swing their way on base, it’s going to pay off in the end.”

Normally, someone who pitches to contact plays into the hands of the patient Yankees. That has not been the case with Lee. He beat the Yankees twice in last year’s World Series for Philadelphia, a 6-1 complete-game victory in Game 1 with no walks and 10 strikeouts, and a less-effective effort in Game 5 in winning, 8-6.

Counting the postseason, Lee has won five consecutive starts in the Bronx since 2006. This year he was 2-0 with a 3.09 earned run average against the Yankees in three starts, two in Texas.

“I’m not sure how the Yankees feel about him,” Ryan said, “but I’m sure that they know they have their work cut out for them.”

“He’s going to throw a lot of strikes and he’s going to be ahead in the count,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said. “We know that when he makes a mistake, you have to put a good pass on it. We’ve seen Cliff Lee very good, and at times, we have scored runs off Cliff Lee.”

Lee said: “I’ll go in with a game plan and an idea of what to do, but that could change within the first couple of pitches, depending on how I feel out there about what they’re trying to do. That’s a never-ending chess match, and that’s the part of the game I enjoy the most, to be honest with you.”

That, and not walking people.
544 2010-10-18 The basic rule of thumb for nonprofit groups organized under Section 501(c) of the tax code is that more than 50 percent of their annual activities cannot be political. Although it is a matter of debate how spending on traditional issue ads would be categorized by the Internal Revenue Service, it is indisputable that spending on express advocacy would be classified as political.

An analysis by The New York Times of data provided by the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political and issue-related advertising, found at least two major Republican-leaning groups, the American Future Fund and the 60 Plus Association, which bills itself as a conservative alternative to AARP, have now devoted more than half of their spending this year on television advertising for express advocacy.

Other organizations, including Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group tied to Karl Rove, and Americans for Job Security, a Republican-oriented trade association, have been flirting relatively close to that threshold as well.

Even operating just under that dividing line, however, does not mean they are safe, because it is possible the I.R.S., in particular, could classify many of their issue ads as political too, Democratic and Republican campaign finance lawyers said.

“I think engaging in full-blown express advocacy is aggressive,” said Michael Toner, a lawyer at Bryan Cave and a former Republican chairman of the Federal Election Commission. “It’s aggressive because you have to concede at least some of what you’re doing is political. Then it is a battle of how everything else is going to be defined.”

He added: “It reduces your margin for error.”

Marc Elias, a campaign finance lawyer at Perkins Coie whose clients include Democratic candidates and the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, was blunter about the risks for the groups.

“They need to basically pull an inside straight to stay within the law,” he said. “They need to argue every one of those issue ads needs to wind up nonpolitical, which seems to be a Herculean task.”

A thorough audit would require examining all types of outlays by an organization, including, for example, radio advertisements and direct mail. Television advertising, however, usually accounts for the bulk of the spending by these groups.

It is possible that the groups will seek to stay under the 50 percent limit by increasing their nonpolitical spending after the election is over, a common tactic. They may, for example, broadcast a lot of advertisements during the lame-duck Congress.

The strategy can be risky, however, because it depends on organizations’ keeping money in reserve, or being able to raise enough money for such work after the election.

In the case of the 60 Plus Association, it has spent $3.7 million on television time for express advocacy ads, or more than 86 percent of its total. Tom Kise, a spokesman, challenged the completeness of the advertising figures but also said the organization had spent heavily on grassroots lobbying and other activities that balance out its political spending.

The group has also been filing with the I.R.S. based on a fiscal year, instead of the calendar year, so it may have until July 2011 to get its ledgers in order.

American Future Fund, set up by a cadre of Republican political operatives, has devoted $3 million, or about 56 percent of its television advertising spending, to express advocacy.

Meanwhile, Crossroads GPS and Americans for Job Security have been more conservative, keeping their express advocacy spending on television to roughly 40 percent.

Several lawyers said that while the 50 percent limit is widely cited, the I.R.S. has never explicitly ruled that 50 percent is the official limit for political spending. It could, in fact, be less.

Under the law, nonprofit 501(c)(4) “social welfare” organizations, 501(c)(5) labor unions and 501(c)(6) trade associations are supposed to be primarily focused on those tax-exempt purposes, as opposed to influencing elections. The crucial question is how a group’s “primary purpose” is evaluated. Some tax lawyers advise their clients to keep their political spending to less than 40 percent of their budgets.

Another surprisingly murky issue is what, other than explicit appeals to voters about how they should cast their ballots, the I.R.S. actually considers political. Auditors weigh a host of factors, according to the agency, including whether an advertisement is part of a continuing series by the group on the same issue. If it is, the group could make a stronger case that the ad is an example of issue, not political, advocacy.

Most casual observers, however, would probably consider many of the issue ads by these groups to be very much political. They attack or praise candidates, just like straight political advertisements, but they invariably add a tag line that urges voters to do something other than vote for or against candidates. A recent commercial by Crossroads GPS, criticizing Representative Joe Sestak, who is running for the Senate in Pennsylvania, ends by urging viewers, “Tell Congressman Sestak, ‘Stop the Medicare cuts,’ ” and displays his phone number.

Some pro-Republican groups, for legal or tactical reasons, have continued to script all of their commercials as issue ads, including the United States Chamber of Commerce and Americans for Prosperity, a group linked to the billionaire David Koch.

Problems with the I.R.S. could lead to tax penalties and revocation of tax-exempt status. But nonprofit groups engaging heavily in express advocacy could also run into issues with the Federal Election Commission. If the commission determines that a group’s “major purpose” is political, the group is required to register as a political committee and disclose its donors.

The commission’s three Republican members, however, are generally inclined to give these groups leeway, effectively deadlocking the commission because it is split along party lines, and a majority vote is required for it to act. But if most of a group’s spending seems to be on express advocacy, even the Republican commissioners would probably have to scrutinize the group, lawyers said.
545 2010-10-18 Mr. Meyers, who recently had a Giants logo tattooed on his arm, added that he planned to take his cable television business elsewhere.

By the time the game kicked off at 1 p.m., the pub at Mulcahy’s, in Wantagh on Long Island, had about 25 percent more patrons than usual. A few families brought along young children, most of whom had toys to keep them busy.

“We’re too old to be in this place,” said Marilyn Odell, 67, who had given up a quiet afternoon at home with her husband. She shouted to be heard above the boisterous crowd.

“We tried to get in other bars closer to home, but they didn’t have DirecTV,” said Ms. Odell, who was wearing a red-and-blue Giants sweatshirt.

She said that despite the inconvenience, she would stick with Cablevision, “unless, of course, I can’t get ‘Glee.’ ”

Her husband, Spenser Odell, a retired salesman, chirped up: “Yeah, ‘Glee’ is great. Fox only is pulling this now because they have decent programming on.”

The prospect of a weekend without football — and perhaps much longer without the National League baseball playoffs and even the World Series, which are also being broadcast on Fox — had long been a sticking point in the propaganda war between the battling corporations.

Cablevision had a full-page newspaper advertisement this month that portrayed a frowning, slumped man in a Giants jersey with the headline: “Hey News Corp., you negotiate by taking my football away?” Fox officials, in turn, have tried to cast the cable provider as the greedy, sports-depriving villain.

The result, it seemed, is that no one is winning the public’s support.

Cablevision, whose headquarters are in Bethpage, about seven miles north of Mulcahy’s, is the type of local business that Long Islanders love to hate.

“Believe it or not, I feel for Cablevision,” said Matthew Zajac of nearby Plainview. “Fox is asking for a lot of money. I have a lot of friends who work for Cablevision, and it really isn’t a bad company.”

In Manhattan, where Time Warner Cable is the dominant (and similarly maligned) cable provider, residents remained unaffected by the blackout. But some Brooklynites were not as lucky.

“I usually brag about not having to deal with Time Warner problems,” said Patrick Lydon, 24, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, a Cablevision subscriber who was watching at Mulholland’s, which has been described by New York magazine as “Williamsburg’s first unironic sports bar.”

Mr. Lydon’s roommate, Michael Martella, said he stayed at home until a half-hour before kickoff, hoping that the Fox signal on his television would suddenly spurt back to life. No dice.

“On a normal Sunday you sit at home and watch the football game,” he said with a frown, sipping a beer. “Now you have to come here and spend money. I was pretty upset.”
546 2010-10-18 In the early 1980s, the Macintosh faced an onslaught of competition from an army of PC makers whose products ran software. The fight did not end well for Apple. In a few years, Microsoft all but sidelined Apple, and the company almost went out of business.

Can Apple, which insists on tight control of its devices, win in an intensely competitive market against rivals that are openly licensing their software to scores of companies? It faces that challenge not only in phones, but also in the market for tablet computers, where the is about to take on a similar set of rivals.

“This is a really big strategic question,” said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein and Company. “No one knows whether openness will ultimately prevail as it did on the PC.”

Apple declined to comment on the issue.

By some measures, the competition Apple faces this time is even more formidable than it was in PCs. In addition to the Android family, Apple already competes with , maker of the BlackBerry.

And the iPhone will soon have one more powerful, and familiar, foe: Microsoft. That company’s well-reviewed Windows Phone 7 software will appear in as many as nine new smartphones beginning next month. Others like cannot be counted out.

The stakes are huge, as the mobile computing market could prove to be larger than the PC market ever was.

No one is counting out Apple, of course. The iPhone 4, which Apple began selling this year, has been its most successful phone introduction yet. On Monday, when the company reports financial results, it is expected to announce that it sold nearly 12 million iPhones in the quarter ending Sept. 25, according to analysts’ estimates. That would represent a 60 percent increase from a year earlier.

And with Apple expected to bring the iPhone to Verizon early next year — most likely in an attempt to slow Android’s momentum — the sales growth may well accelerate.

Among investors, there is little doubt that Apple’s strategy is the right one. The company’s stock has soared nearly 50 percent this year, and on Friday it closed at an all-time high of $314.74.

But the rise of Android has been both sudden and unexpected, and its ascent highlights some of the advantages of an open approach.

“There is much more rapid innovation taking place in an open environment,” said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School who has written recent case studies on Apple. While Apple comes out with a new iPhone model once a year, slick Android phones with new features hit the market often.

That leaves little room for error at Apple. The company must continue to create hit products, as a single misstep could give Android and other rivals an opportunity to make inroads and steal market share.

Also, as the number of people with Android phones grows, Android will grow more attractive for app developers. For now, Apple’s App Store, with more than 250,000 applications, enjoys a large advantage over the Android Market, which has about 80,000. And those numbers don’t tell the whole story. Apps made for the iPhone tend to be of better quality, are more frequently downloaded and on average are more profitable for developers.

But that edge may not last, especially as many developers fret about Apple’s tight control over the App Store.

“Having a tightly controlled ecosystem, which is what Apple has, is a large short-term advantage and a large long-term disadvantage,” said Mitchell Kapor, who as founder of the Lotus Development Corporation is a veteran of the PC-versus-Mac wars, and is now an investor in app makers. “The question is, how long is the short term?”

But for all the similarities in Apple’s approaches to mobile computing and desktop computing, there are plenty of differences, and most analysts doubt that history will repeat itself.

For starters, Apple is the richest company in the technology industry. With $45.8 billion in cash, it can afford to invest heavily in research and development. Apple’s large early lead in devices and developers puts it in a much stronger position than it ever had in the PC market. And because it is one of the largest purchasers of Flash memory, which is one of the most expensive components of a smartphone, it has “enormous economies of scale,” Professor Yoffie said.

What’s more, the iPhone isn’t really fighting alone. The two other devices that run Apple’s iOS mobile software, the iPad and the Touch, further strengthen the iPhone, because consumers like being able to access the content and applications they bought on iTunes and the App Store on multiple devices. Apple has sold more than 120 million iOS devices.

And while Apple’s personal computers were by and large technically superior to Microsoft-based PCs, they were also far more expensive. In the smartphone market, carriers, who play a vital role in distribution, have been willing to subsidize the iPhone so that its cost to consumers is roughly the same as that of comparable Android phones.

For now, the smartphone market is growing so rapidly that the rise of Android has not necessarily been at the expense of the iPhone. That will change as the market matures. But most experts predict that no single company or operating system will rule the mobile market like Microsoft ruled the PC.

“I don’t think we’ll be in a situation where there is one operating system,” said Matt Murphy, a partner at the firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, where he manages a fund that invests in applications for iOS devices. “This market will be more fragmented than the PC market.” Mr. Murphy said he expected one or two operating systems to co-exist with Apple’s, though iOS is likely to remain the most lucrative for developers.

Professor Yoffie said: “Apple will lose its overall leadership, but maintain a share of the market that could easily be in the 25 percent to 30 percent range.” He added: “That’s enough to sustain a very large and very profitable business.”
547 2010-10-18 The Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, which takes the populist view that musical interpretations can be shaped by the ensemble rather than by a conductor, has expanded on that concept in a commissioning program, Project 440. The orchestra’s goal was to commission four composers to help celebrate its 40th anniversary. Intent on getting its audience involved, it joined forces with WQXR, the New York classical radio station, which opened the process to its listeners. Orpheus and WQXR assembled a panel of more than 30 performers, composers and music executives, who nominated 60 composers. Listeners were invited to peruse the composers’ biographies, to listen to music clips on WQXR’s Web site, wqxr.org, and to comment. The selection committee, taking listener comments into account, chose 30 semifinalists whose music was streamed for 24 hours on Q2, WQXR’s Internet station. That marathon yielded 12 finalists, and 4 winners were announced at Orpheus’s first New York concert of the season, on Thursday at Carnegie Hall. They are Alex Mincek, a New York composer; Clint Needham, who recently completed his doctorate at Indiana University; Andrew Norman of California; and Cynthia Lee Wong, who completed studies at Juilliard. At the concert Orpheus also introduced its new executive director, Ayden Adler. Ms. Adler, a former French horn player in the Rochester Philharmonic, joins the ensemble from the Philadelphia Orchestra, where she was director of education and community partnerships.
548 2010-10-18 SAN FRANCISCO -- If you want a smartphone powered by Google's Android software, you could get Motorola's Droid 2 or its cousin, the Droid X. Then there is the Droid Incredible from  HTC, the Fascinate from Samsung and the Ally from LG.      That's...
549 2010-10-18 In a market where many consider $2.99 a lot to pay for an iPhone  application, $14.99 may seem downright steep.     But Consumer Reports, which more than most magazines has been able to command a premium for its online content, is betting that its...
550 2010-10-19 Mr. Joisel, a solitary Frenchman who was widely regarded as one of the most illustrious origami artists in the world, died on Oct. 10 in Argenteuil, outside Paris. He was 53....
551 2010-10-19 With $51 billion, Apple could buy any number of companies. Analysts speculate about ARM, Netflix, Electronic Arts and even Facebook....
552 2010-10-19 Microsoft announced a new product called Office 365 which brings a Microsoft Office suite for small and large businesses to the Web....
553 2010-10-19 Dell and EMC are trying to patch up their bruised relationship after Dell made an unsuccessful bid for 3Par, EMC's rival in the data storage business....
554 2010-10-19 Researchers found that Twitter content could be used to roughly predict stock market movements up to six days in advance....
555 2010-10-19 Melena Ryzik visits Detroit, where a young restaurateur is working to revitalize a section of the blighted city.
556 2010-10-19 The opening of Eataly raises the question, how does it compare to the city's other great food markets?...
557 2010-10-19 Muslim organizations across the city and around the region are encouraging their members to invite non-Muslims to attend prayers and question-and-answer sessions....
558 2010-10-19 The senator is pressed to explain whether he sought stimulus money for Arizona after voting against the stimulus....
559 2010-10-19 During an earning conference call, Apple's chief executive, Steve P. Jobs, said his company was saving its cash in order to be in a position to pursue "strategic opportunities" in the future....
560 2010-10-19 The competition between AT&T and Verizon is heating up, this time over pricing plans....
561 2010-10-19 A series of product problems lowered third-quarter sales....
562 2010-10-19 The Google and Apple mobile battle continued as company executives took their disagreements to an earnings call and Twitter....
563 2010-10-19 Twelve of 15 homes that underwent improvements financed by stimulus funds failed final inspections. For 10 homes, contractors billed for charges that were not incurred....
564 2010-10-19 Pay is soaring for financial industry workers in Manhattan. Isn't it nice to know someone is prospering?...
565 2010-10-19 Nissan has refreshed its GT-R super sports coupe for the 2012 model year. Nissan will reveal the North American model at the Los Angeles auto show in November....
566 2010-10-19 CME Group said on Monday that it had begun providing clearing to the $400 trillion interest-rate swaps market, the largest of the opaque markets that lawmakers are forcing onto more transparent venues....
567 2010-10-19 Hong Kong's government is in talks with the European Union to help hedge-fund managers in the city cope with proposed regulations that may make it harder to raise assets in Europe, Bloomberg News reported....
568 2010-10-19 Lehman Brothers Holdings on Monday said it has paid more than $1 billion to its lawyers, consultants and financial advisers since filing the largest U.S. bankruptcy two years ago....
569 2010-10-19 Paamco, a thriving hedge fund, may have misled customers when it said it was owned and operated by women when it was financed by S. Donald Sussman, a hedge fund mogul....
570 2010-10-19 In a detailed look at Cliff Lee’s regular season , a few numbers jump out. The seven complete games. Eighteen walks. A full workload of 212 1/3 innings. So does this nugget: He gave up eight runs to light-hitting San Diego, and eight more in a start against Baltimore.

It defies explanation, really, but those imperfections reinforced the Yankees’ mantra, that Lee, talented as he is, is not invincible.

At least that is how they chose to look at it. On Monday night, they were reminded of the truth. Escaping the Texas Rangers in the best-of-five division series only delayed the inevitable for the Yankees, who can rough up Lee in August but not come playoff time. Lee outdueled Andy Pettitte and silenced the Yankees in an 8-0 victory, striking out 13 and allowing two hits over eight innings to give Texas a 2-1 advantage in the American League Championship Series.

“It’s tough to be any better,” Mark Teixeira said of Lee. “Any better and it’s a perfect game.”

In the copious annals of Yankees postseason history, not many compare. Only once before had an opposing pitcher given up two hits while pitching at least eight shutout innings, and that was another dominant left-hander, Warren Spahn, in Game 4 of the 1958 World Series. Nearly awestruck afterward, Pettitte mentioned Josh Beckett, who fired nine shutout innings for Florida to clinch the 2003 World Series.

On any other night — or in any previous game of this series — the effort from Pettitte would have strengthened his standing as one of the best postseason performers of his generation. In seven innings, he surrendered only a two-run homer in the first by Josh Hamilton, then finished by retiring 20 of his last 23 batters. On Monday, Pettitte admittedly was not even the best left-handed pitcher at Yankee Stadium.

“I’ve felt good for a while,” said Lee, who threw 122 pitches. “I’ve felt good all season. I’ve felt good every start in the postseason.”

Since moving across 161st Street, the Yankees are 8-2 at home in the postseason, with both losses coming against Lee. The first came in Game 1 of last year’s World Series, and the Yankees evened the series the next night, behind a stellar outing by A .J. Burnett. The same situation will arise in Game 4 on Tuesday night. To win the series while avoiding Lee for a second time in a potential Game 7, the Yankees will have to win their next three games. Burnett, their great unknown, is to pitch on 16 days’ rest opposite Tommy Hunter.

“I don’t think we’re in trouble,” Manager Joe Girardi said. “As I said, we’re a good club. We’re down, 2-1. We’re not down, 3-0, and losing in the bottom of the ninth.”

A one-game deficit, and with Burnett pitching on Tuesday, would seem less imposing if the Yankees’ offense had at all performed this series. Take away their five-run eighth inning in Friday’s victory, and the Yankees are hitting .156 in 90 at-bats and have scored three runs over 26 innings. The Rangers’ six runs in the ninth were two short of the Yankees’ run total in the series.

No one looked good against Lee, but Teixeira (0 for 11), Nick Swisher (1 for 11) and Alex Rodriguez (2 for 13) have particularly struggled.

“We haven’t gotten much to hit,” Teixeira said. “They haven’t made a lot of mistakes in the zone. Because of that, we’re not going to do a whole lot of damage.”

Lee has loomed over the Yankees for the last three months, ever since their failed bid to acquire him in July — to acquire him so they would not have to deal with him in the postseason. Nothing that Lee, a pending free agent, did Monday night endeared himself to the Yankees further, though it might drive up his price tag.

In eight playoff starts, Lee is 7-0 with a 1.26 earned run average.

In four starts at the new Yankee Stadium, he is 4-0 with a 1.13 E.R.A. Those trends converged Monday, when Lee became the first pitcher to record at least 10 strikeouts three times in a postseason. He did so by relying on a variety of pitches, including a low-90s fastball, a slow curve and a cutter that he often zipped inside to right-handed hitters. So precise was his control that Rodriguez, on his second-inning strikeout, started walking away before the umpire Jim Reynolds even called the pitch.

“I think that people always say that Cliff just throws strikes, strikes, strikes,” said Rangers third baseman Michael Young, who had three hits and scored on Hamilton’s homer. “It’s really not that easy. He’s not firing balls down the middle of the plate. He’s throwing quality strike after quality strike and there’s a big difference.”

The Yankees knew all this, of course, and it did not matter. Over one stretch, Lee struck out seven of nine, a run that ended — just barely — when a full-count fastball in the fourth to Teixeira sailed a few inches high.

It was the first postseason walk issued by Lee since Eric Hinske drew one in Game 5 of the World Series last year, and it was cause for celebration, the crowd of 49,840 showering Teixeira with a standing ovation. Lee stranded Teixeira, then in the sixth inning thwarted the Yankees’ lone threat, when Gardner reached third with two outs.

“Collectively, we’re obviously better than two hits and one walk that we had tonight,” Rodriguez said. “We have to take it as a personal challenge to score some runs.”

The Yankees were still trailing, 2-0, only because Pettitte had seemingly resolved to match Lee. He was the forgotten man in this matchup, as if his postseason resume — the most wins, starts and innings pitched — did not exist.

He began the game with five strikes, getting ahead of the No. 2 hitter, Young, 0-2. There is a reason Young is a former batting champion, however, and he fouled off three pitches and took three close ones outside before lining a single to right-center. Then came what Pettitte called his lone mistake, and it might not have been such in other ballparks. His 2-1 cutter, intended for the outside edge, grabbed too much of the plate, and Hamilton yanked it a few rows into the right-field seats.

“He didn’t even hit it that good; he caught it out front,” Pettitte said. “And if you catch a ball and hit it on the barrel at this stadium, it’s a home run, unfortunately.”

That, Pettitte seemed to be saying, is precisely what made Lee so impressive. He never gave Yankee Stadium a chance to swallow a ball or two. No balls were squared up, no confidence gained. The Yankees were a combined 0 for 19 with two strikes.

“We try to be aggressive, but when you’re aggressive on back-door cutters, back-door sliders on your hands, you’re going to get yourself out,” Teixeira said. “We just tried to do our best, and he just beat us tonight.”
571 2010-10-19 In a note sent to Microsoft employees on Monday, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, disclosed that Mr. Ozzie would relinquish his role as the company’s chief software architect, spend some time handing his work over to other people and then exit the company altogether. Mr. Ozzie drove much of Microsoft’s move into cloud computing, including building the plan for the Azure service that lets corporations run business software in Microsoft’s data centers.

“Since being at Microsoft, both through inspiration and impact he’s been instrumental in our transition toward a software world now centered on services,” Mr. Ballmer wrote about Mr. Ozzie, 54.

Heralded as one of the world’s great programmers, Mr. Ozzie, before working for Microsoft, steered the creation of Lotus Notes, a popular e-mail and collaborative workspace software package. Then, during the dot-com boom, he started Groove Networks, another collaboration software maker, that swapped data using more modern techniques.

In 2005, Microsoft acquired Groove. The company also wanted Mr. Ozzie, because it hoped he could help the company embrace the trend toward building online business software services.

That year, Mr. Ozzie wrote a seven-page, 5,000-word memo, The Internet Services Disruption, meant to inspire the company to move quickly as it faced a host of new rivals. “It’s clear that if we fail to do so, our business as we know it is at risk,” Mr. Ozzie wrote. “We must respond quickly and decisively.”
572 2010-10-19 The city agreed on Monday to pay nearly $1 million to participants in the monthly Critical Mass bicycle rides who claimed they had been wrongly detained and arrested by police officers.

The lawsuit, originally filed in 2007, represented the claims of 83 riders who had been arrested or ticketed by police during the rides from September 2004 to January 2006. The awards to the plaintiffs range from $500 for those who were cited for minor infractions, to $35,000 for a plaintiff who was arrested multiple times and was injured because of the arrests, said David B. Rankin, one of the three lawyers who represented the riders. About half the settlement will go toward legal fees.

The settlements, totaling $965,000, do not include the many lawsuits filed by riders who were arrested during the Republican National Convention in 2004.

The Critical Mass riders and the Police Department have a long, antagonistic history. Since 2004, riders have claimed that police officers harass them, take their bicycles and arrest them without reason. The police have said the cyclists violate traffic laws. The department has deployed hundreds of officers, a mobile command unit and a helicopter to monitor the rides, which wend their way through Manhattan on the last Friday of each month.

Mark Zuckerman, a lawyer for the city, said the settlement was “in the best interest of all the parties.”

Mr. Rankin said he thought the settlement was fair, and that the city’s policies toward the riders had changed. “We hope that the cyclists and the N.Y.P.D. can figure out a way to work together,” he said.

Barbara Ross, a longtime rider who was arrested in 2005 on charges of parading without a permit and disorderly conduct, will receive about $15,000 from the settlement. She said that although the police have changed tactics, Critical Mass participants were still being harassed.
573 2010-10-19 Crystal Cathedral, the landmark megachurch in Orange County, Calif., where the “Hour of Power” is taped, filed for bankruptcy protection, church officials announced Monday.

“Budgets could not be cut fast enough to keep up with the unprecedented rapid decline in revenue due to the recession,” Sheila Schuller Coleman, the church’s senior pastor, said in a statement. In a news conference on Monday, church officials said ministry outreach and programs, including the weekly broadcast, would continue. But the church, which is $55 million in debt, has reduced the number of stations that it pays to broadcast the program.

“Challenging situations are nothing new to our 55-year ministry,” said the Rev. Robert H. Schuller, who founded the church in a drive-in theater and was instrumental in starting the worship broadcast in 1970. A decade later, the church moved to a cavernous glass building that seats almost 3,000 on a 40-acre campus in Garden Grove. Since 2006, church leadership has changed hands three times. Dr. Schuller retired, passing control to his son. Robert A. Schuller left in 2008, leaving his sister in charge.

Crystal Cathedral’s leadership announced the sale of unused property and the layoffs of 50 employees in January to cushion a 27 percent drop in revenue since 2008. The church also canceled this year’s “Glory of Easter” pageant, a holiday staple here.

In April, the church’s vendors agreed to a 90-day “voluntary moratorium” on payments, the church statement said. The deal expired in July. “As is often the case, negotiations and decisions do not move fast enough to satisfy all parties,” the church said. “A small number of creditors chose to file lawsuits and obtained writs of attachment.”
574 2010-10-19 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Monday that Israeli aircraft had “a tough time flying near Gaza because there are antiaircraft missiles there.” His first public comments about the missiles came in a speech to Likud Party lawmakers about the need for appropriate security arrangements as part of any peace deal with the Palestinians. Without them, he said, aircraft at Israel’s international airport near Tel Aviv could be at risk. Israeli officials have pointed for some time to what they say is a buildup of advanced weapons, including antiaircraft missiles, in Gaza, which is governed by the militant group Hamas.
575 2010-10-19 In an e-mailed statement, Paamco said its relationship with Mr. Sussman had not been structured to mislead anyone and that the transaction in question had been properly treated, and approved by the firm’s legal advisers and auditors.

Furthermore, Paamco said it had never taken any “set aside” business or minority mandates.

A lawyer for Mr. Sussman said in an e-mailed statement that Paamco executives “relied on their own counsel and advisers” and that they had built a “world-class fund of funds business to the benefit of their investors.”

But from the start, Paamco trumpeted the fact that it was run by Ms. Buchan, one of only a handful of women who have made a big mark in the mostly male world of hedge funds.

The question raised by the lawsuit was whether Paamco’s status as a company owned by women, albeit with a scant 51 percent majority for many years, gave it an edge over the competition.

Some states like Illinois and Ohio and corporations like Verizon steer a portion of their pension fund business to investment companies owned by women or minorities, which often fall into the category euphemistically referred to in the industry as “emerging managers.”

For investment professionals trying to stand out in a crowded field, the designation can be “a tool for competitive advantage,” said Thurman V. White Jr., the chief executive officer of Progress Investment Management Company, a San Francisco-based firm that invests in emerging managers. “It’s clear they’ve had some benefits from these kind of initiatives,” he said of Paamco.

Verizon Communications, for instance, hired Paamco as part of the Verizon Diversity Managers program, which was established in the late 1990s to attract funds managed by minorities. Ms. Buchan’s firm oversees a small part of the communication company’s $28.6 billion pension fund. In recent state budget and presentation materials, public pension funds in California and Pennsylvania highlighted Paamco’s status as a firm owned by women.

Documents and depositions related to the case involving Mr. Sussman paint a somewhat different picture. The case centered on whether Mr. Sussman had the right to convert a $2 million loan he made to Paamco’s founding partners in 2000 into an equity stake in Paamco’s parent company. In a countersuit, Paamco’s founding partners claimed the interest Mr. Sussman had charged them violated state laws that set maximum rates on loans.

Paamco, according to the documents, went to great lengths to avoid disclosing that Mr. Sussman had bankrolled its early operations, helped select the name of the firm and had been “periodically” consulted. Moreover, he collected 40 percent of the profit and, at any time, could lay claim to a big stake in the parent company of Paamco.

There was another reason to keep Mr. Sussman off the radar. In 1997, Mr. Sussman, who had earlier withdrawn his investment adviser registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, settled a claim with the commission that he had failed to disclose a loan he made from a hedge fund he controlled to acquire a building that was used as offices.

In a deposition taken a year ago, James L. Berens, a Paamco co-founder, said there were “two important factors” behind why the firm had structured its relationship with Mr. Sussman as it did: “The first was the potential impact of disclosing Mr. Sussman’s involvement on our Form ADV,” a registration filing with the S.E.C.

“And the second was our — the potential to have status as a majority female-owned entity.”

The designation as women-owned could “lead to consideration for engagement as an investment manager to an extent that otherwise wouldn’t be the case,” Mr. Berens continued. The four founding executives agreed to give Ms. Buchan and another female partner, Judith F. Posnikoff, 51 percent of the firm.

Paamco’s relationship with Mr. Sussman dates back to 2000, when Ms. Buchan and three other individuals approached him about providing financing for a new hedge fund investment venture.

Ms. Buchan, a former All-Ivy League high jumper at Yale who later earned a Ph.D. in business economics from Harvard, was a rising star in the hedge fund world. She had developed a reputation while at another investment firm for digging deep into the records of hedge fund managers to determine what was real and what was fraudulent about their returns.

Mr. Sussman, the founder of Paloma Partners in Greenwich, Conn., provided early financing to dozens of hedge fund managers, including David Shaw of D. E. Shaw & Company.

At first, Mr. Sussman agreed to invest $2 million for a 40 percent ownership stake in the firm with Ms. Buchan and her three partners contributing a total of $10,000, according to the complaint filed last year against Paamco by Mr. Sussman.

But a few weeks later, Ms. Buchan and her partners told Mr. Sussman they wanted his contribution to be made as a loan rather than an equity stake. In doing so, the partners believed they could hide Mr. Sussman’s relationship from investors and regulators, according to the depositions.

Later, when Paamco created the parent company, the principals once again wanted Mr. Sussman off of Paamco’s audited financial statements to keep Paamco’s new partners in the dark about him, Ms. Buchan said in her deposition.

Terms of the loan that Mr. Sussman extended to Paamco were extraordinary. Mr. Sussman was paid the greater of either 10 percent annual interest rate or 40 percent of the company’s profit. From 2003 to 2007, as Paamco’s profit soared, Mr. Sussman collected his share — $55 million, according to his suit.

In addition, after a change in 2002, the loan could be converted into a 40 percent ownership stake in Paamco’s parent at any time. That conversion would have reduced the two women’s share into a minority stake, according to a copy of the loan agreement entered as evidence.

To some, the conversion option raises red flags. “One of the reasons we look at where the money came from to fund the business is if someone has the ability to control something or change something, we are probably not going to certify them or, at least, have different language on the document,” said Janet Harris Lange, president of the National Women Business Owners Corporation. Ms. Lange said Paamco never sought certification from her organization.
576 2010-10-19 MOSCOW — Russian sleeper agents, arrested in the United States this summer and deported to Russia as part of a prisoner exchange, received top government honors from President Dmitri A. Medvedev on Monday.

“Intelligence agents who worked in the United States and returned to Russia in July” were among staff members from Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service to receive awards at a Kremlin ceremony, Natalya Timakova, the president’s spokeswoman, told Russian news media. She would not say which awards were given out or whether all 10 of those arrested this summer were among the recipients.

The agents, who were arrested in the suburbs of New York, Boston and Northern Virginia, have been widely lampooned in the West as bumbling caricatures of a bygone era. For over a decade they used false names, invisible ink and other vestiges of the cloak-and-dagger era to gain access to the type of information more easily downloaded from the Internet. In the end they were not even charged with espionage.

In Russia, however, they have been praised by Russia’s top leaders for their service to the motherland.

Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, a former K.G.B. agent himself, sang patriotic songs with the agents when he visited them shortly after their arrival in Moscow, he told reporters this summer.

At the time, Mr. Putin lambasted the “treachery” that led to their arrest, warning that “traitors always meet bad ends.” He also predicted the former sleeper agents would have “bright and interesting futures.”
577 2010-10-19 THE business jet industry has been clobbered in the last two years by the dismal economy and public revulsion at some reported excesses of executives and their corporate jets. But there was Ed Bolen, the head of the group that represents the business aviation industry, making a bold assertion about the industry’s outlook.

“We are out of our defensive crouch,” he said, as 25,000 industry representatives began wandering into the convention center here on Monday for the opening on Tuesday of the annual convention and trade show for the group, the National Business Aviation Association.

His comments seemed even bolder, considering that the annual industry outlook released here Sunday by Honeywell Aerospace still showed a grim landscape. This year, the report says, 675 to 700 new business jets will be delivered to customers worldwide, down from 849 last year. Next year, it says, deliveries will remain below 700 jets. When you compare those figures with the 1,313 jets delivered in 2008, a year that capped a record five-year run of good times, it still seems that a defensive game may be in order.

Of course, the captain of the Titanic might accurately have said the same once the ship settled on the ocean floor. But the fact is, there are indications that the business aviation industry is poised for a comeback. Honeywell’s forecast, for one, says that the deliveries of new jets, after bottoming out in 2011, will begin rising again in 2012, starting “another period of expansion.”

“We’ll be bouncing on the bottom till 2012,” Rob Wilson, the president for business and general aviation at Honeywell, said, “but then we’re seeing an overall recovery.” Honeywell bases its forecasts on historical data and on interviews with business jet owners and prospective owners about their plans to replace or buy jets in the next five years.
578 2010-10-19 Apple’s success has helped to propel its shares up over the last year, to close on Monday in regular trading at $318, a high.

Otherwise, analysts remained enthusiastic about Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif. Indeed, it was a quarter that highlighted the company’s dominance in consumer electronics. The company said net income for the quarter rose 70 percent, to $4.31 billion, or $4.64 a share, from $2.53 billion, or $2.77 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 67 percent, to $20.34 billion, from $12.21 billion.

On average, analysts had expected Apple to report net income of $4.06 a share on revenue of $18.86 billion.

Apple’s profit margins are the envy of the consumer electronics industry. The problem was that the company’s newest products ware not as profitable as its computers and iPod music players. Strong sales of lower-margin products — the iPad among them — caused the decline, according to Apple executives.

The company said gross margins fell to 36.9 percent, from 41.8 percent in the quarter a year ago. Apple predicted that its margins would slump a bit more, to 36 percent, in the current quarter. Executives repeatedly played down the importance in a conference call with analysts by saying that they were happy with where they were.

The iPod was the only product in Apple’s lineup that showed a decline, with 9.1 million sold, down 11 percent.

Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, made a rare appearance on the regular quarterly conference call. He said he made an exception in honor of the company’s record quarter.

But he used the occasion to attack Apple’s rivals, including Google, whose Android software powers a growing number of mobile phones. Sales of mobile phones using the Android operating system surpassed those for the iPhone in the United States in the third quarter.

Just as a variety of Windows-based PCs held Apple computers to a tiny market share for decades, a variety of Android phones may one day make iPhones a bit player, some analysts have said. Mr. Jobs waved off suggestions that Google’s strategy would win, casting its approach as fragmented because of the variations of Android that he said are used by different phone carriers.

“With iPhone, every handset works the same,” Mr. Jobs said. He added, “We think Android is very, very fragmented and getting more fragmented by the day.”

Mr. Jobs also criticized several companies that planned to challenge the iPad. He said that their plans to sell a device with a seven-inch screen would create a poor customer experience compared with the iPad, which has a 10-inch screen. The touch screen will be so small, Mr. Jobs said, that users will be unable to easily use their fingers to reach apps on the device.

Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s chief financial officer, said that a surprising number of businesses and schools had also been buying Apple’s products. IPhones provided the biggest piece of Apple’s revenue, with $8.8 billion in sales, followed by notebook computers with $3.2 billion. IPads and related accessories accounted for $2.9 billion.

International sales accounted for 57 percent of all revenue in the quarter.
579 2010-10-19 Financial stocks rose more than 2 percent on Wall Street on Monday after upbeat earnings from Citigroup, which also helped push the broad market higher.

Citigroup reported a $2.2 billion third-quarter profit, which was better than expected. The report followed last week’s strong gain in the third-quarter results of JPMorgan Chase, which kicked off the earnings reporting season for the country’s major banks. Bank of America also reports this week.

Citigroup shares ended up more than 5 percent. JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America gained nearly 3 percent. These three major banks were the most actively traded stocks in the financial sector, which closed 2.34 percent higher. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 80.91 points, or 0.73 percent, at 11,143.69. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 8.52 points, or 0.72 percent, at 1,184.71, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 11.89 points, or 0.48 percent, at 2,480.66.

Utilities and health care stocks also registered increases, ending up nearly 1 percent, while consumer discretionary shares slipped 0.16 percent, the only sector to end lower.

Financial stocks, under pressure from a weak housing market, fell more than 1.7 percent last week, the most of any sector, after the state attorneys general announced an investigation into possible irregularities in the foreclosure process.
580 2010-10-19 Angelina Jolie's directorial debut, a film about a love story between a Serbian man and a Bosnian woman on the verge of the 1992 Bosnian war, will be allowed to film in Sarajevo, The Associated Press reported.      Last week officials in that Bosn...
581 2010-10-19 When federal agents raided a home in central New Jersey on Wednesday, they discovered nothing short of a private armory, with pistols and rifles hidden throughout its 25-plus rooms. But they found something else - something, it would become clear ...
582 2010-10-20 President George W. Bush explains the bank rescue plan in simple terms....
583 2010-10-20 When key employees leave to start a competitor....
584 2010-10-20 What lessons have you learned?...
585 2010-10-20 Itasha is a recent Japanese trend that infuses video game and manga culture with cars. A Japanese photographer has spent two years photographing Itasha cars for a book....
586 2010-10-20 In the trial of Terra Firma's lawsuit against Citigroup, Terra Firma founder Guy Hands was forced on the witness stand to relive the buyout of EMI....
587 2010-10-20 A technology consulting and IT support company in New York City and Detroit had to deal with a downturn in the economy the loss of some important employees.
588 2010-10-20 Updates from an Apple press event that the company says will include "a sneak peek of the next major version of Mac OS X."...
589 2010-10-20 A higher trim level, the Equus Ultimate, will get a price tag of $65,400 (including freight charge)....
590 2010-10-20 Suggested name for one who makes ice cream while you wait....
591 2010-10-20 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued two Georgia-based hedge-fund managers, claiming they defrauded investors by overvaluing illiquid assets to hide losses and collect higher management fees....
592 2010-10-20 Twitter is an even more deliciously unexpected stock market indicator than Michelle Obama's wardrobe, according to M.I.T.'s Technology Review....
593 2010-10-20 Hedge funds seeking distressed assets in Asia may find the best opportunities in Japan, China and Australia next year as banks sell soured loans, and small and medium-sized businesses struggle to attract funding, Bloomberg News reported....
594 2010-10-20 An autumn surge in stock market listings by European companies is raising bankers' hopes that next year will bring more business and bigger bonuses from share sales than a lackluster 2010, Reuters reports....
595 2010-10-20 European Union finance ministers agreed Tuesday on rules to allow foreign hedge funds to do business across the 27-nation bloc -- a deal that came as a relief to Britain, home of the European hedge fund industry....
596 2010-10-20 Bank of America may have announced that it will resume foreclosures, but state law-enforcement officials and the White House say they will continue their inquiries....
597 2010-10-20 The Afghan government said Tuesday that it had ordered an audit of all private banks after a corruption scandal that threatened to bring down the country’s top lender. Last month, the central bank said that it had taken over the country’s top private bank, Kabul Bank, because of suspected irregularities and that it had begun investigations into the top two former directors and shareholders.
598 2010-10-20 Yu Jie, a prominent Chinese dissident writer, said in a cellphone text message sent to friends on Tuesday afternoon that he had been put under house arrest in Beijing. His latest book is “China’s Best Actor: Wen Jiabao,” a collection of essays published in Hong Kong in August that criticized Prime Minister Wen Jiabao for talking about political reform without making moves toward reform. Mr. Yu said in his message that four security officers had been posted to his door, one in a police uniform and three in plain clothes, to keep him from leaving. He said his Internet service had been cut off.
599 2010-10-20 The Canadian police have arrested a suspect in the assassination of a Hamas militant in Dubai but offered no information on the matter, the police chief of Dubai, Dahi Khalfan Tamim, said Tuesday. Assassins killed Mahmoud al-Mabhouh in his Dubai hotel room in January. Israeli intelligence agents were widely blamed for the killing, a large-scale operation that involved suspects who wore disguises and held passports from countries including Britain, France, Germany and Australia. There has been one previous arrest in the case. A suspected Israeli agent was detained in Poland in August and handed over to Germany, which released him on bail. The man was suspected of fraudulently obtaining a German passport believed to have been used by a member of the assassination team.
600 2010-10-20 Members of the United States Congress have also questioned whether more aid should be sent to Mexico, given the human rights complaints.

The cornerstone of Mr. Calderón’s plan would be civilian trials for soldiers accused of “forced disappearances,” rape or torture. It would allow anonymous complaints — even by fax or e-mail — for the first time and would include protection for witnesses and other figures in the cases.

Soldiers and marines convicted in civilian trials would serve their sentences in military prisons, both for their protection and to keep them from the influence of organized-crime syndicates, which are known to have broad sway in civilian jails and prisons.

Civilian courts have their share of complaints of justice delayed or denied, but Mexico has embarked on a long process to make trials speedier and more open.

Mr. Calderón made no mention of the State Department concerns; a United States Embassy spokesman said it welcomed Mr. Calderón’s effort but had no other comment. Indeed, Mr. Calderón’s proposal did not mention accusations against the military in the drug war. Instead, Mr. Calderón cast his plan as a way to comply with a promise to abide by a ruling last year from the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which found the military to blame in the disappearance of a human rights advocate, Rosendo Radilla-Pacheco, in 1974.

He also said it meant “the Mexican state will be harmonizing its internal laws with those expected by” international human rights accords. The office of the United Nations’ High Commissioner for Human Rights in Mexico, however, said the plan fell short by limiting the categories of crime that could be sent to civilian courts.

That sentiment was echoed by human rights organizations, which noted that accusations of arbitrary killings and beatings that were not considered torture would remain under the jurisdiction of the military authorities. The military would remain the initial investigator of all accusations, raising questions over whether cases would be turned over to civilian prosecutors.

Nik Steinberg, a researcher with Human Rights Watch, said the plan did not fully comply with the Inter-American Court, which said “military jurisdiction cannot operate in any circumstances” where civilian human rights have been violated.

“It is a positive to see any cases out of military jurisdiction, but it leaves a huge amount of cases still in military jurisdiction,” Mr. Steinberg said.

Leonel Rivero, a Mexican human rights lawyer investigating several cases of disappearances, said that having members of the military serve their sentences in military prisons would make it difficult to verify that they complied with the punishment.

“Impunity will remain in force,” Mr. Rivero said.

Mr. Calderón in recent months has rolled out several proposals, pending in Congress, intended to overhaul institutions that facilitate organized crime.
601 2010-10-20 Louie Gong, a 36-year-old Seattle resident who is a mix of American Indian, white and Chinese, is often mistaken for Latino.

“Most people don’t look at me and say ‘Chinese,’ ” he said. “Then I tell them what my heritage is, and they argue with me, saying, ‘No, you look Hispanic.’ That’s offensive on a whole other level — it’s like their sensibility of racial aesthetics trumps my 36 years of life experience, and the fact that my last name is Gong.”

Mr. Gong, like many other racial and ethnic minorities, was taken back to some of his own uncomfortable encounters with being assigned a heritage that was not his own when a video circulated widely on the Internet this week showing Sharron Angle, the Republican candidate for the Senate in Nevada, telling a group of Latino students that she did not know if they were all Latino because “some of you look a little more Asian to me.”

Ms. Angle, who is running with Tea Party support against the Democratic majority leader, Harry Reid, made the comments at Rancho High School in Las Vegas, to the Hispanic Students Union. Her sentiments, not the first unorthodox statements she has made, have thrust activists, experts and bloggers into a conversation about race in a campaign season that has been far more about mortgages than minorities.

“Race has not played much of a role,” and is beginning to only now, said Andrew J. Cherlin, a professor of sociology and public policy at Johns Hopkins University. “In past economic downturns, it was common for economically troubled whites to blame minority groups for their problems. In this great recession, everyone is blaming the government and Wall Street.”

This election season is also different from the past in another way: the racial themes that have run through the campaigns have focused on Latino issues rather than the black-white dichotomy that has been the defining racial axis of American politics. “We’re hearing more about Hispanics than African-Americans, which may reflect the growing status of Hispanics in the United States,” Professor Cherlin said.

Further complicating the role of race is that a growing number of Americans are identifying themselves as racial mixtures that can be difficult to categorize based on looks alone. Beyond that, some members of minorities are pushing back against anyone who wants to tell them what race they are, then stereotype them, whether Asian or Latino or black or some combination.

“We are more complex than our phenotype,” said Mr. Gong, the past president of Mavin, an advocacy group for mixed-race families, and the co-founder of the Mixed Race Heritage Center, an information clearinghouse. “People have the right to self-identify in this country, on the census or in personal actions.”

He said Ms. Angle’s comments to the students were “a strong reflection of her sense of entitlement to identify them as she wants, not as they want.”

The comments, captured on video apparently taken by a student and posted by a Nevada journalist, Jon Ralston, were in response to students’ questions about one of her television advertisements, in which several dark-complexioned people are shown to be crossing a fence.

The ad’s message was clearly a statement on illegal immigration. But did it involve Latinos? It did not explicitly say. Ms. Angle sought to distance herself from making that association, hence the comment that the Latino students could as well be Asian.

“I’m not sure that those are Latinos in that commercial,” she told the students.

But experts said otherwise.

“It is difficult for anyone who studies political advertisements to say that those images weren’t chosen specifically to activate thoughts about Latinos,” said Nicholas A. Valentino, associate professor of political science and communication studies at the University of Michigan. “The visual reference is clearly sending information that is very potent.”

He also said that his research showed that people tended to react negatively on immigration issues when images of Latinos were involved. There is hardly any negative connotation for Asians, his research showed.

A spokesman for the Angle campaign did not return a call for comment.

Eduardo Bonilla-Silva, a professor of sociology at Duke, said the ad and Ms. Angle’s comments about it reflected the country’s new “racial terrain.”

“I think the new boogeyman is Latino,” Professor Bonilla-Silva said.

Still, Ms. Angle “managed to offend two communities at once: Asians and Latinos,” he said. “Her statements come across as patronizing, and hark back to an old racist tradition where we all look the same.”

Mr. Valentino said the statements could motivate Latinos to turn out and vote against Ms. Angle, who is in a tight, hard-fought race with Mr. Reid.

Mary Beltrán, associate professor of communication arts and Latina and Chicana studies at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, said: “It seems like she’s trying to say, ‘I don’t see race, so how could I be racist?’ It’s an interesting thing that’s happening in politics today.”
602 2010-10-20 The television commercials, voters here say, have been endless: on one side, photographs of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, ominous music, and descriptions of Ms. Clark as “Taxin’ Tarryl” and an ally of the Democratic leaders in Washington; on the other, images of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and a narrator calling Ms. Bachmann a supporter of special interests, Wall Street and BP.

Ms. Clark faces difficult odds. Democrats note that Ms. Bachmann’s previous wins have been closer than some might presume: in 2008, she won with 46 percent of the vote compared to 43 percent for the Democrat. (Bob Anderson, an Independence Party candidate who is running again this year, got about 10 percent.) But this is a Republican-leaning district in a moment when Democrats nationally are struggling, and Ms. Bachmann has become a national figure.

She first drew broader note in 2008, when she expressed concern in a television interview that Barack Obama, then a candidate for president, “may have anti-American views.”

Since then, Ms. Bachmann has become something of a lightning rod — even drawing speculation here among Republicans that Democrats hope to redraw the state’s Congressional boundaries to erase Ms. Bachmann’s seat. (Democratic leaders deny that.)

Her supporters adore her outspoken opposition to same-sex marriage, abortion and what she sees as government spending gone mad, while her critics contend her comments are bizarre. They note her public comments, at various points, that some census forms are inappropriately intrusive, that she viewed her role in Washington as a “foreign correspondent on enemy lines,” and that she wondered whether what had transpired during the current administration might be likened to “turning our country into a nation of slaves.”

For all the issues Ms. Clark says she disagrees with Ms. Bachmann over, she says one requirement trumps everything — showing up. Ms. Clark said she talked to constituents who regularly said that Ms. Bachmann was not focused on this district anymore — but on a national identity or perhaps some higher office. “It’s important not to confuse celebrity with people really seeing you as being somebody who’s out there fighting for you,” Ms. Clark said. “She says good words but it’s all about creating headlines.”

Ms. Bachmann dismissed all such suggestions. After wandering through a restaurant in Woodbury, greeting diners and inquiring about their lunches, Ms. Bachmann, who wore a Minnesota Vikings jersey, said her thoughts were firmly focused on her job in Congress.

She has agreed, she noted, to three debate-style meetings with her opponents, all set for the final week of the campaign. Meanwhile, she said, she was out nearly every day meeting with people in the district and talking about the things that worry them most — jobs, the economy, and “nonsense spending” in Washington. “I am not focused on anything other than running and winning this race,” Ms. Bachmann said.

As for the money she has raised, Ms. Bachmann said she was merely trying to get out her message in an expensive media market. “I am running for the House of Representatives,” she said, “and it’s a very hard slog.”

Her campaign said it has been overrun with requests from reporters around the world, receiving 30 to 40 requests every few days from as far away as England, Poland, Japan and India.
603 2010-10-20 Many Americans may on some level view war as normal — the rule rather than the exception in foreign affairs. A national culture of war, if one truly exists, would discourage debate and, at least in part, answer Mr. Brokaw’s question.

Let me assure Tom Brokaw that many of us who were ever in a war haven’t forgotten. Most of the Vietnam veterans I know follow events in Afghanistan and Iraq.

I don’t know from day to day what the exact casualty count is, but I frequently check it: the killed in action, the wounded in action.

We veterans know what goes on there day in and day out. We may not be there, but war doesn’t change much. The names change, the weapons change, but the terror doesn’t, the resignation doesn’t, the eventual sense one gains, quickly or slowly, but surely, of the likelihood of death or maiming or, possibly, of escape “back to the world,” that doesn’t change.

For some of us that knowledge is eternal, if mostly unspoken.

Hats off to Tom Brokaw for reminding us that the latest disastrous fallout of an all-volunteer, class-based military is the fact that, for most Americans, our current wars are a nonissue in the midterm elections.

Over the years, many of us have argued that if the children of legislators and policy makers were called to military service, we might do a more thorough and honest job of deciding what’s worth fighting for, thinking longer and harder before committing our country to war. As it is, our dedicated, blue-collar soldiers are mere “collateral damage” in the view of our decision makers, and the kids on campus can party on.

Imposing a requirement of national service — for men and women and without college deferments — would be doing our nation and the world a huge favor. (As a conscientious objector during the Vietnam War and as the father of three draft-age children, I do not offer this proposal lightly.)

The larger point is not that we have forgotten about the two wars; it is that the American public has never been asked to make the “shared sacrifice” necessary to successfully confront the threat that we face.

Tom Brokaw well knows, as author of “The Greatest Generation,” that shared sacrifice was critical to America’s success in fighting and winning World War II. But as he points out, the sacrifice today is mostly endured by our military personnel and their families.

Military families have dedicated their “blood” to the cause, but the rest of us, because of concern about taxes, have not been asked to commit our “treasure.” The cost of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars has simply been added to the debt of future generations.

If we had been asked to actually pay for the wars with our current tax dollars, our troops would have been home a long time ago — or perhaps not sent at all.
604 2010-10-20 Down a dusty, unpaved road a few miles from the town center where they set up their shop, they found a 14,000-square-foot plot filled with palm, mango and tangerine trees. They leased it for 25 years at $200 a month (United States dollars are the de facto currency in Cambodia).

“The tangerines reminded me of Perpignan, where I grew up in the south of France,” Ms. Fabre said.

Though the land came with a house — a traditional Cambodian home on stilts — Ms. Fabre and Mr. Escudier said they wanted something that was more modern, airy, light, and simple, yet full of personality. They decided to leave the original home intact and hired an architect to build an adjacent structure.

“We had a general idea of what we wanted, but we needed someone to put our ideas down on paper,” Ms. Fabre said.

To ensure the result matched their vision, Mr. Escudier was on site during much of the 11-month, $300,000 construction, which was completed last November. “The plans changed everyday,” he said. “Often, I would have things redone after I saw them built.”

The long, narrow house of 3,000 square feet is divided over two stories, with the couple’s bedroom occupying the upstairs and one large area for the kitchen, living room and a guest room on the ground floor.

Glass walls accomplished their goal of creating an airy space and take advantage of Cambodia’s abundant sunshine. “Sometimes I have to wear sunglasses indoors,” Ms. Fabre said. The glass walls also create the illusion of bringing the garden inside the home.

Ceilings are 10 feet high and there are few walls and doors — even the two baths are only partially enclosed in semi-circular columns made of glass blocks.

“I don’t like doors,” Mr. Escudier said. “They are like a jail, and I wanted to feel free.”

Nor does he like angles and straight lines. Wherever possible walls bend and the flat, two-tiered roof juts out in curves over the striped, skinny swimming pool, dubbed the “couloir de nage,” or swimming corridor.

Uninspired by the glossy floor tiles used in most homes in Cambodia, Mr. Escudier turned the floor into a huge, white cement canvas, laying circular plastic molds of various sizes and filling them with pink, red and blue pigments.

Other bursts of colors can be seen in neon accent lighting, cherry-red and lime-green Pantone-inspired chairs, and glass vases in a myriad of shapes and hues displayed on vintage cupboards coated in streaks of paint. Fuchsia-and-gold speckled tiles line the 16-foot-long concrete kitchen counter.

“I need to have color everywhere,” Ms. Fabre said. “I can’t live in all white.”

The couple brought their unconventionality to their furniture as well, fashioning a couch from a six-inch thick plank of wood and two flowerpots, while locally purchased glass display cases that Ms. Fabre painted chartreuse, orange, and turquoise stand in for storage.

Though Ms. Fabre and Mr. Escudier have no immediate plans to move, they haven’t forgotten the sense of adventure that brought them here to begin with. “For the moment, this is our place,” he said. “But tomorrow? Well, you never know.”
605 2010-10-20 Lines were bungled. Light cues missed. The pacing wandered almost as much as the performances, which ranged from the wooden to the flamboyantly hammy. In other words, the stage version of Edward D. Wood Jr.’s “Plan 9 From Outer Space” is just about perfect.

Wood’s 1959 cult movie about aliens is actually not the worst movie ever made. That title was clearly earned by “The Exorcist II: The Heretic,” which “Plan 9” edged out in a “worst films of all time” poll, conducted by the writers Harry and Michael Medved, that helped secure its reputation. Wood deserves credit for creative casting; an almost dead Bela Lugosi remains fascinating to watch. And any movie with the lines “We land in Albuquerque at 4 a.m. That’s strictly a 9 o’clock town” can’t be all bad.

Frank Cwiklik, who, the program reports, “adapted, designed, manhandled and directed” this giddy production just in time for Halloween, sets out to exploit the movie’s status as the worst of the worst with satire, video montages and “Mystery Science Theater”-style jokes. Buried deep below the layers of knowing humor, however, is an earnest appreciation. For one thing, this show, at the Brick Theater in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, remains pretty faithful to the film. It pays homage as much as it mocks. There are nicely larky scenes in which actors try to outdo one another in terrible line readings, but there are also some attempts to update the material, replacing the down-and-out low-budget Hollywood glamour with energetic and theatrical downtown silliness.

At the start of the show a video on the back wall pictures a roller coaster about to descend, and that should give you an idea of the intention here. The ride should be shorter and would benefit from starting two hours later — at midnight, the proper time for enjoying truly awful movies. Alternating broad camp with meta-commentary delivered by a master of ceremonies, Douglas Mackrell, doing a seedier version of Vincent Price, “Plan Nine” does not manage anything close to a consistent style. But if you expected that, you have only yourself to blame.
606 2010-10-20 Can a concert be too beautiful for comfort? The question seemed pertinent for a long stretch of a rare local performance by Ryuichi Sakamoto in the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts at New York University on Monday night. Mr. Sakamoto, 58, is a figure whose renown encompasses a plethora of disparate activities. Apart from being a skillful keyboardist, he is a pop-culture hero in his native Japan, a composer of film scores and symphonic works, a record producer and entrepreneur, an actor and, most recently, an environmental activist.

Elements from all those roles surfaced in one way or another during Mr. Sakamoto’s concert, part of an eco-friendly American tour. Much of the material came from his new Decca album, a repackaging of two of his recent discs: “Playing the Piano,” a collection of solo reveries, and “Out of Noise,” a grittier project involving dissonance, environmental ambience and contributions from other performers, including the English viol consort Fretwork and the Austrian electronic musician Christian Fennesz.

Mr. Sakamoto opened his concert with music from “Out of Noise,” the desolate electro-acoustic rumble of “Glacier” emanating from loudspeakers even before he took the stage. Slipping on in nearly complete darkness, Mr. Sakamoto reached into one of the two grand pianos on the stage, plucking and scraping the strings as hazy video images shifted and wobbled on a screen overhead.

Arched low over the keyboard, with curtains of white hair framing his still-boyish face, Mr. Sakamoto offered four further selections from that album. The grainy burr of recorded viols gave “Still Life” an air of melancholy. Elsewhere the piano drifted in amniotic electronic washes, at times conjuring the mesmerizing collaborations of Brian Eno and Harold Budd from the 1980s.

But when Mr. Sakamoto shifted his attention to material from “Playing the Piano,” rich ambiguity ceded to consonance and simplicity. Radically stripped-down versions of familiar themes from his scores for the movies “The Sheltering Sky” and “The Last Emperor” mingled with similarly streamlined versions of songs from “Smoochy,” a bossa-nova-inspired album from 1997.

All this was undeniably beautiful: Mr. Sakamoto has a deft touch and a knack for memorable melodies. At its best, the music found common ground among Chopin, Satie, Bill Evans and Antonio Carlos Jobim. Still, too many limpid ballads and twinkling, twirling miniatures in sequence became soporific. In jazzier compositions you longed for an improviser’s spontaneity and development rather than a decorousness better suited to a fern-throttled piano bar.
607 2010-10-20 Hormone treatment after menopause , already known to increase the risk of breast cancer , also makes it more likely that the cancer will be advanced and deadly, a study finds.

Women who took hormones and developed breast cancer were more likely to have cancerous lymph nodes, a sign of more advanced disease, and were more likely to die from the disease than were breast cancer patients who had never taken hormones.

The increased risks were relatively small and are not fully understood. But previous research has found that hormone treatment can cause delays in diagnosis by increasing breast density, making tumors harder to see on mammograms. Delayed diagnosis may increase the risk of death.

It is also possible that hormones may feed the growth of some breast cancers or the blood vessels that tumors need to grow and spread.

The treatment studied was the most commonly prescribed hormone replacement pill, Prempro, which contains estrogens from horse urine and a synthetic relative of the hormone progesterone.

Many doctors assume that women can safely take hormones for four or five years for menopause symptoms like hot flashes and night sweats, said Dr. Rowan T. Chlebowski, the first author of an article published this week in The Journal of the American Medical Association and an oncologist who treats breast cancer patients at the Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Torrance, Calif.

“I don’t think you can say that now,” he said. “I know some people have to take it because they can’t function, but the message now is that you really should try to stop after a year or two.”

Dr. Chlebowski said it was not known whether there is any length of time for which these hormones can be taken without increasing breast cancer risk.

The new information comes from the continuing follow-ups with 12,788 women who were in the Women’s Health Initiative, a major federally financed study that compared women taking hormones with a group taking placebos. The study was halted in 2002, three years ahead of schedule, because researchers found that the hormones were causing small but significant increases in the risk of breast cancer, heart disease, strokes and blood clots in the lungs.

The 2002 study had a huge impact. Before it came out, there was a widespread belief that hormones would reduce women’s risk of heart disease and generally keep them youthful, sexy and healthy. For many, the study shattered that faith.

Six million American women had been taking hormones, but the number quickly fell by about half. The breast cancer rate also soon began to decrease, and many researchers attribute that to the drop in hormone use.

The new report increases the average follow-up time to 11 years from the original 5.6 years. It is the first report from the Women’s Health Initiative that includes death rates from breast cancer related to hormone use.

The researchers found small but significant increases in several harmful effects in women who took the hormones. As the study previously showed, women taking hormones are more likely to develop invasive breast cancer. Their rate of the disease was 0.42 percent per year, compared with 0.34 percent per year in the placebo group.

Among women with breast cancer, those who took hormones were more likely to have cancerous lymph nodes, a sign of more advanced disease — 23.7 percent, versus 16.2 percent in the placebo group.

More women who took hormones died from breast cancer — 0.03 percent per year, versus 0.01 percent per year in the placebo group. That translates to 2.6 deaths per 10,000 women per year among those taking hormones, twice the 1.3 deaths per 10,000 in the placebo group.

Among women who had breast cancer, those who took hormones also had a higher death rate from other causes — 0.05 percent per year, versus 0.03 percent per year. In other words, there were 5.3 versus 3.4 deaths per 10,000 women per year — 1.9 extra deaths in hormone users.

Dr. Chlebowski said that a report last year from the Women’s Health Initiative also found that although hormone treatment did not increase women’s rate of lung cancer, hormone use was linked to a higher death rate among women who had the cancer.

Another author of the new study, Dr. JoAnn E. Manson, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital, said women should not take the hormones at all unless they really need them, for moderate to severe symptoms like hot flashes and night sweats that disrupt sleep and severely affect their quality of life.

At the same time, she said, the new information should not necessarily alarm women who have taken the hormones, because the new report found only one to two additional breast cancer deaths per 10,000 women per year among those taking hormones.

“The data suggest it is cumulative long-term use,” Dr. Manson said. “Women should avoid long-term use. I think that’s the bottom line.”

She said that women who want treatment should take the lowest possible dose that eases their symptoms.

Noting that many women are taking other hormone formulations in hope of avoiding Prempro’s risks, Dr. Manson said that little was known about the drugs and that more research was urgently needed.

She said more research was also needed to find out if women who took hormones early in menopause had the same risks as those who started the drugs later.

Pfizer, which makes Prempro, issued a statement saying it took the new findings seriously, but questioned the mortality figures.

An editorial accompanying the journal article said that the researchers had probably underestimated the increase in deaths from breast cancer due to hormone therapy, and that “with longer follow-up, the deleterious effect will appear larger,” even though the women are no longer taking the drugs.

The editorial writer, Dr. Peter B. Bach, a physician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said that although the increase in cancer in the study might seem small, it becomes large when multiplied out over the population. He also questioned the advice being given to women, to consult their doctors about risks and benefits, and to take the lowest possible doses for the shortest possible time.

“The fallback is that doctors and patients should be deciding this on a one-to-one basis, weighing risks and benefits,” Dr. Bach said in an interview. “How do you do that when you don’t know what the risks are?”

He added, “If you care about preventing this disease and keeping women from suffering and dying from it, then it’s hard to look at these drugs and not have serious concerns about them being used, even for what are intended to be relatively short periods of time.”
608 2010-10-20 The lenders maintain the errors involved mere technicalities, while lawyers for defaulting homeowners say they are symptomatic of a foreclosure system out of control.

The Obama administration, which declined last week to push for a national freeze on foreclosures, emphasized Tuesday that it was committed to holding accountable any bank that had violated the law.

Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said that the administration was “strongly supporting the investigation by the state attorneys general” while noting that the Federal Housing Administration and Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force have undertaken their own investigation.

Federal regulators have been looking into loan servicing problems for some months before the recent freezes by the big lenders. The meeting at the White House on Wednesday, which will be attended by the housing and urban development secretary, Shaun Donovan, among others, will focus in part on concerns about the foreclosure crisis’s effect on the housing market and the larger economy.

In remarks at a quarterly news briefing Tuesday, William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the Fed was “seeking to establish the facts” in conjunction with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

“We want to ensure that the housing finance business is supported by robust back office operations,” he said. He gave no timetable for when such a review might be completed.

Whatever the outcome of the various investigations, the era when the vast majority of foreclosures were unopposed and easily granted may be waning. Some judges in Florida, the state whose courtrooms are the most overwhelmed by foreclosures, said they were likely to scrutinize the papers submitted by the big lenders with extra care.

“If we get information that there was a problem with a prior affidavit, maybe we look more carefully at the next one,” said Peter D. Blanc, chief judge of the 15th Judicial Circuit in West Palm Beach, Fla.

Thomas McGrady, chief judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit in Clearwater, said it was still an open question for him and other judges whether they would accept amended documents from Bank of America or force the lender to refile its cases.

“All of the courts are struggling with this,” Mr. McGrady said.

The investigation by the state attorneys general is so new — it was formed last week — that its scope is still being settled. Behind the question of improper foreclosure documentation lies a more important issue of whether lenders even have legal standing to foreclose because they lack the original mortgage note as required by law.

“The problems are not over, but their extent remains to be seen,” said Mr. Madigan, the Iowa assistant attorney general.

Bank of America, the country’s largest lender, announced it was unfreezing foreclosures in the 23 states less than three weeks after it froze them. A process that many expected to take months was completed in days.

In its statement, the bank said that it had “reviewed our process” and found it satisfactory enough to file new affidavits in 102,000 pending cases starting next week. Documents in those cases were presumably improperly done before. A bank spokesman declined Tuesday to explain more fully the lender’s review process.

GMAC Mortgage, another large lender that had announced a freeze, also said it was refiling cases. “We have more training, more people, a more robust policy now,” Gina Proia, a spokeswoman said.

Four years ago, in a case that foreshadowed the current uproar, a Florida court censured GMAC for false testimony. An employee said in a deposition that she had neither reviewed the record of the mortgage in the case nor known how it was created, which contradicted her sworn affidavit.

GMAC promised at the time to clean up its procedures, reminding employees not to sign court pleadings unless they had independently reviewed and checked the facts.

Despite GMAC and Bank of America’s proclamations that everything is now being done by the book, some legal and financial experts are disbelieving.

“The banks have dragged their feet and taken forever to do loan modifications, yet within less than two weeks they have managed to review hundreds of thousands of foreclosure cases,” said Adam J. Levitin, an associate professor of law at the Georgetown University Law Center. “It is simply not credible.”

Mr. Levitin is convinced that the lenders will suffer for what he sees as their attempt to put themselves above the rules. “The genie is out of the bottle,” he said.

While most cases in Florida are still unopposed, the judges there are already starting to see an increase in defendants with counsel, even if they are simply acting as their own lawyer.

“The largest impact has been from the publicity,” said Lee E. Haworth, chief justice of the 12th Judicial Circuit in Sarasota. ”A lot more borrowers are coming forward to oppose summary judgment. More hearings are going to be contested.”
609 2010-10-20 The Intel Corporation said on Tuesday that it planned to invest $6 billion to $8 billion to upgrade manufacturing plants in the United States and build a new one in Oregon, adding as many as 1,000 new high-tech positions and thousands of construction jobs.

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has historically used its substantial cash reserves to invest in its manufacturing plants through economic downturns, advancing its technology while rivals struggled to stay afloat. It is a strategy that has been largely successful. Indeed, last week, the company reported better-than-expected earnings on a sharp increase in revenue.

“These investments will create capacity for innovation we haven’t yet imagined,” said Brian M. Krzanich, senior vice president and general manager of Intel’s manufacturing and supply chain.

A similar $7 billion investment by Intel about 20 months ago was focused on making chips using 32-nanometer process technology. Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s chief executive, vowed at that time to invest in chip factories in the United States rather than send the business abroad. He also urged other companies to follow Intel’s model of investing in future products despite the recession.

In recent months, Mr. Otellini has railed against incentives and other practices that make it far cheaper for companies to build and operate chip plants abroad. He has estimated it costs $1 billion less to operate a chip factory overseas than in the United States, not because of lower labor costs but because of incentives from foreign governments. Intel generates three-fourths of its revenue from overseas business, but three-fourths of its chip-making employees are in the United States.

Mr. Krzanich told reporters in a conference call that Intel benefited from the large manufacturing base in the United States despite the potential cost savings of manufacturing abroad. He called the plants a great asset “from a hardware standpoint,” but also because the employees were highly skilled. “We’re going to utilize that,” he said.
610 2010-10-20 Explaining his relatively pampered Orthodox Jewish background, Mr. Steinberg reports: “My yeshiva high school’s basketball team was named not the Tigers or the Hawks, but the MCATS. As in, the Medical College Admission Test.”

He nails the way that Boston is both a very big city and a very small town. “In Boston, justice is a mom-and-pop shop,” he writes. “Bob throws you into the joint, Patti takes it from there.” (For non-Bostonians, he elaborates: “Patti, director of the prison’s education department, was my supervisor. She is married to Boston’s No. 2 cop, a perennial candidate for the police commissioner’s job.”)

Once he’s installed in his new post, after nearly failing a mandatory drug test, Mr. Steinberg comes to realize what a humming and humane place his library is. Prison officials tend to distrust libraries, because they’re hard to patrol. They’re good places, too, to pass notes (in books) or to plan crimes.

Worse, hardcover books can be fashioned into body armor. A few rolled-up magazines, with the application of duct tape, can be made into a billy club. “A floppy disk?” he writes, paraphrasing a security expert. “Easily outfitted into a switchblade.”

But prison libraries, as Mr. Steinberg points out, are also places where lives can be rebooted. Malcolm X educated himself, and underwent a major transformation, in a Massachusetts prison library. Alas, so did James (Whitey) Bulger, the notorious Boston Irish crime boss, who learned plenty from devouring books about brutal military tactics and then used that information on the street.

The most important section in a prison library’s stacks may be its law books. But inmate tastes ran to James Patterson and James Frey, to pulpy hip-hop novels and to books about dream interpretation. The most requested book of all, Mr. Steinberg says, may have been Robert Greene’s “48 Laws of Power” (1998), a macho and plainspoken synthesis of the ideas in books like Machiavelli’s “Prince” and Sun Tzu’s “Art of War.”

In the writing classes Mr. Steinberg also teaches in prison, he introduces inmates to other authors: Toni Morrison, Philip Larkin, Amiri Baraka. There’s a weirdly moving moment in which Mr. Steinberg asks a group of female inmates to read a Flannery O’Connor story.

“Can we see a picture of her first?” one asks. When he shows her O’Connor’s photo, she says she’ll read her because “she looks kind of busted up, y’know? She ain’t too pretty. I trust her.”

A fair amount of drama seeps into “Running the Books.” The author has battles, some of them frightening, with the prison guards, who mostly scorn him as a Harvard twerp. He befriends two inmates — a pimp who’s writing a memoir and a woman who abandoned her son as a child — and these relationships become complicated and intense.

Mr. Steinberg listens. When a prostitute delivers a lecture about marriage and its discontents, he wisely observes: “This woman worked in the trenches of marital warfare. She had something to say on the subject.”

He writes particularly well about the many, and mostly furtive, attempts at male-female communication in the prison. Letters left in books for other prisoners have a name, it turns out — they’re called kites. He reads and admires many: “Some were masterpieces of the genre, contenders for the Great American Kite.” Gripped by an archival impulse, he begins to save certain ones.

He watches, with awe, a form of communication called skywriting, in which male prisoners make sweeping hand motions, spelling letters in the air. These messages are aimed at female prisoners, who look down from windows above.

One of the running gags in this memoir is that few, if any, of the prisoners can pronounce Mr. Steinberg’s first name: “I got called everything: Ari, Javi, Ali, Artie, Avery, Arnie, Alley, Arlo, Albie, Harley, Halley, Arfi, Advil, Alvie, Audi (as in the car), Arby (as in the fast food chain), A. V., Harvey, Harvin, and my personal favorite, which I heard but once: Ally. That name got right to the point.”

In the end most people simply called Mr. Steinberg this: Bookie. Now they can also start calling him a writer.
611 2010-10-20 In London, the FTSE 100 index was down 38.63 points, or 0.67 percent, at 5,703.89, while the DAX in Frankfurt fell 25.94 points, or 0.40 percent, to 6,490.69.

In Asia on Wednesday, the stock market reaction was mixed. The Nikkei 225 index in Japan was down 1.6 percent in afternoon trade, while the key indexes in Hong Kong and Australia sagged about 0.9 percent. But in mainland China, the Shanghai composite index reversed morning losses, to stand about 0.7 percent higher by around noon. The markets in Taiwan and South Korea rose by similar amounts.

Mr. Sorensen said that China’s rate increase was small. The People’s Bank of China increased its benchmark rate by 0.25 percentage point, so deposit rates will rise to 2.25 percent, and a crucial lending rate will climb to 5.56 percent. He suggested that investors had been preparing to take profits anyway after several weeks in which the dollar weakened and stocks declined.

“Really it was just time to sell, take some profits and that was a good excuse to do it,” he said, referring to the Chinese rate increase.

China’s effort to take control of its galloping economy contrasts sharply with economic policies in developed nations like the United States, where officials are trying to spur growth by keeping interest rates low. In Washington, the Federal Reserve declined to comment, in keeping with its policy of not remarking on the actions of other central banks.

The prospect that the Federal Reserve may pump more money into the American economy has Chinese officials worried that much of that money will find its way here, creating even more problems with higher asset prices and other forms of inflation. Fed policy makers will meet on Nov. 2 and 3.

Charles L. Evans, the president of the Chicago Fed, signaled in a speech on Tuesday that the Fed could buy assets to raise prices temporarily. “I think this could be helpful, I think we should talk about it,” he said.

China’s rate increase is the latest indication that it is struggling against stubborn inflation, soaring housing prices and an overly buoyant economy that is pumping out exports, resulting in the accumulation of huge amounts of foreign exchange reserves.

It acted after the government reported a surge in bank lending and property prices in September and found indications that inflation may have also risen sharply last month, after a big jump in August.

Analysts said they were surprised by the decision, because a central bank official had suggested recently that no rate increase was needed.

“This move is symbolically huge,” Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse, said by e-mail. “Yet it may only have limited impact on the real economy because overall rates are still at excessively low levels. This move probably will dampen sentiment in the property sector and equity market in the short run. However, we think excess liquidity will still prevail, if this is just a one-off rate hike.”

The market declines on Tuesday also occurred against the backdrop of corporate earnings reports. Apple said after the market closed on Monday that it expected declines in its gross margins in the current quarter. And I.B.M. said late Monday that the pace of its services contracts was slower than it had expected.

The technology sector ended the day nearly 2 percent lower, with shares of Apple and I.B.M. down about 3 percent. Materials and energy stocks were also down more than 2 percent.

Financials were down more than 1.5 percent, after rising more than 2 percent on Monday because of an upbeat earnings report from Citigroup. Bank of America said Tuesday that although its operating profit had rebounded, it had a loss of $7.3 billion in the third quarter because of a $10.4 billion write-down in the value of its credit card business. It traded down more than 4 percent.

Goldman Sachs said Tuesday that it had declines in most of its major business units for the third quarter. Still, its shares rose about 2 percent.

Analysts said that the numbers were better than expected, and that the amount of Bank of America’s write-down had already been built into its share price.

“We knew they were not going to do as well as last year,” said David Kelly, the chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds.

Mr. Kelly said the midterm Congressional elections and the outlook for tax policy had caused a lot of uncertainty in the market.

On Tuesday the government also released statistics showing that housing starts inched up 0.3 percent last month, with single-family permits rising just 0.5 percent.

“Housing starts stabilized at depressed levels two years ago, and have made little headway since,” said Patrick Newport, the United States economist for IHS Global Insight.

“Over the past 24 months, builders have put up an average of 595,000 units a month,” he said in a research note, referring to an annualized rate. “Under normal conditions, they would put up at least 1.5 million units a month to meet demand from a growing population, and to replace old and damaged homes.”
612 2010-10-20 PARIS — International travelers passing through Paris faced disruptions on Tuesday because of strikes by public transport workers and air traffic controllers. But airlines said they were striving to maintain most, if not all, of their international flights to and from the French capital.

A spokesman for Aéroports de Paris, which operates the two main Paris airports of Roissy-Charles de Gaulle and Orly, said the terminals were calm and far less crowded than on a typical day, when roughly 160,000 travelers pass through their halls. Civil aviation authorities had asked airlines over the weekend to reduce their flight schedules by 30 percent at Charles de Gaulle and 50 percent at Orly airport in preparation for Tuesday’s action.

“All passengers would normally have been contacted by their airline either yesterday or the day before if their flight was going to be affected,” said a spokesman for the airport.

Air France said on its Web site that it was operating 100 percent of its intercontinental flights Tuesday, as well as roughly 80 percent of its domestic and inter-European flights from Roissy-Charles de Gaulle Airport and 50 percent from Orly. Air France passengers whose flights had been canceled were being offered, when possible, seats on flights operated by its Dutch partner airline, KLM, or other members of the SkyTeam alliance.

Still, some passengers encountered delays. At Orly on Tuesday afternoon, Marianna Aptrah, a 40-year-old doctor from Cordoba, Argentina, had just wrapped up a weeklong vacation in France with her husband and was about to miss her connecting flight from Madrid to Buenos Aires. Her Iberia Airlines flight from Paris to Madrid had been canceled because of the strike.
613 2010-10-20 A recipe for Pan-Seared Mackerel With Sweet Peppers and Thyme....
614 2010-10-20 Chase Stuart contributes to the Pro-Football-Reference.com blog and to Footballguys.com.     Many experts had Houston pegged as the breakout team of 2010, but the Texans' hopes were on life support for most of Sunday. Eight other teams in the A.F....
615 2010-10-21 The oil company is going forward with a $7.5 billion project to develop two giant deepwater fields in the gulf that could yield the equivalent of what the world consumes in oil every five days....
616 2010-10-21 The soprano's own employees will handle public relations....
617 2010-10-21 A Manhattan federal judge has made it official: General Growth Properties, the big mall operator, can finally exit from bankruptcy protection....
618 2010-10-21 Join us for TimesOpen 2.0: Real-Time Web on Tuesday, November 2 from 6:30-10 p.m. on the 15th floor of The New York Times....
619 2010-10-21 Intel continues to spread the wealth, this time, targeting a mobile social gaming upstart....
620 2010-10-21 Guy Hands, the charismatic British financier, had two-thirds of his own fortune sunk in the music group EMI before his buy-out firm's attempt to purchase the company faltered, The Financial Times reported....
621 2010-10-21 Welcome to Tiger 21, a highly selective organization where superwealthy entrepreneurs meet to discuss their money, how to manage it, how to give it away, how much to hand to their offspring and the personal problems their fortunes can create....
622 2010-10-21 Swiss bank Credit Suisse's third-quarter net profit tumbled 74 percent to miss forecasts, as sluggish equities trading halved investment banking earnings from the previous quarter, Reuters reported....
623 2010-10-21 More than 1,000 Tibetan students marched in peaceful rallies Tuesday in a town in Qinghai Province to protest Chinese education policies, according to reports from Tibetan advocacy groups Wednesday and photographs and video of the protests circulating on the Internet. The protests were in and around Tongren, known in Tibetan as Rebkong, on the edge of the Tibetan plateau. The town has one of the most prominent monasteries in the Tibetan world, and monks there have protested against Chinese policies in recent years. Some monks joined the student protesters, who shouted “equality of ethnic groups” and “freedom of language,” according to the International Campaign for Tibet.
624 2010-10-21 The municipal bonds that help finance a major portion of the nation’s water supply may be riskier than investors realize because their credit ratings do not adequately reflect the growing risks of water shortages and legal battles over water supplies, according to a new study.

As a result, investors may see their bonds drop in value when these risks become apparent, and water and electric utilities may find it more expensive to raise money to cope with supply problems, the study warned.

Looking at significant water bond issuers across the southern part of the country, the report concluded that Wall Street’s rating agencies had given similar ratings to utilities with secure sources of water and to those whose water sources were dwindling or were threatened by legal battles with neighboring utilities.

Among the seven cities and agencies examined in the report, Los Angeles and Atlanta were identified as the ones whose water systems faced the greatest risk in the years ahead.

“Municipal bonds are bought and sold on the basis of their credit ratings,” the report said. “Yet today these ratings take little account of utilities’ vulnerability to increased water competition, nor do they account for climate change, which is rendering utility assets obsolete.”

Consequently, the study warned, “investors are blindly placing bets on which utilities are positioned to manage these growing risks.”

The report, one of the first to assess the potential impact of water shortages on the municipal bond market, was jointly produced by Ceres, a national coalition of investors, environmentalists and public interest groups, and Water Asset Management, an investor in water-related businesses. Its analysis relied on a new measure of risk developed exclusively for the study by a unit of PricewaterhouseCoopers.

The report implicitly echoed criticisms leveled at the ratings agencies after the collapse of the subprime mortgage market in 2008, and for similar reasons. Just as mortgage ratings reflected historical patterns but didn’t capture recent market changes, water bond ratings tend to reflect a past when water was plentiful, and not a future when supplies of fresh water may be less abundant, the study noted.

The major bond rating agencies — Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings — all disputed the study’s general conclusion that they did not give enough weight to water supply trends in establishing their municipal water bond ratings. “Water has been scarce in the West since the area was first settled, and Moody’s has long incorporated an analysis of the adequacy of water supplies into our ratings,” said Eric Hoffmann, a senior vice president and municipal ratings analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.

While the ratings agencies all noted that an issuer’s future financial health would be shaped by more than just its sources of water supply, they insisted that the cost and availability of water supplies was already an important element in their analysis.

Standard & Poor’s rating analysis “explicitly addresses how water sufficiency and quality issues are likely to affect business and financial risk,” said Ana Sandoval, a spokeswoman for that rating agency. And at Fitch Ratings, “water supply risk has consistently and transparently factored into Fitch’s ratings and analysis of municipal bonds,” said Eric Friedland, group credit officer and managing director of its United States public finance group.

The utilities examined in the report said the analysis was flawed by basic misunderstandings about demand and supply. A response from the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power called the study’s conclusions “uninformed and miscalculated.”

The Tarrant Regional Water District in Texas, another issuer studied in the report, has “supply now to meet projected demand through 2030,” said Wayne Owen, its planning director.

And the city of Phoenix, another subject of the study, said in a statement that the report’s concerns about the fact that it imported some of its water were “unjustified and unjustifiable.”

The lead author of the study, Sharlene Leurig, defended the bias against imported water by noting that water was heavy and moving it was “incredibly energy-intensive” and expensive.

Electric utilities and investors who buy their bonds rely on water to drive hydroelectric generators or cool nuclear power plants and are subject to some of the same risks, the report said.

Water problems in California and Georgia have attracted significant attention the last few years. On Sunday, Lake Mead, the Colorado River reservoir that supplies Los Angeles and other parts of the southwest, dropped to its lowest point since it was first filled in the 1930s. And at one point during a drought in 2007, Atlanta’s main reservoir, Lake Lanier, held only a three-month supply of water.

As the study notes, the cost of tapping new supplies and repairing old infrastructure would bear down on the country’s 54,000 utilities just when consumers, squeezed by a weak economy and high unemployment, were already balking at significant rate increases to cover payments to bond investors.

Municipal bonds are not subject to federal rules that require public corporations to disclose their vulnerability to climate change, but issuers nevertheless must make sure that the information they give investors is accurate and current, said Lynnette Kelly Hotchkiss, executive director of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which regulates the dealers, underwriters and advisers in the municipal bond market.

“Municipal issuers are required to disclose all material facts when they offer bonds for sale,” Ms. Hotchkiss said. “The possible effect of climate change can be a material fact if it affects the revenue sources that support the bonds.”
625 2010-10-21 Though the case, Johnson v. City of New York, has been unheralded, the issue is not.

As recently as Aug. 8, in another shooting in Harlem involving the police that left one man dead and another with 21 gunshot wounds, three bystanders were also hit by police gunfire. One of those bystanders, Larry Garlick, 38, filed a notice that he planned to sue the city, alleging, among other things, that the officers were not properly trained to recognize the danger of firing “into a crowd of people.”

Questions in such cases tend to revolve around whether officers deviate from standard police practices or guidelines in using their discretion to shoot in dangerous situations.

In Ms. Johnson’s case, a State Supreme Court judge said the case deserved to go to trial, citing a departmental patrol guide entry stating that “police officers shall not discharge their weapons when doing so will unnecessarily endanger innocent persons.”

But the Appellate Division, First Department, which covers Manhattan and the Bronx, reversed that ruling in a 3-to-2 decision, saying that there was nothing to show that the police guidelines had been violated. The case then moved to the Court of Appeals.

On Wednesday, the judges there zeroed in on the topic of what the officers saw — and did not see — before opening fire, raising questions about which encounters might call for more restraint.

In the 2005 shooting, which occurred on 126th Street between Fifth and Lenox Avenues, the suspect, Richard Gooding, ignored officers’ orders to drop his gun and began shooting. Five officers returned fire, fatally injuring Mr. Gooding and wounding Ms. Johnson in the right elbow. Garnold M. King was shot in the lower back; he has settled his lawsuit with the city.

Two officers said they did not look to see if there were bystanders on the street while they were shooting; one of those officers said he did not look to see if there were bystanders until after the shooting was over, Ms. Johnson’s lawyer, Barry A. Gutterman, told the judges — echoing those officers’ pretrial depositions.

At one point in the hearing, Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman questioned Susan Paulson, a senior counsel in the city’s Law Department’s appeals division.

“How do you know that they’re exercising their discretion correctly if they don’t look and have any idea that there are innocent bystanders?” Judge Lippman asked. He added: “They didn’t look; that’s what’s troubling me. How do we know they exercised the discretion appropriately without sorting out some of these facts?”

Ms. Paulson countered that the officers had a full view of the suspect when they opened fire, “and there was nobody in the line of sight; there was nobody at risk.”

Asked on Wednesday if the Police Department had ruled on whether the shooting fell within departmental guidelines, Deputy Commissioner Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, said in an e-mail, “All were determined to be within guidelines.”

None of the officers were arrested or disciplined internally.

A ruling is expected late next month, said Gary Spencer, a spokesman for the court.
626 2010-10-21 With his re-election virtually assured against a little-known Republican challenger, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York is using his campaign war chest to help other Democrats across the country running for the Senate get elected next month.

Since August, Mr. Schumer, a prolific fund-raiser, has given $3 million to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, according to a campaign finance disclosure report.

The donations from Mr. Schumer come at a crucial time for the Democratic Party, with the outcome of Senate races across the country determining whether the Democrats are able to maintain control of that chamber.

They also come at an important time for Mr. Schumer, who reported $19.3 million in his campaign treasury as of Sept. 30.

With Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, facing a tough re-election fight, Democrats frequently mention Mr. Schumer as a possible successor to Mr. Reid.
627 2010-10-21 “It’s simple math; it’s not a snub,” said Christopher M. Bellitto, a historian of the Catholic Church and an associate professor of history at Kean University in Union, N.J. “It would be highly unusual to have two cardinals from the same diocese.”

Archbishop Dolan, appointed in April 2009, will probably not be named a cardinal until Cardinal Egan turns 80 and surrenders his place among the 120 cardinals who serve as papal electors, church experts said. “No doubt in my mind Dolan will get it then,” said Msgr. Thomas J. Shelley, a historian of the New York Archdiocese and a professor emeritus at Fordham University.

Archbishop Dolan, 60, is the first New York archbishop in more than a century to succeed a predecessor who retired. Since the late 19th century, nearly all the archbishops of New York have been named cardinals, including Cardinal Egan’s immediate predecessors, John J. O’Connor, Terence J. Cooke and Francis J. Spellman, who all died in office.

Beyond the role that cardinals assume in selecting popes, there are few discernible differences in the job descriptions of archbishops and cardinals. If they are assigned to administer a diocese, their duties are identical, though cardinals tend to be called away more frequently on Vatican business, said Joseph Zwilling, spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York.

Archbishop Dolan, with his hearty Midwestern amiability and an unabashed readiness to call out examples of what he considers anti-Catholic expression in the public realm, has emerged quickly among American prelates as a sort of most-likely-to-succeed figure. Where that success will come — as the voice of the Catholic Church in the United States, or as a power inside the Vatican — has also been a topic of speculation.

In articles last spring, the Italian newspapers La Stampa and Il Giornale described Archbishop Dolan as a rising conservative leader on the American scene. This summer, he was named by the Vatican to a prominent role in revitalizing the church in Ireland, which has been devastated by a sexual abuse scandal.

The archbishop spends a good deal of his time traveling in the United States, speaking before Catholic groups and business organizations. If he becomes a cardinal, much of that travel time will probably be spent going to Rome, where cardinals are assigned to duties on various congregations, or committees, of the college of cardinals — panels for naming bishops, setting policies and advising the pope.

The title of cardinal carries many intangible obligations, as well as intangible benefits, Monsignor Shelley said. “It’s above all a status thing,” he said. “There is nothing more the church can do for you, except make you the pope.”

Aside from the hat, the tangible benefits are apparently few. “There’s no pay raise, I can tell you that,” said Msgr. Kieran Harrington, spokesman for the neighboring Diocese of Brooklyn. “In most cases, bishops and cardinals are paid what a priest is paid.”
628 2010-10-21 In all, 1.3 million votes from 2,543 polling stations were invalidated because of fraud, about the same number that were disqualified in the presidential election last year, and 224 candidates were referred to a second electoral body, the Electoral Complaints Commission, for review, said the Independent Election Commission’s chairman, Fazal Ahmad Manawi.

The Independent Election Commission has authority to exclude polling stations where voting appears to have been fraudulent. For example, if a polling place recorded more ballots than it was issued, the commission could throw out all the ballots after an investigation. The same thing would be likely to happen at a polling station where the votes were evenly divided between two candidates.

The commission does not throw out votes for an individual candidate based on allegations of voter bribery or intimidation; that is the responsibility of the Electoral Complaints Commission. Most observers expect that vote totals for some candidates will change once the complaint commission weighs in.

As of Sunday, the complaint commission had nearly 2,300 “category A” complaints — those that could change the outcome of the election — from individual candidates, said Ahmad Zia Rafat, a commission member. The large number means that the final election result is likely to be delayed at least until the end of the first week in November.

It remains to be seen if the Afghan people will perceive the election as fair. After the presidential election last year, which was tainted by widespread fraud, most Afghans appeared to accept President Karzai as the winner. Many reasoned that even after the fraudulent ballots were discarded, he had still received the most votes.

It is unclear, though, that the results of the parliamentary elections will be similarly accepted. “The general feeling among Afghans if they see lots of commanders win is that the election was hijacked,” said Martine van Bijlert, a co-director of the Afghan Analysts Network, who has tracked Afghan elections for several years. “And that is despite the disqualification of a large number of votes.”

People will be closely watching the outcome of the appeals process in Ghazni, Kandahar and Nangarhar, all populous provinces with a number of seats.

In Ghazni, a majority Pashtun province with a couple of districts where members of the Hazara ethnic group predominate, hardly a vote for a Pashtun candidate was cast because it was too dangerous in Pashtun areas for people to go to the polls.

“People won’t sacrifice their lives to vote for you,” said Khalid Mohammed Khan, a Pashtun incumbent Parliament member from Ghazni. “The election commission did its part, but the security forces failed to provide security.”

“I won’t call these elections legal and legitimate,” Mr. Khan added, “because even though we have a majority of Pashtun people in Ghazni, we do not have any Pashtun representative.”

In Kandahar Province, where President Karzai’s half-brother is chairman of the provincial council, most candidates who appear to have won seats in Parliament are either members of Mr. Karzai’s tribe or are his allies. The candidate with the greatest number of votes was a cousin, Hashmat Karzai, who lived in the United States for several years.

Several candidates who are not close to Mr. Karzai appear to have lost and they say their votes were discarded. “I don’t want to talk about fraud, but my ballots have been stolen,” said Khan Mohammed Mujahid, a candidate from the Arghandab District of Kandahar Province. “I had 15,000 votes from all over, especially from Arghandab, but now the election commission announced that they counted only 1,500.”

In Nangarhar, almost every winning candidate was a former local commander, and some still have gunmen under their control, none of which gives people confidence in the legitimacy of the vote there. “The clean votes were almost none in Nangarhar Province,” said Babrak Shinwari, who is an independent and lost his seat in the election last month.

“Those votes which were cast on election day,” he said, “were all bought.”
629 2010-10-21 It is a question on the minds of so many high school seniors at this time of year: How can you raise your chances of getting into your No. 1 college choice?

A report released Wednesday by an association of guidance counselors and admissions officers could be worth a look. It provides new evidence for those who believe that applying to college early in the academic year — or, more specifically, submitting applications under binding early-decision programs — increases the likelihood of acceptance.

Nearly three of every four students who applied last year under such programs, which are offered by many of the nation’s most selective colleges, were accepted, compared with just over half who applied to the same colleges in the main application round, according to the annual report, “The State of College Admission,” by the National Association for College Admission Counseling.

All told, the percentage accepted last year in the early-decision round, in which those accepted are compelled to withdraw all other applications and enroll, was 15 points higher than in the main phase. And that gap is rising, the authors said. In fall 2006, 61 percent, on average, were accepted early, compared with 53 percent in the regular pool.

Critics of early-admission programs argue that they represent a way for well-off and connected high school students to game the system. But colleges that offer them counter that the acceptance rates are often so high because the quality of students is particularly strong.
630 2010-10-21 Analysts predicted the new machines would be successful. “They are going to sell well,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst with Kaufman Brothers. But Mr. Wu said that like the iPad, the new MacBook models are likely to have lower profit margins than Apple’s average, perhaps causing concern among investors.

Still, he said that with the new machines, Apple’s personal computer business would most likely grow at a faster rate than the overall industry, allowing Apple to continue to gain market share.

Indeed, while the focus over the last few years has been on the iPhone and iPad, Apple’s Mac business has enjoyed a remarkable resurgence.

Apple shined a spotlight on that during the Wednesday event, which was called “Back to the Mac.” Timothy Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, said that the Mac business accounted for 33 percent of Apple’s revenue in the last year. And he said that the 27 percent growth in sales of Macs in the most recent quarter was about two and half times larger than the rate of growth of the personal computer business. As a result, the Mac, which a decade ago was just a tiny sliver of the PC business, now accounts for one in five computers sold to consumers in the United States.

Analysts said that the new computers were so light and priced so aggressively that they could compete with the iPad for the same customers.

In a conversation after the announcement, Mr. Cook said he was unconcerned by that risk. “If one cannibalizes the other, then so be it,” he said. He said it was better for Apple to cannibalize its own business than for another company to do so.

Along with the new operating system, Apple unveiled a new App Store that would sell software for the Mac. Mr. Jobs said that it would help customers to find applications and developers to sell them. Mac users would still be able to buy programs from other sources. The new App Store will be available in 90 days, Mr. Jobs said.

The new MacBooks come in two sizes of screens, 11.6-inch and 13.3-inch. They weigh 2.3 pounds, and 2.9 pounds, respectively. For comparison, the iPad weighs 1.5 pounds. The laptops’ thickness tapers from 0.68 of an inch at one end to 0.11 of an inch at the other. They have no optical or magnetic storage. Instead, like the iPad, they are built on Flash storage, which allows them to turn on instantly when powered up.

Mr. Jobs said that Apple considered putting touch-screen capabilities on its new computers, but found that for a vertical touch screen it is “ergonomically terrible.” Instead, Apple put multitouch capabilities on the computer’s track pad.
631 2010-10-21 During the Stewart/Stand Fall Into Design sale, through Wednesday, some Alessi items are up to 50 percent off (the Blow Up mirror, originally $303, is $150; the E-Li-Li vase, regularly $330, is $115; and, pictured, the coffee press, originally $170, is $85, and the mugs, regularly $75 for a pair, are $36); 141A Front Street (Pearl Street), Brooklyn, (718) 875-1204, stewartstand.com.

Furniture and lighting are discounted as much as about 80 percent during Modani’s Fall Mega Sale, through Oct. 31 (the Perspective Platform bed, originally $2,346, is $690; the Black Moon Medusa chandelier, regularly $1,670, is $390; and the Jacopo bench, originally $950, is about $290); 40 East 19th Street (Broadway), (212) 796-6926, modani.com.

Wexel Art, an online retailer of acrylic magnetic frames, is offering 20 percent off every item on its site, through Oct. 31 (the Be Square 12-inch-square frame, originally about $50, is about $40; the Drawing Pad, originally about $100, is about $80); wexelart.com (enter the code “ChangeFall” at checkout).
632 2010-10-21 Membership is highly selective. Originally, people needed at least $10 million in investable assets. Mr. Sonnenfeldt said there was no longer an official minimum, but he pointed out that the 140 members collectively had $10 billion and they had to be able to afford the $30,000 annual fee.

Mere dollars are not enough, however. “They have to have been a wealth creator or a good steward,” said Harley Frank, the director of membership, one of eight full-time employees. If they inherited a fortune or won the lottery, they must have built on that base.

That was apparently the case with Gregory T. Rogers, who began his career in the 1980s at Rogerscasey, the investment consulting firm started by his father. The younger Mr. Rogers pointed out that he left Rogerscasey and founded or co-founded three asset management and consulting businesses before joining Tiger in 2005.

Nearly two-thirds of Tiger members are entrepreneurs. In rare cases, Mr. Sonnenfeldt said, “someone with deep experience in a field like politics or science or philanthropy” might get in with a slightly skimpier cash cushion.

Prospects are screened by Mr. Frank and other staff members and by the leader of the local group they are most likely to join. Applicants then attend a meeting for a few hours, on a trial basis. Perhaps the toughest part, for these ambitious, successful strivers is that “they have to check their ego at the door,” as members repeatedly say.

While would-be Tigers need not be referred by current members, it helps. Only about 40 percent of the applicants are ultimately accepted. According to Mr. Sonnenfeldt, almost 10 percent are women and 5 to 10 percent are part of racial minorities. Ages range from the mid-30s to mid-80s, with an average in the mid-to-late 50s.

True to the full name, the meetings focus on finance. People bring up investment ideas, and money managers pitch their products. The highlight is the “portfolio defense,” a one-hour grilling during which a member analyzes his holdings almost to the penny.

For many people, that frankness is not easy. “It’s like going in front of a doctor and baring all,” Mr. Bruder said. During his first time up, he was challenged about his conservative approach, including a heavy allocation to fixed income.

“I didn’t feel attacked,” he said. “They’re asking ‘why,’ but they’re supportive.” Anyway, he added, everyone will be in the hot seat at some point.

Although he did not drastically change his investment strategy, Mr. Bruder said he had picked up valuable advice from the discussions. Thanks to Tiger, he now has a “serious” portion of his assets (he will not say how much) in foreign currencies.

Similarly, Mr. Sonnenfeldt was inspired to start investing in gold, and Mr. Rogers increased his spending on marketing for one of his companies, Raylor Investments, which manages about $25 million of his own and outside money.

On the other hand, knowledgeable investors can sometimes have bad ideas. Mr. Kress recalled that at his inaugural portfolio defense, in 2003, when a large portion of his net worth was in his own privately held business, “I got strong advice to sell all or part of the company. They said I could sell off and put the proceeds in the stock market.” He declined to follow the suggestion, which turned out to be wise. Since then, he said, his own company has tripled in value, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, after a slow climb and abrupt tumble, is only slightly above where it began.

“To them at the time, it wasn’t bad advice,” he said. “It was interesting to hear.”

Finance encompasses only about two-thirds of the meetings. During the opening hour or two, when each member gets five minutes for a “world update,” personal issues are as likely to be updated as portfolios — divorces, aging parents, health issues, home projects, vacations, philanthropy and most of all, the children.

The No. 1 subject: “What’s an appropriate amount to give? How do you enable your children to maintain the values you consider important and also let them live the lifestyle you’re accustomed to?” Mr. Bruder said.

In his case, he said, his Tiger group “helped me make decisions about what to fund and not fund” when his grown daughter wanted to start some business ventures.

Many participants are now putting into charitable ventures the energy, time and networking resources they once devoted to money-making. In 2004, Mr. Bruder started the Education for Employment Foundation, which works with local businesses and governments in the Middle East and North Africa to create training programs.

The outside speakers who come to every meeting have included hedge fund managers, the television celebrity Dr. Mehmet Oz and the actor Robert Duvall, who was pitching a movie venture to the Los Angeles group, according to Mr. Kress.

The meetings are led by a professional facilitator who usually calls on people to speak. Typically, they sit around a table in the conference room of a four- or five-star hotel, continuing through breakfast and lunch.

Tigers have been known to cry. Even to hug. But, Mr. Bruder emphasized, “It doesn’t get all that emotional. The facilitator moves it along quickly.”

The bonds can grow into friendships. Members have traveled together and even bought homes next door to each other.

Not everyone fits in. “We have counseled out two or three members for behavior inconsistent with the norms,” like being disruptive or threatening to break the promise of confidentiality, Mr. Sonnenfeldt said.

The most serious — but rare — grumbling comes from those who “have very unrealistic expectations,” Mr. Sonnenfeldt said. “They think they’re going to earn twice as much money in the first six months.”

Complaints aside, the organization is growing. By next year it expects to have branches in four Canadian cities and in Washington. Further off are plans for Chicago and a second group each in Los Angeles and Texas.

That might seem like a sign that the economy is improving, but Mr. Sonnenfeldt said it was just the opposite.

During the economic downturn, “high-net-worth individuals were exposed to risks that they found they didn’t understand,” he said. “They’re feeling adrift, and they’re looking for research.”
633 2010-10-21 Meanwhile, at the DeKalb airport display, sales representatives from the Brazilian manufacturer Embraer were showing prospective customers through the interior of its new Lineage 1000 jet, which is as big as an airliner. Price: about $50 million.

It’s certainly true that the business aviation industry, which includes all types of private planes, from single-engine props to the mightiest intercontinental jets, has been reeling. That’s especially so with jets. A Honeywell Aerospace forecast says that deliveries of new jets will be down about 17 percent this year, after plunging 34 percent in 2009 — when 849 jets were delivered compared with 1,313 in 2008. The 2008 deliveries, a record, had capped a dizzying five-year span of surging industry growth.

Over the last two years, companies in the Unites States shut down flight departments and sold corporate jets of all sizes — partly because of the economy but also in part because of bad public (and shareholder) reaction against perceived excess. That the market has held its own or even grown for the most expensive jets is an indication of expanding international wealth and the ability of some wealthy customers to fly beneath the radar, so to speak, because they do not report to shareholders or a corporate board that is anxious about perceptions.

Data on private jet shipments from the General Aircraft Manufacturers Association bears this out. While jet shipments are off sharply in general, the so-called heavy-metal niche, where luxury and long-haul range are cherished, is doing fine.

Bombardier, for example, will deliver 51 of its $40 million Global Express jets this year, the same number as last year, and up from 46 in 2008. In 2009, Gulfstream delivered 88 of its G300 through G550 models, which cost $33 million to $50 million — up from 79 in 2008. And Dassault is expected to deliver 32 of its $50 million Falcon 7X models this year, up from 21 last year.

Meanwhile, worldwide demand is growing for even bigger planes, converted from commercial airliners. The two major commercial airliner makers, Boeing and Airbus, already sell private versions of their 737 and A320 commercial planes, respectively. And as airlines have retired a large number of 50-seat regional jets in recent years, some of those used planes are being scooped up and converted.

“There are definitely people who have the wealth to do this,” said Sean Gillespie, director of sales and marketing at Flying Colours Corporation, which installs cabin interiors and equipment on new high-end business jets and converts new and used regional jets.

Business has been so good, especially from China and India, that the company is undertaking a major expansion of its plant in Peterborough, Ontario, where Mr. Gillespie said he expected to accommodate more work on even bigger commercial aircraft. “We’ve had requests from people who might now own a Global XRS or a Gulfstream G5, who get to where they want the next thing in an airplane,” he said.

Assuming you have enough money, it is a good time to buy a used commercial regional jet, like a Bombardier CRJ, for your personal or business flying. “You can buy one at a very good price for the size of the airplane you’ll get,” Mr. Gillespie said. Flying Colours typically equips converted CRJs with fuel tanks that increase flying range up to about 3,000 miles, he said.

“We work with a range of floor plans and designs for things like exotic veneers and leathers,” he added. “And the top-end in-flight entertainment systems are the rage these days, including high-speed Internet systems, which are almost a standard option now.”

Which could be useful for the wealthy customer who may eventually tire of being confined to a converted regional jet or 737. While flying across the Continental Divide, say, that customer might easily surf to lots of information about turning ever-larger airliners to private use, perhaps emulating John Travolta, who pilots his own converted Boeing 707, along with four other private jets in his personal fleet.

For years, even bigger airliners like 767 and 747 jumbo jets have been in private use by wealthy individuals and some companies. And the biggest commercial airplane of them all, the Airbus double-decker A380, is also now in demand.

Major companies that do airliner maintenance and conversions like Lufthansa Technik have shown detailed designs for so-called V.I.P. models of the A380. Some designs feature multiple bedrooms, lounges, a dining room and even a movie theater. The retail price of the A380, by the way, is about $320 million. Add about $100 million more for a top-quality converted cabin.

“Obviously you can go as big as you want, even as big as the A380, and there are high-net-worth individuals who are looking to do just that,” Mr. Gillespie said.
634 2010-10-21 To simulate movement and expression, animators bend or twist their objects ever so slightly between shots, a painstaking process that makes it difficult to achieve consistency from frame to frame. But now, software can help remedy that, with programs that help check the alignment of the camera and the lighting of the scene while letting the animator flip between recent images to see if the items are moving realistically.

That part of the process — synchronizing the shots — was what made it difficult for amateurs to make a good movie. “We have one really solid product, and we make it reachable for a serious college or high school student, considering the gadgets that kids have these days,” said Jamie Caliri, a stop-action film director and a founder of Dragon Stop. His co-founder and brother, Dyami, is the software programmer.

“I really enjoy putting the real tools into someone’s hands. I wouldn’t buy my kid a plastic guitar,” Jamie Caliri said. “I also use the product. That’s part of our story about how we sell it. I won an Emmy last year.” The award-winning animation in question, the title sequence of the “United States of Tara,” took six weeks to shoot after four weeks of preparation.

Software like Dragon Stop Motion is making animation even simpler. Children, adults and professionals alike can construct elaborate stories with their toys, paper goods, found objects or sculpture, and the computer organizes the images into a film. Some filmmakers are even beginning to build three-dimensional movies using special rigs.

“An animator who used to shoot six seconds a day can now shoot 20 seconds a day,” said Paul Howell, the founder and director of Stop Motion Pro, another software package.

“Young kids can make a film in their room and distribute it and have half a million people view it,” said Mr. Howell. “Very young kids can have huge audiences for their work. Not long ago, it was impossible to consider someone that young having access to an audience that large. Students of the art can find hundreds of stop-motion films on video-sharing sites like YouTube, many of which are constructed by children who are younger than 10.”

Mr. Howell also says that many schools, and even some medical centers, are using the software to tell stories because it lets children express themselves when traditional words fail them.

“It’s become the software of choice for working with autistic children,” said Mr. Howell. “They’re uncovering issues that they’re finding hard to talk about conventionally or by writing down, but they’re quite comfortable making a film about it.”

The basic version of his product, Stop Motion Pro, begins at $70, but more sophisticated editions, which offer higher definition and the ability to connect with high quality digital S.L.R. cameras, can cost up to $295. A number of other programs are on the market at prices that range from free to hundreds of dollars.

While many of the free versions are adequate for experimentation, they usually only offer a limited collection of features.

The older version of AnimatorDV from Wroblewski Multimedia, for instance, is available at no cost, whereas the newer version, AnimatorHD, comes with a free demonstration mode that shuts off some features after a minute. iStopMotion, a program for the Mac, offers a demonstration mode that works for five days.

The more sophisticated Dragon Stop Motion package includes a number of features that simplify the tasks done by a computer, allowing an animator to concentrate elsewhere. One button on the keyboard toggles between the last frame and the current image captured by the camera, a common task when an animator wants to ensure that any moving object is seen to move properly.

Other options help control and balance the lighting to ensure that the images have consistent hue and saturation, a problem that is even more of a challenge in stop-motion animation than in other types of filmmaking.

Synchronizing the sound with the images is also difficult, especially when a clay mouth must approximate the way a real mouth moves. Dragon Stop Motion manages a list of frames and plots the audio tracks with the associated sounds or phonemes, making it much simpler for an animator to adjust the size and shape of the mouths.

Other programs bundle a database of common sounds that can be added with a click. Diarmuid Brennan, the chief executive of iKITSystems, which distributes iKITMovie, created his software after his 12-year-old son became frustrated with the lack of options for adding sound to movies. The current version comes with over 2,200 sounds.

“We have 15 to 20 different types of footsteps, like walking on gravel or walking on concrete,” he said. But with a clientele of children, the library of sounds goes beyond that. “There are 20 different burp sounds” and 20 different sounds for passing gas.

His software for all 2,200 sounds is either $69, or $80 bundled with a Web camera. Mr. Brennan says that his product was originally intended for children who made movies recreationally, but he found that schools were interested in filmmaking as an educational tool. Creating an animated lesson, he says, requires diligence and a thorough understanding of the topic at hand.

“If they’re dissecting a frog, they can do it in clay and animate it,” he said. “When a child creates a project to explain something, because it’s methodical, they’ll never forget what they’re explaining.”
635 2010-10-21 Word has it that Frank Lloyd Wright enjoyed a hot dog now and then, sometimes served with cheese and pickles at picnics he held on the sandstone bluff near his famous Wisconsin home, Taliesin.

But the Guggenheim Museum considers the hot dog vendors outside its spiraling landmark designed by Wright to be visually disruptive and a drain on revenue that could go to the museum.

So it asked the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission for permission to construct a permanent food kiosk outside its entrance on Fifth Avenue at 89th Street. Its architects envisioned a sleek alternative to all those blue and yellow umbrellas, one that might possibly propel a few carts to seek alternative feeding grounds down the avenue.

But on Tuesday that approval was unanimously denied.

“It detracts from the landmark and causes it to compete with the main building,” Robert B. Tierney, chairman of the commission, said of the proposed kiosk. “All of our standard appropriateness tests are not met here.”

Reaction was muted Wednesday morning among the vendors outside the museum, largely because they had been blissfully unaware that they were anyone’s idea of a design black eye. But Ayman Azer, who parks his hot dog cart there daily, said he certainly did not need additional competition. As it is, he loses $200 a day when an ice cream truck pulls up. “Business comes down,” Mr. Azer, 35, said.

More celebratory were the preservationists and neighborhood advocates who opposed the kiosk as an historic affront and an eyesore. Placing the kiosk so close to the museum “would violate the integrity of this world-renowned building,” said the local chapter of Docomomo, which works to protect modern buildings, in its testimony before the commission.
636 2010-10-21 The company, based in Chicago, raised its overall profit forecast for 2010 to a range of $3.80 to $4 a share, from $3.50 to $3.80.

Boeing also narrowed its revenue guidance for 2010 to $64.5 billion to $65.5 billion, and said the total would be higher in 2011. That compared with $68.3 billion in 2009.

In midafternoon trading, Boeing shares rose by $2.23, or 3.2 percent, to $71.28.

Boeing said it earned $837 million, or $1.12 a share, in the third quarter, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.07 compiled by Bloomberg. The latest earnings compared with a net loss in the period a year ago of $1.56 billion, or $2.23 a share, which included $3.5 billion in charges for development delays on the 787 and 747-8 freighter.

Boeing said its overall revenues grew 2 percent in the latest quarter, to $17 billion, from $16.69 billion a year earlier.

While its main focus remains on finishing the flight testing on the 787, the first passenger plane made substantially with lightweight carbon composites, and the modified 747 freighter, Boeing continues to evaluate how to update its popular 737 and 777 jetliners, Mr. McNerney said.

He sounded skeptical about creating more fuel-efficient engines for the single-aisle 737, which would be the quickest way to match new competition emerging for that plane. He said that if airlines preferred a more fully redesigned version of the plane by 2020 or so, it was not clear that it would make sense to provide new engines before then.

He also said if the Boeing decided to wait until then and create a new version of the 737, it would probably have to decide sooner on how to update the larger 777. He said the company was also weighing whether to build a new version of that plane or just update its wings or engines.

The 787 Dreamliner has more advance orders than any passenger plane in history. And even though it has been delayed for nearly three years by production problems, it could enable Boeing to overtake Airbus as the world’s largest plane manufacturer.

But the decisions about how to update the 737 and the 777 will also have a big impact on Boeing’s standing in the future, as Airbus looks to update its models and new competitors emerge in Canada and other countries.

Boeing also said it expected to deliver a total of 460 commercial planes in 2010, bringing in $31.5 billion in revenue.

It said its military business should end the year with sales of $32 billion to $33 billion, with operating margins slipping to 9 percent, from 9.5 percent, as budget pressures increased in that business. Other revenue would come from the company’s airplane-finance business.
637 2010-10-21 Business owners with a product to sell often dream of winning shelf space in the Wal-Marts and Targets of the world. But these days, with the recovery dragging, it is a challenge to get shelf space in any store.

Here is how Brian Chossek, the president of Garlic Gold in Ventura, Calif., won his first account — at Gelson’s, a Southern California grocery chain that now has 18 stores. Mr. Chossek went to Gelson’s Santa Barbara location late one night when things were slow and buttonholed the produce manager, who then connected him with the produce buyer. Mr. Chossek persuaded the buyer to let him give an in-store demonstration that he hoped would prove that Garlic Gold, a seasoning that features toasted organic garlic nuggets, would sell.

During a four-hour demo, Mr. Chossek sold 92 bottles. After that, he gave demonstrations in the store every weekend and four weeks later, Garlic Gold was sold in a second store. Within six months, it was on the shelves at every Gelson’s store. Every time he approached a new Gelson’s location, he gave the store a free case of the product to test. Garlic Gold is now carried in more than 3,000 stores nationwide.

This guide offers suggestions and lessons learned by other tenacious owners who have managed to get their products onto retail shelves:

START SMALL AND LOCAL You might be aiming for Target, but big-box retailers want to see a track record. Online sales are one way to provide evidence that your product can sell. Another is to take it to small stores, maybe even stores where you shop.

When Dana Rubinstein and Tamar Rosenthal started Dapple, a line of natural cleaning products for homes with babies, they envisioned it lining the shelves at drugstore chains like Rite Aid and Duane Reade. Their repeated calls went unreturned, however, so they started taking their products to smaller stores in their Manhattan neighborhood and asking owners if they would carry them.

“We went to one baby boutique where we shopped, carrying a couple of cases of product, and asked the owner if he would give us a chance,” Ms. Rubinstein said. They got their first yes. “He gave us really good placement because we were his customers and also moms who knew lots of other moms.”

LISTEN TO THE BUYERS Visit the stores — and specific departments — where you want your product sold. Buyers want to know what differentiates your product from what they already sell, said Grace Kang, a former buyer who is chief executive of Retail Recipes, a consulting firm in New York.

Jill Cartwright went a step further. While developing a line of ergonomic diaper bags for her business, Go GaGa, she got a part-time job at what is now called Isis Parenting, a maternity and baby store in Boston. Ms. Cartwright used the job as an opportunity to study the market and the competition. She also sought buyer feedback. “I talked to other local retailers and buyers to make sure I had the features they wanted, the color palette and the price point,” she said.

She wound up changing the design so the bags could be used as all-purpose totes, too. And Isis was one of the first stores to carry Go GaGa’s bags, which she said were now carried by 150 retailers.

EXPECT TO HEAR NO When Danielle LiVolsi was trying to get her organic multi-nut butter, NuttZo, into Whole Foods stores in Southern California, she made a batch in her San Diego kitchen, arranged it in a basket, grabbed her best friend and drove to the chain’s offices in Los Angeles. “We both had years of experience in sales so we felt pretty confident,” Ms. LiVolsi said. “We were shut down so fast, we didn’t even get past the receptionist. We just left the basket.”

She e-mailed the buyer the next morning and was told her sample could not be accepted because it had not come in a tamper-proof jar, so Ms. LiVolsi asked her manufacturer to do the smallest run possible and soon had 500 jars.

She sent a case of NuttZo back to the buyer and received an e-mail a few days later telling her they were passing on it because she had no sales force and no sales. “For most people, that would have been a no, but not in my world,” Ms. LiVolsi said. “There’s always a way in.”

From another business owner at a small-business networking group, she learned of Whole Foods’ local producer program, which encourages businesses to sell products directly to their local Whole Foods stores. Ms. LiVolsi took some NuttZo into the Whole Foods closest to her home, calling first to make sure the grocery team leader was there: “I walked in with my jars, gave him my elevator pitch and he put me on the shelf.” She then visited 17 of the 29 Whole Foods stores in Southern California, opening countless jars of NuttZo along the way for buyers to try.

GO TO TRADE SHOWS Trade shows can be expensive but offer exposure to a wide range of retailers looking for new products. It is an especially good way to reach small stores, Mr. Chossek said. He walked away from his first industry trade show, The Natural Products Expo West, with 50 orders from small stores from around the country. It is crucial, however, to pick the right show. If you aim for one that is too broadly focused, you may go unnoticed or feel out of place.

Christopher Louis, founder of Fetch, a tennis-themed sportswear company, spent $6,000 and a week exhibiting at a clothing trade show in Las Vegas in 2007. To his surprise, he said, he found that, “it was mostly hip-hop and skateboard fashions — not country-club wear. I didn’t get any orders.” He now exhibits only at trade shows geared toward tennis. He also started asking for a list of buyers attending the shows and then cold-calls them repeatedly until he gets them on the phone.

CONSIDER A BROKER If you cannot afford to hire a dedicated sales person, you can contract with a broker or several brokers in different regions to sell for you, said Kevin McLaughlin, principal in Resound Marketing, a Princeton, N.J., consultancy that helps emerging companies get their products into stores.

Brokers — also called independent manufacturer’s representatives — get paid only when they make a sale, generally a fee of 5 to 15 percent of the deal. And they usually have relationships with regional buyers at different retailers in specific industries.

MAKE THE BUYER CALL YOU The best way to get your product onto a store’s shelves is to have the buyer call you because customers are asking for it. Those customers have usually read about it — or have heard about it from someone who has read about it.

Send your product to bloggers and ask for feedback to start building a relationship. If they get to know your product, they may write about it.

It was vegan food bloggers, said Susan Johnson, chief executive of Xan Confections, which produces all-natural specialty chocolates, who helped draw attention to Xan’s line of vegan chocolates. Xan chocolates are now carried in 200 stores in 20 states.

“Everything about getting your product on store shelves has to do with building relationships,” Ms. Johnson said. “Relationships with bloggers, brokers, buyers and, of course, the customer.”
638 2010-10-21 LONDON — The British economist John Maynard Keynes may live on in popular legend as the world’s most influential economist. But in much of Europe, and most acutely here in the land of his birth, his view that deficit spending by governments is crucial to avoiding a long recession has lately been willfully ignored.

In Britain, George Osborne, chancellor of the Exchequer, delivered a speech on Wednesday that would have made Keynes — who himself worked in the British Treasury — blanch.

He argued forcefully that Britons, despite slowing growth and negligible bank lending, must accept a rise in the retirement age to 66 from 65 and $130 billion in spending cuts that would eliminate nearly 500,000 public sector jobs and hit pensioners, the poor, the military and the middle class because of what he insisted was the overwhelming need to reduce the country’s huge budget deficit.

In Ireland, where the economy is suffering through its third consecutive year of economic slump, Keynes is doing no better. Devastated by a historic property crash and banking bust, the Irish government is preparing another round of spending cuts and tax increases.

Combined with what Dublin has already imposed, the cuts could add up to as much as 14 percent of Ireland’s gross domestic product, an extraordinary amount for a modern industrial country. Ireland’s budget deficit reached 32 percent of total economic output this year.

Indeed, across Europe, where the threat of a double-dip recession remains palpable, governments from Germany to Greece are slashing public outlays. But even as students and workers in France clash with the police and block fuel shipments to protest a rise in the retirement age, the debate in Europe is more on how fast to cut government spending rather than whether such reductions are the right thing to do under the circumstances.

“Everything Keynes established about the primacy of maintaining demand at a steady pace is gone,” Brad DeLong, a liberal economist and blogger at the University of California, Berkeley, said mournfully.

“Europe obviously thinks it can focus on sound finances while the U.S. manages world demand,” he said in a telephone interview, “but unfortunately we are not doing that.”

Joseph E. Stiglitz argued that the British government’s plan was “a gamble with almost no potential upside” and that it would lead to lower growth, lower demand, lower tax revenues, a deterioration of skills among the unemployed and an even higher national debt.

“We cannot afford austerity,” he wrote in The Guardian.

Mr. DeLong and others on the left have long argued for more stimulus spending in the United States and abroad to lift growth, even if deficits rise temporarily as a consequence.

While that notion may have its adherents in the White House and among many American and European academics, in Europe there is hardly a policy maker to be found who is making the argument that governments need to spend more, not less.

This is particularly true in Britain, where a combination of collapsing tax revenues and government spending to prop up banks and support the unemployed during the financial crisis has contributed to a budget deficit equal to 11 percent of gross domestic product, second highest in Europe after Ireland.

“Keynsians are regarded here as heterodox, not orthodox,” said Andrew Lilico, an economist at the London-based research institute Policy Exchange, which has close intellectual ties to the Conservative Party. “And it goes back to one thing: we have this internal fear of losing control of our deficits and having foreigners telling us what to do. There is also a sense that deficits of this scale are morally lax.”

The stiff upper lip with which Mr. Osborne delivered his call for sacrifice on Wednesday in the House of Commons reinforces that point. It is grounded in memory of Britain’s economic collapse in the 1970s, when the International Monetary Fund had to come to the rescue just as it has done recently in Greece.

Even the previous Labour government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown proposed substantial budget cuts before losing office in May, many of them incorporated by Mr. Osborne into his four-year spending plan.

“There is nothing fair in running huge deficits that we are not prepared to repay,” Mr. Osborne said in his speech, responding to arguments that cuts would fall hardest on the country’s poorest.

It is this institutional memory — combined with the widely accepted view that bond market demands to follow through on promised austerity plans cannot be ignored — that underpins not only Mr. Osborne’s approach but also that of his European peers.

That contrasts sharply with the United States, where White House policy makers are urging caution in reducing deficits too quickly, fearing that ending stimulus efforts before the economy is clearly on the road to recovery risks making a mistake similar to President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s budget cutting in the middle of the Great Depression, which extended the downturn.

“In the U.S., central bank memory is ingrained in the Depression, while in the U.K. it is being bailed out by the I.M.F.,” said Michael Saunders, an economist with Citigroup in London. “That gives policy makers different sets of priorities.”

To be sure, the prospect of the once munificent British state sharply cutting benefits for children of middle-class families, making students pay much more for their schooling and cutting jobs and the pay of public sector workers has led to a backlash from the country’s labor unions.

“Today, the fight begins,” David Prentis, the general secretary of Unison, the country’s largest union, exhorted participants at a rally on Tuesday. “Hands off our public services.”

Mr. Prentis, whose union represents public sector workers, received plenty of support from the conference hall where 2,000 union activists congregated.

But the number attending was small and the restrained action stands in contrast to the large protests and spasms of street unrest in Greece, Spain and, most recently, in France, where strikers have cut into train and subway service and truckers and others have blocked refineries and fuel depots in a bid to cripple the transportation network.

And outside the hall, the scattered calls by union stalwarts — many bused in from cities like Bristol and Liverpool — were relatively lackluster.

“Come on,” shouted one union organizer to a silent gathering of placard bearers. “What happened to your chanting?”

For the British public, of course, the austerity now being experienced in countries like Ireland, Greece and Lithuania has yet to hit home.

In Britain, and throughout the rest of Europe, policy makers hope that by the time it does, a private sector recovery will be well under way, helping to compensate for the tighter government budgets. If not, however, they may be tempted to call upon the spirit of Keynes after all.
639 2010-10-21 Among those who ditched classes, jobs or spouses and converged on the sea-glass green water on Tuesday were a young man who wore a catcher’s mask and wielded a lacrosse stick; a young man in an orange Afro who stripped down to a black Speedo; men and women of all ages wearing fake black beards in tribute to the Giants’ closer, Brian Wilson; and a young man in a rowboat with his bird dog, Tule, who also hunts baseballs.

Willie McCovey, the power-hitting lefty for whom the body of water is named, broke into the majors with the team in 1959 and retired as a Giant in 1980. On Monday he was asked about the cove dwellers. “I wouldn’t do it,” he said with a twinkle in his eye, “but they look like they’re having a lot of fun.”

The Willie Mays of McCovey Cove is Ellison, a middle-aged software salesman with great instincts, good range and sure hands. He has plucked hundreds of balls from the water during batting practices and games since AT&T Park opened in 2000, including the San Francisco slugger Barry Bonds’s career 660th and 661st home runs and the 11th-inning blast by Rick Ankiel that propelled the Atlanta Braves to a Game 2 victory in the N.L. division series two weeks ago.

Ellison said he sold the Ankiel ball — the 78th home run to land in the cove — for $600 on eBay. He reaped $17,000 from the home run ball that shot Bonds past Mays on the career list (No. 661).

In his successful pursuit of the single-season and career home run records, Bonds hit so many balls into McCovey Cove — 35 in his career — that he attracted a band of loyal ball hawks that formed Bonds Navy. The Giants hit five home runs into the cove this season; opponents hit four.

Three seasons after the Giants failed to re-sign Bonds, effectively ending his career, Bonds Navy’s numbers are down, from several dozen at its peak to roughly a dozen. The Bonds Navy members wear long-sleeve orange hoodies that are the equivalent of lettermen’s jackets, replete with markings to celebrate milestone home run balls they have retrieved.

Edlund, a former Hewlett-Packard employee who earns money recycling golf balls when he is not chasing baseballs, plotted his course for Games 3, 4 and 5 at AT&T Park by studying the hitting charts of all the Phillies. He did not panic when he left home without his notes on Raul Ibanez, a left-handed hitter who was batting seventh in the Phillies’ lineup. “I called my wife on my cellphone and she read me my notes,” Edlund said.

Like pitchers, he studies hitters’ tendencies. “Only they’re more interested in where they’re swinging at balls and I’m more interested in where they’re hitting them,” said Edlund, who has retrieved five home run balls hit into the water during games. He added: “People joke around and say these are $5.99 balls we’re chasing. They’re missing the point. If you get a ball, it’s a piece of history.”

It’s easy to spot the die-hards in the cove from the dilettantes. The kayakers with experience do not have open bottles of beer or cans of soda squeezed between their legs. They know better than to guzzle drinks during games because the nearest public restroom is a 10-minute paddle away, at Pier 40.

Just in case, Mark Busch, a member of Bonds Navy, keeps a bottle in his kayak. If nature calls, he paddles under the walkway and does his business.

What else should McCovey Cove newbies know? “When you hear a bunch of yelling,” Busch said, “look up and cover your face.”

Most fans follow the game on radio, but the stadium’s huge video screen and left-field scoreboard can be seen from some vantage points in the cove. There is no cover charge, which makes it the best bargain in sports. Jake Reynolds scoured the Internet for Game 3 tickets for himself and his two sons but the cheapest he could find cost $200 apiece and were in the upper deck.

“That was too pricey for us,” he said. His wife was the one who suggested Reynolds dust off their kayak and take their boys, Colby, an eighth grader, and Benjamin, a fourth grader, to the game free. So that’s what they did, rising at 5:15 a.m. to make the drive from their home in Monterey to San Francisco.

The boys returned home with a souvenir: inflatable orange ThunderStix noisemakers distributed by a kayaker in a Giants jersey. Those without the ThunderStix improvised, striking their paddles against the side of their kayaks when the stadium crowd clapped during a “Let’s go Giants” chant.

In the sea of bobbing jerseys — Bonds’s 25, Mays’s 24, McCovey’s 44, Buster Posey’s 28, Tim Lincecum’s 55, Jason Schmidt’s 29 — one stood out. It was the red 26 of Chase Utley, the Phillies’ second baseman, and it graced the back of a recently transplanted Philadelphian named Danny Ceravola.

Ceravola and his son, a fourth grader also named Danny, shared a kayak. “Most people have been friendly,” the elder Ceravola said. “I’ve had a few people say we might get capsized.”

He laughed and added, “And they say Philadelphia fans are ruthless.”
640 2010-10-21 “We took advantage of the competitive moment,” said Stephen Goldsmith, deputy mayor for operations.

Google, in particular, has been aggressive in its march on Microsoft Office’s turf. Google sells online versions of similar software, and charges simply $50 per person, per year. Los Angeles has been distributing Google’s software to about 30,000 of its city workers over the last year.

But Microsoft’s agreement with New York covers a broader set of applications beyond office software that Google has yet to match.

“So many of the customers I am talking to play the Google card even if they have no intention of going to Google,” said Mary-Jo Foley, the editor of the All About Microsoft blog. “Microsoft knows people are doing it, but what can they do?”

Microsoft tends to sell licenses to bundles of products like its Office suite, which includes Word, PowerPoint, Outlook and Excel. Many city workers, however, use only Word to create documents and Outlook for e-mail.

Under the new arrangement, New York will put workers into three categories based on how many applications they use. Because of new online versions of its software products, Microsoft can devise more pay-per-use models for customers.

The city plans to store some information for about 30,000 workers at Microsoft’s data centers. This embrace of cloud computing means that the city will not need to buy as much computing hardware and that people can work together online on projects.

“We need to dramatically extend technology tools throughout our work force,” Mr. Goldsmith said. “There are a large number of individuals that don’t even have e-mail access.”

Mr. Goldsmith playfully questioned the mayor’s assertion that the deal lacked pizazz, saying he found the prospect of gaining more advanced technology tools quite exciting.

Gail Thomas-Flynn, a vice president at Microsoft who focuses on state and local government work, played down the changes in licensing terms and competitive threats.

“It is really an opportunity to work with the city in a new way in terms of innovation,” Ms. Thomas-Flynn said.

She also declined to address directly whether other cities could expect similar deals, saying only that “New York is setting the pace.”

Mr. Ballmer added that corporations often negotiated more nuanced licensing deals than government bodies, although that was starting to change. Struggling European cities, in particular, have sought new arrangements.

“I feel like this is how software licenses will start to look for a lot of Microsoft customers going forward,” Ms. Foley said.

Mr. Ballmer added that Microsoft and its partners would most likely help build new types of cloud-computing applications that analyzed large sets of publicly available New York City data. Meanwhile, workers who have never had basics like e-mail or used more sophisticated applications will encounter Microsoft’s products every day.

“From our standpoint, it looks like a win because we get to touch workers we have never touched before,” he said.

Some corporations and governments have been reluctant to use cloud computing for handling confidential information. In this case, Microsoft would be in charge of protecting some of New York’s data rather than having the city’s own technology administrators in total control.

Mr. Goldsmith said Microsoft would be held to the city’s usual security standards.
641 2010-10-21 Cory Gardner's latest campaign ad seems to have hit a bit off the mark - er, make that, off the Markey.     In a 30-second spot released Tuesday, Mr. Gardner, a Republican running against Representative Betsy Markey, the incumbent Democrat, to rep...
642 2010-10-21 If Dannel P. Malloy's gubernatorial campaign had the authority to set Connecticut's court calendar, it probably would have scheduled the state's most sensational murder trial for some other time. Like after Election Day.     As it is, the trial of...
643 2010-10-21 JUST based on the new luxury jets that were the hottest items at the National Business Aviation Association annual convention in Atlanta this week, it would be easy to overlook that the private jet business has been mired in a depression for two y...
644 2010-10-21 After the launch of the unprinterlike Envy 100 e-All-in-One from Hewlett-Packard, Lexmark has engineered its own slick all-in-one printer. The coming Lexmark Genesis is unmistakably a printer, albeit a handsome one, but it has impressive new techn...
645 2010-10-22 Journalist Mona Eltahawy, left, and Claire Berlinski of City Journal discuss Islam and women's rights.
646 2010-10-22 Live analysis of Game 6 of the 2010 American League Championship Series, featuring the Yankees and the Texas Rangers in Arlington, Tex....
647 2010-10-22 The National Republican Senatorial Committee has taken out a $10 million line of credit....
648 2010-10-22 Commissioner Grannis had resisted additional budget cuts in a memo that was leaked to the press....
649 2010-10-22 Bette Midler enlists the services of Martha Stewart to create a Hulaween costume....
650 2010-10-22 What have you swapped lately? The Green blog is eager to hear....
651 2010-10-22 Nomura Holdings, Goldman Sachs Group and Bank of America are moving investment bankers who specialize in advising financial-services companies to Asia as banks and insurers sell record amounts of shares....
652 2010-10-22 Caterpillar said Friday that it would buy MWM Holding, a German engine maker, from the British private-equity firm 3i for $810 million in cash....
653 2010-10-22 With stock making up a larger portion of compensation at many firms, investment bankers and traders stand to benefit financially from a longer-term market recovery, says Reuters Breakingviews....
654 2010-10-22 A plug-in to quickly download batches of photos from Facebook....
655 2010-10-22 The second New York gallery solo of Jay Heikes presents an oddly Romantic artist in love with nature and its processes and interested in works that seem almost mutually exclusive in style and material, yet collude beautifully.

In the first space, two works meditate on the delicacies of rust. “Heartless Ascension” is a gangly sculpture in rusted iron and bronze whose linear extensions and denser junctions alternate between synthetic and organic, graceful and awkward. Is it a fragment of a weeping willow, a tangle of partly downed electrical wiring or maybe a trap — in which case has it caught something? “Conversation With a Bitter Pill” is a sort of painting: a slab of steel leaning against the wall, with hints of light, leaf and pattern that seem rusted into its surface.

In the second space, “Molting,” a series of paper-thin sheets of a silvery material, lies uneasily on the floor, ragged of edge and susceptible to every breeze. It is made of gelatin, and the breezes are enhanced by “Outside World,” a small opening, covered by an elegant white grill, that Mr. Heikes has made in the gallery’s exterior wall. Disturbed-looking humans are intimated in two large, murky photographs, and two tall sculptures made from hand-colored porcupine quills stuck in wood introduce more animalistic corporeal presences.

“Inanimate Life,” the show’s title, is a good term for art. Its various parts and the back and forth among them will mesmerize, if you let them.
656 2010-10-22 Singapore Exchange is in talks to combine with ASX, which runs the Australian stock exchange, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter....
657 2010-10-22 In a battle of Russian oligarchs, shareholders voted on Thursday to retain the current board at Norilsk Nickel, thwarting an effort by a minority owner to gain more seats and oust the management....
658 2010-10-22 Intel Capital said that it was making an investment in OpenFeint, a mobile gaming platform that lets developers add social-networking features, like real-time chat, to their applications....
659 2010-10-22 American International Group raised $17.8 billion by selling shares in its Asian life insurance unit making another substantial contribution to A.I.G.'s efforts to pay down the huge bailout it received from the federal government at the height of ...
660 2010-10-22 Headquartered in Hong Kong and with roots dating back to a company founded in Shanghai in 1919, A.I.A. is an established, leading player in the life insurance business, with a well recognized brand, 23,500 employees, 320,000

As A.I.G. teetered on the brink of disaster, sending shock waves throughout the financial world, A.I.A.’s focus on Asia provided the insurance giant an island of relative stability.

“We are very pleased that the offer price has been set at the top end of the range, reflecting a very strong vote of confidence in A.IA.’s future and our ability to capture and realize the exceptional growth potential of the Asia Pacific region,” Mark Tucker, A.I.A.’s chief executive, said in a statement on Friday.

A.I.A.’s jumbo flotation could grow by another 15 percent if ample demand allows more shares to be issued in a so-called over-allotment option.

This would make the listing the third-largest ever seen, after those of two Chinese banks — testimony also to the fact that Asia has become increasingly important as a location and source of share offerings.

Earlier this year, Agricultural Bank of China, raised $22.1 billion in a listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai, becoming the biggest in history. In 2006, the I.P.O. of ICBC, another giant Chinese lender, raised $21.9 billion, $16 billion of that in Hong Kong.

A.I.A. will add another financial heavyweight to the Hong Kong exchange, analysts say. The shares start trading on Oct. 29.

“All this enhances the reputation of Hong Kong as a leading fundraising center,” said Francis Lun, general manager of Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong, adding that next year could well see some sizeable listings from Russian and other foreign companies choosing the city as a venue to list their stocks.

For A.I.G., meanwhile, the spin-off will draw a line under convoluted and protracted efforts to raise cash from A.I.A, which was put on the block — along with a string of other assets — after the U.S. insurance giant was rescued from the brink of collapse two years ago by a series of massive cash injections totaling more than $180 billion.

A first effort to float the Asian business was put on hold after the British insurer Prudential offered $35.5 billion for A.I.A. early this year. That bid subsequently collapsed amid shareholder opposition, prompting A.I.G. to revert to its original plan of a listing in Hong Kong.

A.I.G. will hold 33 percent of A.I.A. if the over-allotment option is exercised, A.I.A. said Friday. Still, the spin-off marks a major step away from Asia for A.I.G.

The U.S. giant also recently announced it would sell its two Japanese life insurance units — A.I.G. Star Life Insurance and A.I.G. Edison Life Insurance — to Prudential Financial of the United States for $4.8 billion.

It has also tried to sell the Taiwan life insurance business Nan Shan, though those plans have run into opposition from the Taiwanese government.

Mr. Tucker, who was once at the helm of rival Prudential and took over as A.I.A. chief executive in July, has pledged to make the business “the pre-eminent life insurance provider.” The listing, he commented in a statement on Friday, marks “a critical turning point for A.I.A.”

“I think once they become independent, they will be able to grow the business,” said Mr. Lun of Fulbright Securities. “They have been in a holding pattern since 2008 — this will be a fresh start for them,” he said, referring to the uncertainties surrounding A.I.A.’s troubled parent over the past two years.
661 2010-10-22 Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase has socked away 9 percent less than last year for its Wall Street staff members, with shares 21 percent off their April peak.

The best deal may await Bank of America’s investment bankers. The firm does not break out how much it sets aside for them. But its stock is the worst performer of the bunch, down 42 percent. Of course, its exposure to forced mortgage repurchases also may keep the stock depressed for longer than rivals’.

Having more pay tied up in cheaper but restricted stock might not seem that appealing for those accustomed to bigger cash payouts. But it may bring more converts to the Goldman-inspired religion of long-term greed. If these added disciples help suppress potentially catastrophic short-term trading, so much the better.

Cash-rich companies like Microsoft and Cisco should hardly need to borrow. But a tax hit on bringing overseas balances to the United States coupled with ultralow interest rates at home make raising debt a cheap way to get cash at headquarters.

Last month, Microsoft’s nearly $5 billion offering in the corporate bond market raised eyebrows, given its hefty $37 billion cash pile. But like many other tech companies, the bulk of the software giant’s cash is trapped overseas thanks to American tax authorities, which take up to 35 percent if foreign profits made in lower-tax countries are repatriated.

If the alternative is borrowing at razor-thin, tax-deductible interest rates — Microsoft, for instance, paid less than 1 percent on a portion of its debt — it is a no-brainer to use that route to fill domestic coffers. Business investments aside, Microsoft could use the money for stock buybacks.

The cheap debt is a product of easy money, courtesy of the Federal Reserve, designed to promote economic growth. But if stimulus is the name of the game, there should be a less convoluted way to get money pumped back into the economy.

The eight largest tech companies have a combined $200 billion in cash, according to JPMorgan, but much of it is trapped overseas. In 2004, the American government temporarily slashed the tax burden to encourage repatriation. Doing something similar now could bring a big chunk of that cash back into the domestic economy.

Tech firms with a lot of cash on hand also would not be so inclined to raise debt. That could free lending capacity for smaller firms. This may not be a huge issue in today’s red-hot corporate bond market, but should investors get nervous again they are sure to prefer lending to a Cisco or a Microsoft — even if the proceeds go straight to shareholders — than to some small firm looking to staff up.

So a new tax amnesty on overseas earnings could both create a miniature stimulus and make it slightly less hard for smaller companies to finance new hires plucked from the unemployment lines. At the very least, the status quo is an artifact of tax and monetary policy that needs a fresh look.
662 2010-10-22 Now the Congress Party is allied with Mamata Banerjee, the fiery political leader whose Trinamool Congress Party is favored to unseat the Communists next year. At the same time, Maoist rebels in the West Bengal countryside are a constant source of agitation. Analysts trace the Communist decline partly to the inevitable excesses of any party so long in power.

Institutions like the police, schools, universities and hospitals have become deeply politicized, critics say.

But the Communists have also been undermined by the same volatile political forces reverberating elsewhere in India, where industrialization is fueling conflicts over the control of land.

From the Writers’ Building in Calcutta, known as Kolkata in India, the British once ran colonial India. But in the hulking red brick edifice, which now serves as the seat of power in West Bengal, there is the feel of the last months of another crumbling empire.

“I don’t think it is a crime to be in government for 33 years with the mandate of the people in a parliamentary democracy,” said Dr. Surjya Kanta Mishra, the state minister of health, sighing when asked whether the Left Front coalition had held power too long. But, he conceded, “there has been some erosion in our support base.”

To a large degree, the Communists’ problems are rooted in their early success. When a Communist-led coalition of leftist parties took power in 1977, they began a sweeping campaign that redistributed land to small farmers and codified legal protections for tenant farmers. Today, roughly 84 percent of rural land in West Bengal is owned by ordinary peasants, compared with a national average of about 43 percent. Politically, the Communists also sought to decentralize power by establishing village-level assemblies known as panchayats, a model that has since been emulated nationwide.

“It has been the poor and marginal farmers who actually gained the power in rural areas,” said Nirupam Sen, the state’s commerce minister, who, like other leftists, argues that the new land policies broke a feudal structure that had existed for centuries.

Yet distributing land into smaller parcels has brought new challenges, as families have kept growing while immigrants have flowed into West Bengal from poorer states, as well as bordering Bangladesh. West Bengal is a top producer of rice and other crops, yet anchoring the economy around agriculture saw the state steadily slip in national rankings of economic output.

“Land holdings are getting smaller and smaller,” Mr. Sen said. “Therefore, what is the next stage? You have to go to industry.”

When the Communists won re-election in 2006, the chief minister, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, campaigned on a pro-industry slogan of “Destination Bengal,” promising to attract factories and jobs. Since then, development officials say the number of Internet technology jobs has nearly tripled to more than 100,000, despite a perception that the state has largely missed India’s economic boom.

But it was the highest-profile industrial project, a planned car factory for India’s most famous corporate conglomerate, Tata, that became a debacle as farmers revolted against the land acquisition — and political opponents like Ms. Banerjee pounced on the story line that the Communists had sold out the peasants.

“They talk about the farmers, but they are the party and the government who take away land forcibly,” said Partha Chatterjee, a top Trinamool Congress official, who is leader of the opposition in the State Assembly.

The Tata factory was canceled in 2008 and plunged the Left Front coalition into recriminations and re-examination. Meanwhile, outside critics blamed Communist leadership for a broader governance breakdown, saying that the quality of institutions had eroded as party loyalty and ideology became paramount.

Laveesh Bhandari and Bibek Debroy, economists who together wrote a critical 2009 report, documented a steady slippage in performance from policing to health care to education, finding that the state had fallen behind in school dropout rates, in average class size and in jobless rates for those who manage to get an education.

“For all the talk about equity and removal of inequalities, the West Bengal government hasn’t been able to improve the lot of the people in the worst-off and backward districts,” they wrote.

West Bengal voters will decide on the Left Front next year. In political circles, Ms. Banerjee is rated a strong favorite, though few analysts discount the Communist political machine. Yet the prospect of defeat is already inspiring introspection.

“Marxist politics has come to a critical juncture,” said Kshiti Goswami, the public works minister and a member of one of the smaller parties in the Left Front. He argued that India had a “historical need” for the Left Front but that his fellow Marxists needed to examine why Communism had fared poorly in other states compared with caste-based parties.

“What is the way?” he asked, suggesting that Latin America might offer clues. “How it can be done is a great question. That is why this is a historic juncture.”
663 2010-10-22 The tantalizing, largely unproven promise of embryonic stem cells lies in their pliability: Researchers hope they can be manipulated into becoming cells found in any part of the body to repair diseased or damaged organs, bones and other body parts. The cells hold the promise of reversing previously incurable illnesses, like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig’s disease) and Parkinson’s disease.

Opponents of the research say that extracting the cells, a process that destroys an embryo, ends a human life. Proponents counter that the embryos, which are designated for research by couples using in vitro fertilization, would otherwise be discarded and are better used in efforts to save or greatly improve lives.

Some researchers sidestep this controversy by working with adult stem cells — culled from skin, for example — although those cells have not yet proved to be as versatile as embryonic cells in experiments.

Because the trials are being partly financed by a private corporation, they are exempt from a federal judge’s ruling in August that temporarily banned federally financed research. Some experts said corporate involvement in stem cell studies could become increasingly common to avoid the highly charged political issues that come with federal money and the prospect of government action that delays or interrupts projects.

But the close collaboration between medical researchers and a profit-seeking biotech firm raises the question of whether scientific inquiry is compromised by the involvement of businesses with a stake in the outcome.

“There’s no getting around the fact that Geron exists for a reason,” said Dr. David Chen, medical director of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago’s Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Program, who will oversee the patients’ long-term care. “They’re a business. They’re accountable to their shareholders.” But he said the volunteer patients were protected because hospital oversight was the same whether a trial was publicly or privately financed.

Potential conflicts of interest can affect both privately and publicly financed research, noted Dr. Richard Fessler, the lead investigator in the stem cell trial. “With a private company, your ethical dilemma is about money: who stands to benefit from this new technology?“ said Dr. Fessler, a neurosurgeon at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and professor of neurosurgery at the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern.

“In federally funded research, your reputation depends on getting ‘good’ results,” Dr. Fessler said. “If you don’t get those results, you’re going to have a hard time getting funded.”

Another approach is to seek grants from philanthropies, though their financial support can shrink when the economy falters, said Dr. John Cunningham, director of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and a clinician and professor at Comer Children’s Hospital at the University of Chicago.

He said companies might not have the same goals as the physicians or hospitals they work with — for example they are not interested in “orphan diseases” that do not affect enough people to justify the expense of a clinical trial. But he also said that attention to the bottom line is not necessarily incompatible with good research.

“Some people worry about the ethics of a profit motive in developing health-care mechanisms,” Dr. Cunningham said. “I don’t happen to agree. The United States has been strong in the field of biomedical enterprise because companies are responding to a marketplace.”

Ethical questions notwithstanding, academic-corporate partnership may be the future of stem cell research, some experts said, because they avoid the kinds of governmental action, like the recent court injunction, that can derail long-term research projects.

“When researchers are constantly looking over their shoulders and are always worried about funding, that has a chilling effect on research,” said Laurie Zoloth, professor of medical ethics and director of the Center for Bioethics, Science and Society at the Feinberg School of Medicine.

In many ways, the Geron trial is the culmination of research that began in 1998, when James Thomson, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, announced that he had isolated human stem cells from embryos. Several years later, President George W. Bush, under intense political pressure from right-to-life and religious groups, placed restrictions on stem cell projects financed with federal money — and the pace of research slowed to a crawl.

In 2009, President Obama fulfilled a campaign promise by overturning many of the Bush administration’s limits on stem cell research, and grants from the National Institutes of Health leapt to $146 million that year from $88 million in 2008.

But in August, Judge Royce Lamberth of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, responding to a lawsuit by two scientists who said federal financing for stem cell research hurt their ability to get money for their studies of adult stem cells, halted the use of public money for embryonic cell research. A federal appeals court temporarily reversed the ban in September and asked the parties to resubmit documents and prepare new oral arguments. The appeals court is expected to rule on the case by the end of the year.

That ruling will not end the debate on the ethics and morality of using stem cells from embryos, said Richard Epstein, professor of health law and policy at the University of Chicago Law School and senior fellow at the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago Medical School.

“Some reasonable people view disposing of the egg as a massive degradation of respect for human life, which will inevitably lead to more of the same,” he said. This case, or a similar case, might get to the Supreme Court, Mr. Epstein said.

Mr. Epstein likened the debate over embryonic stem cells to the standoff over abortion. “We have a compromise on the abortion issue: the government can’t fund abortions but it also can’t ban them,” he said, But, he said, that does not stop people on both sides from challenging the laws.

“Either this gets a technological fix,” Mr. Epstein said, “and someone replicates the same effect in non-human embryonic stem cells, or we will see what are essentially very complicated compromises working their way through the courts.”

Whatever happens in the legal system, Dr. Fessler said, the real risk in the controversy is that the United States will not aggressively support innovative stem cell experiments.

“If we as a nation decide not to pursue this line of research, our best scientists are going to leave,” he said. “What else can they do?”
664 2010-10-22 DALLAS — For the first two years, George W. Bush managed his return to private work in Texas as a quiet transition.

While anonymous donors put his photograph on highway billboards that say “Miss Me Yet?” Mr. Bush all but shuttered his ranch near Crawford, scene of some of the more spectacular protests against his administration, moving instead to a quiet cul-de-sac in the upscale Preston Hollow enclave of Dallas.He has attended several Texas Rangers games, including opening day last year when he threw out the ceremonial first pitch.

But now Mr. Bush is bringing out the bullhorn.

“Breaking New Ground: Presenting the George W. Bush Presidential Center,” an exhibit set to open this weekend on the campus of Southern Methodist University, prominently features the handgun taken from Saddam Hussein and the loudspeaker used to address rescue workers at the World Trade Center in September 2001.

The choice of mementos, emphasizing some of the more controversial foreign policy aspects of the Bush presidency, has reinvigorated opposition to the center’s presence at the university.

“It’s the approach they’ve taken all along; it fits their worldview,” said the Rev. William K. McElvaney, a professor emeritus of preaching and worship at the university. “It’s a tragedy for S.M.U. to hitch its star to this.”
665 2010-10-22 World Wrestling Entertainment continues its effort to meld violent sport with gooey, throwback family comedy in the claptrap road movie “Knucklehead.” In “Legendary,” released last month, the W. W. E. star John Cena played a wrestler; in “Knucklehead” the behemoth Paul Wight (billed as the Big Show) fights his way across the South to win enough money to save his orphanage — the one where, at 35, he still lives.

The orphanage plot — tough nuns, smart-aleck kids, accidental fire — quickly merges with an equally clichéd boxing plot involving a crusty trainer, his con artist son and gambling debts. Quicker than you can say “contrivance,” the gentle giant Walter (Mr. Wight) is learning mixed martial arts and heading toward a $100,000 showdown that will save the orphans’ bacon and the con man’s kneecaps.

“Knucklehead” tries for a chokehold on the young male audience with the sort of frat-house sports humor associated with Will Ferrell and Ben Stiller: flatulence, gay jokes, Jewish jokes, testicle jokes. But, in a bid to be family friendly, it also goes for a sprightly sentimentality reminiscent of “The Champ.” It’s the kind of movie in which a restroom door opens after an explosive session and a nun walks out.

A number of talented performers are stymied by this mediocre material, including Mark Feuerstein, Melora Hardin, Wendie Malick, Will Patton and Saul Rubinek. (Ms. Malick, as the head nun, gets the best lines.) Most of them have worked primarily in television, as is true of the director, Michael W. Watkins, whose résumé includes episodes of Mr. Feuerstein’s USA series, “Royal Pains.” Mr. Wight, who played himself on “Royal Pains” this summer, is marginally better here portraying a real character. But, as always seems to be the case in this genre, he’s not as good as the actor (Lester Speight) playing the scary African-American nemesis he has to face in the final match.

“Knucklehead” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Sophomoric humor, nasty-looking fights, nice girls saying bad words, smart women inexplicably taking off most of their clothes.

Opens on Friday in New York; Peoria, Ariz.; Chino Hills, Calif.; Miami; Bloomington, Minn.; and Southlake, Tex.

Directed by Michael W. Watkins; written by Bear Aderhold, Thomas F. X. Sullivan and Adam Rifkin; director of photography, Kenneth Zunder; production design by Raymond Pumilia; produced by Mike Pavone; released by Samuel Goldwyn Films. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes.
666 2010-10-22 The American Express Company said on Thursday that its third-quarter profit jumped 71 percent as cardholders spent more and the company wrote off fewer unpaid bills.

The company’s net income rose to $1.08 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $632 million, or 53 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

Revenue jumped 17 percent, to $7.03 billion, from $6.02 billion last year.

Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, on average, expected profit of 86 cents a share, on revenue of $6.8 billion.

Spending on American Express cards rose 14 percent in the quarter, the company said. The largest increases came from business cards, for which the company made changes to various programs.

Revenue from its American cards rose 23 percent, to $3.66 billion. International card revenue edged up 1 percent, to $1.17 billion.
667 2010-10-22 Early in James M. Hausler’s morose psychological thriller, “Kalamity,” Stanley, the deranged baby-faced manager of an electronics and car parts store in Northern Virginia, vents his fear and loathing of the opposite sex to his best friend, Billy. “Women run everything: us, the world,” he fumes. The more even-tempered Billy, whose five-year relationship with Alice recently ended, is sympathetic. Still obsessed with Alice, he complains that he finds himself replaying their conversations in his head like an answering machine loop. His thoughts are so vivid that in several scenes Alice materializes beside him in his car.

Stanley (Jonathan Jackson) is much worse off. When Billy (Nick Stahl) innocently drops the name of Stanley’s sometime girlfriend, Ashley (Alona Tal), Stanley maniacally screams at his friend never to mention her name again. By then it is becoming apparent that something dreadful may have happened to Ashley, a haughty blond flirt who belatedly appears in flashbacks near the end of the movie.

The only surprise about this indie crime drama is that it sticks to its guns and doesn’t suddenly succumb to the slasher movie conventions of glossier missing-woman crime movies. There are no violent shock-for-shock’s-sake beats on the soundtrack, and although several characters are murdered, most of the killings take place off screen.

“Kalamity,” to its credit, is an emotionally unflinching portrait of insecure young men adrift in a society where the sexual balance has shifted to give women a power and autonomy not available to earlier generations from similar backgrounds. In the not-so-distant past Stanley and Billy might have married their girlfriends and lived unhappily. But in the brave new world of equal-opportunity sex, social mobility and proliferating strip clubs, women like Ashley and Alice (Beau Garrett) don’t feel pressured to settle for less.

For all its seriousness, “Kalamity” lacks a steady narrative drive; its speeches are too long, and its themes become repetitive. There are no unpredictable twists in a story that belongs to the whatever-happened-to genre in which a woman’s disappearance arouses suspicions of foul play. Billy, accompanied by Stanley’s nerdy roommate and store assistant, Christian (Christopher M. Clark), becomes an amateur sleuth whose efforts to locate Ashley eventually draws them into the cross hairs of Stanley’s paranoid fears.
668 2010-10-22 MOSCOW — In a battle of Russian oligarchs, shareholders voted on Thursday to retain the current board at Norilsk Nickel, thwarting an effort by a minority owner to gain more seats and oust the management.

Norilsk, whose Siberian mine far to the north of the Arctic Circle produces about a fifth of the world’s nickel, has become increasingly profitable. Nickel is used in stainless steel, which is in demand in China, and is carving out a new market as an important raw material for batteries used in electric cars.

Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch who controls about 25 percent of Norilsk through his aluminum company, Rusal, had hoped to reverse the results of a vote at a shareholder meeting in June. Another oligarch, Vladimir O. Potanin, had gained the upper hand by winning more board seats in the course of that meeting.

Yet Mr. Potanin owns only about 25 percent of Norilsk; executives at Mr. Deripaska’s company are accusing the management of Norilsk of voting shares the company holds in support of Mr. Potanin’s candidates.

Executives at Mr. Potanin’s private equity fund, Interros, meanwhile, have suggested that Mr. Deripaska wants to replace management so he can raise dividends, siphon money from Norilsk and pay down debt at his other companies.

Mr. Deripaska says he is asking for higher dividends because management has not presented a good investment plan for the profits. Norilsk is expected to earn about $7 billion this year before taxes, interest and amortization.
669 2010-10-22 The inflation report, and other economic data released in recent weeks, point to one of the central challenges now facing Beijing policy makers: how to prevent soaring food and property prices from creating social problems and undermining the nation’s economic boom.

Those challenges were probably behind the central bank’s surprise move Tuesday to force banks here to raise the benchmark interest rates on lending and deposits by 0.25 percentage point.

The decision was meant to force borrowers to pay more interest and to provide higher interest rates for savers. The government has indicated that it hopes the decision will slow property purchases and encourage people to keep money in the bank rather than spending and driving up inflation.

But some analysts say the initial move may not be enough. Consumers are benefiting from strong economic growth, with the nation’s gross domestic product moderating from about 10.3 percent in the second quarter of this year. But they are increasingly anxious about rising prices for a wide variety of goods.

“The purchasing power of households is being eroded,” said Ma Jun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Deutsche Bank. “These low rates are basically a subsidy to corporations by the household sector.”

Interest rates on savings deposits in China had recently fallen to about 2.25 percent a year before the decision Tuesday. (The government-mandated rate is now 2.5 percent.) But inflation has risen steadily this year, which means bank depositors are essentially facing a negative interest rate return.

Analysts say negative returns have persuaded many consumers to invest in real estate, which has served to fan property speculation and higher prices — alarming those who have not yet bought a home. Meanwhile, low corporate borrowing rates have given companies cheap capital and strong incentives to borrow and invest, aiding corporate profits.

Many consumers say they are frustrated.

“Everything is expensive right now — food, especially the vegetables,” said Li Huijun, a 53-year-old hospital clerk, who complained as she shopped at Lianhua Supermarket in Shanghai that lettuce used to cost only 1 renminbi per 500 grams, or 15 cents for about a pound, but now costs about twice that amount. “And not to mention clothes, and shoes,” Ms. Li said. “They all went up, except my salary.”

And yet, things may be even worse than the consumer price index suggests. A growing number of analysts say inflationary pressure is stronger than the price index indicates, because it is heavily weighted toward food — particularly pork prices. Rising energy, property and transportation costs are not as significant a factor in the index. And even the price increases of many food items — aside from pork — are also not adequately weighed or calculated, analysts say.

For instance, according to official government data, food prices have risen about 19 percent over the last three years. But government data on individual items shows that the price of many food items jumped 30 percent during that period.

According to government data for big cities, rice was up 38 percent, wheat prices rose 35 percent and beef and fresh milk prices each climbed about 44 percent. But two major supermarkets in Shanghai surveyed earlier this month had different figures. One said that rice prices had risen 132 percent since 2007, while the other said prices were up 190 percent in the same time frame. Both said that the cost of a tomato had jumped 300 percent.

“The biggest problem with the C.P.I. and particularly the food inflation index is the market basket was determined in 1993 and not adjusted much since then,” said Yi Xianrong, a researcher at the China Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing. “Also, I have doubts about the source of the data.”

Some of the sharp rise in food prices is attributed to severe droughts in some parts of the country. But food costs are rising in the rest of Asia and in other parts of the world. Corn and wheat prices have soared this year. And in China, sugar production shortages have led to surging prices and have forced the government to release millions of tons of reserves for auction.

In some ways, this is a return to 2007, when food prices were soaring in China and much of the rest of the world. Back then, the consumer price index here peaked at close to 7 percent.

There is intense focus on inflation in China because it influences the nation’s huge labor market, affecting things ranging from the salaries and labor costs at massive coastal factories to the cost of hiring restaurant workers in the big cities.

This year, a series of huge labor strikes at factories in southern China was fed by worker complaints about unfair treatment and the diminishing purchasing power of their salaries. Many migrant workers cited higher rent and food costs.

Whether China can contain inflation is unclear, analysts say. Some expect inflation to moderate later this year, as the government steps up measures to lift production and distribution of food. But for much of this year, even as the economy slowed, inflation rose sharply, passing the government’s early year target of 3 percent.

“I don’t believe the C.P.I. is only up 3.6 percent,” said Huang Hanchu, a retired 80-year-old man who was shopping for food at Lianhua on Thursday. “Statistics are always deceiving in our country. The government should really focus on increasing the wages of the average people.”

The International Monetary Fund, meanwhile, said Thursday that many Asian nations needed to tighten monetary policy further, including taking steps to let the Chinese renminbi rise in value against other currencies.

“We welcome the steps so far taken by policy makers to control inflation risks and limit the buildup of financial sector vulnerabilities,” said Anoop Singh, director of the I.M.F.’s Asia and Pacific department, in the fund’s latest outlook for the region. “But more now needs to be done, given the continued strong growth in the region.”
670 2010-10-22 This dish, a classic French piperade, relies on vitamin-rich peppers....
671 2010-10-22 DALLAS -- For the first two years, George W. Bush managed his return to private work in Texas as a quiet transition.     While anonymous donors put his photograph on highway billboards that say ''Miss Me Yet?'' Mr. Bush all but shuttered his ranch...
672 2010-10-23 Not a puzzle for the risk-averse....
673 2010-10-23 Your child did come to you with a business plan, right?...
674 2010-10-23 Polls suggest that Ms. Boxer has a slight lead over her Republican opponent. But Ms. Boxer has yet to break the 50 percent margin, despite a pummeling and costly television advertising campaign aimed at Ms. Fiorina. And with the latest contributions, Ms. Fiorina appears to have assured that she would at least match Ms. Boxer in spending over these final days.

Should Ms. Boxer lose, it would increase the chances that Republicans could capture the Senate. If that were to happen, this contest could come to be viewed, in the post-mortems of Nov. 3, as the election that captured the sweep of Democratic problems. This is political ground as friendly as any that Democrats could hope for; a Republican has not been elected to the Senate here since Pete Wilson in 1988.

“When it comes to the U.S. Senate and presidential elections, California is a Republican-free zone,” said Bob Mulholland, a Democratic strategist here.

And unlike most successful Republican candidates in this state in recent decades, Ms. Fiorina has not moved to the middle in a general election campaign: she is against abortion rights and supports off-shore drilling, for example, a point Ms. Boxer alluded to in her brief remarks introducing President Obama. On Thursday, Ms. Fiorina told a cheering crowd that she would support repeal of Mr. Obama’s health care legislation; Ms. Boxer’s pollster, Mark Mellman, said California may be the only state where the public supports the health care plan.

That said, Ms. Boxer’s difficulties here have as much to do with what has long been an ambivalent relationship between the voters and their often hard-charging senator as anything else — not to mention the generally sour environment for Democrats everywhere and unemployment in California now at 12.3 percent.

“The more she advertises, the worse she does,” said Marty Wilson, Ms. Fiorina’s campaign manager. “These people don’t like her. There’s not a big mystery in this thing: They don’t like Barbara Boxer and she’s going to pay a price for that.”

And Ms. Fiorina avoids talking ideology as she casts Ms. Boxer as a symbol of entrenched Washington politicians. “People I think all across our state are tired of career politicians,” Ms. Fiorina said at a campaign stop in Burbank. “In business, we solve problems. We know what it takes to solve problems. It doesn’t take constant, ideological bickering.”

Still, Ms. Fiorina’s record in private industry — as well as her views on issues like abortion — clearly provide grist for Ms. Boxer, and her campaign is planning to attack her repeatedly with advertisements on both fronts. Candidates who oppose abortion rights almost never win statewide races in California.

“A lot of people assume that a women who is a C.E.O. from Silicon Valley is probably pro-choice, she probably doesn’t support off-shore drilling in California,” said Jim Margolis, Ms. Boxer’s media adviser. “We need to make sure at the end of the day people know this and say, ‘Hold on a minute, this is someone who is pretty radical by Republican standards.’ ”

Mr. Mellman said, “The basic case here is that Carly Fiorina as a C.E.O. has laid off people in California and shipped jobs to China and India.”

Mr. Wilson said that in this kind of environment — and with an opponent like Ms. Boxer — positions that could be disqualifying in other California races might not matter: “They are not going to make their decisions on random social issues.”

Ms. Boxer faces another hurdle — not from Ms. Fiorina but from the Republican candidate for governor, Meg Whitman. Ms Whitman has spent an estimated $30 million to set up a get-out-the-vote operation that could, by aiming at Republicans, end up helping Ms. Fiorina (even though polls suggest it might not be enough to help Ms. Whitman against her own Democratic opponent, Jerry Brown.)

The rally Friday with Mr. Obama, Ms. Boxer and Mr. Brown packed a field at the University of Southern California, a turnout that Democrats said could only augur well for Ms. Boxer, though it seems fair to say that people were drawn more by the prospect of seeing Mr. Obama than Ms. Boxer.

“We’re here for Obama, but we’re supporters of the Democratic Party,” said Anne Baumgartner, 61. “But if Obama weren’t here today, I don’t know if we would have braved the crowds.”

And before Mr. Obama took the stage, the actor Jamie Foxx led what might have been one of the more unusual chants heard at a campaign rally. “We’re not exhausted!” he said, raising his hands as he exhorted the crowd to chant along with him.
675 2010-10-23 WICHITA, Kan. — A Kansas rancher’s long battle against the poisoning of this state’s biggest prairie dog colony is being hailed as a significant victory for wildlife conservation.

Numbering about 25,000 prairie dogs in far western Kansas, the colony is a prime source of food for one of the most endangered mammals in the world, the black-footed ferret.

Larry Haverfield, the 74-year-old rancher on whose land the colony thrives, went to court to stop commissioners in Logan County from exterminating the prairie dogs without his permission, despite a 1901 state law that allows them to do so. Last month, the judge hearing the case here sided with Mr. Haverfield and Gordon Barnhardt, who also owns some of the land.

“It’s important because it says the Endangered Species Act trumps a 100-year-old state law that forces the extermination of prairie dogs,” said the men’s lawyer, Randy Rathbun.

Prairie dogs inspire strong opinions in these parts. A highly social member of the squirrel family known for burrowing elaborate tunnels and emitting a warning call similar to a dog’s bark, they are treated as pests by most ranchers because they can spread rapidly and compete with cattle for grass.
676 2010-10-23 Emission of greenhouse gases in Ireland fell 8 percent last year, the greatest plunge in recorded history, the country’s Environmental Protection Agency said in a report Friday. The decrease, to 62.3 million tons, was the first decline since 1989, and researchers said it reflected the country’s economic slowdown. Irish businesses consumed less fossil fuel in 2009 and reduced emissions 20 percent. The cement industry, a reflection of Ireland’s boom-to-bust property market, experienced a 38 percent emissions drop. The environmental agency said Ireland would not have to buy carbon credits until 2013 to meet targets under the Kyoto global-warming pact.
677 2010-10-23 The 13th World Bridge Series, held in Philadelphia this month, permitted transnational pairs and teams in all but the junior events. There were several such teams in the Mixed Swiss Teams, including the winners: Greg Hinze, Jo Ann Sprung, Connie Goldberg and Lynn and Dale Johannesen from the United States, and Daniel Lavee from Canada. (Hinze and the Johannesens were misidentified as Canadian in Monday’s column.)

With one round to be played, Hinze was lying second on 203 victory points, 4 behind the Steelers (Linda and Robb Gordon, Sylwia and Mike McNamara, Jo Morse and Warren Oberfield from the United States); 2 ahead of Renate Hansen, Andreas Babsch, Jovanka Smederevac and Sascha Wernle from Austria, Cecilia Rimstedt from Sweden and Valentin Kovachev Al-Shati from Bulgaria; and 3 in front of Hansa Narasimhan, Jill Levin, Irina Levitina, Ron Smith and Eddie Wold from the United States.

In the last round, Hinze beat Hansen by 23 victory points to 7, and Narasimhan defeated the Steelers by 20 victory points to 10, leaving the Canadian-American team 6 points clear of Narasimhan, with the Steelers third.

Hinze played a captain’s role in the diagramed deal, the final board from the last match.

At the other table, South made three spades exactly after a heart lead.

Hinze (South) and Sprung (North) bid aggressively to four spades.

Rimstedt (West) led the club queen, taken by dummy’s ace. Hinze called for the spade ten, planning to run it, but Kovachev Al-Shati (East) covered with his jack. South won with his queen and led the club ten, covered by the jack and king.

After East ruffed, if he had shifted to a diamond, he would have defeated the contract, but he led a heart. Declarer won with his ace and now played accurately. He cashed the spade ace and led another spade. East won and switched to a diamond, but it was too late. South, able to lose one more trick, won with his ace and ran trumps. This was the end position:

On the last spade West had to discard her final heart. But then Hinze led his remaining diamond, endplaying West to lead away from her eight-deuce of clubs into declarer’s nine-seven.

Minus 140 and plus 420 gave the champions 7 international match points on the board.
678 2010-10-23 Other high-end retailers have also been exploring ways to attract more ordinary shoppers through discount apparel. Nordstrom has been aggressively expanding Nordstrom Rack, having opened 15 new stores so far this year, including its first New York City outlet. Saks Fifth Avenue is redesigning its Off 5th stores to make shopping there more enjoyable, through new lighting and open floor plans. And from the digital side, flash-sale sites like Gilt Groupe, HauteLook and Rue La La are grabbing territory with steep discounts on designer clothes.

Although the luxury market is showing signs of recovery, it plummeted during the recession. At Neiman Marcus, sales at stores open more than a year have risen since December 2009. But that came after 18 months of declines, including some of the worst in retailing in mid-2009.

Neiman Marcus executives said that while they began developing the Last Call Studio idea about five years ago, signs of vitality among so-called value shoppers spurred them to introduce it now.

It “clearly is a sector that has continued to show good growth even through the recession years,” said Tom Lind, senior vice president and managing director for Last Call.

Even Neiman Marcus’s Last Call outlet stores can be too expensive for these shoppers. The 27 Last Call stores carry a mix of clearance clothes from Neiman Marcus stores and merchandise ordered specifically for them.

The new Studio stores will carry lower-end products, bought directly from vendors, not the scuffed but still new pair of Manolo Blahniks (as high as $1,995 at Neiman’s) that can show up at Last Call stores (for about two-thirds as much). That is in part because there is not much clearance inventory left. There was $790.5 million worth of inventory at Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman stores as of the beginning of August, down 19 percent from two years ago.

“We cut our inventory buys when the recession hit, so obviously it produces fewer goods for outlets later on,” Ms. Gierhart said.

The biggest name brands at the Studio stores will be apparel makers like Vince (clothing prices will run about $180 to $220, versus $42 to $1,450 at the regular stores), which are selling leftover stock from their department store lines and specially made apparel.

Buying directly from apparel makers, rather than waiting for clearance merchandise, has advantages because the Studio stores will have dependable offerings, Mr. Lind said.

“We’ll have more continuity in the product we’ll offer,” Mr. Lind said. “If boots are the trend of the season, she’s going to be looking for a great boot selection, so we’ll want to have more than what we can rely on from the store.”

A prototype of the Studio store in Dallas looks more like a career-wear store — an Ann Taylor or a Chico’s — than it does a Neiman Marcus or an outlet store. Clothes are simple and conservative, and muted colors like black, taupe and pink reign.

Studio stores will be less than half the size of the biggest Last Call mall outlet stores. Apart from the Dallas prototype, the first stores will open in Rockville, Md., and Paramus, N.J., in November. “We want to create more trips and have faster turns, so we’re going to go to the neighborhood where she lives,” Ms. Gierhart said.

Dana L. Telsey, chief executive and chief research officer at Telsey Advisory Group, said it was a smart real estate move. Few new malls were opening, she said, and even a vacated space in a mall would require three to four years to convert to a regular Neiman Marcus. But with the in-town shops, Neiman Marcus could swoop in to empty spaces quickly and easily.

“Being able to find some different real estate venues for it and at some different price points works,” she said.

Mr. Lind said the company had identified areas across the country where Last Call Studio stores could succeed. To bring in traffic, they will add new merchandise weekly — Neiman Marcus is expecting many Studio shoppers to come almost every week, versus the three to five times a year that a typical shopper visits its existing outlet stores.

Earlier this month, Neiman Marcus introduced an accompanying Web site, LastCall.com. Neiman’s competitor Saks has avoided Web sites for its outlet stores so far, though Nordstrom, another competitor, introduced NordstromRack.com on Monday. Jamie Nordstrom, the president of Nordstrom Direct, said the introduction took a while because figuring out how to sell the limited stock of clearance items online was challenging.

“It’s a different animal,” he said in a recent interview.

Mr. Lind agreed that displaying clearance inventory from stores online would be difficult, but LastCall.com showed mostly direct-to-outlet merchandise, with its Last Hurrah section showing sale items that had not sold at NeimanMarcus.com, not the physical stores.

“That merchandise has already been photographed, you’ve already made the investment — basically, you’ve already put up a page,” he said.
679 2010-10-23 There are no shortcuts to the kind of musical maturity that the jazz singer Jane Monheit displayed at Birdland on Wednesday evening. Although endowed with improvisatory skill and a voice of singular plushness, Ms. Monheit has often struggled to connect with the meanings of songs, letting the sheer beauty of her sound and her polished technique carry her performances. Like many young pop-jazz singers, she often seemed to be listening to herself and gauging her intonation instead of heeding the material.

At her Birdland engagement, which celebrates her 10th album, “Home” (Emarcy), Ms. Monheit was a new woman: confident, playful and at ease. Recent motherhood may be a key to Ms. Monheit’s coming into herself. She introduced “That’s All” with a dedication to her “adorable genius child,” then sang a light, skipping version of a ballad that is usually treated as a heavy-duty vow of romantic commitment. She showed that it works just as well as a parent-child love song.

Ms. Monheit’s band — Michael Kanan on piano, Neal Miner on bass, Rick Montalbano on drums and Joe Magnarelli on trumpet — gave her plenty of room to be frisky. Mr. Magnarelli’s solos complemented Ms. Monheit’s voice, whose clear, ringing tone suggests a trumpet in its silvery mode. The Dietz-Schwartz standard “A Shine on Your Shoes” became a happy full-gallop duet for voice and trumpet.

Ms. Monheit is also singing more softly than before, lending her improvisations a lighter, springier momentum. The best of these solos were not simply decorative appliqués; they went somewhere.

Her new authority was as evident in her ballads as in her jazzier excursions. As Mr. Kanan’s piano simulated raindrops, she began “I’ll Be Around” in the small, meek voice of a woman who is almost too devastated to speak after a breakup; then, by degrees, she vented the hurt and longing with increasing intensity before falling back in defeat.

The same dramatic use of dynamics informed “Over the Rainbow,” in which the humble dreamer imagines an impossible transcendence, becomes carried away, then accepts reality with the thud of acknowledgment: “Why, oh why, can’t I?”
680 2010-10-23 “And the kids do most of the work. The campus that missed having a football team now has one. It’s a great model.”

Joining Clarkson, B.U. and Vermont in conference play this season are the University of Maine, which has a varsity football program and has had a club team for several years, and two Connecticut teams representing a group of community colleges. The seventh team is based in the Bronx and has some players enrolled in local colleges and others who have recently left college or are in the process of applying to college. The league has given the Bronx team one year to have its roster made up entirely of active college students.

The conference will crown its first champion after next month’s playoffs.

“The league is filling a void,” said Alex Lopez, a junior linebacker at B.U. “There was always talk of trying to get football back at B.U., but who would we play?”

Starting a club football team, however, is not like getting people together for a chess club. There are significant logistical hurdles, not the least of which is acquiring safe gear and liability insurance, as well as securing the services of trainers, referees, coaches and bus drivers and finding a place to practice and play. And, of course, someone has to recruit about 40 or 50 players somewhere on campus.

Thanks to Facebook, the last task is easier than ever. Nikki Bruner was a B.U. freshman interested in a sports management career when she answered an advertisement last year looking for help organizing a club football team, thinking it would be good experience. The first thing she did was set up a Facebook group, and in four days she had more than 1,600 students interested in the fledgling team. There were potential players, prospective fans and those interested in internship opportunities.

“And that’s how we set up our first practices and got almost all our help,” said Bruner, now the team president.

Not that the work has stopped; Bruner said she spends about 50 hours a week operating the club.

At Clarkson, the experience has been similar, although the start-up steps were more old-fashioned. Walking around campus asking for support for a club football team, a Clarkson student, Andrew Dorr, and some other former high school football players got more than 1,000 petition signatures from students, administrators, faculty members and alumni. In one pass through the dormitories, soliciting spare change for the team, they raised $800.

“We haven’t stopped moving since because all the little details make it almost like running a small business,” Dorr said, adding: “We are learning so much more than football plays. We have to be innovative and negotiate our way through a thousand situations.”

Morgante, who graduated from B.U. in 1987, said there was something in the makeup of the modern college student that had made the admittedly complicated club model more successful.

“They have an entrepreneurial spirit and a belief that new solutions will fix old problems,” he said. “They don’t fool around. You tell them they’ll have to raise $10,000 for something, and they go, ‘We can do that.’ ”

Most team members played high school football, and some were good enough to have been recruited to play at the N.C.A.A. Division III level. But every team also has players who have never played football. Players normally pay dues between $200 and $500. Attendance at most games ranges from 300 to 800 people.

Although the teams at Clarkson, Vermont and Maine receive financial support from their institutions and have been allowed to use the university name, the club team at B.U. was created without the university’s approval. An application to be recognized along with B.U.’s existing 34 club sports was rejected, as was the club’s request to pay for the use of the on-campus stadium for three games.

A B.U. spokesman, Colin Riley, declined to give a reason for the team’s exclusion from the university’s club ranks.

“Their application was considered, and they were not approved,” Riley said. “We wish them well.”

The football club, which is made up of 37 B.U. students, goes by the name Boston Terriers Football Club, in reference to B.U.’s mascot. The team plays its games at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s athletic stadium. They rent a practice field near Boston’s Logan Airport, which the players reach via a 30-minute bus ride from the B.U. campus three nights a week.

“It’s not ideal when the bus returning from practice is pulling in at 11 at night and you still have homework,” said Robbie Harrison, who plays as an offensive and defensive lineman. “But everyone makes sacrifices, I guess.”

At least Harrison’s bus has returned him to campus. When Clarkson made the 10-hour trip to Maine in three large vans in September, one of the vans broke down three hours from the Maine campus. A player’s grandmother lived about 40 minutes away and soon arrived with a station wagon to drive some of the stranded players to the game while the rest squeezed into one of the other still-working vans.

Clarkson will also often practice in virtual darkness because the team’s practice field does not have lights and classes prevent some players from arriving for workouts before 6 p.m.

“I’ve been coaching football at various levels for 40 years, and this is the most fun I’ve ever had,” Clarkson Coach Mike Britton said. “These kids have no grandiose expectations. It’s a pure college football. They just want to play.”

Morgante said he would not be surprised if his conference, which is affiliated with the long-established, semiprofessional New England Football League, had 20 teams within a few seasons.

“One of the things I like best about the league is the camaraderie between teams,” Clarkson’s Dorr said. “Sure, we are trying really hard to win, but once the game is over, we get together in the middle of the field, mixed like one team, and make friends. We’re all going through the same things to play, and we’re all in this together to make the league work. That’s the important thing — keep this going.”

“We’re starting a new football culture,” he said. “In 10 years, I want B.U. students to be able to tell people: ‘No, we don’t have a varsity team, but we have a very competitive club team that’s been around for 10 years. You should go watch them play.’ ”
681 2010-10-23 Mr. Deal and his wife, Sandra, certainly did, and his comments on the topic have had two underlying themes.

The first is family values. “It was an investment my wife and I made because we think that’s what parents do,” he told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution last month. “Parents help their children.”

This sounds nice in the middle of a political campaign, and it’s true to a point. Putting up money for a questionable business, however, may not be so helpful if it leads them straight into bankruptcy. You help your children if they are, say, homeless or destitute — when they really need it and not just because they want it badly.

Mr. Deal, who is a Republican, also talks about empathy, practically aping the long-lampooned “I feel your pain” language of Bill Clinton in his first presidential campaign. Mr. Deal says he knows what it’s like to struggle. Candidates, they’re just like us!

By trying to turn the public baring of his dwindling fortune into some kind of personal virtue, however, Mr. Deal is not dealing with much more important lessons — namely, how easily parents might avoid these sorts of problems in the first place by thinking about the investments from three different perspectives.

THE FINANCIAL PLANNER Here’s a first principle: Never invest more than you can afford to lose. The Deals may well avoid bankruptcy by cashing out retirement accounts and selling one of their homes and other land. But they clearly stretched the definition of “afford” in this instance.

Then, consider your appetite for risk. “A kid might be comfortable with lots of risk,” said Jonathan Clarke, an associate professor of finance at the Georgia Tech College of Management in Atlanta. “A parent is closer to retirement, and they need to be more conservative in their choices. That kind of mismatch can be troubling.”

Given both of those points, it rarely makes sense to put a significant percentage of their net worth in a single investment. Diversification doesn’t always protect a portfolio, but it sure is safer than the alternative.

THE VENTURE CAPITALIST If your child were a stranger, you’d ask many of the same questions that professional investors do when deciding whether to put money into a start-up. Do the founders have the right kind of experience or expertise? Are they asking for too much (or too little) money?

Then, you’d want to look at the business plan. Your child did come to you with a business plan, right? “You need to compare benefits to cost,” Mr. Clarke says, trying to boil it down for parents the same way he does for his students. He adds that this is hard enough to do inside General Motors or Home Depot.

“But with a start-up, there’s this tendency to really be overly optimistic about benefits and minimize the costs,” Mr. Clarke said. “And when you don’t analyze the costs well, you do things like opening up a high-end sporting goods store in the middle of nowhere.”

Another tactic you can borrow from venture capitalists is investing in phases. That can instill discipline — and keep you from losing enormous sums quickly. “You can tell your kids that as they prove their success, you’ll put more and more into it,” said Charles Goetz, a serial entrepreneur who teaches at the Goizueta Business School at Emory University in Atlanta. “There are lots of things we don’t know in a new business.”

THE PARENT There are some things, however, that a financial planner or venture capitalist can never answer. To sort them out yourself requires some radical honesty.

Perhaps the toughest issue is reckoning with what you’re actually trying to accomplish. Are you really investing in an entrepreneurial venture? Or are you actually just buying a job for children who can’t get one on their own? And if they can’t find an employer to hire them, isn’t it possible they lack the skills that they need to succeed as an entrepreneur?

One way to test your instincts is to bring in a disinterested outsider. If your accountant, say, won’t offer a seal of approval on the business plan, then you shouldn’t either. Or perhaps you should refuse to invest in the business until someone unknown to the family does. Then, you match whatever that person invests, but no more.

And if no one else will step up? “If what you are actually trying to do is buy your child a job, then a franchise is probably a better opportunity,” Mr. Goetz said, noting that training and support are generally available from headquarters. “But do your homework and get your child a good one.”

In that instance, it may be a while before you get any money back, if ever. So you have to consider whether you’re being realistic about whether your investment will have any short or medium return at all. “You might want to assume that this is a gift and think of it that way emotionally,” Mr. Goetz said.

And what if this venture does not inspire you to give? Does that make you a bad parent? “Actually, you’re a better parent because you’ve provided some of that financial discipline that is required for success,” said Greg Henley, a former banker who teaches entrepreneurship at the J. Mack Robinson College of Business at Georgia State University in Atlanta. “Maybe it’s difficult, but you want your child to be successful for a long period of time, not just in the six months that the money might last when funding the business.”

Mr. Henley added one more thing, almost as an afterthought, but it may be the most important point of all. Consider the Thanksgiving dinner test. “If you made this investment or convinced family members to make it, what is Thanksgiving dinner going to feel like?” he asked. “How is my child going to feel facing me if the investment does not work out? Is my child going to come when I invite her to Thanksgiving dinner?”

Mr. Deal’s daughter, Carrie Deal Wilder, and her husband, Clint Wilder, may yet have the opportunity to dine in the Georgia governor’s mansion, as Mr. Deal is still ahead in the polls.

The conversation may be awkward, though. Mr. Deal found out that his son-in-law had declared bankruptcy in 2001 only after Mr. Deal lent the couple money. Meanwhile, Mr. Wilder’s 2009 bankruptcy filing is under review by the court because of questions about whether he failed to properly disclose his 2001 bankruptcy in the 2009 filing.

But even if the entire affair does not cost Mr. Deal at the ballot box, the fact that he’s having to scrape the insides of his safety deposit box is a sad ending to his investing adventure. Nobody should ever put themselves in this position if they can possibly help it, no matter how much they love their children.
682 2010-10-23 Shoe manufacturers keep adding improvements to shoes in the form of cushioning gel pods, microprocessors and so-called thrust enhancers, but these upgrades don’t seem to make runners safer. A review of current studies on running shoes published in 2009 found that there were no evidence-based studies that showed running shoes actually helped prevent injury. Indeed, injury rates have not gone down.

Fancy running shoes may even lead to injury, experts say. Some studies show that when runners don expensive running shoes that promise superior cushioning, they incur more injuries than runners using cheaper shoes.

The authors of one such study concluded that there was a “tendency in humans to be less cautious when using new devices of unknown benefit because of overly positive attitudes associated with new technology and novel devices.”

If you want to run well and run safely, consider fit first and price last. “You want a shoe that helps you maintain a balanced position,” said Mark Montgomery, manager of the JackRabbit Sports store in Union Square in New York. “A more expensive shoe is not always the solution.” With the ING New York City Marathon approaching on Nov. 7, here are some guidelines for buying the best shoe for you.

A SHOE THAT FITS If you are new to running, or have not been fitted in a few years, go first to a reputable store that specializes in running shoes. A well-trained salesperson should analyze your gait and inquire about your running habits before recommending a shoe.

At JackRabbit Sports, a salesperson typically videotapes customers running on a treadmill to figure out what type of stride they have. Pronators, those whose arches roll inward, for instance, may need a shoe with motion control, which may be a bit more expensive than neutral shoes.

That first fitting is important, because it will give you a sense of what type of shoe is best for you. Once you know, you can head down-market for the bargains.

“When I first started running, I went to a specialty store,” said Ms. Tanenbaum. “Now I can shop anywhere, even Target, because I know what works for me.”

It is wise, though, to get refitted every few years. Over time, your arches tend to fall and your feet become longer. The model or type that worked well for you in your 40s may not be the best one for you in your 50s.

SIZE IT UP What is a good fit? Buy a running shoe that is a half size or so larger than your regular shoe. There should be a thumb’s width between the tip of your big toe and the top of the shoe.

Don’t get too hung up on the official size. Sizes vary from brand to brand and model to model. Ms. Tanenbaum buys shoes that are two sizes larger than her regular shoes.

“Most shoes are mass-produced these days, with no real attention to detail or quality,” said Professor Abboud. “If you take two pairs of shoes from the same brand, you will not be guaranteed the same size shoes. It may vary by up to one size in length.”

Make sure the shoes are not too tight across the arch and that your heel is snug. They should feel comfortable right away. “The shoes should feel like they belong on your feet,” said Gordon Bakoulis, 49, a running coach in New York City who has competed in four United States Olympic Marathon Trials.

If you are planning to run a long race, spend at least two weeks breaking in your new shoes before start day.

LESS IS MORE The cheapest solution? Forgo shoes altogether and join the legions of runners who have embraced the barefoot trend.

It is not just a fad. A few studies have suggested that running barefoot might be better for your body over the, ahem, long run than running in shoes. A 2009 study found that compared to going barefoot, running shoes put more pressure on the hip, knee and ankle joints and concluded that running shoes could put athletes at greater risk for osteoarthritis of the knee. Earlier studies found that running shoes could increase the risk for plantar fasciitis and ankle sprains.

But podiatrists urge caution before running without shoes. “I tell my clients it’s great thing to try,” said Dr. Karen Langone, a sports fitness podiatrist in Southampton, N.Y. “But it’s not for everyone, and it should be gradually incorporated into your running program.”

Some people require the mechanical support that a running shoe offers. “I saw quite a few patients this summer who had developed shin splints from running barefoot,” she said.

Minimalist shoes are a good hedge for runners who favor simplicity, but who do not want to fully embrace the barefoot trend. If you want to approximate the experience, look into the Nike Free (about $85) or the Saucony Kinvara (about $90). To get even closer to the ground, try Vibram’s Five Fingers shoe ($75 to $125), which has very little support and is more akin to a water shoe than a running sneaker.

“The less you think about a shoe, the better,” said Ms. Bakoulis, the marathoner.
683 2010-10-23 Stocks ended mixed Friday as investors looked for guidance about the economy from a range of company results, and from the meeting of the finance officials for the Group of 20 nations in South Korea.

At that meeting, the Obama administration urged the world’s biggest economies to set a numerical limit on their trade imbalances, in an effort to broker an international consensus on how to handle festering exchange-rate tensions. China, whose currency battle with the United States has threatened to derail global economic cooperation, did not formally weigh in on the plan.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 14.01 points, or 0.1 percent, at 11,132.56. On Thursday, the Dow had ended at its highest level since May 3, despite wavering through the day.

The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.72 points, or 0.8 percent, at 2,479.39 while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 2.82 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,183.08. While the three indexes rose less than 1 percent in the week, they closed at weekly highs not seen since April.

Corporate earnings have helped lift shares this week despite uncertainty from an interest rate increase by China earlier in the week. Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst for Standard & Poor’s indexes, said on Friday that more than 85 percent of the 151 companies listed on the S.& P. that had reported so far had beaten their 2009 earnings per share as of Thursday’s close.
684 2010-10-23 Despite a strong lineup of smartphones powered by Google’s operating system, Verizon Communications on Friday reported a 25 percent drop in profit and a slowing growth of new customers in the third quarter.

The company cited pension settlements resulting from layoffs and voluntary departures as the main reason for the smaller profit. Net income dipped to $881 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with $1.2 billion, or 41 cents a share, reported a year ago.

Excluding the pension-related charges and acquisitions, including the sale of four million phone lines to Frontier Communications, Verizon’s earnings were 56 cents a share — beating the expectations of Wall Street analysts by 2 cents.

Verizon Wireless also struggled to appeal to new customers in the quarter, which ended Sept. 30, adding fewer than its main competitor, AT&T, which is still luring subscribers to its service with the iPhone.

Verizon reported a net addition of 584,000 contract customers in the quarter, while AT&T added 745,000.
685 2010-10-23 The protests this week have mostly unfolded in Tibetan towns in Qinghai Province, a vast, sparsely populated region that is historically important as a center of Tibetan culture.

They began at a high school on Tuesday in the town of Tongren, known as Rebkong in Tibetan, and then widened. More than 1,000 students ended up taking part, according to Free Tibet and the International Campaign for Tibet, two advocacy groups outside China. The protesters adopted a slogan: “Equality of ethnicities, freedom of language.”

Photographs distributed by Free Tibet, based in London, show students in uniforms taking to the streets in Rebkong. Some photos show the students walking by a monastery and monks joining the rally. Rebkong is the seat of Rongwo Monastery, a 700-year-old center of scholarship that is home to about 400 monks who regularly display photos of the Dalai Lama and openly criticize government policies they consider overbearing. The principal of a primary school in Huangzhong County, northwest of Tongren, confirmed by telephone that peaceful protests had taken place.

Students in Rebkong appeared to have returned to classes by Wednesday. But inspired by those rallies, hundreds and perhaps thousands of teenagers from several schools in the Tibetan town of Chabcha, known in Chinese as Gonghe, took to the streets on Wednesday morning. One photo shows more than 100 students dashing through the streets; another shows policemen in white hats watching a group of students as one raises his left fist defiantly. On Thursday, students in the town of Tawo, or Dawu in Chinese, also protested. By 2 p.m., the police were preventing people from going out into the streets of Tawo, according to Free Tibet.

Posts on the Internet said 400 Tibetan students held a rally on Friday on the campus of Minzu University of China, the specialized school in Beijing. Photographs showed a large group of students gathered on a concrete walkway lined with shrubs. Other photos showed uniformed guards milling around some students.

The traditional mission of Minzu University is to train students from ethnic minority regions of China who might then return to those regions and work for the government. Departments in the university specialize in scholarship on various cultures in China, and more than 600 Tibetans study on the campus. Telephone calls on Friday afternoon to several offices at the university went unanswered.

The protests in Qinghai erupted over speculation that government officials plan to severely limit the teaching of Tibetan in schools, perhaps relegating it to elective or extracurricular status. On Sept. 30, People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s mouthpiece, ran an article quoting Qiang Wei, the party secretary of Qinghai Province, as saying in a speech at a Sept. 13 education conference that mandating Chinese language instruction was crucial.

“Officials at all levels must overcome all your worries, overcome the wrong idea that to adopt common language education for minority students will hurt minority people’s feelings or affect the development of minority culture or affect social stability,” he said. The article provided tinder for the protests.

Woeser, a Tibetan blogger who lives in Beijing, circulated a cellphone text message on Friday that said: “In order save our mother tongue, many Tibetan students are protesting in Tibetan areas advocating for the Tibetan language. We need your attention.”

The message also said that if ethnic Han who are Cantonese speakers can protest to defend the use of Cantonese, then Tibetans should have the right to defend their language. That referred to protests in July in the city of Guangzhou in which Cantonese assailed a local politician’s proposal to force prominent programs on a local television network to stop broadcasting in Cantonese and switch to Mandarin.
686 2010-10-24 Dogs in China now play with the best of them as dogs acquire a new status in the country.
687 2010-10-24 Young Jonah Kagan from Brown University gives this week an exciting opening....
688 2010-10-24 It seemed that everything conspired for the Korean Grand Prix to either not happen at all, or to be one of the craziest, most unpredictable and exciting races of the season....
689 2010-10-24 Spending on television advertisements rose significantly for one candidate - but not the other - in more than a dozen House races last week, usually because of the involvement of an outside group....
690 2010-10-24 IN 2008, Barack Obama’s presidential campaign seemed to rewrite all the rules in electoral politics and herald a new progressive era in America. Democrats assembled a huge Congressional majority and, in the euphoria that followed the historic election, were poised to enact sweeping change. However, despite some notable successes — the stimulus package, health care reform, tighter rules for the financial industry — things have not gone according to plan. Just two years later, Democrats face a bad economy, a skeptical public, a re-energized Republican Party and a coming avalanche of losses in the midterm elections.

What happened? One important explanation is that divisions inside the Democratic coalition, which held together during the 2008 campaign, have come spilling out into the open. Conservative Democrats have opposed key elements of the president’s agenda, while liberal Democrats have howled that their majority is being hijacked by a rogue group of predominantly white men from small rural states. President Obama himself appears caught in the middle, unable to satisfy the many factions inside his party’s big tent.

Conservative Democrats in the House of Representatives — whose election in 2006 and 2008 enabled Nancy Pelosi to preside over a supermajority (there are 255 Democrats and 178 Republicans) — increasingly question whether she should relinquish her position as speaker. Representative Heath Shuler of western North Carolina, a leader of the restive Blue Dog Coalition of Democrats, has even hinted that he may run for her job. Representative Shuler is an unlikely candidate for leader of the party — a devout Southern Baptist who voted against the stimulus, the bank and auto bailouts and health care reform. Yet he’s exactly the kind of Democrat that the party worked very hard to recruit for public office.

In 2005, Howard Dean, who was then the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, carried out a campaign to elect as many Democrats as possible. In long-ignored red states, both Mr. Dean and Rahm Emanuel, then the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, backed conservative Democrats who broke with the party’s leadership on core issues like gun control and abortion rights. Mr. Shuler was one of Mr. Emanuel’s top recruits. The party leaders did not give much thought to how a Democratic majority that included such conservative members could ever effectively govern.

With President Obama in office, some notable beneficiaries of the Democrats’ 50-state strategy have been antagonizing the party from within — causing legislative stalemate in Congress, especially in the Senate, and casting doubt on the long-term viability of a Democratic majority. As a result, the activists who were so inspired by Mr. Dean in 2006 and Mr. Obama in 2008 are now feeling buyer’s remorse.

Margaret Johnson, a former party chairwoman in Polk County, N.C., helped elect Representative Shuler but now believes the party would be better off without him. “I’d rather have a real Republican than a fake Democrat,” she said. “A real Republican motivates us to work. A fake Democrat de-motivates us.”
691 2010-10-24 Jerrell Jackson spun free from a knot of tacklers on a 38-yard reception for the go-ahead score Saturday night, the beginning of a 16-point fourth quarter that helped No. 18 Missouri win, 36-27, against visiting Oklahoma, the No. 1 team in the initial Bowl Championship Series standings.

The Sooners (6-1, 2-1 Big 12), ranked third by The Associated Press, had three costly turnovers — after having only five giveaways in their first six games. Two turnovers led to 10 points, and the other squelched a drive deep in Missouri territory.

An 86-yard touchdown return by Gahn McGaffie on the opening kickoff gave the Tigers (7-0, 3-0) a flying start. The game ended when thousands of fans from a capacity crowd of 70,004 swarmed the field. Missouri is 7-0 for the first time since 1960, when the Tigers finished 11-0 and ranked No. 5.

Oklahoma became the third national front-runner to lose in consecutive weeks, following Alabama and Ohio State. Their losses had helped clear the way for the Sooners in the B.C.S., but Oregon will probably move into the top spot, followed by Boise State, Auburn or maybe Texas Christian.

¶Ed Wesley had a career-high 209 yards and 2 touchdowns, and No. 4 Texas Christian (8-0, 4-0 Mountain West) beat visiting Air Force, 38-7. The Frogs piled up 377 rushing yards, 30 more than the Falcons’ average.
692 2010-10-24 The Congressional Budget Office predicts that by 2019, about 24 million people will have insurance through exchanges, with four-fifths of them getting federal subsidies that average $6,000 a year per person. People with incomes up to four times the poverty level (about $88,000 a year for a family of four) will be eligible for subsidies.

The Utah Health Exchange organizes the market, allowing consumers to compare a wide variety of health plans sold by any insurers that want to participate.

In the Massachusetts exchange, known as the Connector, the state serves as an active purchaser, soliciting bids from insurance companies and negotiating prices and benefits in an effort to secure the best value for state residents. Health plans cannot be sold through the Connector unless they receive its seal of approval.

“Massachusetts has been more selective and aggressive in contracting,” said Jon M. Kingsdale, who was executive director of the Massachusetts exchange from its creation in 2006 until June of this year.

Matthew A. Spencer, manager of the Utah exchange, said: “We are on the other end of the spectrum from Massachusetts. Our exchange is wide open for any carrier that wants to participate. We define the minimum benefits that plans need to offer. But we step back and allow carriers to compete within the exchange, setting their own prices.”

The idea of an insurance exchange has bipartisan appeal.

Liberals and conservatives alike see it as a way to concentrate the purchasing power of individuals and small businesses.

The federal law was shaped, to a large degree, by the experience of Massachusetts. But Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said: “Utah is not Massachusetts. Nor does it want to be.”

Other states will probably fall somewhere along the continuum from Boston to Salt Lake City as they try to figure out the right mix of regulation and competition.

State legislators are asking: Can we get a better deal by limiting competition in the exchange or by accepting all qualified health plans? Should states negotiate premiums or rely on market forces to set rates?

David Clark, a Republican who is speaker of the Utah House of Representatives, said: “In our exchange, the government is a market facilitator, not a contracting agent. We believe in the invisible hand of the marketplace rather than the heavy hand of government.”

Utah has no interest in putting its exchange plans out for bid, Mr. Thurston said. “Any attempt to standardize benefit designs tends to discourage competition and entry into the market, and limits choice,” he said.

In Massachusetts, State Senator Richard T. Moore, a Democrat who is president of the National Conference of State Legislatures, said: “We took a much more governmental approach. But both models make sense. Small states might find Utah is a good model. Bigger industrialized states might go the route we went.”

Massachusetts officials point to the state’s near-universal coverage as evidence that their approach is working. The Census Bureau says 95.6 percent of Massachusetts residents were covered by health insurance last year, compared with 83.3 percent for the nation as a whole and 85.2 percent for Utah.

“We have the lowest uninsured rate in the nation, and we are immensely proud of that,” said Glen Shor, executive director of the Massachusetts Connector.

The White House has provided $49 million to states to help them set up exchanges, which are envisioned as a kind of bazaar where insurers will offer their products side by side, so consumers and employers can make intelligent comparisons.

Congress assumed that insurance would also be sold outside the exchange. But federal subsidies, to help pay for insurance, will be available only to people who enroll in health plans through an exchange.

Exchanges will also play a crucial role as gateways to Medicaid and other public health programs. If people are found eligible, the exchange will help them enroll. In Massachusetts, the same application form is used for Medicaid and for subsidized private insurance purchased through the Connector.

California is another pioneer. On Sept. 30, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, signed two bills establishing the California Health Benefit Exchange, with broad powers to “negotiate on behalf of the public” and select qualified health plans.

The legislation generated intense lobbying, and the governor’s intentions were unclear until the last minute. Mr. Obama had urged him to sign the bills and was thrilled when he did, aides said.

The fight in Sacramento offers a preview of what other states can expect. In a letter to California lawmakers in August, Natalie Cárdenas, regional director of government relations for Anthem Blue Cross, a unit of WellPoint, complained that the exchange would have the power to pick winners and losers in the insurance market.

“Federal law will already limit the types of products that carriers can offer,” Ms. Cárdenas said. “Beyond that, the marketplace should determine what products consumers and small employers can purchase, not a government bureaucracy.”

The California Chamber of Commerce urged a veto of the bills, saying they “could lead to unnecessary cost increases and limited choice for employers.”

But Betsy M. Imholz, a lobbyist for Consumers Union, said the California laws struck the right balance.

“At first,” Ms. Imholz said, “the exchange may want to have a large number of health plans participating. But then the state needs to winnow down the number so consumers can see where they will get the best value.”

The California law says the exchange should choose health plans that “offer the optimal combination of choice, value, quality and service.”

Massachusetts requires people to have insurance. Utah does not.

Massachusetts provides more generous subsidies. But, Mr. Kingsdale said, the biggest difference is the magnitude of the two state programs.

In Massachusetts, more than 154,000 people receive subsidized coverage through the exchange, and 40,000 receive unsubsidized coverage, which can be bought on the Web. The Utah exchange, created under a 2008 state law, began enrollment this year. About 1,200 people have coverage through the Utah exchange, and the number is expected to grow to 10,000 by July 2011.

Under the new federal law, the exchanges must be in operation by January 2014. Federal officials will assess states’ progress as of Jan. 1, 2013, and will run the exchange in any state that is unable or unwilling to do so.

The exchanges will have a huge number of duties. They must evaluate health insurance plans and publish “standardized comparative information.” They must set up telephone call centers to answer consumers’ questions. They must determine who is eligible for subsidies and who will be exempt from the penalties imposed on people who go without insurance. They must build new computer systems to exchange data with state Medicaid agencies, insurance companies, employers and federal agencies.

While the exchange cannot explicitly control prices, it can exclude health plans that show a pattern of “excessive or unjustified premium increases.”

State officials worry that sick people will gravitate to the exchange, while healthier people who do not need subsidies will buy insurance outside it. However, insurers must agree to charge the same prices inside or outside the exchange.

Moreover, the law stipulates that members of Congress must get their health insurance through an exchange. So lawmakers will presumably be alert to problems.
693 2010-10-24 The mass-market introduction of Kinect — with its almost magical gesture and voice-recognition technology — stands as Microsoft’s most ambitious, risky and innovative move in years. Company executives hope that Kinect will carry the Xbox beyond gamers to entire families. But on a grander note, the technology could erase a string of Microsoft’s embarrassing failures with mobile phones, music players, tablets and even Windows from consumers’ minds and provide a redemptive beat for the company.

“For me it is a big, big deal,” says Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive. “There’s nothing like it on the market.”

Where Apple popularized touch-screen technology, Microsoft intends to bombard the consumer market with its gesture and voice offerings. Kinect technology is intended to start in the living room, then creep over time throughout the home, office and garage into devices made by Microsoft and others. People will be able to wave at their computer and tell it to start a videoconference with Grandma or ask for a specific song on the home stereo.

“I think this is the first thing out of the consumer side of Microsoft in a long, long time where they are in front of everyone else,” says Joel Johnson, an editor at large at Gizmodo, the gadget site. “I want a Kinect in every room of my house, watching me and listening to what I am saying. It’s so sci-fi and next level that it would be amazing.”

The on-time arrival of amazing has become a rare occurrence at Microsoft, a fact not lost on investors or Microsoft’s directors.

The company continues to rely on its Windows, Office and business software franchises for the bulk of its $62.5 billion in annual revenue. In high-growth areas like phones and tablets, Microsoft has long sold software but has watched Apple come out of nowhere to gobble up the most profits. With such successes, Apple overtook Microsoft in May as the world’s most valuable tech company and has since swelled that lead to more than $62 billion. Microsoft’s board gave Mr. Ballmer the fiscal equivalent of a timeout by docking his bonus over the last fiscal year, pointing to lackluster mobile technology and a dearth of innovation. And whether Kinect can revamp Microsoft’s image as an innovator remains a big question.

Critics knock Kinect games as too easy and say the gesture technology still has annoying kinks. They also say Microsoft has had a nasty habit of gumming up its creative engines with bureaucracy.

“They often got lost in fights between all their divisions,” Mr. Johnson says. “Anytime something becomes high-profile, middle management slows it down.”

But with Xbox, Microsoft has so far done right by consumers and has barreled ahead. It has sold 42 million Xbox 360 consoles and has 25 million people signed up for Xbox Live. In September alone, people spent a billion hours using Xbox systems.

Microsoft has long salivated over the notion of controlling the living room and becoming a major entertainment force. Kinect may well stand as its best bet yet for turning that vision into a reality. “This is an incredibly amazing, wonderful first step toward making interactivity in the living room available to everybody,” says Mr. Ballmer, while cautioning that Microsoft still has “a lot of work to do.”

ON a Tuesday this month, Allen Walker, 49, and his son Chris, 16, tested a Kinect car-racing game at the research center. The test room felt clinical with its bare walls, overhead cameras and just a television for company.

Given no instructions on how to use Kinect, the father and son reached the initial game menu on their own in a couple of minutes — and saw their virtual selves staring back. They waved, kicked their legs and wiggled a bit, and their avatars followed suit. When the game started, the Walkers tilted left and right to steer, pulled their torsos back to rev up the engine and then thrust forward to accelerate up ramps and soar through the air.

At the end of each game, photos and videos appeared that documented their comical flailing and elicited huge smiles from them. (The photos are likely to become prime Facebook fodder come November.)

Several times, Mr. Walker nudged Chris out of the way to take control of the system, thus embracing the uncommon role of game-play adviser to his son.

Making such complex technology so easy to use bordered on the impossible three years ago, when a small group of Microsoft employees gathered to plot Kinect’s future. Plenty of companies have spent decades refining gesture- and voice-recognition technology. Typically, however, it works best in controlled environments. Cameras and sensors that perceive movements often need steady, abundant light, while voice technology tends to hinge on the assumption that a microphone is near a user’s mouth.

Microsoft’s engineers knew they wouldn’t have the luxury of fixed settings with Kinect. They had to build a product that could work just as well in a small Japanese living room as in a spacious Texas-size den. And it would have to adjust for varying light conditions and the raucous commotion of people at different distances from its sensor.

“No one had tried to solve these problems in the consumer space and put all of this together,” says Don Mattrick, the president of Microsoft’s interactive entertainment business.

For Kinect’s eyes, Microsoft turned to PrimeSense, based in Tel Aviv. It links a standard Web camera with a pair of sensors to offer depth perception. One sensor emits light near the infrared range, giving Kinect its own light source impervious to ambient conditions. The other sensor monitors users’ distance from the device.

THE eyes were nice, but if only Kinect had a brain.

Adding the smarts required Microsoft’s artificial-intelligence experts and thousands of test subjects. Microsoft found people of varying shapes and sizes and recorded how they moved by monitoring 48 joints in their bodies. Over time, the algorithms that digest this data became better and better, allowing the system to work with pregnant women and children in baggy clothes as well as with average-size adults in T-shirts and shorts.

Microsoft upgrades and rewires the Kinect brain every 24 hours and can send updates to Xbox systems via the Internet when it chooses. Kinect recognizes someone it has seen before by body shape, so there’s no need to log into the system each time a game is played. It knows your left hand from your right and can distinguish between two players even when their paths cross.

If players have similar builds, Kinect tries to glean differences in their facial features, haircuts, body movements and clothing color. And if identically dressed twins initially stump the system, it will ask each to say something.

“If it can’t disambiguate, we say, ‘Please tell us if you are A or B,’ ” says Alex Kipman, incubation director for Xbox 360. “Then, you end up with the equivalent of a different bar code.”

On a more futuristic note, Kinect might see that you’re wearing a Dallas Cowboys jersey during a football game and switch the commentary to the voices of the Dallas announcers.

For voice commands, the device relies on four microphones in an asymmetrical configuration that helps home in on the person giving commands and separate out the chatter of other people on the sofa. Kinect also knows when sound comes from the TV or from a game and can block the extra noise from interfering with the voice commands.

“If we are serious about shifting the entire computing industry to this world where the devices understand you, then the technology needs to be robust,” Mr. Kipman says. “Otherwise, it’s just a gimmick.”

People like Mr. Johnson from Gizmodo note that the first batch of Kinect games differs sharply from the war and adventure sagas that have driven Xbox sales. The weapons have been replaced by water rafts, Ping-Pong paddles and yoga poses through games similar to those that families found with Nintendo’s Wii.

“It’s not being used to its full potential in gaming yet,” Mr. Johnson says of Kinect. “It’s mostly Wii-class party games and jumping around.”

Sony contemplated advancing its own gesture-recognition technology to the 3-D realm and eliminating controllers, but it decided that gamers wouldn’t find the experience satisfactory at this point. Instead, it built Move, a wand-like controller with more sophisticated movement-tracking features than the Wii wand.

“I totally agree that there is this magical feeling with using your hands to select something,” says Richard Marks, a senior researcher at Sony Computer Entertainment America, who helped create Move. “But that feeling wears off pretty quickly, and it becomes a pretty cumbersome way to do things.”

Sony executives tip their hat to Microsoft for trying something risky, but like some other people who’ve tested Kinect, say the system seems to lag, hindering truly immersive games. Still, game makers like Harmonix Music Systems describe Kinect as filling a void and credit Microsoft for making something new possible.

Harmonix, which sells the Rock Band music game, will offer Dance Central, a game made for Kinect that teaches dance routines to songs like “Poker Face,” from Lady Gaga, and “Bust a Move,” from Young MC.

“We’ve been trying to find technology that would allow the player to use their whole body,” says Tracy Rosenthal-Newsom, a vice president at Harmonix. “We wanted to remove the technology and really allow people to dance.”

Harmonix hired a team of choreographers to come up with the routines, which range from simple, rhythmic motions to acrobatic affairs that only skilled dancers can handle.

“It really is a toy, and I mean that in the best sense of the word,” says Ted Brown, a game designer at Buzz Monkey, which produces games for the major console makers. “There is magic there when you can sort of put on a skin and perform on the stage.”

The first Kinect prototype cost Microsoft $30,000 to build, but 1,000 workers would eventually be involved in the project. And now, hundreds of millions of dollars later, the company has a product it can sell for $150 a pop and still turn a profit, Mr. Mattrick says. (People who don’t have an Xbox can pay $300 for a package that includes the console, Kinect and a game.)

Microsoft has spent several months marketing Kinect, even setting up a speakeasy-style site in Los Angeles where celebrities like Justin Bieber and Tony Hawk could play games, and drink and eat with friends, after saying a password to gain entry. All told, Microsoft expects to spend “hundreds of millions” to advertise the device, Mr. Mattrick says.

For Mr. Ballmer, Kinect is far more than a business opportunity or a pleasant diversion for consumers. It offers a moment to prove to investors and company directors that Microsoft is capable of an Applesque, game-changing moment under his leadership.

“I’m excited to be way out in front,” he says, “and want to push the pedal on that.”
694 2010-10-24 Christine Ann Boylan and Eric Andrew Heisserer were married Saturday evening at the Wilshire Ebell, an event space in Los Angeles. Venus Kitagawa-Stojsic, a nondenominational Spiritual Humanist minister, officiated.

The bride, 33, and the bridegroom, 40, are writers in Los Angeles.

The bride, who is keeping her name, is the executive story editor for “Leverage,” a series on the TNT network. She graduated from Hofstra. From 1999 to 2000, she was a Fulbright Scholar at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich, where she studied German and English literature.

She is a daughter of Maria A. Boylan of Ronkonkoma, N.Y., and Peter M. Boylan of Port Richmond, Staten Island, and a stepdaughter of Susan Boylan. The bride’s father retired from Smith Barney in New York as a senior service representative. Her mother is a clinical medical assistant in the North Babylon, N.Y., office of the Queens-Long Island Medical Group.

The bridegroom co-wrote the script for the “Nightmare on Elm Street” film released earlier this year, and wrote an epistolary narrative called “The Dionaea House,” which began appearing online in 2004 and was later sold to Warner Brothers.

He is the son of Margaret L. Heisserer and Andrew J. Heisserer of Norman, Okla. His mother works there as the senior editor for Nancy Larson Publishers, a company in Old Lyme, Conn., that creates science curriculums for elementary pupils. His father retired as a professor of ancient history at the University of Oklahoma and was the curator of the Stovall Museum there.
695 2010-10-24 Melissa Dawn Perry and Anton Augustus Kreisl were married Saturday at Gazebo Park in Fort Pierce, Fla. The Rev. Tommy Neiman, a Southern Baptist minister, officiated.

Mrs. Kreisl, 35, works in New York as a sales associate and optician at three locations of Morgenthal Frederics, a part of Luxury Optical Holdings. She also owns an online business that makes dog carriers. She graduated from the University of Central Florida in Orlando. The bride is the daughter of Mary Perry and Bruce Perry of Fort Pierce.

Mr. Kreisl, 30, plays bass guitar with the Telephones and Tiny Animals, two Brooklyn rock bands. Last year, North Street Records released a Tiny Animals album, “Sweet Sweetness.” The bridegroom graduated from St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn. He is a son of Marcia Castillo of La Honda, Calif., and Bill Kreisl of Placerville, Calif., and is a stepson of Michele C. Kreisl and of Ricardo Castillo.
696 2010-10-24 Melissa Ann Malgieri, a daughter of Wendy T. Malgieri and Dr. James A. Malgieri of Gates Mills, Ohio, was married Saturday to Edward Turner Schiff, a son of Lisa and Peter Schiff of Oyster Bay, N.Y. The Rev. Dr. John M. Miller, a Presbyterian minister, performed the nondenominational ceremony at the Inn at Palmetto Bluff in Bluffton, S.C.

The bride and bridegroom graduated from Trinity College in Hartford, where they met.

Mrs. Schiff, 31, is the vice president for partnership development at Axcess Luxury & Lifestyle, a marketing and business development firm in New York.

Her father, a general surgeon, is on the hospital staff at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in Cleveland.

Mr. Schiff, also 31, is an owner of Manhattan town houses and is a real estate developer. He received a master’s degree in real estate development from Columbia.

His father is the founder and president of Northwood Ventures, an investment firm in Syosset, N.Y.
697 2010-10-24 But if you bypass a broker and go straight to the lender there is less transparency, because the loan officer doesn’t have to disclose how much the lender is making off the loan.

The math on no-cost loans, which can be used for both purchases and refinancing, and which come in fixed and adjustable rates lasting 3 to 30 years, is simple.

Say you opt for a $300,000 no-cost, fixed-rate loan at 5 percent for 30 years, instead of coughing up $6,000 in closing costs and paying 4.5 percent interest. If that’s your choice, you will have monthly payments of $1,610.

By paying the closing costs up front for the 4.5 percent rate, you recover those costs at 66 months, according to Mr. Light. But you also have a monthly payment of $1,520 — $90 lower than the no-cost option. That adds up to a savings of $32,547 in interest over the life of the loan.

No- or zero-cost loans can seem appealing to residents of New York, who face a mortgage tax of 1.8 percent (around 0.8 percent if they live in the state but outside the city), as well as fees for a bank-hired lawyer.

“People are so tight on cash, it allows people to save out of pocket,” said Thomas Martin, the president of America’s Watchdog, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington.

But Mr. Martin added that buyers should plug in the numbers on an amortization calculator (one is available at www.federalreserve.gov) and compare them with those for a conventional loan. If you plan to refinance a no-cost loan within several years — an option that might make financial sense for some people — make sure you have no prepayment penalty, he added.

Zero-cost loans emerged in the early 1990s and blossomed during the mortgage boom, when they were sold by big banks and lenders alongside no-documentation loans and other subprime products, mainly to lower-income consumers who lacked cash.

TODAY, Mr. Martin said, tighter lending and disclosure requirements make the no-cost option “a totally different animal than five years ago,” with lenders now much stricter about verifying income levels.

Still, some big banks, including Bank of America, no longer make them available.

“We’re focused on offering products that offer complete transparency to the customer,” said Terry Francisco, a spokesman for Bank of America.

Loan-volume numbers are difficult to come by, though other banks, including Wells Fargo, still offer the loans. The Wells Fargo one, called Closing CostSaver, typically runs a half to five-eighths of a percentage point higher than conventional loans and comes in 10- to 30-year terms.
698 2010-10-24 As one of the neighbors of the farm Bob Morris writes about in the Lives column, I hardly recognized the place he describes. I did, however, recognize the “handsome Ivy League educated” farmer with the “blue green eyes . . . bright as bachelor buttons.” I knew this was the organic farm right next door, one of two small farms we are fortunate to have in our community and one we want to encourage and nurture. The farmers and their staff of interns are more than competent at their jobs; they seem gifted. As Morris does mention, they do work terribly hard; the produce is beautiful and healthful.

I was dismayed by the patronizing tone of Morris’s essay. Someone pointed out that perhaps it was just Morris’s ironic take on his own poor communication and insensitive interactions with the farm-workers that bothered me. Irony again. Sigh. In any case, I’ve found the farmers, the interns and the volunteers all unfailingly courteous. I hate to see this farm become known, even ironically, as “Animosity Farm.”
699 2010-10-24 It is a rare day that I sit down and read The New York Times Magazine cover to cover — a 2-year-old and a husband who steals the magazine for the crossword the moment it lands on our front step provide enough obstacles — but I saw Sunday’s cover and knew I needed it back once the crossword was wrestled into submission. Thank you so much; such beautifully written articles. I laughed, cried and stood in awe of the amazing things people are doing with food and creating community. When I finished, I passed the magazine back to my husband and said, “Read everything.”

Cheers to the Food Issue and its focus on community. All too often, we buy, prepare and eat our meals on autopilot, isolated in our thoughts and worries.

We need to slow down and appreciate our food, noticing the way it connects us to family and friends, the local farmers and the dedicated chefs and the earth, clouds and sun — indeed, to the entire universe. Thank you for initiating this deliciously interesting conversation.

By choosing to deal with small farming, niche operations and the role of food in community, you have not only ignored the reality of food production in the United States but also missed a chance to discuss, in depth and at length, the very real problems and potentials embedded in this reality.

Niche farming is just that — niche. I know people involved in specialty farming and farmers’ markets and admire them. I much admire what those people in Maine and Alabama are doing and wish them nothing but the best. I am aware that this sort of small farming is increasing and applaud this trend. But it’s not the story, and as journalists, you are required to tell the story. U.S.D.A. figures show that the number of big farms is growing steadily, at about 15 percent a year, year in and year out. The number of small farms, fewer than 50 acres, also is growing at about the same pace. The traditional family farms in between are vanishing. This means that the locavores and the niche farms you celebrate are, indeed, a trend, but a marginal one. The real news is that because the 15-percent increase in big farms starts from a much higher acreage base, more and more farmland and more and more farm output is coming from big farms.
700 2010-10-24 When it comes to writing “Glee,” the hit musical comedy on Fox, the three creators of the show — Mr. Brennan, Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk — each play a different role. Mr. Murphy, the director of “Eat Pray Love” whose television work includes “Nip/Tuck,” picks the songs and comes up with some of the crazier story lines, like football players dancing in formation to Beyoncé’s “Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It).” Mr. Falchuk, a “Nip/Tuck” alumnus, generally handles the scenes that jerk tears.

Mr. Brennan — who never had a professional writing job before — is a one-man one-liner factory, in particular writing the majority of the dialogue for the megalomaniacal Sue. The Web is overflowing with lists of his quips, with no compilation complete without this one: “I’m going to ask you to smell your armpits. That’s the smell of failure, and it’s stinking up my office.”

How does he come up with this stuff?

“It honestly just kind of flows out, kind of in aria form, and I have to whittle the writing down to something usable,” Mr. Brennan said while curled up on a sofa in the “Glee” production offices on the Paramount Pictures lot here. “It’s just the mean things that pop into the back of your mind that you sometimes want to say but don’t. The difference is that Sue actually says it.”

“Ian is a big collector of detritus — ideas and words and observations that he thinks might be useful,” he said. “He writes them all down. I call it the magic book.”

Mr. Brennan insisted that Coach Sylvester’s attitude is not based on a real person, but conceded, after some pressing, that the prickly Mr. Murphy is sometimes a muse. “Sometimes if I get stuck, I’ll think, ‘What would Ryan say in one of his really mean moments?’ ”

It is clear that some of Mr. Brennan’s inspiration comes from himself. One of the running gags on “Glee” involves Sue’s hatred of curly hair. (“I don’t trust a man with curly hair,”Mr. Brennan had her say in one episode. “I can’t help picturing small birds lying sulfurous eggs in there, and I find it disgusting.”) Mr. Brennan has a love-hate relationship with his own long, wavy locks — something that started after an encounter with Stephen Sondheim.

After college Mr. Brennan was cast in a Chicago production of Mr. Sondheim’s “Saturday Night.” Watching a rehearsal, Mr. Sondheim commented on Mr. Brennan to the stage manager, “He’s one haircut away from being attractive.”

Writing was never a dream for Mr. Brennan. Growing up in the Chicago suburb of Mount Prospect, Ill., Mr. Brennan had his heart set on acting. In junior high he got the lead in a community production. During high school he was in competitive speech and drama, and also joined the show choir, grudgingly, because he thought he needed to learn how to sing and dance if he was going to make it big. “God, those sequins were awful,” he said, recalling the choir costumes.

After attending Loyola University Chicago he toiled as an actor in Chicago for a few years, ultimately landing parts in Steppenwolf Theater Company and Goodman Theater productions. Then came some bit television roles in New York.

All that time, however, Mr. Brennan couldn’t shake his show-choir experience. So, in 2005, he bought “Screenwriting for Dummies” and wrote a first draft of “Glee,” then conceived as a biting, cynical film along the lines of “The Virgin Suicides.” He shopped it around and got nowhere.

Then fate struck. A friend of Mr. Brennan’s in Los Angeles was a member of the same gym as Mr. Murphy. The friend passed Mr. Brennan’s script to him. A year of rewrites later, “Glee” was born as a television musical comedy.

About 12 million people each week now watch the series, which has spawned hit CDs, a concert tour and a robust apparel business — and may be turned into a Broadway show.

“The big learning curve has been figuring out how to deal with the anxiety,” Mr. Brennan said of his first full-time writing job. “You have a script deadline and this enormous operation depending on you and — sorry! — you have no ideas.” He also frets about the attention he has received, particularly when it comes to his older sister, Sarah Brennan, who is a founder of a charter school in a rough Chicago neighborhood. “I feel guilty that she works so hard doing something important, and I’m the one getting noticed,” he said.

Mr. Brennan remains close to his parents, who were visiting the “Glee” set in early October.

“I just let him be himself,” said his father, John Brennan, a former priest. “I can’t take any credit for his talent,”

With more than a hint of sarcasm, Charman Brennan, a middle school math teacher, said: “What about the brilliant mother? Feel free to leave her out.”

John Brennan added: “Ian has always been a character. His preschool teacher told us that he was the only one who got her jokes.”

A character indeed. Ian Brennan, who is between girlfriends at the moment, is a chatterbox with a habit of talking with his fingers outstretched in front of him, as if he were manipulating marionettes. He has an unusual fashion sense, piecing together vintage-shop polyester with street-vendor jewelry in a look he calls “70s tennis eccentric.” (“It’s almost like he wears little costumes,” Ms. Lynch said.) In general Mr. Brennan has a hard time sitting still.

“It’s kind of rodentlike, isn’t it?” he said. “Can’t you picture me grabbing a nut and scrambling up the wall?”

He stuck with the metaphor over the course of several hours on the Paramount lot, where “Glee” is taped on three soundstages. On the show’s choir-room set, Mr. Brennan leaned backward against a grand piano and startled himself by playing a chord.

“It’s my tail,” he said. “I just finished playing a sonata with my tail.”
701 2010-10-24 ''OH, my God, Martha,'' said Bette Midler to Martha Stewart. ''Why am I not you?''     This happened Wednesday, during a taping of ''The Martha Stewart Show,'' when Ms. Stewart stopped filming for a moment because of a slight cough. An assistant a...
702 2010-10-24 GURLAND--Harvey W.,84, passed away on October 21, 2010, after suffering from Multiple Myeloma. Beloved husband of the late Carol H. Gurland, devoted father of Terri Levine and Harvey W. Gurland, Jr., father-in-law of Carl Levine and Carolina Gurla...
703 2010-10-25 Thélème Partners, a new a hedge fund founded by former Merrill Lynch banker Patrick Degorce, has raised over $700 million making it the largest equity hedge fund launched since the start of the financial crisis, The Financial Times reported....
704 2010-10-25 The S.E.C. is no longer just making sure a small circle of employees are not abusing their positions; it is focused on making sure the markets "feel" fair, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his DealBook column....
705 2010-10-25 Susan Wojcicki, in whose garage Google was founded, has been promoted to senior vice president, overseeing advertising....
706 2010-10-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
707 2010-10-25 Women are not taking proper precautions when using topical hormone products - putting not only pets but also family members at risk for hormone exposure....
708 2010-10-25 Cushing's disease is a rare condition in humans but common in dogs. As a result, scientists are now turning to dogs to better understand the disease....
709 2010-10-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
710 2010-10-25 Why the public isn't likely to be overjoyed at the news that TARP may actually recoup its investment....
711 2010-10-25 What's your sharpest memory from seeing or reading "Angels in America"? And two decades later, how do the themes or politics of "Angels" resonate today?...
712 2010-10-25 Morgan Stanley said on Monday that it has expanded its board by appointing the outgoing chairman of Caterpillar, James W. Owens, as a director....
713 2010-10-25 Betfair Group, a British Internet gaming site, climbed 19 percent in its first day of trading Friday, after its London initial public offering raised £211 million ($332 million), Bloomberg News reported...
714 2010-10-25 What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week: from the economic outlook to an alternative to PayPal to what's happening in China....
715 2010-10-25 With Guy Hands squaring off in court against his opera and hunting mate, David Wormsley, and the lawsuit brought against Teddy Forstmann by a tennis buddy, it's a reminder that personal ties only go so far in finance, Reuters Breakingviews says....
716 2010-10-25 The Tribune Company's board resolved on Friday what had been its preoccupation for most of the week: sealing the fate of Randy Michaels, the controversial chief executive whose boorish behavior and cronyism became a dark sideshow to his bankrupt c...
717 2010-10-25 Air Products and Chemicals is free to go ahead with its attempted acquisition of Air Gas, the Federal Trade Commission ruled, provided that it addresses certain anti-competition concerns....
718 2010-10-25 Tell us what business you'd like to advise if you could, and what you would say to them and why....
719 2010-10-25 A judge has held Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief executive of American International Group, liable for damages on a reinsurance transaction that the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said helped the insurer hide losses....
720 2010-10-25 Singapore Exchange will buy Australia's main stock exchange operator, ASX, for about 8.4 billion Australian dollars ($8.3 billion), the companies said Monday....
721 2010-10-25 Nothing in this election season, no program or party or politician, is less popular than the of 2008 — a k a the Wall Street bailout. No policy has fewer public figures willing to defend it, and fewer Americans who believe it worked. No issue has done more to stoke the fires of populist backlash, and the rage against elites.

It was TARP that first turned Tea Partiers against Republican incumbents, and independents against Washington. It was TARP that steadily undermined ’s agenda, by making activist government seem like a game rigged to benefit privileged insiders. And it is TARP that’s spurred this campaign cycle’s only outbreak of bipartisanship: as of September, Politico’s Ben Smith noted recently, the two parties had combined to spend about $80 million on attack ads that invoke the bailout, with the Democrats alone accounting for $53 million of that spending.

The question is whether the program’s extraordinary unpopularity is justified. Few elected officials may be willing to argue for the bailout, but plenty of policy wonks will make the case (from the safety of their think tanks) that the Wall Street rescue package is actually “one of the most unfairly maligned policy initiatives of all time,” as the Center for American Progress’s Matthew Yglesias recently put it.

This case was strengthened by the news that the bailout might actually end up costing the taxpayer less than $50 billion over all, rather than the $700 billion originally set aside to pay for it. Moreover, it’s the auto bailout, which the TARP funds eventually underwrote as well, that’s likely to end up being responsible for the bulk of these losses. As it stands, the federal government may actually end up turning a modest profit on the money injected into Wall Street’s failing .

Given what seemed to be at stake in the fall of ’08, TARP’s defenders argue, that doesn’t seem like such a bad bargain: the bailout may have averted a Great Depression, and it didn’t end up costing very much at all.

Or at least it didn’t cost much if you accept that the ends of public policy justify the means. But of course it was the means of TARP, not its final impact on the country’s balance sheet, that made it so unpopular.
722 2010-10-25 Singapore Exchange will buy Australia’s main stock exchange operator, ASX, for about 8.4 billion Australian dollars ($8.3 billion), the companies said Monday.

The merger aims to ward off the threat of alternative trading systems, to line up new avenues for growth and to cut costs.

The deal is the first major consolidation of Asia-Pacific exchanges and will result in $30 million in cost savings.

Singapore’s exchange offered 22 Australian dollars a share in cash as well as 3.473 of its own shares for each ASX share.

The deal will need approval from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board, which could be nervous about the deal as Singapore’s exchange is 23 percent owned by the Financial Sector Development Fund, which is controlled by Singapore’s central bank. But Australia’s competition watchdog effectively gave Singapore Exchange a green light to pursue the takeover earlier Monday, saying it did not see any major concerns.
723 2010-10-25 Mr. Brown, who served for eight years with Mr. Perry in the Massachusetts legislature, recorded a radio ad accusing Mr. Keating of running a negative campaign by focusing on the issue.

The district, a crescent that runs from south of Boston through Cape Cod, has been represented by Bill Delahunt, a Democrat who is retiring after seven terms.

Local Republicans have had high hopes for Mr. Perry. In his eight years in the legislature, he offered one of the state’s toughest illegal immigration measures and was one of two legislators to oppose Gov. Mitt Romney’s universal health care bill for the state.

“Jeff has captured everyone’s imagination,” said Peter Cordeiro, a member of the Plymouth County Republican Committee, who has been trying to help Republicans reclaim the seat since former Representative Gerry E. Studds, a Democrat, won it in 1972. “This is the most exciting year since then.”

The race is a test of Mr. Brown’s ability to sustain the energy among Republicans that led to his election in a state where Democrats have long dominated the Congressional delegation.

“It has become fun to be a Republican,” said Paula Harris, who operates a financial consulting firm with her husband out of their home in Duxbury. “We have a small business, and we used to be afraid we’d turn people off if they knew. It’s liberating.”

Mr. Perry has attracted a mix of Tea Party supporters, disaffected Democrats and closet Republicans, many of whom grew up in fiercely liberal households.

New Republican offices are springing up around the 10th District. Statewide, the party has nominated strong candidates for lower offices, including state treasurer and auditor, for the first time in years.

Mr. Keating knows the race is tight. His diminishing waistline — he has lost more than 20 pounds since he started campaigning — is evidence of a breakneck schedule in the final push before the election.

“My wife doesn’t let me get out of the house without a muffin,” Mr. Keating said during an interview at his campaign office last week. “But I can’t eat and talk to people.”

Both the Republican and Democratic Congressional committees have invested over $500,000 each in the race and have sent aides from Washington to pitch in.

The National Republican Congressional Committee has spent nearly $700,000 on advertising, almost $300,000 of which came in the last seven days.

At the same time, outside conservative groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, put hundreds of thousands of dollars into the race. The American Action Network, a group organized by former Senator Norm Coleman of Minnesota and Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the senior policy adviser to Senator John McCain’s presidential campaign, bought almost $900,000 in advertising in Boston less than three weeks before Election Day.

Feeding off the energy of a crowd gathered at an early-morning reception held at the Chamber of Commerce in Plymouth, last week, Mr. Perry talked breezily about his plans for Washington.

“On election night you have a big party,” Mr. Perry said. “Then you throw Nancy Pelosi out.”
724 2010-10-25 PHILADELPHIA — At the end of his fourth year managing the San Diego Padres, Bruce Bochy led his team to the 1998 World Series. Now Bochy is doing the same thing at the conclusion of his fourth year managing the San Francisco Giants.

Bochy took over the Giants in 2007 and has done a little better every year. In his first year, he finished fifth in the National League West. The Giants were fourth the next year, then third, and this year they won the division in what might have been the finest season in Bochy’s 16-year managerial career.

The Giants beat the Philadelphia Phillies, the owners of the best record in baseball this season, in six games to win the National League Championship Series. And as with the ’98 Padres, who upset the powerhouse Atlanta Braves in six games of the N.L.C.S., Bochy is taking a team that a minority of people expected to win to the World Series.

“Boch has been great for us,” General Manager Brian Sabean said in a hallway at Citizens Bank Park on Saturday as Champagne was poured over his head. “I think this year, more than any other year, the players really needed him to be what he is: a straightforward, honest guy. He’s consistent and upfront and he treats everyone fairly. He’s all about the team, and the players know it.”

Sabean, who hired Bochy, noted that his manager, a backup catcher during his nine-year playing career, might not be overly charismatic and was rarely considered among the tactical geniuses of the game. But the majority of the decisions he made in this postseason, particularly the N.L.C.S., seemed to work.
725 2010-10-25 “There weren’t many choices, really,” said Ms. Maddox, who is 72. The night before her treatment, in 2003, she stayed with her daughter in , but her daughter was pregnant, and fetuses and children are especially vulnerable to radiation. Johns Hopkins had no place for her to spend the night, she said. Getting on an airplane was out of the question because of the dose of radiation she would give other passengers. And there was concern about what would have happened if, as many patients do, she vomited the radioactive contents of her stomach.

Instead, her husband, Bryce, booked a room at a hotel in Newark, Del. “I pretty much went in the back door,” Ms. Maddox said. When they hit the road the next day, heading home, she sat as far as possible from her husband, in the third row of seats in their minivan. “I’m sure we looked like we’d had some kind of spat,” she said.

Fortunately, like most thyroid cancer patients, she needed only a single dose of radiation to get rid of the .

Scientists have estimated that, depending on the amount of radioactive drug given to a thyroid patient, a secondhand dose could exceed an average American’s annual level from all natural sources, and three or four times the safe level recommended for a pregnant woman.

One person alarmed about the situation is Representative , Democrat of , whose office has been studying the issue. He accuses the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of turning a blind eye to the problem.

“My investigation has led me to conclude that the levels of unintentional radiation received by members of the public who have been exposed to patients that have received ‘drive through’ radiation treatments may well exceed international safe levels established for pregnant women and children,” Mr. Markey said in a statement.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission took up the issue at a meeting last Wednesday. James G. Luehman, a staff official who helps monitor the safe handling of radioactive materials used in medicine, said his agency might have made a mistake in dropping the quarantine requirement. The idea was that letting people return home to recuperate would cut costs, benefit the patients and allow doctors with no quarantine facilities to perform the treatment.

The agency knew that relatives and strangers would get a radiation dose from such patients, Mr. Luehman said, but it assumed that the doses to people like hotel clerks and chambermaids would be random and that no one was likely to be exposed repeatedly. He recommended that the commission study whether such patients tended to stay at certain hotels near major medical centers, but no conclusion about such a study was reached on Wednesday.

has gone a step further. Last June, it advised radiologists and endocrinologists, “Do not advise patients to go to a hotel.” A few states have similar policies.

There are simple precautions that patients can take to reduce the risks sharply: stay several feet away from other people and keep them from contact with the patient’s saliva, urine and other body fluids.

Radiation from patients decreases both as the iodine dose is flushed out of their bodies and as it loses strength.

Many radiation experts doubt that radioactive thyroid patients represent a public health problem. “We’re talking about really small doses,” said Dr. Henry D. Royal, the associate director of nuclear medicine at the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology at , in .

“Who is it going to harm?” added Dr. Royal, who is on the executive board of the American Nuclear Society. “Show me some measurement that you’ve made, that this really happens.”

But the issue has, in fact, stirred considerable concern among endocrinologists and others involved in nuclear medicine. Dr. Gregory A. Brent, the president of the American Thyroid Association, said that his group had spent two years trying to develop guidance for doctors on how to advise patients, but that there was no data about the risks of secondhand radiation to work from.

The risk seems hypothetical, he said. “You can imagine the pregnant woman working in a hotel, cleaning up urine,” he said. “One can generate scenarios. But from what we know and what has been looked at, that hasn’t been the case.”

The staff of Mr. Markey, who is chairman of the Energy and Environment subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, has been gathering reports of contamination. In and Massachusetts, for example, patients have put contaminated items in the trash, and the trucks that collected it set off alarms at dumps.

After thyroid treatment, patients are advised not to hug children or pregnant women, or to sleep next to another person, for several days — depending on the size of the dose.

They are even advised against eating chicken wings or whole apples, because the bones or the core will be contaminated with radioactive saliva.

Hospital isolation is still the practice in . Patients can be hospitalized in the , but only if they try hard.

For example, Janis Lewis, of Roanoke, Va., took her 16-year-old daughter for an iodine dose in June, soon after thyroid cancer was diagnosed.

The girl, whose name Ms. Lewis asked not be published, gets even in normal circumstances, she said, and she asked at the endocrinologist’s office if her daughter could be admitted overnight. She was told that was not possible, and that her medical would not pay for it.

But Ms. Lewis eventually determined that her insurance would cover the expense if a doctor said hospitalization was medically necessary; but the hospital involved had no isolation rooms for thyroid cancer patients.

She gave up on that hospital. “I wasn’t comfortable driving her home three and a half hours in the car,” said Ms. Lewis, an occupational therapist.

Instead, she found another doctor, at Washington Hospital Center, in the , where her daughter stayed overnight, and did, in fact, vomit radioactive material all night.

Outpatient treatment is often appropriate, Ms. Lewis said, but “in some cases, it’s gone too far.”
726 2010-10-25 A new free Web site, cleaner and brighter than what it replaces, will aim to post 80 news items a day with an emphasis on breaking news. And the daily print publication known for years as CongressDaily will be renamed National Journal Daily. It will include enhanced political coverage in addition to its day-to-day Congressional coverage. The strategy is not without risk. Washington has a glut of political news outlets with similar missions. By taking on a new mandate, National Journal could be running counter to an axiom that applies to the media as much as to politics: Don’t alienate your base.

“Can they be both inside the Beltway and outside the Beltway?” asks Frank Sesno, director of the School of Media and Public Affairs at George Washington University. “Or will that in any fashion muddle their identity? That’s going to be one of the biggest challenges for them. How to preserve their identity while broadening it and fundamentally changing who the family members are.”

The impulse behind the National Journal overhaul was summed up in a memorandum circulated to the staff by David Bradley, chairman of its parent, the Atlantic Media Company. He called the note “Insurgents’ Manifesto.”

Mindful that start-ups like Politico had moved into the Washington media market with great success, Mr. Bradley emphasized that focusing on being nimble, efficient and urgent was how National Journal could be more competitive.

The company offered buyouts to its entire staff of 200. About half of the workers have been replaced this year.

What has happened to the corporate culture is nothing short of a transfusion. Executives and editors started speaking in catch phrases like “Washington 360,” “Digital first,” “Utility inside the wall, visibility outside the wall,” a reference to their desire to make the new free Web site a topic of conversation in Washington.

National Journal has also been deft in grabbing publicity. It has pursued an aggressive public relations strategy led by a former adviser to President Obama, Linda Douglass. Announcements of prominent hires, including Matthew Dowd, former strategist for President George W. Bush, and Major Garrett, former Fox News White House correspondent, were meted out for maximum impact.

National Journal executives have mischievously fed the story line that they are at war with Politico, Congressional Quarterly and other news outlets in Washington, or simply above them altogether. Ronald Brownstein, National Journal’s editorial director, said, “I think it’s much more substantive than Politico and much more sophisticated than C.Q. or Bloomberg in terms of its understanding of how things happen or don’t happen in Washington.”

Justin B. Smith, Atlantic Media’s president and the architect of National Journal’s new strategy, says he views Politico not as a threat but as having created an opening.

“I think the blogosphere, the digital conversation,” he said, “have not been a story about a large proliferation of substance and seriousness. That’s not where the innovation has taken place.”

In Washington, where nothing these days seems to take place without a good feud, Politico has fired back by planning a new service of its own, aimed squarely at the public policy subjects like energy and health care that National Journal covers extensively. Plans call for hiring 30 reporters and editors by the end of the year to staff the venture, which will sell articles on a pay-per-view basis.

“National Journal needed to reinvent itself a decade or more ago,” John F. Harris, Politico’s editor in chief, said. “It’s pretty late in the day.”

“Quality is all that matters in this market,” he said. “You either break news and write smart analysis, or you don’t. No amount of P.R. can change that. Politico has cornered that market and Mr. Bradley, Fournier and Brownstein seem to agree because they made unsuccessful overtures to almost all of our top people.”

National Journal editors are mindful of the challenges they face in breaking through. To that end, the first issue of their new magazine, which comes out Monday, will publish National Journal’s first face-to-face interview with a sitting president since it was founded in 1969.

“The core challenge we face is a more extreme version of the same challenge every magazine faces,” Mr. Brownstein said, “which is, at the end of the week, after you’ve been bombarded with stuff all week long, what’s the reason to read it?”
727 2010-10-25 Cuomo and Paladino on the Issues

Nicholas Confessore of The New York Times sat down to discuss the issues with the Republican and Democratic nominees for New York governor. Following are excerpts, edited and condensed for time, from their conversations.

In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here
728 2010-10-25 Pinkel, in his 10th season, has twice led the Tigers to the Big 12 Conference title game, and they even reached a No. 1 ranking in 2007. But both of those championship game appearances ended in lopsided losses to Oklahoma. Pinkel entered Saturday night winless against Oklahoma and Texas, the Big 12’s best teams of the last decade.

Pinkel is now 1-6 against the Sooners, and the upset had all the trappings of a big game, from the presence of ESPN’s “GameDay” crew to the obligatory storming of the field by a rejuvenated fan base.

“If you want to notch your program up, you’ve got to win games like this,” Pinkel told reporters after the game. “We’ve fallen short a number of times, but I’m a competitor and I’m a fighter.”

And don’t look now, but Missouri is in prime position to ascend to one of the top two spots in the B.C.S. standings. The Tigers may be No. 6 now, but their computer numbers portend a large jump if they are able to win the rest of their games, including the Big 12 title game, where their opponent would probably be the Sooners.

Missouri, ranked seventh in the Associated Press top 25, is ranked second by the computers and will only rise in the coaches’ and Harris polls if it finishes 13-0. The B.C.S. analyst Jerry Palm predicted that Missouri would jump Boise State and T.C.U. because an undefeated team from one of the six major conferences has never finished behind an undefeated team from outside the so-called B.C.S. conferences. “They’re in the hunt,” Palm said. “But they have to stay undefeated and they need help.”

Missouri has one of the top quarterbacks in the country, Blaine Gabbert, who proved spectacularly steady in the victory over the Sooners. Gabbert, a junior, is the latest in the impressive assembly line of front-line quarterbacks in Columbia. He follows Chase Daniel and Brad Smith, both key figures in pulling the program up from the bottom of the Big 12.

Christensen, who came to Missouri with Pinkel in 2001, said that one of the turning points for the program came when it installed a no-huddle spread offense to help level the playing field against top competition.

Missouri’s offense has been consistently productive since that moment early in Pinkel’s tenure, but the most interesting evolution in the program has been that it has closed the talent gap that forced it to install the spread in the first place.

Christensen said that Missouri had one of the country’s top offensive lines. Missouri is ranked No. 32 in the country for total offense despite being without the star tailback Derrick Washington, its leading rusher the past two years, who was suspended before the start of the season.

“Absolutely without a doubt,” Christensen said when asked if having better offensive and defensive lines had been the final component needed for Missouri. “The guys they’re playing with up front are mature and older. They were able to recruit better players. My last couple years, there were more advanced skill players than trench guys. Now they have those guys in the trenches.”

That includes the defense. The most impressive statistic about the Tigers may be that they have allowed 13.1 points a game. That ranks them fifth in the country, ahead of programs like Ohio State and Louisiana State.

In the past, Missouri did not have players like Aldon Smith, a 6-foot-5, 260-pound sophomore defensive end who returned an interception 58 yards in the first quarter against Oklahoma. He was the Big 12’s defensive newcomer of the year last season and returned to the team last week after breaking his fibula earlier this season.

“I was there the year he redshirted,” Christensen said. “And we didn’t have anyone who could block him then.”

Christensen credits the Tigers’ success to Pinkel, who he said was so detail-oriented that if a pass route required receivers to make a cut at 12 ½ yards, they had better not do it at 12 or 13.

It is that type of focus that is required for a program to complete such a drastic turnaround.

“He’s not a limelight guy,” Christensen said. “He doesn’t need to be out there in all the articles and on ESPN; he just goes about his business.”

Luckily for Pinkel, there are plenty of Missouri graduates who will gladly chronicle the program’s fabled turnaround for him.
729 2010-10-25 All that and, Beijing officials say, 900,000 dogs as well, their numbers growing 10 percent a year. And those are the registered ones. Countless thousands of others are unlicensed.

How this came to be is, in some ways, the story of modern China as well. Centuries ago, China’s elite kept dogs as pets; the Pekingese is said to date to the 700s, when Chinese emperors made it the palace dog — and executed anyone who stole one.

But in the Communist era, dogs were more likely to be guards, herders or meals than companions. Both ideological dogma and necessity during China’s many lean years rendered pets a bourgeois luxury. Indeed, after dogs first began to appear in Beijing households, the government decreed in 1983 that they and seven other animals, including pigs and ducks, were banned from the city.

China’s economic renaissance changed all that, at least in the prosperous cities. “People used to be focused on improving their own lives, and they weren’t really acquainted with raising dogs,” Ms. Qiu said. “But with the improvement in the economy, people’s outlooks have changed. There’s a lot of stress in people’s lives, and having a dog is a way to relieve it.”

But there are other factors in dogs’ newfound popularity: Many owners also say China’s one-child policy has fanned enthusiasm for dog ownership as a way to provide companionship to only children in young households and to fill empty nests in homes whose children have grown up.

Some say dogs have become a status symbol for upwardly mobile Beijingers. He Yan, 25, owner of two small mixed breeds named Guoguo and Tangtang, said young Beijingers like her are dubbed gouyou, or “dog friends.” Dogs, she said, have become a way to display one’s tastes and, not least of all, a way to meet people with similar interests.

And for a certain class with more money than sense, owning an especially prized breed has become the Chinese equivalent of driving a Lamborghini to the local supermarket. The pinnacle of pretension appears to be the Tibetan mastiff, a huge and reportedly fierce breed from the Himalayan plateau that, lore says, was organized by Genghis Khan into a 30,000-dog K-9 corps.

One woman from Xi’an, a city west of Beijing, was widely reported last year to have paid four million renminbi — roughly $600,000 — for a single dog that was escorted to its new home in a 30-Mercedes motorcade.

Mostly, though, it appears that Beijing dogs have, as in the West, become objects of affection — even devotion — by their owners. On a given weekend, hundreds of dog owners flock to Pet Park, a 29-acre canine spa east of Beijing that includes a dog-and-owner restaurant, a dog show ring, a dog agility course, a dog cemetery and chapel, a dog-owner motel, an immaculate 600-bay kennel — visitors must step in a disinfectant vat before entering — and two bone-shaped swimming pools.

Those who board their dogs are guaranteed an hour’s daily dog play, a weekly bath and a Web site where, every Monday, they can see fresh snapshots of their pet. The park, which opened last year, is the brainchild of a Beijing dog lover who amassed a fortune in the refrigerator business, according to Li Zixiao, the park’s sales manager.

“Everyone who brings his dog here considers his dog as a child,” he said.

To be sure, not all Beijingers are so inclined. A Beijing Internet blog, City Dog Forbidden, moderates a spirited debate between dog lovers and those who believe, as one wrote, that dogs “are seriously disturbing the normal lives of other people.”

“The birth of humans needs to be planned, but anyone can raise a dog?” asked one incredulous post. “The resources that you conserve from having less people, you give to dogs? This is a very serious problem. Are you saying that people are worth less than dogs?”

Yet the doglike devotion of pet owners here seems to have softened even the hardened city government heart. In 1994, Beijing officials relaxed their no-dog policy to “severely restrict” dogs; in 2003, it was changed again to allow anyone to own a dog, but to limit city dogs to no more than 35 centimeters — a bit less than 14 inches — in height.

The rule is widely sidestepped by dog lovers who say it is arbitrary and unfair. Daily, thousands of large-dog owners wait until midnight, when police officers are sparse, to walk the inner-city alleys with their beloved golden retrievers, Labradors and German shepherds. A July proposal to ease the restrictions once more, filed with a national legislative advisory body, has drawn nearly 30,000 Internet comments, compared with a few hundred for most other proposals.

The city has even opened its own tiny dog park, with a rudimentary kennel, an agility course and a kidney-shaped swimming pool that is as mobbed in summertime as any urban American beach.

As for stir-fried Pekingese — well, that dog, too, may have seen its day. A formal proposal to ban the eating of dogs has been submitted to China’s semi-independent legislature, the National People’s Congress. Nothing the legislature does becomes law without a nod from higher-ups, but the proposal has survived two rounds of public comment, which bodes well for its future.

The proposal’s sponsor, a law professor named Chang Jiwen, says he is not so much a dog lover as a China lover. “Other developed countries have animal protection laws,” he said in a telephone interview. “With China developing so quickly, and more and more people keeping pets, more people should know how to treat animals properly.”
730 2010-10-25 New fodder is not in short supply. On Wednesday, the council was infuriated by GQ magazine, which published sexualized photos of “Glee” cast members in its November issue. The actresses, unlike Ms. Cyrus, are adults, but noting that “Glee” is a show about high school, the council issued a statement saying the display “borders on pedophilia.” To what end, though?

“Advertisers still fear the Parents Television Council, but not as much as they used to,” said John Rash, who teaches mass media and politics at the and is a former executive at Campbell Mithun, a media-buying agency in . “It’s hard for the council to stir up indignation about cultural issues at a time of economic woe.”

Timothy F. Winter, the council’s president, said his organization, albeit weakened because of the recession, was as relevant as ever. This month, for instance, the council announced that it had persuaded pharmaceutical companies to participate in an initiative to alert parents about which broadcast television shows would contain ads for and other drugs. The council also see progress in forcing the greater regulation of violent video games.

“The downturn had a huge impact, but I feel we’ve turned a corner,” Mr. Winter said. “We’re not out of the woods, but we are told all the time that we are the beacon of light out there. Families rely greatly on our work.”

Mr. Winter said that he was confident that the campaign against CBS would bear fruit. “At the end of the day, we’re hopeful that advertisers will realize they shouldn’t be associated with excrement,” he said.

The troubles of the Parents Television Council, founded in 1995 by the conservative activist L. Brent Bozell III, appear to have started about two years ago. As the organization successfully busied itself with cleaning up America’s airwaves, its internal operations grew messy, an examination of internal documents and forms shows.

Escalating costs collided with declining donations, resulting in a 2008 loss of almost $1 million. In 2009, as the recession battered fund-raising efforts anew, council revenue totaled $2.9 million, a 26 percent drop from the previous year. To cut costs, the organization has reduced its staff by 38 percent over the last two years.

The council’s elaborate reports — given provocative titles like “MTV Smut Peddlers” — have grown infrequent, severely hampering the organization’s lobbying and fund-raising efforts. In 2008, the council published four major reports; it published one in 2009 and has published none so far this year. (Mr. Winter said he planned to publish three reports in the next two months, including one centered on online video.)

During this period, the council encountered difficulties with its direct-mail fund-raising system. Like many nonprofit groups, the council raises money by mail: sign and return this petition — preferably with a donation — and we will send it to the F.C.C. But internal documents show that, at least for a period of some months, the council was opening tens of thousands of envelopes, looking for money, and skipping the rest of the steps.

In a March 2009 e-mail to Mr. Winter, Patrick W. Salazar, who was the council’s vice president for development but is now one of its critics and has been accused by the group of trying to extort money from it, wrote, “Almost 195,000 pieces of donor/member mail was never sent to the intended recipient.” He added, “Most of these were time-sensitive docs whose value is now shot.” That September, Mr. Salazar sent another concerned note to Mr. Winter about the fulfillment of direct-mail petitions.

“Dude, I told you I was working on fulfillment,” Mr. Winter responded. “It is under control.”

Mr. Winter said that he had done his best to sort through the backlog, but he conceded that ultimately, the council decided that a stack of petitions was too old to be of any value. The council says it is now caught up.

Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a charity watchdog that gives the council a “C-plus” rating for financial efficiency based on its I.R.S. filings, said unfulfilled direct mail should ring “serious alarms” with potential donors. “It certainly tarnishes the credibility of this organization,” Mr. Borochoff said.

Mr. Salazar was also troubled by membership claims. For instance, council leaders put membership at “more than 1.3 million.” But that number counts people who have signed a petition or donated since the group’s founding, according to the council. In reality, 12,000 people at most respond to annual fund-raising appeals, Mr. Salazar said.

Mr. Winter says there is nothing misleading about the council’s membership claims, asserting that many nonprofit groups count participation in a similar fashion. As for the meager response to fund-raising appeals, Mr. Winter said that is partly a reflection of the number of solicitations sent out. “We can’t afford to communicate with everybody on our total membership list every time,” he said.

In November, Mr. Salazar left the council. He says he quit. The group says he was fired but will not cite a reason. Mr. Salazar then started an effort to extract thousands of dollars in severance by threatening to alert the news media, including , about the internal dysfunction he said he witnessed. In addition to the direct-mail predicament and the membership count, Mr. Salazar claimed a laundry list of other wrongdoings.

In a statement, the council said that Mr. Salazar had “demanded that the P.T.C. pay him a substantial sum of cash or he would contact P.T.C. members and the media with certain allegations.” It continued: “His allegations are littered with patently false statements and misrepresentations of the truth. The P.T.C. has refused to negotiate a financial payment (or any other terms).”

The council asked the Los Angeles Police Department to investigate Mr. Salazar for extortion. A police spokesman said an investigation was completed and presented to the city attorney, who rejected it on the grounds that Mr. Salazar’s actions did not constitute a crime.

Mr. Salazar, who is now a fund-raiser for Pierce College in Woodland Hills, Calif., said in an interview that he wanted the council to pay him to go away but denied that his requests amounted to extortion.

As the council was dealing with Mr. Salazar, it ran into another buzz saw. In July, a federal appeals court struck down one of the council’s most promoted achievements, an F.C.C. policy barring the use of “fleeting expletives” on television.

The decision stemmed from a challenge by Fox, CBS and other broadcasters to the F.C.C.’s decision in 2004 to begin enforcing a stricter standard of what kind of language is allowed on free, over-the-air television.

The court unanimously ruled that the policy created a chilling effect because it left broadcasters without a guide to what the commission would find offensive. The F.C.C. has since appealed the ruling, arguing that the court overstepped its bounds. That petition is still pending.

Mr. Winter called the decision “a slap in the face” for families. “We were frankly expecting it,” he said, adding that he was confident the appeal would succeed.

The stated mission of the Parents Television Council is “to restore responsibility and decency to the entertainment industry.” Although officially nonpartisan, it shares office space with another nonprofit group founded by Mr. Bozell, the Media Research Center, which combats what it sees as liberal bias in the news media. Mr. Bozell is paid by the Media Research Center, an arrangement that has been criticized by some watchdogs, including Mr. Borochoff of the American Institute of Philanthropy.

To further its mission, the council uses a combination of technology and human analysts to monitor prime-time programming, particularly on broadcast networks subject to F.C.C. scrutiny. The data is used for a family viewing guide on the council’s Web site; shows are labeled red, yellow or green based on language, violence, depictions of sex and “adult themes.”

Taking the decency battle to advertisers has become a bigger part of the council’s focus since Mr. Winter took over as president in 2007. Each year, the council ranks the 10 best and 10 worst advertisers based on how frequently they sponsor “family-friendly TV programs” or “objectionable content including foul language, violence and sexual themes and images.”

In 2009, ranked as the best, and the fast-food operator Yum Brands, which owns Taco Bell and KFC, as the worst.

At the moment, the council is focused on advertisers who support “$#*! My Dad Says.” After first singling out national sponsors, the council has shifted its attack to the local level, asking its members to record the show and take note of commercials for local businesses. Members are then supposed to e-mail the lists to the council.

“Your help will assure that CBS gets the message,” read the sign-off to the council’s call to action. “We don’t want any of your $#*! in front of our families!”
731 2010-10-25 Another study published in 2008 in The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports found that 28 percent of 694 male runners polled sustained a lower-extremity injury while running in a marathon or in the month before it.

“Athletes are going to have more injuries than a couch potato,” said Kevin Luss, the founder of New York-based insurance services company the Luss Group. “But their height-weight ratio and will be better than a couch potato’s. Their physiological age will be younger.”

Nicholas said benefits like those made “insurance companies view athletes very favorably from a health standpoint,” but that those benefits did not prevent companies from denying coverage to injured athletes.

“States have come up with regulations under the best intentions that had unintended consequences,” Nicholas said.

For example, insurance companies in are no longer allowed to exclude pre-existing injuries from treatment. So if a healthy 25-year-old marathoner with a broken leg were shopping for individual health insurance, instead of being accepted and receiving coverage for everything except the leg, insurance companies could deny her coverage. In 2014, provisions of the new health care law passed in March will go into effect, restricting insurance companies from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions.

In New York, where such provisions already exist through state law, Luss said, “it doesn’t matter if you’re an athlete or a person participating in organized athletic events at almost any level.”

He added, “You’ll pay the same amount as someone who is overweight and unhealthy.”

This fact upsets New York-based runners like Barbara Gubbins. A 50-year-old resident, Gubbins has been running since high school and placed second out of 895 women in Half Marathon in October. She says the injuries associated with endurance running are minor compared with the benefits to health and wants insurance companies to consider her identity as a runner when calculating her premium, not just her age and gender.

“The fact that you’re an active runner or a triathlete doesn’t factor in at all, which is very counterproductive,” Gubbins said. “But for the insurance companies, it’s a bonus because they’re getting a big pool of healthy applicants.”

New York-based health insurance companies like Group Health Incorporated work hard to cultivate this ideal pool of applicants — without the injury risk posed by endurance athletics — by focusing sponsorship on events like tennis tournaments rather than distance running.

“What we’re promoting is a healthy lifestyle,” said Karen Chaikin, Group Health Incorporated’s director of public affairs.

But with marathon participation in the at a record high of about 467,000 finishers in 2009, according to Running USA, a nonprofit organization that tracks running trends, insurance providers like -based do not shy away from promoting their products to distance runners.

“We do believe running events can help people make healthier lifestyle choices,” said Floyd Green, the head of community relations and urban marketing for Aetna. Although Aetna “tends to focus more on the 5-kilometer to 10-kilometer events,” he said, “we sponsor events like the marathon because it’s an opportunity for people who are into that kind of race to remain healthy.”

When it comes to health insurance and marathoners, particularly in New York, the risk of injury should be more of a consideration for the applicant than for the insurance company, according to Luss.

“A lot of athletes feel invincible and don’t buy the insurance that they should,” he said.

For recreational athletes who do not earn income from competition, Luss said a health insurance plan was all that was necessary to cover potential injuries.

However, if that passion for running turns into a zeal for triathlon, Nicholas recommends supplemental accident insurance to cover potential bicycle crashes. To serve this athlete demographic, Nicholas founded Adventure Advocates, a nonprofit organization that provides members accident insurance.

For Frighetto, a 40-year-old working mother who has health insurance through her employer, the marathon remains the ultimate athletic goal.

“Even if I’ve been injured and haven’t reached my goal of completing the marathon, there have been tremendous benefits,” she said. “Training got me off of the couch, and a couple of friends from work started running after listening to me talk about training all of the time.”

Green says Aetna is happy to work with runners like Frighetto.

“We will work with athletes to provide the resources and services they need to live healthy lives and also to run healthier,” he said.
732 2010-10-25 The court agreed with the civil society group’s contention that Mr. Massoum’s procedural move was unconstitutional and ordered lawmakers to resume work.

Iraqi activists celebrated the decision as a step toward strengthening political life and addressing deepening popular anger with the country’s political class — not least with the newly elected lawmakers, who have not met in more than four months but continue to receive their salaries of about $11,000 a month.

“This is a historic moment for us, the civil society organizations,” a leading activist, Hanaa Edwar, said. If the lawmakers do not convene the session again soon, she said, “we will go to the court and ask them to dissolve Parliament.”

Mr. Massoum promised to act quickly, and politicians interpreted the ruling as giving Parliament two weeks to reconvene. Once Parliament convenes, the Constitution outlines a very specific timetable: members pick a speaker and two deputies, and then, within 30 days and by a two-thirds majority, a president. The president has 15 days to name the head of the largest parliamentary bloc to form a government, a task to be completed in 30 days.

But time and again, politicians here have found ways to flout an admittedly pliable Constitution. Failure to achieve a quorum would be one way to prevent Parliament from acting.

The crisis over forming a government has created deep popular anger, adding to a sense, reflected in recent polling, that the country is headed in the wrong direction. Cognizant of that, politicians from across the spectrum hailed the court’s decision publicly on Sunday, even if they acknowledged that negotiations might still have a way to go.

“The court had to give this decision,” said Hakim al-Zamili, a lawmaker with a faction loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, a populist cleric whose alliance with Mr. Maliki has buoyed the prime minister’s chances of returning to power. “The timing was good. It would have been better if it was even earlier, because this situation has so badly affected Iraqis.”

Nevertheless, no leading political bloc seemed eager to have Parliament meet again, at least not until the framework for an agreement was reached.

The broadest fault line in those negotiations remains a contest between Mr. Maliki and an alliance led by Ayad Allawi, a secular Shiite and former interim prime minister, whose group won two more seats than Mr. Maliki’s. Both coalitions are soliciting the support of the Kurds, deemed essential for gathering a majority in Parliament.

Although Mr. Maliki’s chances seem best, the Kurds have pushed for an inclusive government with Mr. Allawi’s participation, a compromise that would almost certainly require curbing the prime minister’s powers.

The eventual deal will underline the influence of foreign powers — the United States, Iran and Turkey — in Iraq. The sense of machinations and backroom dealings has added to popular resentment, and some analysts hailed Sunday’s decision, at minimum, as a step toward transparency in the negotiations.

“At the very least,” said William Warda, a political analyst, “it will create dialogue inside Parliament, where debates will be open, and not in closed rooms or outside Iraq, where you don’t know what’s going on.”
733 2010-10-26 A city restaurateur says a new trade group sounds too combative....
734 2010-10-26 Riding the strong performance of "Shrek Forever After" overseas, DreamWorks Animation reported a 103 percent increase in third-quarter profit....
735 2010-10-26 A music video riffing on Christine O'Donnell's "I am not a witch" ad has been viewed by more than 1 million people on YouTube....
736 2010-10-26 The White House reacted with indignation when Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky told a magazine that he does not want President Obama to win a second term....
737 2010-10-26 The designer talks about her new collection, made specifically for the 12-and-under set....
738 2010-10-26 The commission created a 210-building district in Ridgewood and gave landmark status to four buildings in Jamaica....
739 2010-10-26 The firing of the head of the Board of Elections comes after the board came under withering criticism for a series of problems that caused dozens of polling sites to open late during last month's primary election....
740 2010-10-26 Thyroid cancer expert Dr. R. Michael Tuttle responds to questions on radiation, follow-up care and choosing a doctor....
741 2010-10-26 Sizing up a book meant to make applicants laugh, and other intended to make parents think, and feel....
742 2010-10-26 As Ilya Kovalchuk gets scratched, Down Goes Brown details the other N.H.L. superstars who have been disciplinary problems....
743 2010-10-26 No, they're not always right....
744 2010-10-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
745 2010-10-26 Petronas Chemicals Group, the petrochemicals unit of Malaysia's state oil company, aims to raise between $3.7 billion and $4.2 billion in the Southeast Asian nation's biggest initial public offering, Bloomberg News reported....
746 2010-10-26 Sony shares rose nearly 3 percent at one stage on Tuesday as traders cited media reports speculating that the Japanese electronics maker could be a potential acquisition target of Apple....
747 2010-10-26 Marjorie Greenspan Kaufman, a managing director and head of investor relations at Kingdon sent out an e-mail to the hedge fund's clients telling them that the firm was on shaky ground, Dealbreaker reports....
748 2010-10-26 The billionaire said that Todd Combs, the 39-year-old hired to run a portion of Berkshire Hathaway's portfolio, is a top candidate to be the company's next investment chief....
749 2010-10-26 The Singapore Exchange, or SGX, is certainly thinking big. Whether its $8.3 billion bid for ASX is good for its own shareholders is another matter, Reuters Breakingviews says....
750 2010-10-26 Australian brewer Foster's said it has held no further talks with the private equity suitor that made a $2.5 billion offer for its wine business in September, Reuters reported....
751 2010-10-26 To be fair, no one has ever seen the sort of impact that would destroy a city. The most instructive incident took place in 1908 in the remote Tunguska region of Siberia, when a 120-foot-diameter asteroid exploded early one morning. It probably killed nothing except reindeer but it flattened 800 square miles of forest. Statistically, that kind of event occurs every 200 to 300 years.

Luckily, larger asteroids are even fewer and farther between — but they are much, much more destructive. Just think of the asteroid seven to eight miles across that annihilated the dinosaurs (and 75 percent of all species) 65 million years ago.

With a readily achievable detection and deflection system we can avoid their same fate. Professional (and a few amateur) telescopes and radar already function as a nascent early warning system, working every night to discover and track those planet-killers. Happily, none of the 903 we’ve found so far seriously threaten an impact in the next 100 years.

Although catastrophic hits are rare, enough of these objects appear to be or are heading our way to require us to make deflection decisions every decade or so. Certainly, when it comes to the far more numerous Tunguska-sized objects, to date we think we’ve discovered less than a half of 1 percent of the million or so that cross Earth’s orbit every year. We need to pinpoint many more of these objects and predict whether they will hit us before it’s too late to do anything other than evacuate ground zero and try to save as many lives as we can.

So, how do we turn a hit into a miss? While there are technical details galore, the most sensible approach involves rear-ending the asteroid. A decade or so ahead of an expected impact, we would need to ram a hunk of copper or lead into an asteroid in order to slightly change its velocity. In July 2005, we crashed the Deep Impact spacecraft into comet Tempel 1 to learn more about comets’ chemical composition, and this proved to be a crude but effective method.

It may be necessary to make a further refinement to the object’s course. In that case, we could use a gravity tractor — an ordinary spacecraft that simply hovers in front of the asteroid and employs the ship’s weak gravitational attraction as a tow-rope. But we don’t want to wait to test this scheme when potentially millions of lives are at stake. Let’s rehearse, at least once, before performing at the Met!

The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy has just recommended to Congress that NASA begin preparing a deflection capacity. In parallel, my fellow astronaut Tom Jones and I led the Task Force on Planetary Defense of the NASA Advisory Council. We released our report a couple of weeks ago, strongly urging that the financing required for this public safety issue be added to NASA’s budget.

This is, surprisingly, not an expensive undertaking. Adding just $250 million to $300 million to NASA’s budget would, over the next 10 years, allow for a full inventory of the near-Earth asteroids that could do us harm, and the development and testing of a deflection capacity. Then all we’d need would be an annual maintenance budget of $50 million to $75 million.

By preventing dangerous asteroid strikes, we can save millions of people, or even our entire species. And, as human beings, we can take responsibility for preserving this amazing evolutionary experiment of which we and all life on Earth are a part.
752 2010-10-26 Hundreds of Tibetan schoolteachers signed a petition recently that was sent to the government of Qinghai Province in western China, demanding that schools preserve the use of Tibetan as a main language of instruction. Parts of the petition, which was dated Oct. 15, were put up on a Tibetan blog, www.khabdha.com, on Monday and show that the protests over language policy led by thousands of Tibetan students last week in Qinghai had widespread teacher support. The petition demands that officials follow the Chinese Constitution, including Article Four: “All ethnic groups have the freedom to use and develop their own spoken and written languages and to preserve or reform their own folkways and customs.”
753 2010-10-26 For many in New Zealand, however, the fight to retain the latest productions by Mr. Jackson, who is widely credited with revamping the country’s film industry, involves economic survival. Roughly $500 million in spending hangs in the balance.

National pride, too, is involved. Although the underlying dispute was with New Zealand Actors Equity, that union is backed by a larger union, the Media, Entertainment & Arts Alliance, from New Zealand’s neighbor, Australia.

In a statement read at “Keep ‘The Hobbit’ in New Zealand” rallies around the country on Monday, Mr. Jackson made much of the Australian hand in igniting a fight that erupted when New Zealand’s Actors Equity union demanded that makers of the Hobbit films bargain collectively with actors. The producers and some New Zealand officials said such bargaining would violate the country’s laws, which treat group negotiations with contractors as a form of price-fixing.

“Turning us into another state of Australia under the sway of a destructive organization carries the very real risk of destroying the great big heart that beats inside our films,” Mr. Jackson said.

Earlier, the Australian union had organized a boycott of “The Hobbit” films by international actors’ unions, including the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. But those groups signaled last week that members were free to work on the movies, after the actors equity union and its Australian backers lifted their call for the boycott.

Even without the boycott, a central question remains: Did the New Zealand actors’ union condition the lifting of its ban on an agreement by producers in the country to hold labor talks in the next six months?

The Hobbit films are expected to begin shooting in February, so any uncertainty about future labor talks could once again put the outsize productions in jeopardy — a concern that has led New Line, which is supervising the production, to begin making contingency plans for a shoot in Ireland or elsewhere.

The lifting of the ban was “unconditional,” Simon Whipp, an officer of the Australian union, the Alliance, said in a telephone interview. He said that the Actors Equity union had made it clear to Warner that there was no connection between anticipated talks with New Zealand producers and films, and that the Hobbit productions would be allowed to finish without union interference.

Mr. Whipp said his repeated offers to talk with Warner executives and those producing the films had been ignored. “I would have thought, as a simpleton, that if you have a problem, talking would be one way to solve it.”

The original union call for a boycott was helped by one of New Zealand’s previously best-loved actresses, Robyn Malcolm, star of the local television hit “Outrageous Fortune” (remade for ABC as “Scoundrels”).

Ms. Malcolm had argued that the actors were simply seeking to sit down with producers and discuss working conditions. New Zealand’s actors are largely not unionized and have traditionally been employed as sole contractors.

The producer of “Outrageous Fortune,” John Barnett, was quoted in this weekend’s papers as saying Ms. Malcolm could have trouble finding work in New Zealand if “The Hobbit” goes offshore.

Warner executives, who routinely deal with actors under union contracts on their many films, have been frustrated at getting caught in a squeeze between New Zealand actors unhappy with practices in their country and their own need to get the production in motion.

In a good-faith gesture, the studio weeks ago earmarked funds for a pool that would give even actors with small roles a participation in income from the films, similar to union-mandated residuals payments on productions in the United States.

“The Hobbit” films were already delayed for months while Warner struggled to reach financial terms with MGM, which has been going through a restructuring of some $4 billion in debt, and lost its intended director, Guillermo del Toro, who tired of waiting. Mr. Jackson, who has been a producer and writer of the planned films, stepped in as director, on the condition that they begin shooting soon.

Last week, New Zealand’s finance minister, Bill English, who is also the deputy prime minister, said it was possible the makers of the Hobbit films might try to extract more money from the New Zealand government. Mr. English said he expected the issue of further tax breaks to come up in the meeting with Warner.

“No doubt if they’ve got something to say, they’ll say it,” Mr. English said. “The rough estimates of taxpayer support for this film are around 50 million to 60 million New Zealand dollars — maybe more if they spend more, so it’s pretty generous.” That translates to $38 million to $45 million.

Like Mr. Jackson, many film crew workers in New Zealand have been inclined to see the presence of Australia’s media alliance as undue meddling from a neighboring country whose own film industry has been in decline for years, mostly because a strong Australian dollar made production there less attractive than in other places.

“Why are you targeting ‘The Hobbit’ ” and “this isn’t Australia” were among the lines tossed repeatedly at Mr. Whipp as he was trailed by a camera-wielding questioner outside a restaurant in Wellington last week.

Mr. Whipp said the Actors Equity union had about 650 members. The Australian alliance, he said, was invited in 2004 to become associated with it by New Zealand’s Council of Trade Unions, after its membership dwindled to about 100 as a change in New Zealand labor laws 20 years ago made it virtually impossible for freelance workers to bargain collectively.
754 2010-10-26 Sylvia Sleigh, a British-born artist who put a feminist spin on the portrait genre by painting male nudes in poses that recalled the female subjects of Ingres, Velázquez and Titian, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94.

The cause was complications of a stroke, said Alice Judelson, an owner of I-20 Gallery in Manhattan, which represents her.

Ms. Sleigh, who came to prominence as part of the surging feminist art movement of the 1970s, turned traditional portraiture on its head by presenting the male nude posed as a reclining Venus or odalisque, although she also painted both sexes, clothed and unclothed.

The 1971 painting “Philip Golub Reclining” depicted the son of the artists Nancy Spero and Leon Golub sprawled on a sofa in the pose of Velázquez’s “Rokeby Venus.”

In “The Turkish Bath” (1973), Ms. Sleigh borrowed the theme of Ingres’s painting of the same title, but instead of voluptuous harem nudes she depicted a nude man with his back to the viewer strumming a guitar for five nude male companions, among them the critic Lawrence Alloway, her second husband. (She often used her friends, among them well-known artists and critics, as models.)

“I wanted to give my perspective, portraying both sexes with dignity and humanism,” she once said. “It was very necessary to do this because women had often been painted as objects of desire in humiliating poses. I don’t mind the ‘desire’ part, it’s the ‘object’ that’s not very nice.”
755 2010-10-26 The commercial is one several in California that have painted Texas as the enemy, including one featuring the president of the state chapter of the American Lung Association, Jane Warner, calling out two Texas-based companies — Tesoro and Valero — for supporting Proposition 23.

“These oil companies are putting this proposition on our ballot for their bottom line,” she says. The ad ends with an image of a smoggy Los Angeles skyline and a child using an inhaler.

The interstate debate has also played a part in the California races for governor and United States senator, with Democrats and Republicans taking sharply different positions.

Meg Whitman, the Republican nominee for governor, who is trailing the Democrat Jerry Brown in polls in her bid to become the first woman to lead the state, names Texas in her stump speech as a fierce competitor for business and jobs, saying that Gov. Rick Perry of Texas comes to California to go “hunting” for companies. Ms. Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, also cites Texas as a place where there is no capital gains tax, something she would like to see in California.

In a television interview with the CBS affiliate in Sacramento, Ms. Whitman was asked if California should “try to be more like Texas.”

“Texas isn’t a perfect state on every dimension,” she said, but it does “have a much better business climate than we do.”

“They are creating jobs; they are attracting businesses from all over the country,” Ms. Whitman said. “And you know they are looking to California for jobs because they know in Texas taxes are lower, regulations are more streamlined, and they compete.”

Those comments are echoed by Carly Fiorina, the Republican who is challenging Senator Barbara Boxer. Ms. Fiorina says that Texas is “fighting harder for our jobs.” She also has a personal connection to the state: she was born in Texas and has family roots there, something she highlighted in a 2003 speech when she was the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard.

In the speech, Ms. Fiorina said that while her home was in California, “I actually am a Texan.”

“I actually come from a long line of farmers and ranchers and Texas preachers,” Ms. Fiorina said.

That the two states are at odds is not surprising. California, the nation’s most-populous state, also has the largest economy, despite its recent problems, including chronic budget deficits and an unemployment rate of more than 12 percent. Texas is No. 2 in population and close behind California in economic muscle.

California’s problems have given Texans a chance to crow. Governor Perry, a Republican, lists a number of favorable comparisons between his state and California on his campaign Web site, including a link to an article from Investor’s Business Daily that “explains that Texas is leaving California in the dust.”

“Texas is leading the country out of the recession,” the article reads. “California is holding it back.”

Mr. Perry’s Web site also cites an October report from a conservative research group, the Texas Public Policy Foundation — “Competitive States 2010: Texas Versus California” — that outlined the economic advantages that Texas enjoyed over California. The report included data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that showed “Texas had gained 129,000 new jobs in the last year — more than half of the national total — while California had lost 112,000.”

Democrats in California, meanwhile, have seized on Proposition 23 as a way to express home-state pride and — maybe — win some votes. Mr. Brown, a lifelong Californian who served as governor from 1975 to 1983, has attacked Texas oil companies in debates for their support of the ballot measure.

“They’re putting up all the money,” he said.

Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, who is running for lieutenant governor, has also made Texas an issue in the California campaign.

Last week, he staged a Texas-style barbecue in front of the Capitol in Sacramento “to defend California’s environment from Texas polluters.” He has also filmed a “Don’t Mess With California” commercial that attacks his Republican opponent, Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado, for his connections with energy companies.

In an interview, Mr. Newsom said he was “sick of Californians being the butt of jokes” about their economic woes. And while he said he did not hate Texas — “I don’t have any animus, except for these oil companies.”

“The question is, ‘Is Texas a better place?’ ” Mr. Newsom said. “And I would say not.”
756 2010-10-26 On the one hand, it’s witty and incisive parody, as fluent in Mr. Obama’s tics as in hip-hop manners. The clip was filmed in front of an abandoned house in South Central Los Angeles and echoes the video of Waka Flocka Flame’s original song.

As well, it’s seemingly an acknowledgment by the filmmakers that racial stereotypes still shape how some people perceive the first couple, and that many divergent stripes of blackness can be collapsed into one idea.

The enterprise is elevated to something greater than a vulgar joke by Mr. Davis’s nearly pitch-perfect impression of Mr. Obama, a challenge that many better-known comedians have struggled with (notably Fred Armisen, whose cool jazzbo Obama on “Saturday Night Live” is the antithesis of Mr. Davis’s). Even in the distracting context of this video, the depiction is sharp and carefully executed, from the short, serious vocal interjections to the emphatic hand gestures while speaking, clenched fist vertical, with thumb pointing out at the listener.

“Like Obama, I grew up around a lot of white people, I was educated around a lot of white people,” Mr. Davis said in an interview. “There’s a lot of impersonations I’m just naturally horrible at. I’m lucky the one I’m good at is the president.”

Mr. Davis is a stand-up comedian and a writer for various awards shows on the BET network. Martin Usher, the video’s director and Mr. Davis’s partner in Live That Life Productions, is a largely self-taught filmmaker who has worked on small behind-the-scenes positions on the television series “Party Down” and the film “Defiance,” among others.

The “Head of the State” clip that they created is in the spirit of the Lonely Island musical sketches on “Saturday Night Live,” though a parody of this nature, with its heavy racial overtones, would be almost unthinkable in that context.

Some of the lyrics of the original song were reworked to become more provocative and specific to the president: for example, the gun threat, “Front yard, broad day with the SK” became “Secret Service, but I got my own SK.” Others stayed the same, plenty funny without any tweaks: “Where you at? Where’s your trap? You ain’t hood.”

Fusing worlds — Hollywood and South Central, the presidency and hip-hop, and so on — is integral to Mr. Davis’s comedy. He grew up “a block away from Crenshaw,” he said, “not in the hood, but hood-adjacent.” He cites “Chappelle’s Show” as well as parody films, including “Fear of a Black Hat” and “I’m Gonna Git You Sucka” as inspirations.

The vacant house used in the shoot is across the street from Mr. Usher’s home. To get approval to shoot on the block, Mr. Davis and Mr. Usher sat down with local authorities, which in this case, does not mean the police. “We somewhat got a hood pass, we talked to some O.G.’s,” Mr. Davis said, referring to original gangsters. “That was some of the most exciting things about this, sitting around with people I know gangbang, ‘American Gangster’-looking dudes.” (The process ended up echoing the story line of Waka Flocka Flame’s video, in which the rapper gets an audience with Triple O.G. T. Rodgers, an early member of the Bloods turned gang interventionist.)

Locating Mr. Obama in a hip-hop context wasn’t a stretch, Mr. Davis said: “He’s a come-up story, in the biggest way possible. That’s what a lot of rap is about, grinding hard, making it from nothing to something.”

Mr. Obama has become something of a hip-hop touchstone, rapped about by Jay-Z and Young Jeezy, but also someone who has been tarred for his relationship to the genre. When Ludacris released a song before the 2008 election that criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain, the Obama campaign went on the defensive, denouncing it. And when Mr. Obama told Rolling Stone last month that he had Lil Wayne on his iPod, the conservative backlash was as swift as it was predictable.

And yet what makes “Head of the State” so successful is the idea of Mr. Obama as a fish out of water, cutting loose in a fantastical context. “Who is Obama when the White House doors are closed, and the cameras leave?” Mr. Davis asked. “I would be a little disappointed if Obama only listened to Luther Vandross and Sinatra. Obama needs some Lil Wayne in between staff meetings. I want some bass in that White House.”

Not everyone has shared Mr. Davis’s curiosity or his willingness to play fast and loose with the image of the president and the first lady, who has largely been immune to the sort of scrutiny that her husband endures. Mr. Davis appeared on “Inside Edition” last week to endure a grilling about whether the clip was disrespectful to the president, and whether it would be disruptive to the midterm elections.

And Waka Flocka Flame appears to be of mixed opinion on the song. “That they used it to be so sarcastic, it was almost a form of disrespect,” he said. He shared it on Twitter, though only to “let other people see how ignorant other people can be,” he asserted, not wholly convincingly. His manager, Debra Antney (who is also his mother), said she called up the influential hip-hop video site WorldstarHipHop.com to have the clip removed, to no avail. “That’s not a positive image for us, period, as African-Americans, where we came from, where we’re going today,” she said.

Mr. Davis, though, said he believed that the sort of humor in the clip helped move beyond basic binaries about racial representation. “I can speak to the educated black guy and the hood black guy,” he said. “The fact that we can come out and put on a full production like this in an area where there’s gang violence, in what people would consider the hood, is important to me.”

And he believes that the president wouldn’t be offended by his portrayal, if he ever sees it. “I don’t know what it takes to get to Obama,” Mr. Davis said. “If the White House is like other businesses, other offices, he probably knows about it. Maybe it’s on his to-do list: fix the economy, health care, watch this link.”
757 2010-10-26 I was in Kisumu, the largest city in western Kenya, as both a journalist and a public health researcher from U.C. Berkeley. This scruffy but lively port of more than 300,000 people on the eastern shore of Lake Victoria is a regional hub for commerce, transient relationships and H.I.V. infection. About 15 percent of the adults in the region are believed to be infected.

At Peter’s clinic, as elsewhere in Africa, patients who have not come for their medications in recent months are considered to have defaulted from treatment. As a “defaulter tracer,” Peter tries to track them down, find out what’s gone wrong and get them back into treatment, if possible.

Epidemiologists refer to such patients as “lost to follow-up,” and their increasing numbers in sub-Saharan Africa are causing concern among providers of H.I.V. and AIDS care. Interruptions in treatment lead to viral strains that are resistant to the cheapest medications, and to higher rates of illness and death.

Several years ago, during the rapid international expansion of H.I.V. drug distribution, researchers reported very high rates of adherence to treatment in sub-Saharan Africa — as high as or higher than in the United States. More recently, however, studies have found that 15 to 40 percent of those who start treatment are lost to follow-up within one to three years. This unsettling trend has emerged at a difficult time; financing for treatment from the United States and other donors is not keeping pace with the rate of new infections, which has generated waiting lists for the lifesaving medications in some parts of Africa.

At Faces, the loss-to-follow-up rate is around 30 percent, according to Dr. Dennis Osiemo, the organization’s technical adviser for care and treatment. In many instances, he said, problems over which patients have little or no control — like lack of child care, distance from a clinic or the high cost of transportation — force them to miss appointments or drop out of treatment. Others, of course, have died.

But recent research from Uganda found that a significant number of patients designated as lost to follow-up were actually receiving care elsewhere. A similar tracking effort is being started at Faces, but efforts to determine the status of lapsed patients are not always successful. “If a patient is outside the catchment area, it’s very hard to trace them,” Dr. Osiemo said.

H.I.V. programs in Africa are experimenting with various strategies to reduce loss to follow-up — offering a two- or three-month supply of medication per clinic visit, delivering drugs directly to patients’ homes and reimbursing them for transportation costs. Faces is exploring modest projects to raise patients’ income and stabilize their lives, like creating a microfinance system to provide water pumps and other agricultural support to help them grow more crops.

While accompanying Peter on his rounds of the district, I discovered that many cases elude easy solutions — the technological, financial or pharmacological fixes that Western-financed programs seek to carry out.

In search of the defaulted clients on Peter’s list, we rode in matatus — the wheezing, overcrowded minivans that provide cheap local transportation — to outlying neighborhoods, past hundreds of ramshackle storefronts bearing names like Blessed Mum Butchery, Canaan General Retail Shop and the Yes We Can Hair Salon. (President Obama’s ancestral village, Kogelo, is an easy drive from here.)

Peter, a tall, lanky man in his early 20s, lost both his parents to AIDS in 2006. He is supporting two younger brothers and a younger sister, all in their teens, and he struggles to pay their school fees so they can continue their education.

“I know what people are going through, so I have the heart to help them,” he said. He spoke slowly, as if contemplating the import of each word, and wore a black and white rubber bracelet inscribed with the word “friendship.”

Peter says he loves being able to reconnect patients with treatment, but his days can also prove fruitless and frustrating.

On this afternoon, one client was a woman who had stopped taking her young H.I.V.-positive grandson to the clinic every month. When we arrived in their neighborhood, Peter asked passers-by if they knew the family. Most said no.

Finally, a young boy stepped forward, led us across muddy paths and rows of shacks, and pointed out their home. No one was there, and it was clear no one had been for some time. A neighbor said they’d left for somewhere else a month before.

Next was a young disabled patient whose mother used to take her to the clinic. When we located the dwelling, we found the young woman, who was 20, sprawled in the dirt. She appeared to be suffering from serious neurological and cognitive problems.

The woman living next door told Peter that one recent morning she woke up to find that the mother — her sister — had disappeared, with no forwarding information. She knew nothing about her niece’s medical condition, she said, as Peter tried to discuss arrangements to get the girl back into treatment.

But that day it was the decision of the young widow to continue praying instead of returning to the clinic that haunted Peter. Her determination to ignore the medical realities underscored the limitations of his efforts.

When the woman insisted that faith would heal her, Peter challenged her gently. “Even at the clinic, people are praying and still getting medication, because H.I.V. is in the body and blood,” he said.

She acknowledged that she’d recently tested positive a second time, but that did not dissuade her. “I’m still hoping to be tested again and be negative,” she said softly.

Peter and I stood up. He knew there was nothing more to say. He wished her well, encouraged her one last time to return. She smiled and shook her head.
758 2010-10-26 WASHINGTON — The federal government announced the first national emissions and fuel economy standards for heavy vehicles on Monday, one of a series of regulatory steps that the Obama administration is taking to increase energy efficiency and reduce atmospheric pollution in the absence of Congressional action on climate change.

The administration also announced approval of a major solar power installation on public land in the California desert, a step toward weaning the nation from dependence on fossil fuels. Together they represent what President Obama has called a more “bite-size” approach to global warming that he intends to pursue while efforts to pass comprehensive legislation are stalled.

The mileage proposal, which is scheduled to become final next year after a period of public comment, will apply to tractor-trailers, buses, delivery vans, heavy pickup trucks, cement mixers and many other classes of vehicles. It will cover new vehicles manufactured between 2014 and 2018.

The proposed policy would apply different standards to different vehicles, based on weight and intended use. For example, over-the-road tractor-trailers would be required to achieve a 20 percent reduction in fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions by 2018. Heavy-duty pickups and vans would be subject to different gasoline and diesel fuel standards, with reductions ranging from 10 to 15 percent. Other work trucks would have to reduce fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent by 2018.

Lisa P. Jackson, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that the new standards were an extension of the mileage and emissions rules that the administration had already adopted for passenger cars and light trucks. She said that lower fuel costs for truckers would more than cover the costs of the technology used to meet the new standards and would create jobs in truck manufacturing and related industries.
759 2010-10-26 HONG KONG — The Singapore stock exchange on Monday offered to buy its Australian counterpart for $8.3 billion, a purchase that would create a leading player in a region that has not yet experienced the major consolidation that has taken place in other parts of the world.

Singapore Exchange, known as SGX, is offering 10.7 billion Singapore dollars in cash and shares for ASX, the main Australian stock exchange operator, whose board recommended the transaction.

The combined entity, ASX-SGX, would be the second-largest by market value, after Hong Kong, in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific region. ASX and SGX would remain as separate legal and locally regulated entities and retain their existing brands.

It would also be second in the region, after India, in terms of the number of listings, the two companies said in a joint presentation Monday.

Apart from annual cost savings of $30 million, the deal would allow the combined company to better fend off competition from trading platforms like Chi-X Global, an electronic exchange that is aiming to start operations in Australia next year.
760 2010-10-26 Veterinarians around the country are reporting a strange phenomenon: spayed dogs and cats, even some puppies and kittens, are suddenly becoming hormonal.     In female pets, the symptoms resemble heat: swollen genitals, bloody discharge and behavi...
761 2010-10-26 Veterinarians around the country are reporting a strange phenomenon: spayed dogs and cats, even some puppies and kittens, are suddenly becoming hormonal.     In female pets, the symptoms resemble heat: swollen genitals, bloody discharge and behavi...
762 2010-10-26 PARIS -- The French strikes and demonstrations over a proposed increase in the retirement age have lasted for weeks and attracted wide sympathy in a society whose work force is less than 10 percent unionized. But the proposal will soon become law,...
763 2010-10-26 As regulators extend their reach, insider trading is harder to define, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his DealBook column this week.     The Securities and Exchange Commission is no longer just making sure a small circle of employees are not abusing...
764 2010-10-27 C.C. Sabathia, who has pitched 1,033 innings since 2007, will have surgery on his right knee to repair a torn meniscus....
765 2010-10-27 How New Year's Eve ruined Halloween in New York City....
766 2010-10-27 A 10-pound dog is shown being kicked and slammed into a wall at the Grant Houses at Amsterdam Avenue and West 127th Street....
767 2010-10-27 The ballet dancers Ethan Stiefel and Gillian Murphy are to appear on "Gossip Girl."...
768 2010-10-27 A New York City Housing Authority security camera mounted inside an elevator captured a man violently yanking the leash of a small dog in an Upper Manhattan apartment building.
769 2010-10-27 Once again, the jailed Texas financier R. Allen Stanford is getting a new legal team. By DealBook's count, this is his seventh set of lawyers....
770 2010-10-27 Magnus Carlsen missed a win against the world champion, but his nearest competitor lost, allowing Carlsen to stretch his lead....
771 2010-10-27 More late changes as "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown" approaches opening night....
772 2010-10-27 Credit Suisse may lay off as many as 250 employees in New York City in the next few months, the bank told state labor officials....
773 2010-10-27 From a tax perspective, South Dakota is the most hospitable state for businesses, while New York is the least, according to the Tax Foundation's latest ranking....
774 2010-10-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
775 2010-10-27 You say there were other teams besides the Boston Celtics and the Miami Heat playing Tuesday on opening night in the N.B.A.?...
776 2010-10-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
777 2010-10-27 Most of the new rules proposed by the F.D.I.C. to structure resolution proceedings are little more than a grand exercise in reinventing the wheel, argues Stephen J. Lubben in a column for DealBook....
778 2010-10-27 The Bears' Lovie Smith didn't ask for a replay review of a Jay Cutler fumble on Sunday. It might have been one of the costlier coaching blunders of the season....
779 2010-10-27 Hedge funds surpassed their previous high water marks in the third quarter, recouping the losses sustained during the financial crisis, according to a report from Credit Suisse....
780 2010-10-27 Korea Finance Corp., the country's state-run financier, said it may purchase temporary control of Hynix Semiconductor by forming a private-equity fund should creditors fail to find a capable buyer of the chipmaker....
781 2010-10-27 From New York to Copenhagen to London, cocktail culture is on the ascent, with creative throw-back bars popping up around some dedicated enthusiasts. And Paris is no exception....
782 2010-10-27 Mecox Lane saw its shares soar 57 percent in their first day of trading Wednesday....
783 2010-10-27 A merger between Singapore Exchange and ASX will make it harder for Hong Kong to win offerings by commodity companies and achieve an expansion plan announced this year, the chairman of the Hong Kong bourse said....
784 2010-10-27 Student Opinion | Would you put yourself in harm's way for the sake of a personal passion?...
785 2010-10-27 The European Union agreed Tuesday after drawn-out negotiations to new rules for hedge funds, having gained the approval of the European Parliament to regulate more thoroughly the 2 trillion euro industry....
786 2010-10-27 Neal Boenzi, like Fred Astaire, was fast on his feet - and seemingly effortless....
787 2010-10-27 The starting pitchers in Game 1 are known, in part, for their unclean caps....
788 2010-10-27 I.B.M. said on Tuesday that its board had approved an additional $10 billion in stock buybacks, representing nearly 6 percent of its outstanding shares....
789 2010-10-27 Meg Whitman appears far behind, at least according to polls, in the California Governor race....
790 2010-10-27 WASHINGTON (AP) — A power failure caused a break in communication with 50 nuclear missiles at an Air Force base in Wyoming over the weekend, military officials said Tuesday.

The officials say the power failure on Saturday lasted about 45 minutes. The White House was briefed about the incident on Tuesday morning.

There was no evidence of foul play, the officials said, and the Air Force never lost the ability to launch the missiles. The problem, first reported online by The Atlantic, appears to have been caused by a power failure in an underground communications cable.

The Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missiles are maintained by the 319th Missile Squadron and are stockpiled at Warren Air Force Base, near Cheyenne.

The Air Force’s other nuclear missile sites, in Montana and North Dakota, were not affected.
791 2010-10-27 ENVIRONMENTAL CASES Upholding a tradition that goes back to the days when Attorney General Robert Abrams made it his business to clean up the Love Canal toxic waste site, Andrew M. Cuomo has displayed sharp elbows when it comes to environmental protection. He filed lawsuits against the Bush administration’s Environmental Protection Agency over global warming and American Electric Power, the nation’s largest power producer, when emissions from its Midwestern plants were blowing into New York. Just as telling are the less glamorous cases he brought forcing operators of mobile home parks to fix conditions that were imperiling the health of residents.

PUBLIC INTEGRITY CASES Eager to show he can clean up Albany, Mr. Cuomo has exposed several serious cases of public corruption. He bore down, for instance, on conflicts of interest and schemes in the public pension arena and extracted a guilty plea this month from former State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, above, a fellow Democrat, who had steered public pension money to a firm that gave him freebies and hired an ally.

At the other extreme, Mr. Cuomo’s handling of investigations into two sitting governors invited criticism, and he has yet to resolve a two-year-old investigation looking into whether the Bloomberg administration’s financing of local development corporations violated state lobbying laws.

COLLEGE LOAN CASES Fast-tracking a case that had been initiated just before he took office, Mr. Cuomo quickly amassed evidence that colleges were steering students to lenders that gave the colleges kickbacks or furnished insiders with various goodies.

Still unclear, three years later, is what is to become of the $13 million in settlements that Mr. Cuomo wrung from the targeted companies. His latest plan envisions taking $3 million to create a 24-hour call center and Web site that gives students unvarnished advice about loans, with the balance being spent on advertising. For now, it is all stalled because Mr. Cuomo’s advisers say they do not want to run afoul of election laws by running advertisements that indirectly help his campaign.

MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDATION One of Mr. Cuomo’s proudest legislative victories was the legislation he pushed through last year that makes it easier for certain municipalities and special districts to consolidate or go dark. His staff counted more than 10,000 such entities in New York, as varied as fire protection districts and public entities that deal with duck waste.

Pitched as a way for taxpayers to save money, the bill was opposed by volunteer firefighters who worried that their livelihoods might be at risk. Drafters of the bill overcame some resistance by pointing out that the bill, as written, was entirely optional — one reason there has been only a smattering of municipalities that have expressed interest in making use of the law since its March 21 effective date.
792 2010-10-27 Advocates for workers plan to charge on Wednesday that a New York City-financed study is likely to conclude falsely that more harm than good would come from mandating higher minimum wages for employees of companies that receive city subsidizes.

The study, financed by $1 million from the city’s Economic Development Corporation, is not scheduled to be completed until spring. But advocates for workers are criticizing it in advance because they fear it will be biased toward employers.

A bill pending in the City Council would extend New York’s so-called living wage of $10 an hour to employees of companies that receive all sorts of subsidies and tax breaks from the city. The issue became controversial last year when the Council rejected a plan to build a mall inside the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. Opponents had demanded that the subsidized project pay more than the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. That defeat still rankles Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who opposes the living-wage bill introduced in May.

On Wednesday, two liberal research groups — the National Employment Law Project and the Fiscal Policy Institute — plan to release a critique of the study’s leaders and methods and to contend that the labor economists leading it are too “biased” to produce a credible analysis.

One of them, David Neumark, is “such a controversial figure” that his involvement is “surprising and troubling,” the critique says. It goes on to characterize Mr. Neumark, a professor at the University of California, Irvine, as a leading critic of policies intended to raise the wages of the lowest-paid workers.
793 2010-10-27 Television’s royalty is in the middle of another unsavory tiff. One content king, Rupert Murdoch, is squaring off against a member of the distribution ruling class, Cablevision, led by James Dolan.

The cable operator’s 3.1 million New York-area subscribers have lost access to Fox Broadcasting as the two companies tussle over retransmission fees. Such fights are common but the stakes are becoming higher because so much programming can be found online. Each new quarrel gives customers a reason to pull the plug, which would hurt both sides.

Cablevision says Fox wants to charge it a little more than twice the $70 million it pays to carry stations that broadcast popular programs like N.F.L. football, “Glee” and “American Idol.” Considering that Cablevision pays $140 million for the MSG channels that the Dolan family controls, the valuation hardly seems unreasonable. But as the one who bills consumers, Cablevision is understandably tiring of being cast as the villain.

Mr. Murdoch seemed to be in ideal negotiating position. Fox carries the World Series, and with the Yankees and nearby Phillies apparently coasting to a rematch of last year’s major media market matchup, he figured he had the Dolans over a barrel. Both teams lost over the weekend, however, to far-flung rivals in Texas and California. It might still be un-American not to broadcast the World Series, but advertisers and East Coast fans would be harder to come by considering the teams that are playing.

That makes it less likely that Cablevision subscribers will defect to competitors even as they rolled into a second week without access to Fox channels, and the companies took the fight to regulators. But that doesn’t mean Mr. Dolan, who has gone toe to toe before with broadcasters, is off the hook, or that Mr. Murdoch still isn’t overplaying his hand.

Not only can viewers get Fox with a simple high-definition antenna, but online TV ventures from Hulu, Netflix, Apple and Google have grown in popularity. Fox even shows programs on Fox.com while Major League Baseball has a cheap, live streaming service.
794 2010-10-27 A recipe for Verjuice Dessert Bars....
795 2010-10-27 “Take green papaya salad,” said Josh Raynolds, a wine writer and a former wine salesman who has been following the Chutimas since they first opened in Norwalk, Calif., in the 1990s. “Theirs had a much stronger presence of fermented shrimp.”

Once Lotus of Siam relocated to Las Vegas in 1999, he said, “it was the only place you could go to for northern cooking. Even with its popularity, in Vegas it was like a neighborhood place, off the strip, where we would go instead of the hotel restaurants.”

Many of their Las Vegas customers have urged them to open in New York for years. Now, having dined at a number of Thai places in Manhattan and Queens, the Chutimas believe they can offer something new. “The differences are not about spiciness,” Mr. Chutima said. “Not all Thai cooking is spicy. But you will see, our curries are not like soup. Our curries may seem strange.”

Larb, the ground pork salad familiar to New Yorkers, will be on the menu, but so will a northern-style version stir-fried in a wok, moister and not spiked with lime juice. New York can also look forward to crispy rice with sour Thai sausage.

The Chutimas are shipping ingredients to New York, like wing beans with ruffled edges, turmeric root and rau rum, a slender herb that is at once pungently soapy and spicy. Mrs. Chutima toasts and grinds spices herself, making mixtures of coriander and cumin for noodle dishes.

Lotus of Siam in New York will have higher prices than the Las Vegas restaurant, where only a handful of dishes cost more than $20. Mr. Chutima would not say exactly how much higher, but he said “the rent is far worse than we have back there.” He also said that they would use more expensive ingredients in New York.

A preview tasting menu featured Amish and “Belle Rouge” chicken and Niman Ranch beef. “Our customers in Las Vegas said that’s what New Yorkers are eating,” he said. “We’re the new kids in town, so what do we know, we need advice.” Mrs. Chutima said that in her cooking she saw no difference between Niman Ranch beef and the regular choice or prime that she had been using.

Another feature that sets Lotus of Siam apart from other Thai restaurants is its wine list. Around 600 bottles, heavily concentrated on German rieslings, are often bargains, at prices that are comparable to what one might pay at retail. In New York the list will be shorter, but Moe Rosa, who is the New York restaurant’s manager, said that they would try to keep the prices low.

Bank Atcharawan, the manager in Nevada, said that when they first opened, Las Vegas “was only interested in the Left Bank,” referring to fine Bordeaux. “We changed that.”

But it was also Mrs. Chutima’s palate that insisted on the rieslings. “She doesn’t know the names,” her husband said. “But when she tastes, she knows what goes with the food.”
796 2010-10-27 What better way to open that bottle of locally micro-brewed artisanal beer than with this rustic-looking bottle opener? A block of walnut is fitted with a bent nail, with enough of a head and the correct distance to lever up the bottle cap.

But there are refinements. The wood is polished and has not one, but two flush magnets, one to catch the bottle cap, the other to secure the opener to the fridge or other metal surface.

And come to think of it, perhaps a bottle of Tsingtao would be more appropriate than, say, Brooklyn Oktoberfest, because the gadget, designed by Areaware, a New York company, is made in China.

Areaware bottle opener, $20 at the Museum of Modern Art Design Store and momastore.com.
797 2010-10-27 Suffering a research drought, drug makers have laid off thousands of employees. Some of those dispatched have in turn filed whistle-blower lawsuits that can lead to criminal investigations.

Justice Department officials announced the settlement in a news conference Tuesday afternoon in Boston, saying a $150 million payment to settle criminal charges was the largest such payment ever by a manufacturer of adulterated drugs. The outcome also provides $600 million in civil penalties. The share to the whistle-blower will be $96 million, one of the highest such awards in a health care fraud case.

When asked whether any individual could be charged in addition to the corporation charges, Carmen M. Ortiz, the United States attorney for Massachusetts, would say only that the investigation was not yet complete.

GlaxoSmithKline released a statement saying that it regretted operating the Puerto Rico plant in violation of good manufacturing practices. The company said the problem had involved only one plant that was closed in 2009. American shares in the company fell 0.35 percent on Tuesday.

Tony West, the assistant attorney general in charge of the department’s civil division, said hundreds of such lawsuits were awaiting federal review.

“We’ve opened more investigations, we’ve recovered more taxpayer dollars lost to fraud, we’ve had more convictions, higher penalties and fines in the last two years than we’ve had in any other two-year period,” Mr. West said in an interview.

Whistle-blowers who win earn a cut of the eventual fine. Ms. Eckard will collect $96 million from the federal government, and she will collect additional millions from states.

The suits, all filed under seal, have for years been rising in size and scope, but the collective threat to the industry has been largely unnoticed because the growing mountain is obscured by a wall of judicial secrecy. Each successful claim begets more suits, with more being filed almost every week.

The suits are filed under a federal law originally intended to stop Civil War hucksters from selling rancid meat to the Union Army by paying bounties to tipsters. The pharmaceutical industry has become the law’s most successful target because the government now buys far more pills than bullets, and because fraud in health care is common.

Health care cases accounted for some 80 percent of the $3.1 billion recovered by the Justice Department under the false claims act last year, the Taxpayers Against Fraud Education Fund, a nonprofit whistle-blower advocacy group in Washington, reported on Monday. Most of the money is typically returned to the programs in which false claims were filed, like Medicaid and Medicare.

The Food and Drug Administration and the inspector general of the Health and Human Services Department both announced recently that they would pursue charges against executives personally under a strict liability provision of the law, something that has not been done since 2007 when the three top executives of Purdue Pharma were convicted, sentenced to probation and personally fined $34 million while Purdue paid $600 million.

The rule allows executives to be prosecuted and barred from government sales even if they were not aware of specific violations.

Legislation could make such claims easier to win. Last month, the House of Representatives passed a bill that permits executives to be barred even if they have left the company where the fraud occurred and that permits the inspector general to prosecute parent companies for the sins of subsidiaries.

Pfizer alone has settled four whistle-blower cases since 2002, and it paid a $2.3 billion fine last year, the largest in history. Whistle-blower cases have become so routine that Wall Street no longer takes much notice of individual suits, while the growing trend remains hidden.

When GlaxoSmithKline announced in July that it was setting aside $2.4 billion for legal costs, including enough to pay for the investigation into its Puerto Rico problems, the announcement was greeted with a yawn.

Still, the case may lead to a collective industry shiver because it opens a new frontier for whistle-blower suits. Nearly all previous cases against the industry involved illegal marketing. This is the first successful case ever to assert that a drug maker knowingly sold contaminated products.

“This case will change the way drug makers run their factories,” Ms. Eckard’s lawyer, Neil Getnick, said.

Some of the antidepressant Paxil CR produced at the plant was ineffective because a layer of active ingredient split from a layer of a barrier chemical during manufacturing, the government said, and some lots contained only the barrier chemical.

“The harm is really in the public’s confidence in the health care industry,” Ms. Ortiz said. “When you go to a pharmacy and you buy a drug, you expect that drug is what it purports to be and you don’t expect it to have any micro-organisms or not be sterile or not have the power or have too much power.”

Ms. Eckard’s role in the case began in August 2002 when GlaxoSmithKline sent her to Cidra, south of San Juan, to lead a team of 100 quality experts to fix problems cited by an F.D.A. warning letter a month earlier.

This was GlaxoSmithKline’s premier manufacturing facility, producing $5.5 billion of product each year. But Ms. Eckard soon discovered that quality control was a mess: the water system was contaminated; the air system allowed for cross-contamination between products; the warehouse was so overcrowded that rented vans were used for storage; the plant could not ensure the sterility of intravenous drugs for cancer; and pills of differing strengths were sometimes mixed in the same bottles.

Although F.D.A. inspectors had spotted some problems, most were missed. And the company abandoned even the limited fixes it promised to conduct, the unsealed lawsuit says. Ms. Eckard complained repeatedly to senior managers; little was done. She recommended recalls of defective products; recalls were not authorized. In May 2003, she was terminated as a “redundancy.”

She complained to top company executives, but she was ignored even after warning that she would call the F.D.A. So she called the F.D.A. and sued. The agency began a criminal investigation and used armed federal marshals in 2005 to seize nearly $2 billion worth of products, the largest such seizure in history. Unable to fix the plant, GlaxoSmithKline closed it in 2009.
798 2010-10-27 The group is also organizing volunteer “surveillance squads” to photograph and videotape what it suspects are irregularities, and in some cases to follow buses that take voters to the polls.

In last week, several community groups protested the posting of large billboards throughout the city that show pictures of people behind jail bars under the words “We Voted Illegally.” The protesters said the posters — it was not clear who paid for them — were intended to intimidate people from voting.

In , a Tea Party group called the King Street Patriots recently accused a voter registration group, Houston Votes, of turning in voter registration applications with incorrect information.

Voting rights advocates say they are worried.

“Private efforts to police the polls create a real risk of vote suppression, regardless of their intent,” said Wendy R. Weiser, director of the Voting Rights and Elections Project at the Brennan Center for Justice at . “People need to know that any form of discrimination, intimidation or challenge to voters without adequate basis is illegal or improper.”

Voter fraud and voter-registration fraud are, of course, different.

While many states have voter registration records riddled with names of dead people, out-of-date addresses and other erroneous information, there is little evidence that such errors lead to fraudulent votes, many experts note.

A report by the public-integrity section of the Justice Department found that from October 2002 to September 2005, the department charged 95 people with “election fraud”; 55 were convicted.

Among those, fewer than 20 people were convicted of casting fraudulent ballots, and only 5 were convicted of registration fraud. Most of the rest were charged with other voting violations, including a scheme meant to help Republicans by blocking the phone lines used by two voting groups that were arranging rides to get voters to the polls.

Even so, the fear of stolen votes remains, as does the fear of missing votes — particularly in light of a decrease, compared with 2006, in voter-registration applications in swing states.

About 43 percent fewer new voters have registered in this year than in 2006, while in , the decrease has been about 35 percent. Significant drops have also been seen in (25 percent), (28 percent), (27 percent) and (21 percent), according to state election data collected by the Brennan Center.

Voting experts say several factors explain the trend.

Voter enthusiasm is low now, and fewer groups like the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or , are engaged in drives to sign people up. Acorn collected about 550,000 voter-registration applications across the country in 2006, mostly from low-income and minority Americans, and 1.3 million in 2008.

But in March, the organization closed down after accusations by two conservative activists that low-level Acorn employees had advised them on how to hide prostitution activities and avoid . The group was also battered by conservatives for having submitted some voter registration cards with incorrect, duplicate or false information.

The housing crisis may also have dampened voter registration. More than three million properties were foreclosed this year, a 30 percent increase from 2008, and people who have been forced out of their homes may be not be able establish residency to vote.

Many states have also enacted laws in recent years that make registration drives more difficult, with stricter reporting and filing deadlines for voter registration groups.

“It has been an uphill fight in a lot of states to register people this year,” said Elisabeth MacNamara, national president of the .

Ms. MacNamara said the group’s chapter faced an additional burden because of a new state law requiring voters to prove citizenship. The chapter does not have a copier machine, so the expense of duplicating documents like birth certificates or driver’s licenses falls to unpaid volunteers.

Most of the new barriers to registration are likely to hurt Democrats more than Republicans. Historically, these registration drives have focused on voters in poorer areas and minority communities, which tend to vote Democratic.

The Obama administration has tried to take steps to lessen the dependence on independent voter registration groups, while also broadening voter participation among poorer and minority voters.

In June, the Justice Department released new guidelines for the “motor voter” law, emphasizing that all public-assistance applicants must be given the opportunity to register to vote, and that state employees must offer to help them.

Still, independent voter registration groups say that they still play an important role, and that scare tactics are making their work harder.

“There is an intentional effort here to suppress participation,” said Jim George, a lawyer for the Texans Together Education Fund, the parent organization of Houston Votes.

Houston Votes, whose registration drive has mostly focused on Latino neighborhoods, did find at least one paid canvasser submitting fraudulent applications, Mr. George said, and that person was immediately fired. He added that the groups’ financing for voter registration work had dried up because of insinuations by the King Street Patriots that Houston Votes was tied to the New Black Panther Party.

“Houston Votes has nothing whatsoever to do with the Black Panthers,” Mr. George said. “But you make a claim like that, and funding dries up, even if the claim isn’t true.”

Mr. George explained that during a meeting, the King Street Patriots had shown a picture of the Houston Votes office and stated its address before adding that this was the new location of the Black Panthers.

Hiram Sasser, a lawyer for the Liberty Institute who represents the King Street Patriots, denied the claim but when presented a video of the incident, he said that his client had actually made a mistake and did not realize the office was tied to Houston Votes.

Leo Vasquez, the Republican tax assessor-collector and voter registrar in Harris County, Tex., which includes Houston, said that of about 25,640 registration applications submitted by Houston Votes, about 5,500 had problems.

The has filed a lawsuit against Mr. Vasquez, accusing him and the voter registration office of illegally rejecting voter applications.

The fight occurs against the backdrop of a contest for governor in which a large turnout in Harris County would be vital to the effort by the Democratic candidate, Bill White, to defeat Gov. , a Republican.
799 2010-10-27 ARMONK, N.Y. (AP) — I.B.M. said on Tuesday that its board had approved an additional $10 billion in stock buybacks, representing nearly 6 percent of its outstanding shares.

International Business Machines said the new buyback authorization added to $2.3 billion remaining from a previous $8 billion authorization, issued in April.

The company said it also planned to request permission to buy even more shares at its next April board meeting.
800 2010-10-27 “We expect to be the first Indian company to acquire a Premier League team,” a statement released Monday by the chairman of Venky’s said. “We are particularly delighted that the team is Blackburn Rovers, with whom we believe we have many shared values and ambitions.”

The first thing the fans will want to know is which players the prospective new owners would bring to their stadium.

Rooney is probably off limits. The five-year contract he signed last weekend should be good for at least a year or two.

A contract in soccer is not a guarantee of fidelity. It is a bartering chip. In Rooney’s case it means Manchester United now has four years to extract the best of his unquestionable ability, or to sell him at a price United hopes would recoup the millions it is paying him.

“When your top players come toward the end of their contracts, you have to do something to get them a new one,” United’s veteran manager, Alex Ferguson, said once the new deal was cut. “The players are no problem. Some agents are difficult.”

Those agents, for the moment licensed by FIFA, usually have the managers’ and coaches’ cellphone numbers. The bigger the player, the more likely it is that his representative has the number of the few team bosses whose club might be able to afford him.

When it comes to breaking contracts, the clubs are every bit as devious as the agents they accuse of double-dealing.

Things are very likely to get a worse before they get better.

In Zurich on Monday, a stone’s throw from FIFA headquarters, the issue of agents was being discussed at the International Football Arena.

FIFA’s head of players’ status and governance, Omar Ongaro, told the sports business conference that starting next season FIFA no longer intended to license agents. Regulation and responsibility for the agents, he said, would be shifted to the clubs and the national associations. Ongaro did say that FIFA would place a cap on agents’ commissions, restricting their take of the multimillion-dollar transfer fee to 3 percent.

This might explain why Rooney’s agent threatened to remove his “client” from Manchester United with 18 months of his previous contract to run. It might explain why Soren Lerby, the former player turned agent, put pressure on Inter Milan to renegotiate the terms of his player Wesley Sneijder or sell him. Sneijder was grateful to sign for Inter in 2009, when Real Madrid shoved him out of the door. And Sneijder magnificently led his new team to win the Italian League, Italian Cup and the Champions League last season.

Now that Inter’s coach, José Mourinho, has moved to Madrid, there is talk of Real’s wanting Sneijder back. There is also talk of Rooney’s wanting a player of Sneijder’s quality at Manchester United.

Lerby told the Italian news media that Sneijder was very impressed with Inter’s president and owner, Massimo Moratti. But negotiations on extending Sneijder’s contract to 2015 stalled, and Lerby suggested to a Dutch newspaper that if Inter was not prepared to talk about the terms he felt his player was worth, maybe Madrid would be.

There are currently 5,718 agents licensed by FIFA. They span the globe, from the 727 registered in Italy to the single agents on the roll in North Korea, the Cayman Islands, the Philippines and the Seychelles.

There are also countless unregistered agents.

In some cases they are family, in others they are lawyers, accountants or just persuasive street-smart men and women who sign up gifted but gullible players.

“It’s quite easy if a player is well known for a brother or sister to represent him,” the former Swiss international Raphael Wicky said at the I.F.A. conference. “Everyone wants that player. But an average player needs someone who knows the business and has contacts because the clubs will not run after them.”

The fallout from FIFA’s washing its hands of regulating the agents might be a free-for-all.

“We think FIFA is fed up with the administration of the problem,” Rob Jansen, the president of the European Football Agents Association, said Monday. “What we think will happen is total chaos.”

Jansen told the conference: “When there is a problem with people robbing banks, the solution is not to close the banks. But this is what is happening here. Our suggestion was not to stop licensing, but to make it stronger.”

Soccer is where Walter Scott was two centuries ago when he wrote his epic poem “Marmion”: “Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.”
801 2010-10-27 Iran has five research reactors in operation, and one more under construction.

The Bushehr reactor, designed for power generation and located in southern Iran, has a long and tangled history. Construction began in 1975 under a contract signed with West Germany, state-run Press TV reported on Tuesday, but West Germany withdrew from the project after the Islamic Revolution in 1979. An agreement with in 1995 should have been completed in 1999, but the plan fell prey to long delays.

The United States once opposed the plant. But the monitors it, and the United States dropped its objections after Russia provided assurances of controls on the fuel supply and the disposal of spent fuel rods. Russia has agreed to take back the spent rods, removing the possibility that Iran could reprocess them for materials that could fuel a nuclear weapon.

Secretary of State reiterated Tuesday that the United States was not concerned with the Bushehr plant but with other sites.

“Our problem is not with their reactor at Bushehr, our problem is with their facilities at places like Natanz and their secret facility at Qum and other places where we believe they are conducting their weapons program,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters at the , according to The Associated Press.

“Iran is entitled to the peaceful use of nuclear power,” she added. “They are not entitled to a program.”

The Iranian government maintains that its program is for energy production and other peaceful uses. But with Iran having hidden elements of the program in the past and making no secret of its ambitions to increase its regional power, Western governments harbor deep suspicions that Tehran wants to build a nuclear weapon.

The fuel loading was initially planned to begin soon after fuel was transported there in August, but was delayed by what the Iranians said was a leak in a pool near the central reactor. Iranian officials have denied that the delay was caused by the mysterious computer worm, which was found on the laptop computers of several employees at Bushehr, as well as a power generator that is not believed to be part of a weapons program.

Speaking to workers at the plant on Tuesday, the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, Ali Akbar Salehi, called the Bushehr plant “the most exceptional power plant in the world.”

He said that the plant would begin to feed the national power grid within three months.

Normal procedures call for I.A.E.A. inspectors to oversee the final processes of fuel-loading and then seal the core of the reactor to prevent tampering. The reactor is to be kept under surveillance by closed-circuit television cameras that would detect any movement of fuel.

But in September, the I.A.E.A. complained that Iran had barred two of its most experienced inspectors from the country.

In a report, the agency reiterated that, since August 2008, Iran has refused to answer questions “about the possible existence in Iran of past or current undisclosed nuclear-related activities involving military-related organizations, including activities related to the development of a nuclear payload for a missile.” The report said it was “essential that Iran engage with the agency on these issues” because evidence can degrade with “the passage of time.”
802 2010-10-27 A recipe for vegetables fried until golden and crisp....
803 2010-10-27 As Madonna would be the first to tell you, there are all kinds of incentives to improve one's physical fitness, from increased energy and improved health to the possibility that your personal trainer might become the father of your first child.   ...
804 2010-10-27 ISRAEL--Rosalind "nee Krumstock," of Ridgefield, CT, on October 26, 2010. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Jerome and her sister Diane. She is survived by her daughters Marilynn Potter of Chester, NY and her husband Daniel and Sandra Tes...
805 2010-10-28 The Pacific Alternative Asset Management Company did not give the reasons the Securities and Exchange Commission's New York regional office decided to open the investigation....
806 2010-10-28 Hedge fund and private equity managers, like professional athletes, risk a lot to make a lot. But the big banks pay people millions to gamble with other people's money....
807 2010-10-28 Pfizer plans to submit its proposed new lung-cancer drug to the Food and Drug Administration and also plans to submit a new gene diagnostic test being developed with Abbott to identify patients most likely to benefit from the drug....
808 2010-10-28 At a third research site, scientists compare findings from two previous sites in Peru's northern Amazon....
809 2010-10-28 Dog expert Alexander Horowitz says that while dressing up the dog for Halloween may delight the owner, the dog likely is not amused....
810 2010-10-28 The political aspirations of Representative Heath Shuler, a conservative Democrat from North Carolina, may go beyond re-election....
811 2010-10-28 A plan to combine the Royal Flanders Ballet and Flemish Opera has led the ballet leader to tender her resignation....
812 2010-10-28 Rising tuition costs and financial aid, how to find flight deals and other consumer-focused items from Thursday's Times....
813 2010-10-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
814 2010-10-28 Santander, Spain's largest bank, has announced profits to be falling short of 2010's expectations after posting earnings in the third quarter of 1.64 million euros, its lowest quarterly gain in four years....
815 2010-10-28 Shares of Pacific Biosciences of California rose Wednesday in their market debut, closing almost 3 percent above the initial public offering price of $16 per share....
816 2010-10-28 From a tax perspective, South Dakota is the most hospitable state for businesses, while New York is the least, according to the Tax Foundation's latest ranking....
817 2010-10-28 The cost of college continues to rise, not just at state universities with dwindling budgets but at private colleges, too....
818 2010-10-28 Center Brook Lopez commanded double teams and had 25 points, and Harris finished with 22 points and 9 assists. They were witnesses last season to the worst start in N.B.A. history at 0-18, and they combined to fuel the Nets throughout Wednesday’s game.

“I think we would have folded last year, but that’s what we didn’t do,” Lopez said.

Prokhorov watched from a suite (“I like the bird’s-eye view because it’s important what the structure of the team is,” he said), while Jay-Z, the minority owner and music mogul, and his wife, Beyoncé Knowles, did so from courtside.

The game seesawed through 17 lead changes and 7 ties. The Nets overcame a 7-point deficit with 1 minute 32 seconds to play, closing the deficit on Jordan Farmar’s 3-pointer and Harris’s layup and free throw.

“It just really showed the personality of the team, hopefully, that all year, we don’t quit,” Johnson said.

Morrow, a sharpshooter acquired in the off-season makeover, made half of the Nets’ six 3-pointers as part of his 13 points. Derrick Favors, the third overall pick in the draft last June, showed his promise with 8 points and 7 rebounds while staying out of foul trouble in the first half.

The game featured Johnson as a strategist. Twice in the fourth quarter he told his team to foul Ben Wallace, a poor foul shooter; he missed three free throws, two of them air balls. When Morrow made his big 3-pointer, Johnson had spaced the court with a four-guard lineup.

Detroit could have tied the score after Terrence Williams missed two free throws. But Rodney Stuckey’s attempt with 1.3 seconds left was an air ball as the crowd of 15,178 twirled white towels at the first regular-season N.B.A. game in the arena.

Prokhorov, the N.B.A.’s first owner from overseas, toasted the season’s start with Champagne before the game. He met with reporters in a V.I.P. section of the arena, walking over a red carpet into a room with dimmed lights.

Prokhorov said that he rarely drank but that he hoped the Nets eventually made him addicted to Champagne. He backtracked from earlier statements that he believed the Nets should be a playoff team this season, but that was before their winning start.

“We will be much better with time,” he said.

Commissioner David Stern announced that the N.B.A. would hold next year’s draft at the Prudential Center while Madison Square Garden continues its renovation. Stern said the league would debate moving the draft to different cities in the future. The draft site had rotated cities until finding a home in New York for nearly a decade. ... Tracy McGrady, who ended last season with the Knicks, made his debut with the Pistons. He did not score in 13 minutes. ... Mikhail D. Prokhorov laughed about the billboard featuring Amar’e Stoudemire that the Knicks placed in Brooklyn, the Nets’ next home. Earlier, the Nets had placed a large advertisement featuring Prokhorov and Jay-Z across from Madison Square Garden. “I saw the picture but I think Amar’e, he is very sad,” Prokhorov said. “It looks like he wants to play in Brooklyn in a couple of years.”
819 2010-10-28 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Sheik Saqr bin Mohammed al-Qasimi, a ruler in the United Arab Emirates federation and one of the world’s longest-reigning monarchs, died Wednesday, state media reported. He was 90.

Sheik Saqr was succeeded as leader of the Ras al Khaymah emirate — one of seven composing the United Arab Emirates — by a son, Sheik Saud bin Saqr al-Qasimi. Sheik Saud was chosen as crown prince seven years ago, opening a family feud with his half brother.

Sheik Saqr took control of Ras al Khaymah, the northernmost emirate, in a bloodless coup in the late 1940s — decades before the United Arab Emirates became a country — as part of a dynasty that has ruled the area since the 18th century.

The emirate is less developed than Dubai or Abu Dhabi, but it has sought to attract foreign investment recently by creating an airline, developing basic industries like ceramic production and courting resort developers.

Sheik Saqr initially refused to join the federation in 1971 until he received guarantees that the new nation would not give up its claims to several islands under Iranian control.

The line of succession in the emirate has been a simmering dispute since Sheik Saqr rejected his eldest son, Sheik Khalid bin Saqr al-Qasimi, as the crown prince in 2003 and chose Sheik Saud to succeed him. In recent months, Sheik Khalid has stepped up his efforts to succeed his father, hiring an American public relations firm to press his case in Washington. He does not, however, possess any authority to block the succession.
820 2010-10-28 Still, the Knicks held Toronto to 38.3 percent shooting for the game, and one field goal in the final five minutes.

“I told them, we got to keep playing defense, keep playing hard until we get things worked out and get a little bit smoother,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said.

The Knicks (1-0) have a winning record for the first time since Nov. 22, 2008 (7-6), D’Antoni’s first month on the job. That was the day after they began trading their best players in a drive to slash the payroll and make room for an eventual star. When LeBron James turned them down, Stoudemire nominated himself for the job.

Stoudemire scored on three drives to the basket late in the game, punishing Reggie Evans and slicing through traffic. He is the go-to scorer the Knicks have been missing.

“He’s going to be a finisher,” D’Antoni said. “That’s his job.”

All of the Knicks’ preseason concerns followed them into the regular season: sporadic defense, sporadic rebounding, Danilo Gallinari’s shooting slump, Timofey Mozgov’s foul troubles.

Gallinari, playing with a taped and sore right wrist, missed his first four shots and finished 3 for 9 from the field for 12 points. Mozgov, the rookie center, played only 7:26, mostly because he could not guard Toronto’s jump-shooting big man, Andrea Bargnani (22 points).

Leandro Barbosa, the speedy guard who blossomed under D’Antoni in Phoenix, scored 13 points, all in the second half. He gave Toronto its first lead of the second half, 77-76, with a 3-pointer right in front of D’Antoni.

“I’ve seen that a few times,” D’Antoni said.

There were enough early miscues to fill a blooper reel. Stoudemire caused a traveling turnover in the backcourt when he bumped into Toney Douglas. Felton blew a fast-break opportunity when he dribbled the ball off his foot.

The Knicks were rebuilt but incomplete. Forward Anthony Randolph, a key reserve, missed the game because of a sprained left ankle, and the team expects him to miss two weeks. Kelenna Azubuike — who was acquired with Randolph in a trade for David Lee — is not expected to be ready for several more weeks.

Stoudemire and Felton took charge early, as the Knicks hoped and expected, combining for their first three baskets, and assisting each other on two of them. The offense turned sluggish when the second unit, with Bill Walker and Roger Mason, took the court.

It was only a start, the first steps for a remade team still in search of an identity.

“I don’t think we’re down in the dumps yet,” D’Antoni said jokingly, “so we’re O.K. there.”

Anthony Randolph said the sprain in his left ankle did not pose any long-term concern, despite a devastating injury to the same ankle last season. Randolph, then with the Golden State Warriors, missed most of last season after breaking a bone and tearing tendons in the ankle. “That injury has healed up fine since last year,” he said. ... Wilson Chandler denied a Yahoo Sports report that linked him to illegal secret workouts suspected of being conducted by a Knicks scout. Chandler said he worked out twice for the Knicks, both times at their Westchester County training center, and during the permitted time period. He said he never participated in a workout before the annual predraft camp, or in Atlanta, as the report asserted.
821 2010-10-28 The administration’s testimony did little to soothe members of the Congressional Oversight Panel overseeing the , the 2008 bailout, who said the bungled foreclosures could set back the nation’s fragile economic recovery.

“If investors lose confidence in the ability of to document their ownership of , the financial industry could suffer staggering losses,” the panel’s chairman, Senator , Democrat of , told Ms. Caldwell. “The possibility is especially alarming, coming so soon after taxpayers spent billions of dollars to bail out these very same institutions.”

Another panel member, Richard H. Neiman, the banking superintendent, asked, “How do we continue to look homeowners in the eye and ask them to continue to work with their servicers given the latest news pertaining to faulty documents and fraudulent affidavits?”

While banks and mortgage servicers are bracing for a wave of lawsuits over flawed paperwork, Ms. Caldwell said the government believed the overall risks to the financial system were slim.

“We’re very closely monitoring any litigation risk to see if there is any systemic threat, but at this point, there’s no indication that there is,” she testified.

Other witnesses were less sanguine, telling the panel that financial institutions like , the nation’s largest consumer bank, had understated the dimensions of the problem.

Katherine M. Porter, a law professor at the and an authority on mortgage servicers, said it was likely that “a very large number — perhaps virtually all — securitized made in the boom period in the mid-2000s,” contained serious paperwork flaws, did not meet underwriting standards or have not been serviced properly in foreclosure proceedings.

“Mortgage servicing is a high-volume industry,” Professor Porter testified. “Its personnel have relatively little training, weak supervision and are under pressure to cut costs and boost profits.”

Along with Bank of America, Mortgage, and the have suspended some foreclosure proceedings since late September, though some institutions have resumed them. The industry has maintained that the mistakes were limited in scope and under control, but Professor Porter said they should be “treated as part of a pattern or practice of illegal behavior and not as isolated incidents.”

Professor Porter said litigation was emerging along two fronts: homeowners are contesting foreclosures, and investors are charging that shoddy loan originations or servicing have increased their losses. These investors are trying to force banks to buy back or repurchase loans that were packaged and sold as .

Guy D. Cecala, chief executive of Inside Mortgage Finance, which publishes newsletters and research for the industry, said that most mortgage executives believed the problems “are largely procedural and can be corrected fairly quickly.”

However, he acknowledged that the industry’s view could be wrong. “The risk is that some of the investigations now under way uncover criminal misconduct or large-scale errors that force foreclosures to be put on hold for an extended period of time,” he said.

Julia Gordon, a lawyer at the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit consumer group, said that buyers had “become skittish” about so-called real-estate-owned properties, which sit on a bank’s books after an unsuccessful foreclosure auction, because they thought that the title to the home might not be good.

“To get the market working again, buyers need assurances that the foreclosures are legal and not vulnerable to challenge,” she said. “Having banks claim to fix thousands of mortgages within a couple of weeks without more information is unlikely to restore public confidence.”

Ms. Gordon urged a “temporary pause” on foreclosures to review the banks’ procedures, echoing calls by groups like the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. But the Obama administration has resisted a nationwide moratorium, with the housing secretary, , saying it would “do far more harm than good.”

The recent disclosures have further complicated matters for the administration, which has faced withering criticism from Republicans and Democrats over the pace and effectiveness of its effort to mitigate foreclosures.

The Treasury revealed on Monday that the pace of mortgage modifications slowed in September. Fewer than 470,000 households have gotten permanent modifications under the Home Affordable Modification Program, which began in 2009 and is voluntary but gives lenders incentives to participate.

That number is far fewer than the administration’s goal of helping three million to four million households avoid foreclosure by the end of 2012.

Although 1.3 million households have been offered trial modifications, in many cases, homeowners have been unable to convert temporary modifications into permanent ones because they could not document that they had the income to support the new, lower payments.

A report this week by the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said that 5.5 million homes had been the subject of foreclosure filings and that 1.7 million homeowners had lost their homes since January 2009.

“A program that began with much promise now must be counted among those that risk generating public anger and mistrust,” the official, Neil M. Barofsky, concluded.

At the hearing on Wednesday, a Republican member of the oversight panel, J. Mark McWatters, said, “The administration has inadvertently created a sense of false expectations among millions of homeowners who reasonably anticipated that they would have the opportunity to modify or refinance their troubled mortgage loans.”

The Democratic members of the panel — Mr. Kaufman, Mr. Neiman and Damon A. Silvers, a lawyer at the — did not come to the Treasury’s defense.
822 2010-10-28 Analysts watch the sales of business jets as an indicator of how willing corporations are to spend money as the economy rises and falls.

Heidi Wood, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a research note on Wednesday that business jet flights had increased since late last year, and that a recovery “appears under way.”

She said earlier this week that there was consistent demand for large planes, while the market for midsize and smaller ones remained “painfully quiet.”

She added that the consensus at a trade show last week was that 2012 would be the start of a new sales cycle for new planes, after a glut of used jets was purchased next year.

General Dynamics said its deliveries in the third quarter included 17 large planes and six midsize ones. Mr. Johnson said Gulfstream now expected to deliver 75 large jets and nearly 30 midsize aircraft this year, compared with 156 planes in 2008.

Textron, the owner of the Cessna Aircraft Company, said last week that its orders had picked up somewhat in September, though Cessna shipped only 26 business jets in the third quarter, compared with 68 a year earlier. Cessna cut 700 jobs in September and slowed production.

But Scott C. Donnelly, Textron’s chief executive, told analysts last week that Cessna expected a significant increase in deliveries in the fourth quarter.

Cessna also unveiled plans last week for a larger and more advanced version of its Citation X plane, which can seat nine passengers. It expects the first delivery in 2013.

Mr. Johnson, the General Dynamics chief executive, said his company’s new and faster large jet, the G650, which seats eight people, should be ready for delivery in 2012. He said it had already attracted 200 orders.

Mr. Johnson said orders were also coming in for Gulfstream’s new G250 jet, which has a midsize cabin, and should be ready by late next year. “Our timing relative to the recovery in the midcabin market looks pretty good,” he said.

And as tighter military budgets slow the company’s growth in combat systems and warships, “our aerospace business will be the growth engine through the near and intermediate time frames,” Mr. Johnson said.

General Dynamics said its net income increased to $650 million, or $1.70 a share, in the third quarter, from $572 million, or $1.47 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 3.8 percent, to $8.01 billion.

The company also increased its earnings forecast for the full year to $6.70 to $6.75 a share, from $6.60 to $6.65 a share.

Northrop Grumman, based in Los Angeles, said its net income edged up to $497 million, or $1.67 a share, in the third quarter, from $490 million, or $1.53 a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 4 percent, to $8.71 billion.

Northrop raised its full-year earnings guidance to $6.85 to $7 a share, from $6.60 to $6.80 a share.

Northrop is exploring the sale of its $6 billion shipbuilding unit. It also might spin off the business to shareholders. Wesley G. Bush, Northrop’s chief executive, said the company was focused on improving its profit margins.
823 2010-10-28 But help may be on the way. An architectural designer in Round Top, Tex., Christopher K. Travis, who has long given a kind of personality test to his clients in an effort to probe and avoid these collisions, is planning to roll out a software version of his tool in December. For his trademarked product, which is called Truehome and is currently a thick sheaf of paperwork, Mr. Travis’s client couples answer a long list of questions that are intended to expose deep-seated domestic preferences that they may not even be aware of.

“It’s about how to reduce friction,” Mr. Travis said of the software, which he hopes to license to other design professionals. “I ask them, where in your home do you find your spouse particularly irritating? It’s easier to remodel houses than people.” Frequently, he said, the solution is just some personal space that they can call their own. “I give a lot of guys man-caves,” he said. “But we’ve also found that there’s a huge desire for women-caves.”

Whether Truehome will catch on is anyone’s guess, but what is clear is no designer, even the most respected, is immune to the problem it addresses. , Victoria Hagan, Robert Couturier, Lee Mindel — they’ve all seen their share of couples’ spats.

“You’re spending so much time with these people in their homes — you hear everything,” Mr. Buatta said. “They can disagree over the simplest things, a fabric or a wallpaper or a bill. If you’re smart, you never take sides. I leave the room and let them square things off.”

As Mr. Couturier observed: “If the man and the woman want the same things, it’s fine. It’s when they want different things that it gets bad. You know, maybe the woman wants a passport into society, and the husband wants a house to live in. I’ve witnessed battles where you think they’re going to divorce! You just sit there, saying, ‘Please, God, take me.’ ”

Daniel Sachs, another designer, knows well the fidgety feeling Mr. Couturier describes. “I’ve sat through things that are so shockingly embarrassing, you wouldn’t believe it,” Mr. Sachs said. “We did a client who in the middle of the meeting just went off on her husband, accusing him of all kinds of things, having been with prostitutes, as though no one was in the room.”

What’s striking, designers say, is that the topics that anger people often come out of left field. Sure, money is a constant issue, as are control and personal space. But beyond that, couples will lock horns over matters that neither of them could have foreseen — the color of a room, the placement of a door, the style of a drinking glass.

Ms. Hagan, whose clients include many of the nation’s most wealthy Type A’s, noted: “It can be very emotional, and design is so subjective to begin with. Who’s right? And a lot of times, people can be in very successful fields and never have gone through a creative process.”

All told, said Joe Nahem, of Fox-Nahem Design in New York: “My job is 35 percent marriage counselor. There are so many layers of involved.”

He continued: “Even when my own spouse and I were building a house, he said, ‘I don’t care how many best-designer lists you’ve been on — this is my house, too.’ ”

Worse, these settings are tailor-made for triangulation. The classic situation: After a designer meets a couple, the man will pull the designer aside to insist he keep the costs down and to let him know if his wife starts going over budget. Once the man is out of earshot, the wife will tell the designer not to worry about money, that she will take care of it. It may not be the lady or the tiger — but which door do you choose?

Several designers who were asked about client discord said that they have lucked out and seen very little tension — a claim that makes other designers snort in derision. But if some designers say they have had good fortune in this regard, others say the opposite.

“I have more divorce disaster stories than anything else, I think,” Mr. Sachs said. His worst story, from the early years of his practice, featured an architect and his wealthy wife.

“We set out an agenda and a budget they liked, and we met to talk about it,” Mr. Sachs said. “But he kept hammering us down on the price, and I kept telling him, ‘Well, we can do it, but it will be harder with a small budget.’ And he seemed really angry about it for whatever reason. Then later, when I was talking just to her, she said, ‘Don’t worry about him, I’m the one who pays the bills.’ Then he calls me up later and tells me how offended he was that I described his budget as ‘small.’ It doesn’t take a psychiatrist to figure that one out.”

Mr. Sachs continued with the project, crossing his fingers that the drama was over. It was not. “We start on the project, and they were still living there. Every day this guy would be there, crazily distraught and smoking, with dark eyes and frazzled hair, accusing me of this and that, and trying to play everyone off each other, complaining about his wife to me, about me to my partner, and so on. Then she had us working on her side, and she’d do things just to antagonize him — she’d make choices she knew he’d hate. We were caught in the middle.”

Neither the project, nor the marriage, ended well, Mr. Sachs said.

What was so frustrating about the episode, he said, was not just the furtive, passive-aggressive behavior, but the illogic of it all. It is a syndrome that Mr. Travis, the developer of the Truehome software, understands.

“The thing is, even if you design what they want, they don’t like it,” Mr. Travis said. “I’ve learned that people lie about themselves, and that they don’t really know what other people are like. They just have incredibly big blind spots. I had one client who was complaining about how not neat her husband was, and I went over to their house to see. Nine-tenths of the stuff is hers, and his stuff is neat as a pin.”

The Truehome test is designed to expose these blind spots from the start, Mr. Travis said. Some common conflicts are when one partner wants a pragmatic house and the other wants a dream, or when one really does not want to spend money but the other does. (The Truehome Web site, , will offer a basic version of the test free, while more-intensive versions will range from $19.95 to $200.)

Of course, designers have also developed tools for managing client discord.

A little humor can help. “I had a couple in here yesterday,” Ms. Hagan said, “and he was saying: ‘I really love color. What about a bright, acid-green leather sofa?’ I didn’t even have to react, because his wife said, ‘Yeah, with your next wife.’ So we all played this game of poker with color, and by the end of it, they’d come up with something they were psyched about.”

Mr. Mindel added: “A lot of conflict can come out of the way people communicate, so we go to a lot of trouble and even expense to be clear. A husband’s definition of traditional could be the wife’s definition of contemporary.”

Mr. Mindel now also prohibits BlackBerrys at meetings — to prevent miscommunication through distraction.

Of course, designers must also be careful not to worsen the problem. Mr. Nahem said that when he works with classic two-job alpha couples, he can have days when he spends more time with each of them than they do with each other.

“One time, I’d met with the wife to go over some plans,” he said, “and then later, I was going over them with the husband, and explaining, ‘Well, your wife wants the two kids to go into this one bedroom to make room for the baby.’ And he said, ‘What baby?’ ”

“Yeah,” Mr. Nahem said, shaking his head. “I was like, ‘Oops!’ ”
824 2010-10-28 “Nordic Models + Common Ground: Art and Design Unfolded,” an exhibition of 41 objects, including furniture, architectural models, photos, lighting and textiles by 35 Nordic designers, will open on Friday at Scandinavia House in Midtown Manhattan.

The show highlights the interest among Nordic designers in new technologies and innovative craftsmanship and use of materials. The Spun Chair, pictured, is made from spun carbon fiber — a material used in helicopters and medical prostheses — and weighs just 2.2 pounds. Its Danish designer, Mathias Bengtsson, called it “one of the lightest chairs ever made.”

Craig Dykers, the curator of the show and a founder of Snohetta, the Norwegian architectural firm, admired Mr. Bengtsson’s creativity in adapting the material. Asked about comfort, however, Mr. Dykers said, “you wouldn’t spend too long in this,” and acknowledged that about five minutes would be optimal. (Mr. Bengtsson, for his part, averred that he could design a comfortable spun carbon chair if there were a wider market for it. “The furniture industry is rather conservative,” he said.) The chair, in black or white, is $3,900 at Moss, 150 Greene Street (Houston Street), (866) 888-6677. The show runs through Mar. 9 at 58 Park Avenue (38th Street); (212) 779-3587 or scandinaviahouse.org.
825 2010-10-28 A lot of times people will find only a set of four dishes, and they’ll pass it up, even though they like the pattern. If you know the maker and the name, you can go to places like Replacements Ltd., eBay and Etsy, and I can guarantee you will find another set of four.

I think people stop and don’t buy silverware because there’s not a full set of 12. Buy sets of 6 and 8, so you can mix and match. People want things to look eclectic, and in order to do that you need a collection of different sets of things.

Don’t be afraid to mix time periods. I think sometimes people get set on “Oh, I only collect Victorian silverware.” That’s where it doesn’t look fresh and new — it looks dated.

When you see something that seems like a bargain, but it needs some work, how do you know if it’s worth the money?

You have to love it. You also have to know that it’s going to fit perfectly in your house. When I’m looking for something for our house, I like to go around with a book that has the room dimensions, the paint chip color of the walls, the height of the ceilings and a swatch of my sofa fabric, so that I’ll know that it’ll all work together.

What else do you bring with you?

I carry a little bag with water, flashlight, measuring tape, gloves, a scarf and canvas totes, so you’re not cutting your hands with the plastic bags. At the big flea markets, where you have to park, I take pictures with my phone of nearby landmarks so I can find it again.

Once you get your purchases home, what do you use to clean them up?

The Laundress All-Purpose Bleach Alternative for old linens; Gorham Anti-Tarnish Silver Polish for silverware. If people are going to paint furniture, they’ll want to prime it with a shellac-based product called Zinsser B-I-N Primer-Sealer that locks in old dark stains so they don’t bleed through the beautiful new paint.

Which flea markets have you had the best luck at?

The Antiques Garage in New York City, because there’s always such a great mix; Scott Antique Market in Atlanta; Metrolina in Charlotte, N.C.; Brimfield outside of Boston; Elephant’s Trunk in New Milford, Conn.; Long Beach, the Rose Bowl in California; and Round Top in Texas.

Some of those are really big — and can be kind of intimidating. How do you approach them?

Everyone goes to the front and works their way back. I do the opposite because things in the back haven’t been picked over yet.

You never want to insult the vendor. Always ask, “What would be your best price for this?” Usually they always come up with a good one. Have cash in your pocket. Have a budget, so you know how much to spend, but always have a check on hand just in case, because most flea markets don’t take a credit card.

So what’s your best find?

My favorite was an entire set of sterling silver flatware with an R monogram for $25. It was tarnished and I thought it was silver plate, but when I polished it up at home it was marked sterling silver on the knife handles. That set would be $3,000 in an antiques store.

The other best deal was the chandelier over my dining room table that I bought for $75 at the Antiques Garage. It didn’t have any crystals and wasn’t wired, but I bought some crystals at a flea market for $35 and had it rewired for $200. The chandelier now would be easily $2,000.
826 2010-10-28 During Richard Schultz’s first warehouse sale, Nov. 5 and 6, limited quantities of the designer’s pieces will be marked way down; items can be reserved in advance, by phone or e-mail, with a deposit during the presale, beginning on Nov. 1 (the Topiary bench, regularly $2,550, will be $500; the 1966 Collection dining set, which includes a table and eight chairs, regularly $17,140, will be $2,500); 806 Gravel Pike, Palm, Pa.; (215) 679-2222, richardschultz.com.

At Room & Board’s designer lighting event, though Nov. 30, selected Artemide lamps are on sale (the Tolomeo Mini in silver, originally $460, is about $300; the Mega Tolomeo in silver, originally $695, is about $600); (800) 301-9720 or roomandboard.com.

Selected rugs from Liora Manné are discounted 20 to 75 percent through Dec. 31 (the Limited Edition 6-by-9-foot Ancient Mosaic Bisque rug, regularly $2,970, is $1,930; the 5-by-8-foot Poem, regularly $1,075, is $322; and the 5-by-8-foot Lava Pepper, pictured, regularly $920, is $276); 210 11th Avenue (25th Street), (212) 989-2732, lioramanne.com.
827 2010-10-28 Procter & Gamble is slowly luring back consumers to its big brands, while attracting new buyers around the globe by getting more products into emerging markets like India and China.

The company, whose brands include Pantene shampoo and Pampers diapers, said Wednesday that revenue grew nearly 2 percent on high volumes in its latest quarter, and it forecast growing sales for the rest of the year.

More spending on advertising and innovation in high and low price ranges are helping P.& G. fight frugal shoppers’ inclinations to buy cheaper store brands and to reach more of the world’s newer consumers.

P.& G. reported that net income was $3.08 billion, or $1.02 a share, down from $3.3 billion, or $1.06 a year ago. Sales rose nearly 2 percent to $20.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected, on average, $1 a share on revenue of $20.2 billion for the July to September quarter.

“We aren’t going to make any excuses for the macroenvironment like the one we’re in,” Robert A. McDonald, chairman and chief executive, told reporters on a conference call. “We see it as an opportunity to continue to invest and grow market share profitably.”

Mr. McDonald said sales of the new Gillette Fusion ProGlide, introduced in June, were strong despite its 15 percent higher price. They said it is handily outselling the previous Fusion and the rival Schick. Olay skin cream and other beauty products aimed at women buyers also sold more, although higher-end salon and prestige brands lagged.
828 2010-10-28 “Dance On!,” the 33rd edition of the circus, is at Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center....
829 2010-10-28 Back when Jim Courier was playing Davis Cup matches in the 1990s, Patrick McEnroe remembered thinking that he would make a good captain one day. That is what happened Wednesday, when the United States Tennis Association named him to the job to replace McEnroe, who stepped down after 10 years.

“No. 1 is his passion for tennis and his passion for Davis Cup in particular,” McEnroe said when he handed off the job at the announcement in Manhattan. “If he wasn’t the greatest Davis Cup player ever, he was definitely the most passionate.

“He’s the perfect guy to do it.”

Courier, 40, was so eager for the job that, when McEnroe announced his resignation during the United States Open, he expressed his interest almost immediately during a CBS broadcast.

“Once I got a taste of playing Davis Cup, I thought, if I ever get the opportunity to be captain, I’d want to do it,” Courier said. “So I responded to a question from my colleague, Ian Eagle, and I hope I handled it O.K. I didn’t want to be seen as grandstanding or lobbying for the position.”

Whatever he did worked. He was the U.S.T.A.’s choice over the other top contender, Todd Martin.

Courier has a lengthy playing résumé in the Davis Cup. The United States won the title twice with Courier on the team, in 1992 and ’95, and he was 3-0 in deciding fifth matches.

In a statement released by the U.S.T.A., Andre Agassi called Courier “an inspired choice.”
830 2010-10-28 ISRAEL--Rosalind "nee Krumstock," of Ridgefield, CT, on October 26, 2010. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Jerome and her sister Diane. She is survived by her daughters Marilynn Potter of Chester, NY and her husband Daniel and Sandra Tes...
831 2010-10-28 Tuesday is a very big day for Jimmy McMillan. Not only will Mr. McMillan, the candidate on the Rent Is Too Damn High ticket, learn whether he is the next governor of the state of New York, but it is also the release date of his newest album.     I...
832 2010-10-28 London     Oh what a tangled web we weave when soccer and money and governance intertwine....
833 2010-10-29 A bankruptcy filing will eliminate some $4 billion in debt and put the studio under the Hollywood executives Gary Barber and Roger Birnbaum....
834 2010-10-29 Halloween festivities at the Greenwich, Conn., mansion of Paul Tudor Jones II, the hedge-fund billionaire have been canceled, disappointing local residents....
835 2010-10-29 A federal judge in Manhattan sentenced James Nicholson, founder of the hedge fund firm Westgate Capital, to 40 years in prison for defrauding investors of up to $141 million in a reputed Ponzi scheme....
836 2010-10-29 In Janet Cardiff's "sound-art installation" "Forty-Part Motet," listeners are invited to immerse themselves in the wash of sound from a central location or to wander around within the web of voices....
837 2010-10-29 The tournament's highest-ranked players, including Hikaru Nakamura of the United States, are among the final four....
838 2010-10-29 By purchasing the company, Microsoft will have access to chips that, when combined with a digital camera, allow things like cars, toys and computers to perceive the world in three dimensions....
839 2010-10-29 The California Energy Commission rushes to green-light massive solar power plants so developers can break ground by year's end and qualify for a government cash grant....
840 2010-10-29 Paul Sullivan's Wealth Matters column is about when one partner excludes the other from financial decision making....
841 2010-10-29 When two countries are involved, getting a second opinion from judges in the second nation. A legal experiment....
842 2010-10-29 What someone developing a business should ask him or herself before taking a parent's money....
843 2010-10-29 The story of the applicant who inadvertently sent an admissions officer to the emergency room; the father who blamed his secretary for an essay that came up short; and other bloopers....
844 2010-10-29 How Verizon is ending an investigation into unauthorized data fees, a site for transferring money internationally and other consumer-focused items from Friday's Times....
845 2010-10-29 Gawker finds traffic jackpot by going after Christine O'Donnell, but takes some incoming hits as well....
846 2010-10-29 In a startling sideshow to the courtroom battle over the buyout of EMI Group, Judge Jed S. Rakoff, pictured, erupted at lawyers for Guy Hands on Thursday, saying that he had "serious questions" about "whether an attempt was made to mislead the cou...
847 2010-10-29 The financial industry continues trying to thwart the Obama administration's effort to set up an effective consumer protection agency, though one is needed now more than ever, the new consumer czar, Elizabeth Warren, said....
848 2010-10-29 This might be the time to take a closer look at an unfamiliar and misunderstood exit tool: selling your business to employees through a worker-owned cooperative....
849 2010-10-29 Shares of Spyker Cars, the Dutch supercar maker that bought Saab Automobile this year, fell the most in nine months in Amsterdam trading after the company cut Saab's production goal, Bloomberg News reported....
850 2010-10-29 Credit Suisse jumped to the No. 1 adviser on consumer mergers and acquisitions this year, putting it on pace to return to the top five dealmakers for the first time in eight years, Bloomberg News reported....
851 2010-10-29 Why do Wall Street bankers, traders and executives get paid so much money for doing jobs that rarely require them to innovate, enlighten or put their own capital at risk, William D. Cohan asks in Opinionator....
852 2010-10-29 The Tokyo Stock Exchange said on Friday it was looking into a spate of complaints about recent trades involving heavy short-selling ahead of new share issues....
853 2010-10-29 In “Boot the Blue Dogs” (Op-Ed, Oct. 24), Ari Berman offers the same kind of political rhetoric that has led to a party system marked by ideological extremes.

We are never going to come together and move forward as a country if we do not start once again engaging in an open and honest dialogue across party lines. The Blue Dogs represent the large majority of Americans who are less concerned with political affiliation than with electing members of Congress who are going to work together to do what’s best for the nation.

The Blue Dogs have a long history of bringing people together to address some of our country’s most pressing issues, and they have a solid record of working productively within the party to improve legislation before it ever comes to the House floor. They have also worked with both President Obama and President Bill Clinton to implement strict pay-as-you-go laws that keep the country from falling deeper into debt.

The moderates will always have a strong voice in Congress, and the party that ignores that fact, or alienates its moderate members, does so at its own peril. The Democrats are successful because they are a big-tent party, not in spite of it.

This is a critical time in our nation’s history. More of our elected officials should be less concerned with right and left, and more concerned with right and wrong. The problem with Congress is not that we have too many Blue Dogs; it’s that we don’t have enough.
854 2010-10-29 Mr. Johnson’s reasoning was not good enough for a Savannah Morning News columnist, Tom Barton, who wrote on Wednesday that Mr. Johnson had violated the Linus Rule, after the Peanuts character who once said, “There are three things I have learned never to discuss with people: religion, politics and the Great Pumpkin.”

“The county’s top elected officials ignored this sage advice Monday,” Mr. Barton wrote. He added: “Saturday night is the absolute worst night for extracurricular candy-bar grubbing. As everyone who has gone beyond Sesame Street knows, Saturday is reserved as the night when Savannah’s adults go out and do stupid things (think partying, clubbing, driving drunk and fighting over girlfriends and baby daddies at 24-hour IHOPs).”

Chatham County is not alone in its disobedience of the Linus Rule. Towns in Washington County, Okla., will also be trick or treating on Saturday. “A lot of people in this part of the country go to church on Sunday night,” said Mike Dunlap, a county commissioner. In Livingston Parish, La., the American Civil Liberties Union of Louisiana sent a letter to local leaders objecting to a part of the parish code that states that when Oct. 31 falls on a Sunday, “trick or treat will be held the following Monday, Nov 1.”

In Jacksonville, Fla., City Councilman Don Redman, responding to requests from constituents, submitted a nonbinding resolution asking residents to trick or treat on Saturday. But after people pointed out to him that the Florida-Georgia football game would be in Jacksonville on Saturday, he withdrew the resolution. “The more I thought about it, I realized it would create a dangerous situation,” Mr. Redman said.

Perhaps there should be a Lucy Rule, after Linus’s older sister, who yanked the football away from Charlie Brown. The Lucy Rule would take into account collegiate football rankings and a town’s population. Consider Oxford, Miss., where Halloween will remain on Sunday, even though the town has in the past urged Saturday observance of the trick-or-treating ritual.

“Basically, we have Auburn coming in, and it’s going to be a huge crowd,” Mayor George Patterson said in a telephone interview. “They’re the No. 1-ranked team in the country. Oxford is 15,000 people, and there will be 100,000 people here. So it didn’t seem practical to move it.”

Not everyone believes Halloween can be moved. Many Roman Catholics celebrate a vigil Mass the night before All Saints Day, which is Nov. 1. In fact, the A.C.L.U.’s letter argued, in part, that because Halloween is religious, the government may not move the date without treading on a Catholic feast day.

And despite the Savannah mayor’s protestations, moving the date might offend still other religious groups, said Jon Butler, who teaches religion at Yale.

“Savannah’s shift of Halloween from Sunday to Saturday,” Professor Butler said, “privileges only Christians who worship on Sunday, but ignores Seventh-day Adventists and Seventh-day Baptists, among the several Christian groups who worship on Saturday.”

At the Oglethorpe Mall in Savannah, whose food court and carousel serve as a modern-day town square, the wisdom of making the change was up for debate.

“Religion’s not my forte, so I kind of wish they’d leave it alone,” said Tami Waters, 25.

Still, her two young sons will be trick or treating Saturday. As their grandmother, Penny Bumgardner, said: “Sooner the better for them.”
855 2010-10-29 General Motors has chosen an ideal time to pare down its balance sheet. Executives are gearing up to go on the road after next week’s elections to start promoting the automaker’s shares ahead of a mid-November initial public offering. Reducing its balance sheet by $11 billion should encourage prospective investors to focus less on G.M.’s financial liabilities and more on its core asset.

Last year’s government-financed bankruptcy wiped out tens of billions of debt, and the rescue injected sufficient cash to get G.M. back in business. But it did not resolve everything. For starters, G.M. still owed $2.8 billion to the trust set up to manage health care costs for United Auto Workers union retirees. It has just paid that off.

Once the I.P.O. is done, G.M. also plans to redeem the $2.1 billion in preferred stock held by the United States Treasury. Combined with the health care fix, these moves will free up around $500 million of annual interest and dividend payments.

More surprising is G.M.’s decision to inject $6 billion into its American pension plans, using shares to pay for a third of that. It suggests the new G.M. is determined to be much more proactive in solving its financial woes than its predecessor was.

G.M.’s pension plans went untouched in bankruptcy and, as of June 2010, were underfinanced by around $16 billion in America and $10 billion in the rest of the world. But the company was under no obligation to act for another four years.
856 2010-10-29 One interpretation of “The Kids Grow Up” — a plausible if not necessarily generous reading of the film — is that it’s about how difficult it can be to live with a documentary filmmaker. Or at least with Doug Block, the director of this one.

On the evidence presented here, Mr. Block, who lives in Manhattan, has turned his video camera from a domestic accessory (as it is for so many families) into a virtual family member. Like a lot of dads he has recorded birthday parties and other significant rituals, but he has also collected an anthology of insignificant and intimate moments, many of them involving his wife, Marjorie, and their daughter, Lucy. Some of these are folded into a chronicle of ordinary life that is partly a scrapbook, partly a memoir and, most movingly, an essay on the passage of time and the mysterious connections between parents and children.

The same description applies to “51 Birch Street,” Mr. Block’s 2005 film, to which “The Kids Grow Up” is something of a sequel. In the earlier film the director was primarily and somewhat painfully the child of his parents, the paradigmatic identity for members of his late-baby-boom generational cluster. In considering the familiar yet peculiar ways of the suburban middle class in the 1950s and after, “51 Birch Street” also touched on more primal riddles. And the long, harmonious, unremarkable marriage of Mike and Mina Block, the director’s father and mother, was revealed as something tantalizingly rich and strange.

“The Kids Grow Up” lacks some of the drama and intrigue of its predecessor, which is to some extent the fault of the invisible force — God, fate or history — that serves as the uncredited screenwriter. The narrative of Lucy’s last year at home before going off to college does not include twists like the discovery, in “51 Birch Street,” of a possible love affair in Mina’s past or of Mike’s sudden marriage, not long after Mina’s death, to a woman he had known many years before. But there is also an essential thematic difference. Our parents and our children may ultimately be unknowable to us in spite of our deep connections to them, but they are unknowable in distinct ways. The past is a labyrinth full of clues and secrets. The future is a blank.

As Lucy prepares to enter this void — or, more mundanely, to start her first year at Pomona College in Southern California — her father scrambles to hold onto her and to make the most of his remaining time with her. “The Kids Grow Up” is the fruit of those efforts even as it is the record of their inevitable failure.
857 2010-10-29 BRUSSELS (Reuters) — The European Union won approval on Thursday to close its borders to seal products after a court decided to impose a ban even though a legal challenge from Canadian seal hunters was still in progress.

The European Union’s General Court, one of the highest courts in the 27-state bloc, said there was no need to delay the ban for the duration of court proceedings. It added that it had not seen enough evidence that the ban would damage seal hunting communities.

Seal hunters and processing firms from Canada, Norway and Greenland secured a temporary delay in the ban this summer, saying it would slash incomes in traditional Inuit communities and lead to suicides and substance abuse.

The ruling contested that assertion, saying that “the applicants are simply making mere general and abstract assertions.” The court also said too little paperwork was presented to prove their current financial situation, future income losses or access to unemployment benefits.

In Ottawa, Gail Shea, the Canadian fisheries minister, said she was disappointed by the court decision.
858 2010-10-29 The 3M Company reported a higher quarterly profit on Thursday, lifted by strong sales to the consumer electronics industry. But it reduced the top end of its full-year forecast and said rising raw materials costs and other pressures were cutting into margins, sending the company’s shares sharply lower.

3M, a diversified manufacturer that also makes a variety of medical products, also posted slower organic sales growth than in previous quarters. Last flu season, 3M had a surge in sales of surgical masks, but it did not expect to have the sales it enjoyed last year because of the H1N1 virus scare.

It said the long economic downturn also appeared to be discouraging patients from undergoing elective procedures that use its products.

The company also pointed to what it characterized as temporary “turbulence” in the flat-panel TV market. Third-quarter sales had a double-digit drop, and TV manufacturers are expected to clear out their swollen LCD TV inventories during the fourth quarter. 3M makes optical film used in the screens. Nicholas Heymann, an analyst at Sterne Agee, said that would hurt 3M’s fourth-quarter results.

3M posted a third-quarter profit of $1.1 billion, or $1.53 a share, up from $971 million, or $1.35 a share, a year earlier.

The company, whose products include Post-it notes as well as industrial and electronics products, said sales rose 11 percent, to $6.9 billion, with double-digit sales increases in three of its six units.
859 2010-10-29 Microsoft delivered net income of $5.41 billion, a 50 percent increase from the quarter a year ago, when it reported a profit of $3.57 billion. The company earned 62 cents a share, well above the 55 cents a share average estimate among Wall Street analysts, as compiled by Thomson Reuters.

Microsoft reported revenue of $16.2 billion, up 25 percent from the $12.9 billion last year and higher than the consensus forecast by analysts.

The quarterly performance set a record for Microsoft. But the company’s growth was magnified by the deferral of $1.47 billion in the quarter a year ago, for business customers who had paid in advance under long-term contracts for the new version of the PC operating system, Windows 7.

Without the effect of that one-time deferral, Microsoft’s revenue would have increased 13 percent and net income 16 percent. Those lower rates are the more accurate measure of the company’s growth trajectory.

Recent reports of weaker-than-anticipated PC shipments raised doubts about how well Microsoft would do. This month, Gartner, the research group, reported that worldwide PC shipments rose 7.6 percent in the third quarter, below its previous projection of 12.7 percent. The research firm attributed the shortfall to softer demand for consumer PCs in the United States and Western Europe.

Apple’s iPad, according to Jason Maynard, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, may help explain the weakness in that niche of the global PC market. Apple sold 4.2 million iPads in the third quarter, Mr. Maynard said, and many consumers seem to be buying iPads instead of inexpensive PCs.

In a conference call with analysts, Microsoft said it expected tablet-style machines, including ones running Windows, to expand the consumer computer market rather than cannibalize PC sales.

In the quarter, sales of PCs to business customers were brisk, which helped to strengthen earnings. Microsoft sells more costly versions of its Windows operating system and Office productivity software, carrying higher profit margins, to companies.

For example, analysts estimate that the price of Windows to PC makers of the high-end business version is about $65 a copy, compared with $40 a copy for home PCs and $25 a copy for the stripped-down version loaded on netbook machines.

Despite Microsoft’s financial strength, doubts remain about its chances in new markets, like Internet search and smartphone software. It trails far behind Google in search and mobile phone software, and Apple in the smartphone market.

In the last month, Microsoft has shown signs of improvement in both areas. But catching up will be a daunting task. A few weeks ago, Microsoft introduced new smartphone software, Windows Phone 7. Reviews have praised the new software as a big advance for Microsoft in that market, but one that still leaves its software well behind Apple’s iPhone operating system.

In search, Microsoft struck a deal with Facebook so that users’ “like” recommendations will show up in Bing search results.

In a separate deal, Microsoft’s Bing will be used for shopping searches on Taobao.com, a major Chinese buying site, which is a subsidiary of Alibaba.

Still, those businesses, even if lagging, are not where Microsoft makes its living.

“Microsoft is certainly growing,” said Richard T. Williams, an analyst at Cross Research. “People tend to look at Microsoft as if it had the same business profile as Apple, which is 90 percent a consumer business. But more than 80 percent of Microsoft’s business is corporate.”

The division selling Xbox consoles and games grew 27 percent, to $1.79 billion, including 2.8 million consoles sold in the quarter. Still, the $382 million in operating profit from that consumer business is more than overshadowed by a $560 million loss from its other mainly consumer business — the online services division, which includes Bing search. That loss is 17 percent higher than the $477 million the unit lost a year ago.
860 2010-10-29 The long road to the settlement began in November 2007, when customers first started experiencing and then complaining about mysterious $1.99 charges on their monthly phone bills for data sessions that they had not initiated.

The F.C.C. said it started investigating last January after a large number of customer complaints about the charges and after reports in 2009 in The Plain Dealer of Cleveland and The New York Times.

The charges affected customers with a “pay as you go” plan for data or Internet access. Verizon said the “vast majority” of the erroneous charges were incurred when software that was preloaded on some phones automatically contacted Verizon’s data service in what the company called an “acknowledgment” session.

Verizon said that in September 2009 it put in place a feature to limit those inadvertent charges. In addition, the company said it had sometimes accidentally charged customers for access to Web sites through links that were not supposed to lead to data charges. Many customers complained that if they had accidentally hit a wrong button on their flip phones, they would be connected to the Internet and charged a $1.99 fee.

The F.C.C. required and Verizon agreed to take steps to prevent such charges in the future. The company said those steps included software changes to remove automatic acknowledgments between Verizon data centers and phones, and new internal controls that would prevent charges when customers accessed free Web site links. In addition, the company will put in place a data charge task force to monitor and resolve complaints. The task force must report regularly to the F.C.C.

The F.C.C. and Verizon also agreed that the company would initiate customer service improvements, including clearer explanations of its pay-as-you-go data charges and ways for customers to avoid extra charges; an online video tutorial to help consumers understand their bills; and additional training for Verizon customer representatives on pay-as-you-go plans.

Verizon has begun notifying customers eligible for refunds, and it will apply credits or, in the case of former customers, mail checks for the refund amounts in October and November. Most of the credits range from $2 to $6, Verizon said. About 77 million of its customers, or roughly five out of six, are unaffected, the company said.

Customers who do not receive a refund but believe they had unauthorized data charges can appeal and receive a resolution within 30 days, the F.C.C. said.

Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, said the settlement “will serve as a significant deterrent to others in the future.”

Mr. Genachowski added: “Today’s consent decree sends a clear message to American consumers — the F.C.C. has got your back. People shouldn’t find mystery fees when they open their phone bills, and they certainly shouldn’t have to pay for services they didn’t want and didn’t use. In these rough economic times, every $1.99 counts.”
861 2010-10-29 Oil prices have been lodged in a relatively narrow band of $70 to $86 over the last year, and they have been hovering just above $80 over the last month. Most energy experts expect continuing slow economic growth will decrease the likelihood of any oil price increase over the winter months unless there is a geopolitical crisis or a collapse of the dollar that would encourage private investments in commodities.

Meanwhile an abundance of natural gas from a wave of drilling in shale fields in recent years has brought the gas price down to below $4 per million British thermal units, a price that makes profitable drilling difficult. Stockpiles of gas are also growing, and weather analysts are expecting a warmer winter than last year, which should produce modest demand.

The industry is also facing the slowdown of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico after the BP well blowout in April that killed 11 rig workers and spilled millions of barrels of crude oil into the gulf.

Shell reported that it expected to produce 40,000 fewer barrels next year in the gulf, which represents more than 1 percent of its current production, and declines could persist into 2012.

But Exxon, based in Irving, Tex., reported a strong quarter with oil and gas output rising by 21 percent, largely as a result of its acquisition of XTO Energy, a major gas producer, and the ramping up of huge liquefied natural gas export projects in Qatar.

“Our cash generation remains very strong,” said David S. Rosenthal, Exxon Mobil’s vice president for investor relations, “reflecting strong results across all business lines.”

The company’s third-quarter net profit was $7.35 billion, or $1.44 a share, compared with $4.73 billion, or 98 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

Crude oil prices were about 13 percent higher in the quarter than the comparable quarter in 2009, while gas prices were also higher for much of the quarter.

Shares of Exxon rose 55 cents, or 0.84 percent, to $66.22 on Thursday.

Mr. Rosenthal said the company welcomed the recent government lifting of the gulf drilling moratorium, and was preparing revised permitting applications to drill new wells. “We are always looking for opportunities that are out there,” he said.

Royal Dutch Shell benefited from improving conditions in the industry, Peter Voser, the chief executive, said in a statement. Shell was “making good progress against our targets, and there is more to come,” Mr. Voser said. Shares rose 0.5 percent in trading Thursday in London.

Like its rivals, Shell is reducing costs to try to improve profitability. Shell sold $2 billion of assets this year, including older oil assets in Norway and refining capacity in Germany. The company said it expected to sell another $6 billion of assets by the end of next year, mainly operations in Europe and Africa that were not part of its core business.

To increase output, Mr. Voser plans to invest in new projects in Qatar, China and the United States. He said Thursday that Shell was “in a delivery window for new growth.”

A new oil sands mine in Canada started production in the third quarter, and Shell has decided to invest in deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil.

Net profit rose to $3.46 billion in the third quarter, from $3.25 billion a year earlier. Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell earned $4.9 billion, compared with $2.6 billion in the third quarter of last year.

Production in the third quarter rose 5 percent, to 3.058 million barrels of oil equivalent a day, from 2.92 million barrels in the year-earlier period.

Sales for liquefied natural gas, or LNG, rose 22 percent, to 4.26 million tons.
862 2010-10-29 “It’s hard for anyone in the 24-hour news cycles that we all live in now to follow something that the first round is played in March and the final finishes in December,” Courier said. “I understand the challenges there. I certainly will do my very best to be the front man for our team and to help promote it, get the word out there when we’re playing. I will do everything in my power to make sure people are aware that our team is out there fighting the good fight for the tennis fans of the United States.”

You can quibble with Courier’s calendar thesis. Soccer fans, for example, have no problem generating passion for the Champions League, the annual club competition whose staggered schedule makes it an on-again, off-again point of passion during the long European season. But Americans remain less accustomed to such chopped-up gratification, particularly in a sport that now qualifies as a sideshow in their footballcentric sports culture.

The need for missionary work means that Courier’s largely ceremonial post promises to be something more than usual. That is just as well because Courier, a former world No. 1 with a restless intellect and a fierce competitive streak, is well equipped to do more than just pick a four-man team a few times a year and make tactical suggestions from his courtside seat.

He now has extensive experience as an event manager after launching a tennis tour for former champions. He could be an effective agent for change, with both administrators and the star players, who respect his opinion and four Grand Slam singles titles and who sound increasingly open to the idea of pushing the International Tennis Federation for a format shift. Courier prefers a qualifying process and then a two-week, World-Cup-style finale in a single site with multiple teams.

“I think there’s no reason the Davis Cup couldn’t be as powerful and popular and profitable as any of the four majors are today, given some changes,” he said in a recent interview.

Courier, 40, may not be quite the ideal choice for captain in terms of generating interest. That would be Andre Agassi or even Pete Sampras, both of whom were Courier’s former teammates and rivals and who will remain ahead of him on the Grand Slam honor roll.

But megastar power has failed the United States team before. Consider John McEnroe, the best and most committed American Davis Cup player of his era, who lobbied hard for the captaincy and then stayed just one year in the post before resigning in 2000. Courier, who was practicing with him in New York the day he quit, tried to talk him out of it.

“His captaincy was certainly frustrating for all involved, including John,” Courier wrote in a recent e-mail.

Courier was not ready to become a candidate to replace him in 2000. McEnroe’s younger brother Patrick took over and stayed 10 years, winning just one title but building a close-knit team built around Andy Roddick and the Bryan brothers.

Now Courier has agreed to a multiyear deal, intent on helping Patrick McEnroe and Courier’s former coach Jose Higueras help develop top American players as well as nominate them.

Courier arrives at a time when another charismatic former star, Patrick Rafter, has just taken over as captain in Davis Cup’s other essential historical nation, Australia, which, for the moment, is not even in the top division.

Courier’s team remains there, however, thanks to the considerable efforts of the Americans in Bogota, Colombia, where, in September, Mardy Fish prevailed over the altitude and the local talent to win all three of his matches and help the United States avoid relegation.

It was a remarkable effort, one that went essentially unnoticed by the American public. Therein lies Courier’s biggest challenge, a far bigger one than his team’s first-round match in Chile next year.
863 2010-10-30 The tyranny of twentysomethings....
864 2010-10-30 An Exxon Mobil executive offers passionate praise for the product that the corporation has staked so much on....
865 2010-10-30 Here, for the record, are the taxes the administration says it has cut....
866 2010-10-30 COPENHAGEN (AP) — Jonathan Motzfeldt, the former prime minister of Greenland who spearheaded a drive for more self-rule and opposed American bases there, a semiautonomous Danish territory, died Thursday in Nuuk, Greenland. He was 72.

The cause was a brain hemorrhage, the local government said.

Greenlanders knew Mr. Motzfeldt as “Junnuk,” a pipe-smoking Lutheran priest-turned-politician, who led the mostly Inuit population on a path toward autonomy. As a member of the social democratic Siumut Party, he became Greenland’s first government leader after home rule was introduced in 1979.

“Junnuk was for many years the pillar and beacon of the Greenlandic people, our national focal point,” Greenland’s prime minister, Kuupik Kleist, said Friday.

Mr. Motzfeldt led Greenland’s government from 1979 to 1991, when he was forced to leave politics because of a drinking problem. He served again from 1997 to 2002. That year, he lost an internal party struggle to a fellow Siumut, Hans Enoksen, who replaced him as prime minister. Mr. Motzfeldt then became speaker of Greenland’s Parliament, but he resigned in 2008 amid allegations that he had groped a female civil servant. He denied wrongdoing and was never charged.

Mr. Motzfeldt started his battle for autonomy in the mid-1950s with a group of young Inuit activists. Greenland, an Arctic island, was then a Danish province governed from Copenhagen.

As prime minister, he opposed a 1951 defense agreement between the United States and Denmark allowing four American Air Force bases on Greenland.
867 2010-10-30 THIS college football season, the play on the field has often been overshadowed by the steady reports of players being held out of competition while their contacts with agents are investigated. The confessions of one former agent, Josh Luchs, who told Sports Illustrated that he had given money to at least 30 college players, gave a sense of the depth of the problem. I’m all too aware of the damage done by agents who tamper with student-athletes: the football program at the University of Southern California, where I was a player and later athletic director, now faces a two-year bowl ban and three years of N.C.A.A. probation for violations stemming from such tampering.

Yet, despite endless reporting and much pontificating, the problem of sports agents in all the big-money sports remains poorly understood outside the world of collegiate athletics. Until the 1990s, academically under-prepared but athletically gifted students were typically drawn to college sports by the offer of a free education. My hope when I entered college, like that of many other minority student-athletes, was to get an education and thus be prepared for a life after football. But times have changed, sports is big business and agents have followed the money. They perform a necessary function, but too many today have shown little or no concern about protecting their clients’ eligibility.

The student-athletes themselves have also changed. Many of the highest-performing ones, pampered in various ways long before their admission to college, now have an attitude of entitlement, and feel they are above the N.C.A.A.’s rules. Parents, too, have changed. It used to be that families were stabilizing factors in a student-athlete’s life, but nowadays they can be part of the problem, acting in some cases as if they were quasi-agents of the worst sort.

So how can one possibly control agents from compromising the amateurism of student-athletes? One approach has been for the N.C.A.A. and the colleges to make student-athletes more aware of the consequences to themselves, their teams and their universities if they violate the rules on agents. Still, the temptations remain too great and the consequences remain too small for the actual culprits — after all, the player who gets his team put on probation has usually already moved on to the professional game.

Another step has been to close athletic practices to agents, as the head football coaches at Florida and Alabama, Urban Meyer and Nick Saban, respectively, did this summer. Unfortunately, unscrupulous agents find a way to reach players away from the practice field — Luchs described how agents use so-called runners to deliver cash to players on campus — and closing practices from the public further isolates student-athletes from student life.

Here’s a better idea: let’s suppose that the N.C.A.A. were to require athletic conferences to tax their member institutions in order to establish a legal fund to bring mandatory civil suits against agents who interfere with the agreements that the scholarship athletes have with their universities, which are essentially contracts.

In addition to the damages that courts could award to the student-athlete and his college (for loss of service), the trials would help the N.C.A.A. to obtain unprecedented access to sworn testimony and other evidence. In the past, the N.C.A.A. has been hamstrung in its investigations by a lack of subpoena power, but by requiring colleges to bring suits against dishonest agents, the organization would have access to the information disclosed in court proceedings to enable it to take follow-up action.
868 2010-10-30 The drug maker Merck reported third-quarter profit on Friday that rose more than analysts had estimated, as reduced costs helped overcome revenue losses from drugs facing generic competition.

Earnings, excluding a $950 million legal reserve for a Vioxx lawsuit and other one-time items, were 85 cents a share, beating by 2 cents the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income fell 90 percent, to $342 million, the company said.

Sales increased 84 percent, to $11.1 billion after adding the products from its $49.6 billion acquisition of the Schering-Plough Corporation last November. Merck said that it was on track to cut 15,000 jobs from its combined work force and close plants to save $3.5 billion in annual costs by 2012.

“Focus on cost control is working,” said Marc Goodman, an analyst at UBS Securities, in a note to clients. “We continue to see this as a cost-cutting story ahead of major pipeline events and think management is doing a good job.”

Merck raised the lower end of its 2010 earnings forecast to $3.31 to $3.39 a share, excluding one-time items. The company previously said it anticipated profit of $3.29 to $3.39.

Shares in Merck, which is based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., fell 63 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $36.31.

Merck’s $950 million legal reserve was set aside for the anticipated resolution of an investigation by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts. The case was previously disclosed, and talks with the government continue, Merck said Friday.
869 2010-10-30 Mr. Rosado, 29, whose hobby is photography, has climbed 50 buildings, billboards and bridges in the Bronx, he said, some multiple times.

He is not alone in his passion. Shane Perez, 27, who said he had been climbing and taking photos for four years, said he knew of about 10 night-climbing photographers in the city.

Mr. Rosado said that in the last few years he has focused on his own neighborhood, finding beauty in its ruggedness, and both access and interesting subjects in its abandoned buildings and industrial blocks.

“This is my playground,” Mr. Rosado said one recent morning, pointing at the buildings in the South Bronx visible from the rooftop of his own, on Alexander Avenue.

Mr. Rosado has a routine: after choosing a spot, he rides his gray mountain bike to it from his apartment to measure the distance. There he checks for barbed wire, security guards or dogs.

He does this two or three times. Finally, dressed in black — shirt, pants, hoodie, gloves and climbing boots — Mr. Rosado makes his climb.

From his vantage point above the city he aims his camera at various targets — billboards, buildings, roads. He claims a larger mission: to capture the urban landscape as it is now, before gentrification sets in and new buildings — “much bigger, much worse-designed” ones — take their place.

“People are not aware of what’s going on in the neighborhood,” he said. “And from high up you see things in a way you wouldn’t from lower points.”

These urban forages are thrilling, but not without risk. Mr. Rosado could be arrested or could fall. There are also security guards and dogs to dodge. So far he has escaped without harm.

The Police Department said it did not keep records on people arrested for climbing buildings and bridges, partly because the instances were so few and far between. But capture can result in charges of criminal trespass and reckless endangerment.

Mr. Rosado willingly takes the risk, likening himself to an urban ninja proficient in the art of climbing.

He said he had always loved heights. While his missionary parents tried to convert indigenous people of Peru, Chile and Ecuador to Pentecostalism, a 3-year-old Luis climbed trees in the surrounding jungles. His family moved back to their native Puerto Rico when he turned 5, and there he found a stunning vantage point from the rooftop of the church.

“My father owned the church, so I couldn’t get in trouble,” Mr. Rosado said.

As his father, Angel L. Rosado, traveled, founding churches in New York and Colchester, Vt., Luis Rosado found new structures to climb. But in Vermont a new passion was born. At 18, he started taking photography classes at his high school.

“For the first time I could express myself,” Mr. Rosado said. “There was no limit to possibilities.”

Four years later he returned to New York, this time with an associate’s degree in photography and graphic design. His two interests merged.

“New York was free for the taking,” Mr. Rosado said. “I wanted to take my camera everywhere.”

His photography was on display this summer at the LDR Studio Gallery — his apartment, which he converted into living space three years ago, mainly to curate and display work by other artists.

Called “Changes in the Bronx,” the show was a collaboration of photos and videos with Benton-C Bainbridge, 44, a video artist who has had exhibitions at the Whitney and the Museum of Modern Art.

“Luis and I are kindred spirits,” Mr. Bainbridge said. “We’re capturing and looking to expose things that people don’t see.”

To support his photography and gallery, Mr. Rosado works as a doorman on the Upper East Side. That job leaves him with enough time to hatch new plans.

On a recent Sunday, Mr. Rosado enthusiastically spoke of the next spot he wanted to climb and shoot from. His brown eyes wide in amazement, he pointed up 65 feet to the top of the new Willis Avenue Bridge.

Mr. Rosado said he did not fear another close encounter with the police. If it happened, there was always a good route for escape.
870 2010-10-30 NEW HAVEN — A juror on the panel deciding whether to impose the death penalty in the home-invasion murders of a mother and her two daughters in Cheshire, Conn., was dismissed on Friday after making a derogatory comment in court about the defense.

After a court clerk heard the remark, Judge Jon C. Blue of State Superior Court interviewed a second juror who also heard the comment. In the courtroom, the second juror said it was unclear whether the remark, a dismissive expletive, referred to the chief defense lawyer, Thomas Ullmann, or a witness called by the defense, Dr. Eric Goldsmith, a psychiatrist.

Dr. Goldsmith testified that the defendant, Steven J. Hayes, committed the crime in a state of rage and confusion that made it difficult for him to conform his actions to the law, which could be a reason for avoiding the death penalty.

“The jury has been told countless times not to discuss the case among themselves or with anyone else,” Judge Blue said, after dismissing the juror who made the comment.

The trial continued after an alternate juror was sworn in, with a 12-person panel and one remaining alternate juror. The jury had convicted Mr. Hayes of capital crimes on Oct. 5.

Deliberations about whether to impose the death penalty are expected to begin next week.
871 2010-10-30 The Chevron Corporation said that its income slipped nearly 2 percent in the third quarter on costs related to the Gulf of Mexico drilling moratorium and hefty foreign exchange charges. Chevron reported earnings of $3.77 billion, or $1.87 a share, down from $3.83 billion, or $1.92 a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 7 percent to $49.7 billion. The results fell short of Wall Street expectations, and its shares fell $1.84, to $82.60. Chevron, which is based in New York, benefited from higher oil and gas prices and better profit margins in its refining business, but it also booked $367 million in foreign-currency expenses. Chevron’s exploration and production operations in the United States were more costly because of the ban on deepwater drilling following the BP oil spill.
872 2010-10-30 COLUMBIA, Mo. — The names on the ballot here are so well known that it is hard to believe that there are any undecided voters, especially after the assault of months of campaign commercials. But at a homecoming parade last weekend, the candidates were out nevertheless, flashing those familiar brands as they trolled for the undecided vote, estimated at 2 percent.

The candidates for the Senate, Roy Blunt and Robin Carnahan, belong to families that have been described as this state’s answer to the Bush and Kennedy clans. Mr. Blunt, a seven-term Republican congressman, was a member of the House leadership and his son Matt is a former governor of Missouri. Ms. Carnahan, a Democrat, is in her second term as secretary of state; her brother Russ is a congressman, her mother, Jean, is a former senator and her father, Mel, was a two-term governor who died in a plane crash 10 years ago while campaigning for the Senate (he won posthumously).

This Senate race — the first time these families have gone head to head — is something of an anomaly in an election year that has seen so many establishment candidates step aside or be swept away. The appearances of the two candidates here last week seemed to capture the unbalanced nature of the race as it wound into its final days.

Near the front of the parade was Mr. Blunt, campaign vehicles blaring his name and an army of volunteers working the crowd. Bringing up the rear was Ms. Carnahan, situated somewhat unfortunately behind the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile and accompanied by just a few supporters carrying lawn signs. Still, Ms. Carnahan looked undaunted as she jogged along the route slapping stickers on children and shaking hands with their parents.

Those lining the street shared a mix of excitement and weariness over the options. Daniel Grover, 44, who works at FedEx, said he had previously voted for Ms. Carnahan’s father and against Mr. Blunt’s son but this year his loyalty could flip, something the polls suggest many voters are considering. He said he wished there were another candidate: “I think it’s time for new people, new ideas.”
873 2010-10-30 An Indiana state official said the investigation into the death of a Notre Dame student killed in a tower collapse would look at whether the university violated workplace safety rules. Those rules include federal restrictions on scaffold use during high winds.
874 2010-10-30 LOS ANGELES — Bondholders of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. have approved a long-awaited restructuring plan, clearing the way for a bankruptcy filing that would eliminate some $4 billion in debt and put the studio under the management of the Hollywood executives Gary Barber and Roger Birnbaum.

The plan was approved by the bondholders despite an 11th-hour bid by Carl C. Icahn, who holds a substantial piece of MGM debt, to promote an alternative plan to merge the studio with Lions Gate Entertainment.

The vote was announced late Friday by MGM, which said bondholders had “overwhelmingly approved” the plan. The company said it expected the reorganization to move quickly but did not set a timetable.

The approval came shortly after the expiration of a deadline of 5 p.m. Eastern time, already extended to allow bondholders to consider the Lions Gate proposal, valued at about $1.8 billion.

Under the restructuring plan, MGM is to be reorganized under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code before resuming operations that have largely been on hold for months. Under the new structure, current bondholders would exchange their debt for an equity stake of about 95.3 percent in the studio.

The balance of the equity is to be held by Spyglass Entertainment and a pair of associated companies. Spyglass, which is controlled by Mr. Barber and Mr. Birnbaum, is a film production and financing company that is contributing assets to the restructured MGM.
875 2010-10-30 Microsoft said on Friday that it was buying Canesta, a small Silicon Valley company that specializes in gesture-recognition technology.

Interest in this technology has surged because it lets people control computers and other devices through hand movements and other bodily gyrations, in similar fashion to the systems depicted in futuristic films like “Minority Report.”

Canesta makes chips that, when coupled with a digital camera, give all manner of devices a sense of depth perception for the world around them, letting them “see” in three dimensions.

Neither company disclosed the financial terms.

Next month, Microsoft will begin shipping Kinect, a $150 add-on for its Xbox gaming consoles, which uses gesture recognition to allow people to play games with body motions instead of controllers. Players flick through menus with waves of the hand and then move to make their on-screen avatars run, jump, duck, swing and dance. The 3-D technology in Kinect is from PrimeSense, a Canesta rival.

In a recent interview, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, discussed the company’s plans to advance the gesture technology well beyond video games. “I’m excited to be way out in front and want to push the pedal on that,” Mr. Ballmer said.
876 2010-10-30 BANGKOK — The Vietnamese government has arrested or convicted a half-dozen dissidents and bloggers in the days before a visit to Hanoi by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, according to the United States Embassy and human rights groups.

Washington has often voiced its concern over human rights issues in Vietnam, and the latest actions drew sharp criticism from some members of Congress as well as a statement from the United States Embassy in Hanoi urging their release.

Congress members and human rights groups are urging Mrs. Clinton to speak out for human rights while she is in Hanoi on Friday and Saturday for a meeting of Southeast Asian leaders.

Three dissidents have been convicted on charges of causing public disorder, and three bloggers have been arrested at a time of increased pressure on critics. Many analysts say the clampdown is intended to silence debate before a Communist Party congress in January.

In addition, six Roman Catholics were tried and convicted Wednesday in a case the Catholic News Agency said stemmed from violent clashes with the police over a parish’s attempt in May to bury a woman in a cemetery that the local government had seized for a tourist resort.
877 2010-10-30 Paul Kolton, who became the first full-time paid chairman of the American Stock Exchange without ever having worked as a stockbroker, died on Wednesday in Stamford, Conn., where he lived. He was 87.

The cause was lymphoma, his daughter, Shelley Kolton, said.

When Mr. Kolton was named president of the Amex in 1971, it was the first time an in-house employee, rather than a leading figure from the financial world, was put atop one of the major securities exchanges. He was elevated to chairman, a newly created post, a year later after the Amex’s board was reorganized.

Mr. Kolton reached that position without ever having served as a stockbroker. A former reporter for The New York Journal of Commerce and a mystery writer, he landed his first Wall Street job working in public relations for the Amex’s bigger rival, the New York Stock Exchange.

Much of Mr. Kolton’s tenure at the Amex was spent fending off the idea that the exchange should merge with the New York Stock Exchange. “Two independent, viable exchanges are much more likely to be responsive to new pressures and public needs than a single institution,” he said at the beginning of his presidency.

During his tenure, the Amex, to great fanfare, introduced options trading in 1975, two years after the founding of the Chicago Board Options Exchange.

After retiring from the Amex in 1977, Mr. Kolton was chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council and a director of several companies, including Standard Brands and Caldor.
878 2010-10-30 Let’s look first at the risks of doing this and then at the solutions. While these are certainly issues for married couples, they are something that any couple, married or unmarried, needs to consider.

CAUTIONARY TALES Most advisers use the specter of death to shake a couple out of their financial roles. Will your spouse know how to take over the financial affairs of the family if you die tomorrow? Or will grief leave him or her susceptible to unwanted advice?

“We tend to advise on huge areas, but they tend to get cocktail party advice from people they know and love — or don’t love,” said Coventry Edwards-Pitt, managing director at Ballentine Partners, a wealth advisory firm. “Then they can be very vulnerable to advice.”

Disability is equally frightening. Eric Dunavant, president of the Dunavant Wealth Management Group, near New Orleans, had a client who was trying to update his wife on their finances when his kidneys failed. The husband was in the hospital for three months and in a coma for the majority of that time. He recovered eventually, but that was the shock his wife needed to take more responsibility for their finances.

Using money to control or exclude a spouse can, not surprisingly, be a cause of marital strife. “I have a lot of clients come to me in the middle of a divorce, and they’ve said part of the reason they’re leaving is the other spouse hasn’t let them into the finances,” said Dalal Salomon, chief executive of Salomon & Ludwin, in Richmond, Va. “The other spouse is signing tax forms or opening accounts and signing their names to them. And they have no idea what is happening.”

Yet the problems are not always this clear cut. Sometimes, the actuarial tables go against your planning. Ms. Glassman had a male client who was married to a woman 30 years younger. One day, his wife came home not feeling well and never got up from her nap.

“He was totally caught off guard,” she said. “He made all the money, but she did the administration. She took care of everything.”

HOW TO FIX IT So how do you make sure both spouses are included in handling the finances, regardless of the amounts at stake? The simple answer is talking about the problem with the other person and making sure both people go to all meetings. But that is just not the reality for many couples. Here are more concrete strategies.

Ms. Glassman takes a baby step approach toward including the other spouse. She suggested handing over the administrative tasks of bill payment. When both spouses know the electric bill costs about $400 a month, they gain familiarly with the family finances without high consequences, she said.

A next step may be to have them switch some of the static bills, like cable television, over to a credit card with points so they are checking something monthly as opposed to just remembering to pay it. In the process, they’re also getting reward points that need to be managed.

The goal is to get the excluded spouse to sit down and talk about how much the family has in assets and how much it owes on mortgages, car loans and other debt.

“This introduces them to the concept of leverage,” Ms. Glassman said. “You want them to know which types help you and which types harm you.”

It is only then, she suggested, that the couple should have the more conceptual discussions about plans for the future or retirement and how to pay for them.

Then there is the Socratic method. Ms. Edwards-Pitt, whose clients typically have tens of millions of dollars, described what she did as “training the spouse.” She said she labored over explaining concepts and then questioned the spouses about them to be sure they understood. For her, the key is to put together materials that provide information to the spouse who understands the finances while bringing up to speed the one who has historically not cared. This includes assigned reading and lots of diagrams.

“We try to get away from the jargon,” she said. “It’s really important to stop and ask, ‘Does that make sense?’ or, ‘Do you remember this from the meeting before?’ It becomes a different discussion.”

The conversation is often divided between a spouse driven by a portfolio’s performance and one guided by values about how the money should be used. The education process brings those differing concerns to light.

A third approach is purely pragmatic. Ms. Salomon said she began by asking the couple a series of “dream questions” — What would you do if you could do anything? — followed by questions based on their actual financial position.

This helps to gauge each person’s level of understanding of the family’s financial picture. Then Ms. Salomon puts the couple through the life planner process, a program given to advisers in the Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network. While this does not promise greater inclusion, it does catalog everything a surviving spouse needs to know, from account numbers and passwords to insurance policies and funeral arrangements.

“Going through that process with couples — that’s very powerful,” Ms. Salomon said.

LEARNING CURVE So how long does it take to bring a financially excluded spouse up to speed? None of these approaches is quick.

An ambitious timeline with somebody with a complex portfolio of investments is six months of intensive study, Ms. Edwards-Pitt said. A more realistic one, the consensus was, is two years.

The good news is that couples often feel relieved when the process is completed. But even then, it is not a static state.

Krishna Pendyala, chief operating officer and coach at Waldron Wealth Management, which advises on $2 billion in assets, said he was brought in to talk to a couple at the end of the summer who had $5 million to $10 million in assets — seemingly enough money to live without worry.

In fact, one spouse did think everything was fine. The other, who managed the finances, thought the economy was going to get worse and wanted to be more careful with their spending.

“Two months later, the one spouse who thought they had enough and no reason to cut their spending short has a different perspective,” Mr. Pendyala said. “They have come to a compromise of, ‘I hear you and you hear me.’ ”

And that is a big part of what a marriage is about.
879 2010-10-30 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean troops fired two machine-gun bursts at a South Korean guard post across their heavily militarized border on Friday night, and soldiers from the South returned fire with three rifle shots, a Defense Ministry official said in Seoul.

The official, Kiyheon Kwon, said that the fire from the North was unprovoked, and that a United Nations investigation team was being sent to the scene. The exchange took place in Hwacheon, a mountainous area about 70 miles northeast of Seoul.

South Korean troops along the border were placed on the highest state of alert, Mr. Kwon said, adding that “nothing more happened” after the initial volleys. The North Korean fire came from a guard post about 1,400 yards away, he said.

Defense officials said they had no immediate explanation for the North Korean fire, which they said was the first such episode since August 2007. They said the shots had come from a 14.5-millimeter machine gun, typically used against aircraft and light armor. The North Korean military is known to use the gun, which has an effective range of 2,000 yards.

North Korea was angered by the South’s recent refusal to engage in additional rounds of open-ended military talks, according to analysts in Seoul. Earlier Friday, the North’s official news agency, K.C.N.A., called the rejection of the talks “an act of treachery” that would have “a catastrophic impact.”
880 2010-10-30 A Flemish culture minister's plan to put the Royal Flanders Ballet and Flemish Opera under the same management has prompted the dance troupe's artistic director, Kathryn Bennetts, to  submit her resignation, citing the loss of independence. She sa...
881 2010-10-31 Live analysis of Packers at Jets meeting in Week 8....
882 2010-10-31 One of the first signs of impending dementia: an inability to understand money and contracts....
883 2010-10-31 The AARP recently released a new retirement calculator aimed at making it easier for people to figure out how much they need to save for retirement....
884 2010-10-31 Stoudemire had 18 points but was stripped in the lane by Marcus Camby with the Knicks down by 97-95. The ball sailed over the baseline, and the referees ruled it went out off of Camby. But replays clearly showed the ball bouncing off of Stoudemire’s right thigh, which officials confirmed on a courtside monitor before making the reversal.

The crowd booed. Coach Mike D’Antoni gestured wildly and screamed, to no avail. Andre Miller hit two free throws with 5.9 seconds left to seal the victory.

“I’m kind of biased,” D’Antoni said. “They looked at it and they called it the way they thought they saw it.”

Stoudemire had an uneven night, going 8 for 17 from the field, with 6 turnovers, including the strip by Camby.

“I thought there was contact on the initial drive, but they let him get away with that sometimes,” Stoudemire said. “And then he stripped the ball.”

The Knicks shot just 42 percent and allowed Brandon Roy 29 points, which explained their troubles more than any call by the referees.

LaMarcus Aldridge had 20 points and 10 rebounds for Portland (3-0), which is again among the elite teams in the Western Conference. Raymond Felton had 16 points for the Knicks. Landry Fields continued his early success with 11 points and 8 rebounds.

Chandler, playing as the sixth man, has quickly become the Knicks’ second most important player, a role that was supposed to fall to Danilo Gallinari. But Gallinari’s slump stretched to a third game. He made 2 of 9 shots, played only 15 minutes and was again a spectator in the fourth quarter.

Gallinari, who has made 5 of 24 shots in three games, is struggling with a sore right wrist and his confidence. He insisted the injury “is not an excuse,” but then conceded that the inability to practice properly was affecting his rhythm.

“Once my wrist permits me to have some extra workout before practice and before the game, like I used to do, I will do it,” he said. “For now, I cannot do a lot of shooting like I used to do every game, because of my wrist.”

Bill Walker hit a pair of 3-pointers and Felton struck twice in a fourth-quarter run that gave the Knicks their biggest lead of the night, 92-83, with 5:32 to play. The Blazers promptly erased it with a 9-0 run and took the lead, 95-94, on a Miller 3-pointer.

Ronny Turiaf made 1 of 2 free throws to tie the game. Aldridge made 1 of 2 to give Portland a 96-95 edge with 25.5 seconds left.

The Knicks lost a chance to take the lead when Felton’s driving layup attempt was blocked (by Nicolas Batum, although Camby was given credit) with 20.9 seconds left.

The Knicks’ hopes were sustained when Aldridge made just 1 of 2 free throws, making it a 2-point game. Then Camby stripped Stoudemire.

This was the official unveiling of an overhauled roster, one superstar forward surrounded by an array of intriguing young complements.

“We have a lot of hope, a young team that can grow,” D’Antoni said before the game.

In an alternate reality, this would have been LeBron James’s Garden party. Stoudemire played the cordial host instead, welcoming the crowd with a kind thank you and a “Go, New York!”

The Knicks turned up the volume for pregame introductions, turning the microphone over to Buffer. The court was lined with celebrities: Russell Simmons, Tracy Morgan, Elizabeth Banks, Michael J. Fox and Spike Lee. A video introduced the team and a pronoun-heavy new slogan: “You. Us. We. Now.”

Per the usual opening-night custom, the entire roster was introduced before tip-off — from reserves to starters, from Kelenna Azubuike through Stoudemire — with one glaring omission: Eddy Curry.

A team official declined to offer an explanation. The gesture spoke for itself. Curry is viewed as a virtual albatross by fans, and he surely would have been booed, ruining the evening’s happy vibe. That task fell instead to the Blazers and a small video monitor.
885 2010-10-31 BOISE, Idaho (AP) — Boise State will face a lack of national television exposure when the Broncos join the Mountain West Conference next season, Coach Chris Petersen said, potentially hurting the Broncos’ prospects of remaining one of the country’s top football programs.

Boise State is in its final year as a member of the Western Athletic Conference. The Broncos have had 35 regular-season games broadcast by ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU or ABC since 2003.

But the Mountain West does not have a contract with ESPN. That means ESPN may only have the rights to two regular-season Boise State games next season, costing the team the exposure that has been critical to its rise to prominence.

“It’s been as important as anything we’ve done,” Petersen told The Idaho Statesman. “Everybody is very concerned about the TV thing. Hopefully, that works out how we need it to.”
886 2010-10-31 However you say his name, Helu softened concern for quarterback Taylor Martinez, who did not play in the second half after he came up hobbling following a hit from Kenji Jackson. Zac Lee started the third quarter in his place, but Pelini said Martinez, who has a bruised right leg, should be able to play next week at Iowa State.

Helu’s third touchdown eased the anxiety that had crept into Memorial Stadium after Missouri pulled to 24-14 in the middle of the third quarter.

Helu took a handoff from Lee and sliced through a wide gap in the middle of the line. It was his sixth scoring run of longer than 50 yards this season and extended Nebraska’s lead to 31-14.

“I can’t explain how much I feel for my linemen and fullback,” Helu said. “They deserve as much credit as I do.”

Nebraska put heavy pressure on Missouri quarterback Blaine Gabbert, sacking him six times. Gabbert finished 18 of 42 passing for 199 yards.

The Huskers made a goal-line stand late in the third quarter after the Tigers drove from their 20 to inside the 1. Gabbert could not get enough push on a first-down sneak, Henry Josey was stopped short on the next play and Gabbert failed to get in when he tried to run around left end on third down. After Josey was called for a false start on fourth down, Grant Ressel kicked a 23-yard field goal with 1 minute 39 seconds left in the third quarter.

Missouri created a break for itself on Nebraska’s next possession, blocking a 51-yard field-goal attempt by Alex Henery. But the Tigers, who had burned their last timeout earlier in the third quarter, went three-and-out on what would be their only possession of the fourth quarter. Nebraska, predictably handing off mostly to Helu, ran out the clock with a 14-play drive.

“We’ve got to coach better,” Missouri Coach Gary Pinkel said. “We lost all of our timeouts in the third quarter. Shoot, are you kidding me?”

The Tigers, trying for their first back-to-back wins in Lincoln since 1976-78, found themselves playing from behind right away after Helu burst through a wide opening in the left side of the line and ran 66 yards untouched on Nebraska’s first play.

Henery kicked his team-record 18th field goal in a row, from 41 yards, and Martinez threw a 40-yard touchdown pass to Kyler Reed before Helu scored untouched again, from 73 yards for a 24-0 lead late in the first quarter.

The Tigers’ first four possessions ended in punts — they went three-and-out on three of them — and Gabbert threw his first interception in four games, ending their fifth series.
887 2010-10-31 The cheers for Helu were loud and frequent, but not always with the correct pronunciation. “They called me HAY-loo?” Helu said after the game. “It’s Roy HEL-lou Jr.”

Cam Newton caught a touchdown pass and threw for two more scores, and Mike Dyer ran for 180 yards, helping No. 3 Auburn beat host Mississippi, 51-31. The Tigers (9-0, 6-0 Southeastern Conference), who are ranked atop the Bowl Championship Series standings for the first time, sidestepped the string of upsets that had struck No. 1 teams in each of the past three weeks. The Rebels ended Newton’s string of four 170-yard rushing efforts against SEC defenses, but he passed for 199. He also caught a 20-yard touchdown pass from receiver Kodi Burns.

¶Alshon Jeffery’s 70-yard touchdown catch broke a fourth-quarter tie in No. 17 South Carolina’s 38-24 victory over Tennessee. It kept the host Gamecocks (6-2, 4-2) in control of the SEC East. They can clinch their first berth in the SEC title game with wins over Arkansas and Florida in the next two weeks.

¶Ryan Mallett threw for a team-record 409 yards as No. 19 Arkansas beat visiting Vanderbilt, 49-14. Arkansas (6-2, 3-2 SEC) scored 43 straight points after trailing early.

¶Vick Ballard rushed for 103 yards and a touchdown, and No. 23 Mississippi State beat visiting Kentucky, 24-17. It was the sixth straight victory for the Bulldogs (7-2, 3-2 SEC), their longest streak since 1999.

Chas Henry, a punter forced by circumstance to take over kicking duties, drilled a 37-yard field goal in overtime to lift Florida to a 34-31 victory over Georgia in Jacksonville, Fla. Florida (5-3, 3-3 SEC) snapped a three-game losing streak. Georgia (4-5, 3-4) has lost 18 of the last 21 meetings. After the game, Florida Coach Urban Meyer, who has won two national titles with the Gators, said of the victory: “This is the biggest one that I can remember, and I’ve coached a long time.”

¶Utah’s defense forced five turnovers and stopped Air Force twice on downs in the final quarter, helping the eighth-ranked Utes win on the road, 28-23. Utah (5-0 Mountain West) is 8-0 for the third time in the last seven years, setting up a showdown with No. 4 Texas Christian next weekend.

¶Terrelle Pryor threw for 222 yards and 2 touchdowns as No. 10 Ohio State won, 52-10, at Minnesota. Dan Herron rushed for 114 yards for the Buckeyes (8-1, 4-1 Big Ten).

The backup Matt Scott had another big game, passing for a career-high 319 yards, and No. 15 Arizona held off host U.C.L.A., 29-21, to remain in contention for its first Pacific-10 championship. The starter Nick Foles, who sprained his right knee two weeks ago, may be healthy enough to return next Saturday when the Wildcats play at No. 13 Stanford. The Wildcats (7-1, 4-1) are off to their best start since winning seven of their first eight in 1998.

¶Andrew Luck ran for a 51-yard score and threw for another touchdown, and No. 13 Stanford routed host Washington, 41-0. Facing Washington quarterback Jake Locker in a matchup of touted N.F.L. draft prospects, Luck, a sophomore, completed 19 of 26 passes for 192 yards for Stanford (7-1, 4-1 Pac-10). Washington had its worst offensive performance in 37 years.

Robert Griffin III passed for two touchdowns and ran for another and No. 25 Baylor won, 30-22, at Texas, the Bears’ first victory over the Longhorns since 1997. Baylor (7-2, 4-1), which is ranked for the first time since 1993, rallied after trailing by 19-10 early in the third quarter, maintaining its hold on first place in the Big 12 South. Texas lost its third in a row at home.

¶Brandon Weeden threw two touchdown passes and No. 20 Oklahoma State (7-1, 3-1 Big 12) beat host Kansas State, 24-14, despite the absence of the star wide receiver Justin Blackmon, who was suspended for the game after being arrested on a misdemeanor charge of driving under the influence.

Virginia intercepted Miami’s backup quarterbacks four times after Jacory Harris was hurt and the host Cavaliers upset the 22nd-ranked Hurricanes, 24-19. Virginia (4-4, 1-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) had lost nine straight conference games. Miami (5-3, 3-2) trailed, 24-0, early in the fourth quarter but rallied to pull to 5 points behind with more than four and a half minutes left.
888 2010-10-31 “When a Cancer Therapy Puts Others at Risk” (news article, Oct. 25) suggests that the public is being exposed to dangerous amounts of radiation from patients receiving thyroid cancer therapy.

A study done in 2000, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, showed that household members of thyroid cancer patients received less than the dose allowed to the general public per year by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Certainly bus riders or hotel workers would receive considerably lower doses.

Any discussion of this sort should balance risk versus benefit. The benefit is that we are able to treat thyroid patients promptly with a very effective and painless treatment.

If patients need to be hospitalized to receive the proper dose, some will be treated with lower, less effective doses, or their treatment will be significantly delayed because many hospitals do not have the facilities to treat such patients.

The writers are, respectively, president, past president and president-elect of the Society of Nuclear Medicine.
889 2010-10-31 KANSAS CITY, Mo. — This is an agricultural state, home to more than 100,000 farms and exporter of an outsize share of the nation’s yearly haul of beef, pork, milk and soybeans. But this year, attention has focused on another local commodity: puppies.

More than one of every three dogs sold in pet stores nationwide come from Missouri, whose breeders produce hundreds of thousands of dogs — from poodles to pit bulls — each year, according to one estimate. That distinction has made this state the target of a well-financed ballot referendum to place tougher regulations on businesses that raise and sell dogs.

The effort pits animal rights groups, led by the Humane Society of the United States, which compiled the estimate, against agricultural interests — old foes who have recently done battle in many states over the welfare of farm animals. Animal rights groups have won a number of protections for animals, as those who make their living selling livestock complain that they are being regulated out of business.

“I am an American; I have a right to raise dogs,” said Joe Overlease, president of the Professional Kennel Club of Missouri, who owns a large breeding operation of cocker spaniels in southern Missouri that was cited by the state this year for overcrowding and inadequate shelter. “I have a right to bark at the moon if I want.”

The Missouri ballot measure, known as Proposition B, would limit the size of dog breeding operations and establish minimum quality of life standards, including requiring additional space, access to the outdoors and periods of rest for females between litters. It would not increase the number of inspectors, currently 12 for the 1,450 licensed breeders statewide. Similar laws have been adopted by 15 states in the last three years, according to the Humane Society, and a recent Mason-Dixon poll showed wide support.

The campaign in support of the proposition has blanketed the state with advertisements against “puppy mills,” the label critics prefer, featuring grainy video images of law enforcement raids on breeding facilities where frail and listless dogs live cramped in wire cages piled with excrement.
890 2010-10-31 Crippen’s funeral was Saturday in suburban Philadelphia, a chance for loved ones to begin working through their grief even while they still have questions. Some of them might be answered through an autopsy the family had scheduled, although Maddy said she has little doubt about how her brother died.

“He definitely drowned,” she said. “He exerted himself, something happened to him and no one was there to pick him out of the water. He drowned because nobody was there.”

It is undisputed that it took about two hours for rescuers to find Crippen’s body out on the triangular, 2-kilometer ocean course located behind a breakwater, an operation that did not begin until one of his teammates, Alex Meyer, pointed out he was missing. Meyer and other competitors actually dove back in the water to help in the frantic search, but it was too late.

Crippen’s coach, Dick Shoulberg, put the blame on FINA for failing to mandate adequate safety measures in a country that does not have a wealth of experience hosting major swimming competitions.

“FINA dropped the ball,” he said. “They approved this event to be an Olympic event, but they never took the next step to protect the athletes. When you put a potential medal out there, you’re going to have kids chasing it. That’s what Fran was doing. But FINA didn’t protect the athletes.”

Race organizers insist they took all necessary safety measures, including lifeguards, boats and divers. Shoulberg, who was not at the meet, said he has been told there were not enough boats, there were not any radios aboard the boats to ensure proper communication and that, for some reason, the swimmers were not wearing GPS-like devices that help determine their times during the race — and can make it easier to keep up with everyone, given that competitors often get separated by large distances and it is not always possible to keep an eye on everyone from shore.

“My mission in life is to never see this happen again,” Shoulberg said. “We’ve got to get some answers.”

The FINA executive director Cornel Marculescu said it was to early to speculate on what caused Crippen’s death.

“Until we have the results from the task force, we cannot get involved in speculation or allegations,” Marculescu said. “Let them finish and give their position first. Otherwise it’s only speculation.”

Crippen came from a prominent swimming family in the Philadelphia area. All three of his sisters are top-level competitors, though they preferred to swim at the pool, looking at that little black line on the bottom and knowing they were done when they touched the wall.

Not Fran. He had grown up playing water polo, which often is nothing more than wrestling in the water. As he grew older, he realized that open water was the best way to combine his considerable swimming skills with a chance to mix it up with others.

“Fran loved it,” Maddy said. “That’s the way he was. He was a rough-and-tumble guy.”

He especially loved the challenge of competing in a natural environment. Races are usually held in an ocean or a lake, though a more controlled setting is also allowed, which was the case when open water made its Olympic debut. The rowing and canoeing course was used in Beijing, so the swimmers were always within sight of spectators and officials — and never far from shore.

Things can get a lot hairier when the long-distance races — events generally range from 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) to the grueling 25K (15.5 miles) — are held in the ocean.

At the 2007 world championships in Australia, open water was conducted off St. Kilda beach. The swimmers had to deal with painful stings after thousands of giant jellyfish invaded the course, and that was not the worst part. The 25K actually had to be stopped when winds whipped up to nearly 50 miles an hour, creating towering waves that left the competitors fearing for their lives.

“It was terrifying,” said Kalyn Keller, who competed that day and has since retired from swimming. “As a swimmer, you’re going to push yourself. But you never think you’ll be in a life-or-death situation.”

Fortunately for Keller and the others, the Australians have an extensive background in lifesaving — it is actually a sport Down Under — and they moved in quickly to scoop all the swimmers from the waters. The race was completed the next day in much calmer conditions, with Keller winning a silver medal.

She will never forget what it was like the day before.

“I couldn’t see the shore,” Keller said. “I completely panicked. I remember when they pulled me into the boat by my arms, I just collapsed. They took me to shore and I couldn’t walk. They put me in a hot tub because the water was so cold. I had this panic attack and just started crying. I didn’t know what had happened to me. I was just so thankful to be alive.”

Shoulberg said he’s sure that water temperatures for Crippen’s race — 84 degrees at the start, according to organizers; at least several degrees higher, according to several of the swimmers — combined with an even hotter air temperature and a salt-water course to send him into medical distress. Several other swimmers suffered from heat-related problems and needed treatment.

“It’s more dangerous when you’re in hot water, a hot sun and salt water, because it accelerates the dehydration when you have salt in the water,” Shoulberg said.

Of course, nothing can be done now to bring back Crippen.

Shoulberg choked up as he remembered the two of them talking after every practice, the conversation ranging from good books to arguments over sports to Crippen’s hopes of making the Olympic team for the first time. He won a bronze medal in the 10K at last year’s world championships and looked to be one of the favorites heading into London.

“I already miss those talks,” the coach said.
891 2010-10-31 KABUL, Afghanistan — A raid on drug laboratories in eastern Afghanistan came under fire from the nation’s president on Saturday because Russian counternarcotics agents had been involved, along with those from the United States and Afghanistan.

In a statement sent to the news media, President Hamid Karzai expressed dismay that the central Afghan government had not been told about the presence of at least two Russian agents on the raid. He called it “a blatant violation of Afghanistan’s sovereignty and of international laws,” and he warned that “any repetition of such acts will prompt necessary reaction by our country.”

The Afghan Ministry of Counternarcotics held a news conference on Saturday detailing the successes of the raid, in which four opium refining laboratories and more than a ton of heroin were destroyed.

Deputy Minister Baz Mohammed Ahmad said the raid had been led by an Afghan counternarcotics team. When he was asked directly whether Russian or other international agents had been involved, Mr. Ahmad replied, “We did not ask them where they were from, and they all look the same, and we were not informed that two Russian drug specialists had also participated in this operation.”

Mr. Karzai’s statement highlighted the delicacy of Russian participation in any armed activity here, even something as widely supported as drug interdiction.

The Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan for a decade starting in 1979, and many current Afghan leaders fought them, eventually forcing the Soviets to leave. Afghans widely viewed Russia and its people as enemies.
892 2010-10-31 United was already leading through Nemanja Vidic’s 31st-minute header when Nani had a penalty appeal turned down in the closing minutes after bursting into the penalty area.

Nani was then seen handling the ball while lying on the turf. But when goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes lined up to take the free kick he thought had been awarded, Nani ran in front of him to the free ball and, after glancing back to the referee, fired it into the empty net.

The goal was initially disallowed by Clattenburg’s assistant Simon Beck, angering the United players. But after Clattenburg and Beck ruled that the whistle had never been blown, and signaled that the goal would count, Gomes led the Spurs protests.

“It’s a handball — he’s deliberately handled it and it should have been a booking,” Spurs Manager Harry Redknapp said.

The United captain Rio Ferdinand acknowledged that the decision was tough on Spurs.

“Handball but gotta play to the whistle-harsh but true,” Ferdinand wrote on Twitter minutes after the final whistle.

In other games, the American forward Clint Dempsey scored twice to give Fulham a 2-0 win over Wigan, and Chelsea (2-1 at Blackburn) and Arsenal (1-0 against West Ham) won with the help of late headers. But the upset of the day came at Wolverhampton, where the relegation-threatened club beat big-spending Manchester City, 2-1.

TOTTI FACES SUSPENSION A.S. Roma’s 2-0 win over Lecce in Italy’s Serie A could prove costly after its captain, Francesco Totti, was sent off and then chased an opposing player off the field. Totti and Lecce’s Ruben Olivera clashed in the buildup to the second goal, and the referee Andrea Gervasoni immediately sent off both players. Totti’s automatic one-game ban for the red card will force him to miss a showdown against league-leading Lazio on Nov. 7, but he could face further sanctions for chasing Olivera into the tunnel.

SPANISH LEADERS WIN Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice in the last eight minutes as Real Madrid rallied for a 3-1 win over Hercules to stay on top of the Spanish league standings, and Barcelona romped to another home victory against Sevilla to keep pace. Real Madrid is in first place with 23 points, but Barcelona trails by only 1 after Lionel Messi and David Villa each scored twice in a 5-0 win against Sevilla.

U.S. WOMEN ROLL IN QUALIFIER Amy Rodriguez scored three goals to help the United States rout Guatemala, 9-0, in Group B play in Concacaf Women’s World Cup qualifying at Cancun, Mexico. Abby Wambach and Megan Rapinoe each had two goals and Alex Morgan and Carli Lloyd also scored for the United States. The Americans will complete the first round against Costa Rica on Monday.

RUSSIANS DENY OFFERING BRIBE Russia’s 2018 World Cup bid team denied offering any inducements to secure the vote of a Nigerian soccer official before the official, Amos Adamu, was suspended by FIFA. The Russians were informed by The Sunday Times of London that Adamu told an undercover reporter that the Russians had offered “cooperation” on building facilities and training players in exchange for his support in the Dec. 3 vote. Adamu is already being investigated by FIFA over footage published this month by The Sunday Times that appears to show him telling a group he was told represented the United States bid that he wanted $800,000 to build four artificial football field in Nigeria, and for the money to be paid directly to him.
893 2010-10-31 “We’re winning in a way that we haven’t been in a very long time,” Ms. Zarghami says. “That sounds braggy, but we’ve worked really hard, and we’re pleased it’s finally paying off.”

Pleased is an understatement. Philippe Dauman, C.E.O. of Viacom, which owns Nickelodeon, struck a giddy tone about the children’s business in a recent note to employees: “The Nick family of channels now captures more than half of all kids’ viewing on TV — the highest share in more than a decade!”

Not that Mr. Dauman is content. “Nickelodeon is perhaps our most important asset,” he said in an interview. “It needs to retain its leadership position, and it needs to grow.” Viacom does not break out numbers for Nickelodeon.

For all the momentum, enormous puzzles remain for Ms. Zarghami to solve. Pre-teenage viewers, once a loyal age group, are starting to become more fickle as parents unleash them onto the Web at an earlier age. Some analysts criticize Nickelodeon’s digital efforts, particularly when it comes to entertainment on mobile devices as unfocused. Neopets, its once-booming online gaming world, has waned.

ADVERTISERS are under pressure to cut back on marketing to children — a problem to which Nickelodeon is particularly exposed because its primary rival, Disney Channel, does not accept traditional advertising. Last month, a children’s advocacy group asked the Federal Communications Commission to investigate a new Nickelodeon series, “Zevo-3,” whose characters are named after Skechers shoes.

“We believe that the show violates several of the few existing rules we have to protect children from over-commercialization,” said Susan Linn, director of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, a nonprofit group. Nickelodeon said in a statement that it was confident the show did not violate the Children’s Television Act, which limits advertising in shows aimed at kids.

Nickelodeon has also struggled to come up with a new generation of cartoons to replace aging stalwarts like “SpongeBob SquarePants” and “Dora the Explorer.” Animated series are much more valuable than live-action programs like “iCarly” because they are easier to export overseas and generate a larger array of merchandise. But while Nickelodeon has poured tens of millions of dollars into the development of new animated hits, a parade of efforts — “El Tigre,” “The X’s,” “Catscratch,” “Mighty B,” “Back at the Barnyard” — have failed to catch substantial wind.

Ms. Zarghami concedes that Nickelodeon needs animated reinforcements but points to promising shows like “Team Umizoomi,” a preschool series centered on learning math; “Fanboy & Chum Chum,” about two science-fiction aficionados; and “The Penguins of Madagascar,” based on the DreamWorks Animation films.

Judy McGrath, chief executive of MTV Networks, which includes Nickelodeon, also brushes aside concerns. “They’re experimenting, and they’re figuring it out,” she says.

A PETITE woman with piercing eyes and a husky cackle, Ms. Zarghami, 47, is the daughter of an Iranian-born doctor and a Scottish-born nurse. She started at Nickelodeon in 1985 as a scheduling clerk, a year after leaving the University of Vermont three credits shy of an English degree. (In 2000, the university gave her an honorary degree.)

She rose up the scheduling ranks, taking on responsibility for things like brand positioning and marketing, until she became general manager of Nickelodeon. In 2006, she took over as president of Viacom’s Kids and Family Group, becoming one of the top executive women in the media industry.

In some ways, her ascent is a reflection of the usual attributes — ambition and a knack for playing corporate politics. But over the years, she also proved herself a highly talented programmer, with the rare ability to zero in on what children want to watch and when. She was not directly responsible for “SpongeBob” or “Dora,” but helped nurture them into hits by deciding how to schedule them and overseeing marketing partnerships. “Cyma is a deep thinker on a strategic level: ‘What pieces do I need to gather to get where I want to go?’ ” Ms. McGrath says.

When Ms. Zarghami landed the top job, she had to fight a number of fires. The Nickelodeon empire has tremendous muscle — ad sales and affiliate fees of $2.2 billion a year, according to the research firm SNL Kagan, and merchandising worth $5.5 billion — but two decades of breakneck growth had created inefficient wiring.

While a bloated Nickelodeon was basking in its top-dog status, Disney Channel cracked the code for the “tween” audience — ages 9 to 14 — with “Hannah Montana” and “High School Musical.” That audience was once the icing on the kids’ TV cake, but became hugely important as younger children started to follow its lead. Although Nickelodeon has been the top-rated children’s network for 16 years, by 2007, Disney had started to regularly beat Nickelodeon by certain measures.

Nickelodeon, founded in 1979, had also become a mature business. With the easy growth behind it — the flagship Nickelodeon channel, fully distributed in North America, reaches more than 100 million homes — Ms. Zarghami needed a way to kick-start overseas expansion while broadening the audience at home to include families. “A full generation of our viewers now have kids of their own, and we needed to reflect that in more of our programming,” she said.

By her own account, she started off slowly. She was pregnant with her third child at the time of her promotion and spent part of her first year on maternity leave. Upon her return, she stepped cautiously, putting into motion a grinding two-year brand review.

Inch by inch, changes started to click. The spinoff channels for preschoolers and teenagers — then called Noggin and the N — were rebranded Nick Jr. and TeenNick to improve consumer recognition, a move that ratings growth indicates is working. Nick at Nite, the prime-time block of programs for adults, was expanded by an hour and scheduled with reruns families could watch together. (Out: “Murphy Brown.” In: “My Wife and Kids.”) As a result, Nick at Nite has also perked up in the ratings, reversing years of declines.

Ms. Zarghami also attacked Disney’s tween flank with “iCarly.” It is currently the No. 1 show on television among children 2 to 11, as measured by new episodes and not repeats, according to Nielsen Media Research, and it has spawned at least one cultural craze: spaghetti tacos, a dish created by an oddball character on the show.

“I probably care more than I should about popular culture’s endorsement of things,” says Ms. McGrath, the MTV Networks chief, “so I am very proud of how ‘iCarly’ has broken through.”

To find new hits fast, especially ones with powerful merchandising potential, Ms. Zarghami somewhat controversially decided to abandon Nickelodeon’s long-held policy of owning all its programming. She has begun licensing franchises — a rent-a-hit model.

“Power Rangers,” the martial arts series, is a prime example. Ms. Zarghami made a deal in May with the investor Haim Saban, who owns the series, to bring 20 new episodes and 700 reruns to Nickelodeon and Nicktoons starting early next year.

The deal was a jab at Disney, which had just sold “Power Rangers” to Mr. Saban. Disney was under the impression that he planned to license the show not to the rival Nickelodeon but to the Hub, a less-threatening children’s channel that is a joint venture of Discovery Communications and Hasbro.

Mr. Saban says he is impressed with how quickly Ms. Zarghami acted when he approached her about a deal. “The conversation took two minutes,” he says. He describes her as “very tough” but also “super professional” in negotiations. “I always ask for some compassion,” he adds, “but I don’t get very far.”

Nickelodeon’s array of future shows and initiatives is dizzying. A partnership with the owners of “The Tale of Peter Rabbit” is to result in an animated preschool series in 2012, the same year “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” is slated to come back to life on Nick. “House of Anubis,” a live-action mystery series planned for early 2011, is a bold experiment in bringing the daytime soap opera format — a new episode each day, instead of once a week — to teenagers.

In January on the Web, Nickelodeon will introduce MonkeyQuest.com, an online game in which players in disparate locations play together. (Players are cast as young monkeys swept up in an epic quest to uncover the secrets of the lost Monkey King and to defeat the Shadow Monsters.) And Nickelodeon is rolling out an ambitious line of educational merchandise related to the math program “Team Umizoomi.”

IN the meantime, the children’s television business — always cutthroat — is growing more competitive.

After falling off a ratings cliff, the Cartoon Network, owned by Time Warner, is trying harder to get its act together; it has a new “Looney Tunes” series in the works and this month announced plans to turn the DreamWorks Animation film “How to Train Your Dragon” into a television show.

On Oct. 10, Discovery Communications and Hasbro introduced the Hub, stocked with shows tied to Hasbro toy lines like Transformers, My Little Pony and G.I. Joe. Borrowing a trick from Nick at Nite, the Hub is showing reruns of “Happy Days” in the evenings.

At first glance, Disney Channel is showing signs of cooling. Miley Cyrus, the 17-year-old “Hannah Montana” actress, has a controversial new sex-kitten persona. A series built around the Jonas Brothers is a dud. And the executive who turned Disney Channel into a juggernaut, Rich Ross, left television last year to run Disney’s movie studio.

But Disney is preparing a renewed programming attack, including a “High School Musical” spinoff, a TV movie called “Sharpay’s Fabulous Adventure.” Disney also has high hopes for the movie “Lemonade Mouth,” the story of five high school students who meet in detention and form a band, and “Shake It Up,” a dance-driven sitcom. Over all, Disney plans to expand its content pipeline by 30 percent in 2011.

On the animation side at Disney, “Phineas and Ferb,” guided by an executive poached from Nickelodeon, is a breakout hit. In 2012, Disney will go after Nick Jr., introducing Disney Junior, a channel for preschool children.

“I guess I could make an imitation-is-flattery joke,” Ms. Zarghami says dryly.

She has done her share of co-opting the competition’s playbook. “Victorious” is an aspirational, music-infused program that shares DNA with “Hannah Montana.”

Even “Big Time Rush,” a co-production with Sony Music Entertainment, nods to the Disney formula, says Rob Stringer, chairman of the Columbia/Epic Label Group at Sony. “You take what Disney has done,” he says, “and make it more interesting — quirkier, a little cheeky, polite anarchy.”

WHATEVER the model, it’s working. “BTR” made its debut on the Billboard Top 200 chart at No. 3, and the band has sold more than one million digital tracks.

“When I saw the sales numbers and looked at how well the show is doing in the ratings,” Ms. Zarghami says, “I thought to myself, ‘Oh my God, it doesn’t get much better than this.’ ”
894 2010-10-31 Katherine Marie Weiss, the daughter of Colleen M. Weiss and James R. Weiss of Oreland, Pa., was married Saturday to John Frederick Romano, the son of Richard A. Romano of Levittown, N.Y., and the late Helene J. Romano. The Rev. Gavin W. Muir performed the ceremony at St. Lawrence Roman Catholic Church in Riegelsville, Pa.

The bride, 28, is an associate at the Manhattan law firm Sullivan & Cromwell. She graduated and received a law degree from Boston College, both summa cum laude.

The bridegroom, 30, is an assistant United States attorney in the District of New Jersey in Newark. He graduated, magna cum laude, from Fordham University and received a law degree, summa cum laude, from St. John’s University in Jamaica, Queens.
895 2010-10-31 A speech pathologist at Walter Reed Army Medical Center uses text-to-speech applications to give patients a voice. Christopher Bulger, a 16-year-old in Chicago who injured his spine in a car accident, used an iPad to surf the Internet during the early stages of his rehabilitation, when his hands were clenched into fists. “It was nice because you progressed from the knuckle to the finger to using more than one knuckle on the screen,” he said.

Parents of autistic children are using applications to teach them basic skills, like brushing teeth and communicating better.

For a mainstream technological device like the iPad to have been instantly embraced by the disabled is unusual. It is far more common for items designed for disabled people to be adapted for general use, like closed-captioning on televisions in gyms or GPS devices in cars that announce directions. Also, most mainstream devices do not come with built-ins like the iPad’s closed-captioning, magnification and audible readout functions — which were intended to keep it simple for all users, but also help disabled people.

“Making things less complicated can actually make a lot of money,” said Gregg C. Vanderheiden, an engineering professor at the University of Wisconsin at Madison who has worked on accessibility issues for decades.

Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, who wrote recently enacted legislation that will require mobile devices to be more accessible to users with disabilities, said approximately three-fourths of communications and video devices need to be adapted for blind and deaf people. “Apple,” he said in a statement, “is an outlier when it comes to devices that are accessible out of the box.”

The iPad is also, generally speaking, less expensive than computers and other gadgets specifically designed to help disabled people speak, read or write. While insurers usually do not cover the cost of mobile devices like the iPad because they are not medical equipment, in some cases they will pay for the applications that run on them.

In Owen’s case, his grandmother bought him a $600 iPad in August, and his parents have invested about $200 more in software. One day this summer, his finger dangled over the title page of “Alice in Wonderland” on his iPad while his mother hovered over his shoulder in their Brooklyn home. Then, with the tiniest of movements, and thanks to the sensitivity of the iPad’s touch screen, Owen began to turn the pages of the book. “You are reading a book on your own, Owen!” Ms. Goldstein, 44, exclaimed. “That is completely wonderful.”

But while the sensitivity of the iPad’s touch screen makes it promising for Owen, it can be problematic for others, like Glenda Watson Hyatt, a blogger in Surrey, British Columbia, who has cerebral palsy. “When ‘flipping’ screens, sometimes I flip more than one screen,” Ms. Hyatt wrote in an interview conducted by e-mail. “Or I touch what I didn’t intend to.”

Still, Ms. Hyatt said that when she was having trouble chatting with friends at a bar recently, she pulled out her iPad to help communicate and felt normal. “People were drawn to it because it was a ‘recognized’ or ‘known’ piece of technology,” she wrote in a blog post reviewing the device.

At the Shepherd Center, a spinal cord rehabilitation clinic in Atlanta, some teenage quadriplegics have received iPads as gifts, but they do not work well for those who rely on a mouse stick — basically a long pen controlled by mouth.

“It wants to see a finger,” said John Anschutz, the manager of the assistive technology program at Shepherd. “It really requires the quality of skin and body mass to operate.”

For Owen Cain, whose disease is physical, not mental, the iPad has limitations, too. Moving his finger all the way across the keypad remains a challenge, and makes writing difficult. Ms. Goldstein said its versatility and affordability, though, were a boon. He has been experimenting with a variety of applications — Proloquo2Go, which allows him to touch an icon that prompts the device to speak things like, “I need to go to the bathroom”; Math Magic, which helps him practice arithmetic; and Animal Match, a memory game.

“If all you’re worrying about is ‘I can try this program, or I can try that program, I can buy that app or I can buy this app,’ and the investment is so much lower,” his mother said, “then our ability to explore or experiment with different things is so much bigger.”

When Owen was about 8 weeks old, his mother noticed his right arm drooping. It led to a crushing diagnosis: the motor-neuron disease known as spinal muscular atrophy Type 1. A 2003 New York Times article about spinal muscular atrophy said his parents had been told Owen would be “paralyzed for his life, which doctors predicted would last no more than about two years.”

Owen will turn 8 on Nov. 11. While his condition is not expected to worsen, he is extremely sensitive to infection and once nearly died of pneumonia; three specialized therapists and a nurse help keep him alive.

Though he cannot speak, his parents have taught him to read, write and do math. He has an impish sense of humor and a love of “Star Wars.” “He’s a normal child trapped in a not normal body,” said his father, Hamilton Cain, 45, a book editor.

Since he received the iPad, Owen has been trying to read books, and playing around with apps like Air Guitar. And, one day, he typed out on the keypad, “I want to be Han Solo for Halloween.”
896 2010-10-31 THEIR limbs crisscrossed at wild angles, their mouths puckered around toothless gums, their eyes deep black pools — the grinning skeletons in Nicolás De Jesús’s etchings are busy. Some are riding the subway, some are meeting in a cafe or attending an art opening, and others, throngs of them, are gathered to partake in Día de los Muertos, the Mexican celebration of the Day of the Dead.

Visitors to the Neuberger Museum of Art can see these bony characters, along with their fleshy counterparts, in “The Irony of the Skeletons: Nicolás De Jesús’ Amates,” an exhibition of prints by the contemporary Mexican painter and printmaker. Assembled by Patrice Giasson, the Alex Gordon associate curator of art of the Americas at the Neuberger, the show presents a selection of the artist’s work from 1990 through 2009.

All of the pieces are etchings printed on amate, a fibrous, taupe-colored paper made from tree bark that was used by indigenous societies in the pre-Columbian period to produce sacred manuscripts. Mr. De Jesús was introduced to his craft by his father, an artisan, in the Nahua village of Ameyaltepec, in the state of Guerrero, where he was born in 1960. “To know that my ancestors painted on amate during the pre-Hispanic era has made me value it,” he wrote in an e-mail that was translated from the Spanish.

Besides reveling in daily life and rituals, some of Mr. De Jesús’s skeletons address more troubling issues, like illegal immigration and the corrupting power of money. These exemplify the influence of José Guadalupe Posada, a 19th-century Mexican political illustrator who used animated skeletons to convey his messages. Five works displayed in a vitrine were created in 1990, when Mr. De Jesús was living in Chicago. A second vitrine holds eight small etchings from 2008 that include a few intimate images of skeletal lust. Seven framed prints on the wall depict scenes ranging from a Balinese wedding to a genetically modified ear of corn swarming with rats and worms.

No matter what their subject, Mr. De Jesús’s images teem with activity. Comparing him to Pieter Brueghel the Elder, Mr. Giasson said, “Wherever you look, there’s another detail. Nicolás is always able to make you see more.”
897 2010-10-31 OVER the centuries painters have used drawing to prepare for committing their ideas to posterity on canvas. Paper has been a material for sketching, planning and trying out a composition in advance of the main event.

But for an exhibition at the Pace Gallery at 510 West 25th Street in Chelsea that opened this month, the veteran abstract painter Thomas Nozkowski took a different approach. He used drawing as a cool-down exercise rather than a warm-up. The show features 19 pairs of works, each one a painting and a smaller, corresponding work on paper in ink, pencil and gouache.

The drawings are still studies of a kind, but they all reflect back on a just-finished major canvas filled with the artist’s signature squares, triangles and rounded biomorphic forms.

“I started this nine months ago,” said Mr. Nozkowski, 66, who lives with his wife, the sculptor Joyce Robins, in this small town in Ulster County about 90 miles north of Manhattan. “I do a lot of drawing, but I’ve never done this method before. I was just kind of bored one afternoon.”

Mr. Nozkowski — who is widely admired among his art-world peers, if not widely known by the greater public — has spent from 18 months to as many as 15 years on a canvas but can turn out two drawings in a day. He has never been in the habit of preparatory drawing.

“I came to New York in 1961, and all my teachers were second-generation Abstract Expressionist painters,” he said. “I believe in those principles of not doing preliminary sketches — of acting, not having a preconception of where you’re going to go.”
898 2010-10-31 IN the spring of 2003 the animator Sylvain Chomet found himself on a train from Paris to the south of France, where his new film, “The Triplets of Belleville,” was to be shown at the Cannes Film Festival . “I had something like five hours to kill,” Mr. Chomet said recently on the phone from Paris, so he took out a script he had put off reading for years.

The 66-page manuscript — more of a summary of scenes than an actual screenplay — bore the title “Film Tati No. 4,” and was the work of the venerated comic actor and filmmaker Jacques Tati, who died in 1982.

Written in the late 1950s, the treatment was to have been the follow-up to Tati’s internationally successful “Mon Oncle.” It tells the bittersweet tale of a modestly talented magician — referred to only as the illusionist — who, during a tour of decaying music halls in Eastern Europe, protectively takes an impoverished young woman under his wing.

The film was never made, but the script remained in the possession of Sophie Tatischeff, a daughter of Tati who had become the guardian of his legacy. After she saw some preliminary sketches and storyboards from “The Triplets” — a film that also touches on the vanished world of variety entertainers — she had an idea. If Jacques Tati was no longer around to play the part he had written for himself, perhaps his spirit could be captured through animation. She passed the script on to Mr. Chomet and died a few months later.

“I was really thinking, ‘I hope this is a bad script,’ ” Mr. Chomet said, “so I could find a reason why I couldn’t do it and move on to another project of my own. But I just read this simple script, with its beautiful story that was very similar to an autobiography, and I fell in love with it. It moved me so much I said: It can’t just stay like this. It needs to come to life.”

“The Triplets of Belleville” was a hit, but it still took several years for “The Illusionist” to come together. Mr. Chomet moved his studio from Montreal, where “The Triplets” had been made, back to his native France (where “nothing really happened, because there is a resistance to make new things there”) and eventually to Edinburgh, where he set up shop with his English-born wife and co-producer, Sally Chomet. (They have since moved back to Paris.) Projects came and went, including Universal’s “Tale of Despereaux,” eventually made by another director, and the Chomets had time to have two children before financing for “The Illusionist” came through from the French film company Pathé.

From the start Mr. Chomet was determined to resist the obvious temptation: to take old live-action footage of Tati and trace it over as animation — a process known as rotoscoping. “This is pure, traditional 2-D animation,” Mr. Chomet said. “Just like in the golden age of Disney, it’s all coming from the animators’ skills.”

From the moment “Tati” appears in “The Illusionist,” opening in New York and Los Angeles on Dec. 25, he’s instantly recognizable: the elongated silhouette (Tati stood 6 foot 3), the astonished eyes, the drooping shoulders, the precarious, self-canceling movements — his way of lurching forward while struggling to hold himself back.

“I asked the animators to watch especially ‘Mon Oncle’ to get the real way he was moving,” Mr. Chomet said. But the character in “The Illusionist” is not Tati’s familiar screen persona, the distant, self-contained Monsieur Hulot, but a more naturalistic, more emotionally complex figure.

“When I worked on the design, I based it on the real Jacques Tati, not Hulot,” Mr. Chomet said. “So there’s no pipe, no overcoat. I drew him from family photographs from that period. He was a very elegant man, very strong, with massive hands and white hair, always smoking cigarettes instead of the pipe. But it’s not about the silhouette or the shape, but the way he moves. We recognize people much more by the way they move than the way they look.”

To make the distinction between the two Tatis more clear, Mr. Chomet put one lead animator, Laurent Kircher, in charge of handling the character when he’s engaged in daily life, and had another, Thierry Torres Rubio, animate him when he’s performing onstage, where “he’s much more Monsieur Hulot than the other Tati,” Mr. Chomet said.

For the most part “The Illusionist” stays very faithful to Tati’s treatment, though a few significant details have been altered: The magician’s original animal assistant, a chicken, has been changed to a more animation-friendly rabbit (though one with a nasty temper). The girl (a chambermaid at a small hotel where the illusionist briefly plays) has been made a bit younger, to avoid any overtly sexual overtones. And the main location has been (conveniently) changed to the Chomets’ home base of Edinburgh from Prague.
899 2010-10-31 In the last decade or so, the American economy has been undone by a series of bubbles. First there was the dot-com boom, in which start-ups without business models were suddenly worth billions of dollars. Then after a brief recession, we began speculating about real estate, so that Las Vegas tract homes tripled in value before they even had roofs. The latest suspect for a bubble is gold, which has doubled in price over the past three years.

Why are bubbles such a persistent feature of financial history? Economists argue that these speculative frenzies are caused in part by market failures like too much liquidity or lax regulation. Cognitive psychologists, meanwhile, see bubbles as a case of pattern recognition gone awry, as people extrapolate the past into the future. In recent years, neuroscientists also have become interested in bubbles, if only because the financial manias seem to take advantage of deep-seated human flaws; the market fails only because the brain fails first. Read Montague, at Baylor College of Medicine, has spent the last few years trying to decipher the bits of brain behind our irrational exuberance. It’s microeconomics at its most microscopic.

Montague’s experiments go like this: A subject is given $100 and some basic information about the stock market. After choosing how much money to invest, the player watches as his investments either rise or fall in value. The game continues for 20 rounds, and the subject gets to keep the money. One interesting twist is that instead of using random simulations of the market, Montague relies on real data from past markets, so people unwittingly “play” the Dow of 1929, the S&P 500 of 1987 and the Nasdaq of 1999. While the subjects are making their investment decisions, Montague measures the activity of neurons in the brain.

At first, Montague’s data confirmed the obvious: our brains crave reward. He watched as a cluster of dopamine neurons acted like greedy information processors, firing rapidly as the subjects tried to maximize their profits during the early phases of the bubble. When share prices kept going up, these brain cells poured dopamine into the caudate nucleus, which increased the subjects’ excitement and led them to pour more money into the market. The bubble was building.

But then Montague discovered something strange. As the market continued to rise, these same neurons significantly reduced their rate of firing. “It’s as if the cells were getting anxious,” Montague says. “They knew something wasn’t right.” And then, just before the bubble burst, these neurons typically stopped firing altogether. In many respects, these dopamine neurons seem to be acting like an internal thermostat, shutting off when the market starts to overheat. Unfortunately, the rest of the brain is too captivated by the profits to care: instead of heeding the warning, the brain obeys the urges of so-called higher regions, like the prefrontal cortex, which are busy coming up with all sorts of reasons that the market will never decline. In other words, our primal emotions are acting rationally, while those rational circuits are contributing to the mass irrationality.

This is a costly mental mistake. Montague notes that investors who listened to the prescient dopamine neurons would earn much more money than the typical subjects, largely because they would get out of the market before it was too late. “It’s crazy to think that there’s a signal in our head that’s so much smarter than we are,” Montague says.
900 2010-10-31 Hotel rooms, rental cars, even chocolates may sound like a good deal if you’ve ever tried to book a frequent-flier ticket only to be thwarted by black-out dates and tiered mileage calendars showing that the one day you want to fly requires double the miles. But are the alternatives worth it?

The answer to that question depends on how you value your miles. The conventional calculation is to divide the price of a ticket by how many miles you would spend for the same thing. Using 25,000 miles for a $350 ticket, for example, would yield 1.4 cents per mile. By contrast, a KitchenAid 10-piece porcelain cookware set that costs $150 on is listed on United’s online shopping page for 24,800 miles, or 0.6 cents per mile. Here, the free ticket is clearly the way to go.

But say there are no seats available for 25,000 miles for the flight you want, as when I searched for a round-trip ticket on United from New York to , leaving on a Friday in early November and returning on Monday. Instead, I had to spend 50,000 miles for that same ticket, which would yield just 0.7 cents per mile. Though not a great return on miles, now the cookware isn’t looking like such a bad deal.

Clothing, electronics and food are among the worst deals when it comes to spending miles. For example, a North Face Apex Bionic men’s jacket listed for 30,300 miles on costs about $130, or 0.4 cents a mile. The laptop? About $1,000, or roughly 0.3 cents, a mile. On the other hand, booking hotel and car rentals with miles tend to offer the best value next to free airline seats. A night at the Four Seasons Hotel, at Beverly Hills in early November was 49,300 miles on , or 0.9 cents a mile, at $445 a night on . A full-size car from Alamo was 10,000 miles a day, or 0.7 cents a mile, at $73 a day on .

Bundling Miles and Cash Delta and United also offer the option of using a combination of miles and cash to book travel. Delta frequent fliers without enough miles in their account get a message during the payment process to let them know. “We’re sorry. You do not have enough miles to redeem for your total itinerary. But don’t worry — you can still pay using a combination of miles and money.”

In early November, a night at the Hilton World could be had for 27,604 miles or a miles/cash combination of 14,606 and $65 at Delta.com. Not a great deal, considering the same stay was going for $140 at . American, which will also let its loyalty members use miles and cash in combination, plans to offer discounts on hotel and car bookings for some elite frequent-flier members.

American, Delta and United have actually allowed frequent fliers to use miles for hotel and car rentals for some time. But the process was clunky, requiring an agent’s help to manually convert the miles to a cash equivalent and book the hotel, or presenting a voucher at the car rental counter. Now the transaction, which is powered for each airline by ezRez, a software company that specializes in online travel, is similar to booking at an online travel agency like or Travelocity and offers a wide range of hotels. American, for example, will begin offering online hotel bookings in exchange for miles at more than 10,000 locations in over 320 destinations worldwide in November.

As with any third-party booking site, be sure to print out your itinerary and take it with you. United discussion forums on FlyerTalk.com, where travelers share tips about getting the most out of loyalty programs, have mentioned baffled car-rental agents and hotel reservations that have gone missing.

Meanwhile, some frequent fliers are mulling the value of those chocolates: $25 from Godiva, or 0.3 cents a mile. At these rates, many fliers would hold out for a free ticket instead. But what good are all those miles if they’re just sitting dormant in your account?

For now at least, alternative awards offer a new outlet for fliers fed up with the lack of free seats. As Mr. Winship of FrequentFlier.com said, “It’s not solving the problem but its mitigating the problem somewhat.”
901 2010-10-31 Bedbugs are as likely to settle in luxury hotels as youth hostels. So, travelers may wonder, is there a way to figure out whether a hotel (or theater or restaurant) is infested? Well, now there's an app for that.      The new Bed Bug Alert ($1.99 ...
902 2010-10-31 HIGH FALLS, N.Y.     OVER the centuries painters have used drawing to prepare for committing their ideas to posterity on canvas. Paper has been a material for sketching, planning and trying out a composition in advance of the main event....
903 2010-10-31 Nissan is recalling about 747,000 vehicles in the United States for a possible stalling problem, the automaker said on Thursday in a news release.     The recall covers about 2.2 million vehicles worldwide....
904 2010-10-31 BOSTON     The announcement of a new Davis Cup captain would once have been significant sports news in the United States....
905 2010-10-31 Nissan is recalling about 747,000 vehicles in the United States for a possible stalling problem, the automaker said on Thursday in a news release.     The recall covers about 2.2 million vehicles worldwide....