1 2008-08-01 A state bill that would codify women’s rights to breastfeed their children has been delayed in the State Senate, in part because of concerns raised by doctors....
2 2008-08-01 Oklahoma dismissed receiver Josh Jarboe after a video of him rapping about shooting people and having sex recently surfaced on the Internet....
3 2008-08-01 A country star coins a ditty, "Raising McCain."...
4 2008-08-01 The Republican candidate says his approach, in ads and criticism, is all part of the campaign....
5 2008-08-01 I haven't seen Michelle Obama with her husband in a while. Is she just taking a break or is it a strategic move?...
6 2008-08-01 The Republican candidate offers up a new commercial, this one tackling his opponent's soaring words....
7 2008-08-01 McCain takes on Obama, calling him captive to teachers' unions....
8 2008-08-01 Nowhere are the limitations of conventional thinking any more apparent than in education policy. After decades of hearing the same big promises from the public education establishment, and seeing the same poor results, it is surely time to shake off old ways and to demand new reforms. That isn't just my opinion; it is the conviction of parents in poor neighborhoods across this nation who want better lives for their children.

Just ask the families in New Orleans who will soon have the chance to remove their sons and daughters from failing schools, and enroll them instead in a school-choice scholarship program. That program in Louisiana was proposed by Democratic state legislators and signed into law by Governor Bobby Jindal. Just three years after Katrina, they are bringing real hope to poor neighborhoods, and showing how much can be achieved when both parties work together for real reform. Or ask parents in the disadvantaged neighborhoods of Washington, D.C. whether they want more choices in education. The District's Opportunity Scholarship program serves more than 1,900 boys and girls from families with an average income of 23,000 dollars a year. And more than 7,000 more families have applied for that program. What they all have in common is the desire to get their kids into a better school. Democrats in Congress, including my opponent, oppose the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship program. In remarks to the American Federation of Teachers last month, Senator Obama dismissed public support for private school vouchers for low-income Americans as, "tired rhetoric about vouchers and school choice." All of that went over well with the teachers union, but where does it leave families and their children who are stuck in failing schools?

Over the years, Americans have heard a lot of "tired rhetoric" about education. We've heard it in the endless excuses of people who seem more concerned about their own position than about our children. We've heard it from politicians who accept the status quo rather than stand up for real change in our public schools. Parents ask only for schools that are safe, teachers who are competent, and diplomas that open doors of opportunity. When a public school fails, repeatedly, to meet these minimal objectives, parents ask only for a choice in the education of their children. Some parents may choose a better public school. Some may choose a private school. Many will choose a charter school. No entrenched bureaucracy or union should deny parents that choice and children that opportunity.

We should also offer more choices to those who wish to become teachers. Many thousands of highly qualified men and women have great knowledge, wisdom, and experience to offer public school students. But a monopoly on teacher certification prevents them from getting that chance. You can be a Nobel Laureate and not qualify to teach in most public schools today because they don't have all the proper credits in educational "theory" or "methodology." All they have is learning and the desire and ability to share it. If we're putting the interests of students first, then those qualifications should be enough.

If I am elected president, school choice for all who want it, an expansion of Opportunity Scholarships, and alternative certification for teachers will all be part of a serious agenda of education reform. I will target funding to recruit teachers who graduate in the top 25 percent of their class, or who participate in an alternative teacher recruitment program such as Teach for America, the American Board for Certification of Teacher Excellence, and the New Teacher Project.

We will pay bonuses to teachers who take on the challenge of working in our most troubled schools -- because we need their fine minds and good hearts to help turn those schools around. We will award bonuses as well to our highest-achieving teachers. And no longer will we measure teacher achievement by conformity to process. We will measure it by the success of their students.

Moreover, the funds for these bonuses will not be controlled by faraway officials -- in Washington, in a state capital, or even in a district office. Under my reforms, we will put the money and the responsibilities where they belong -- in the office of the school principal. One reason charter schools are so successful, and so sought after by parents, is that principals have spending discretion. And I intend to give that same discretion to public school principals. No longer will money be spent on rigid and often meaningless formulas. Relying on the good judgment and first-hand knowledge of school principals, education money will be spent in service to public school students.

Under my reforms, parents will exercise freedom of choice in obtaining extra help for children who are falling behind. As it is, federal aid to parents for tutoring for their children has to go through another bureaucracy. They can't purchase the tutoring directly, without dealing with the same education establishment that failed their children in the first place. These needless restrictions will be removed. If a student needs extra help, parents will be able to sign them up to get it, with direct public support.

Some of these reforms, and others, are contained in a Statement of Principles drafted by a group dedicated to finally changing the status quo in our education system. The Education Equality Project has brought together leaders from all across the political spectrum, including school Chancellor Joel Klein and Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City. Chancellor Klein is a strong supporter of charter schools, because he understands that fundamental reform is needed. As he puts it, "in large urban areas the culture of public education is broken. If you don't fix this culture, then you are not going to be able to make the kind of changes that are needed." Among others who share this conviction are Mayor Cory Booker of Newark, Chancellor Michelle Rhee of Washington, and Harold Ford, Junior. You know that a reform movement is truly bipartisan when J.C. Watts and Al Sharpton are both members. And today I am proud to add my name as well to the list of those who support the aims and principles of the Education Equality Project.

But one name is still missing, Senator Obama's. My opponent talks a great deal about hope and change, and education is as good a test as any of his seriousness. The Education Equality Project is a practical plan for delivering change and restoring hope for children and parents who need a lot of both. And if Senator Obama continues to defer to the teachers unions, instead of committing to real reform, then he should start looking for new slogans.

Over the years, the Urban League has brought enormous good into the life of our country -- by broadening the reach of economic opportunity. There was a time when economists took little if any notice at all of the poverty of black communities. Even in times of general economic growth, many lived in a perpetual recession, and the jobs available didn't promise much upward mobility. Our country still has a lot of progress to make on this score. But with 1.2 million businesses today owned and operated by African Americans, more and more are no longer just spectators on the prosperity of our country. They are stakeholders. As much as anyone else, they count on their government to help create the conditions of economic growth -- and, as president, I intend to do just that.

Senator Obama and I have fundamental differences on economic policy, and many of them concern tax rates. He supports proposals to raise top marginal rates paid by small business and families, to raise tax rates on those with taxable incomes of more than 32,000 dollars, raise capital gains taxes, raise taxes on dividends, raise payroll taxes and raise estate taxes. That's a whole lot of raising, and for millions of families, individuals, and small businesses it will mean a lot less money to spend, save and invest as they see fit. For my part, I believe that in a troubled economy, when folks are struggling to afford the necessities of life, higher taxes are the last thing we need. The economy isn't hurting because workers and businesses are under-taxed. Raising taxes eliminates jobs, hurts small businesses, and delays economic recovery.

Under my plan, we will preserve the current low rates as they are, so businesses large and small can hire more people. We will double the personal exemption from $3,500 to $7,000 for every dependent, in every family in America. We will offer every individual and family a large tax credit to buy their health care, so employers can spend more on wages, and workers don't lose their coverage when they change jobs. We will lower the business tax rate, so American companies open new plants and create more jobs in this country.

There are honest differences as well about the growth of government. But surely we can find common ground in the principle that government cannot go on forever spending recklessly and incurring debt. Government has grown by 60 percent in the last eight years, because the Congress and this administration have failed to meet their responsibilities. And next year, total federal expenditures are predicted to reach over three trillion dollars. That is an awful lot for us to be spending when this nation is already more than nine trillion dollars in debt or more than thirty thousand dollars in debt for every citizen. That's a debt our government plans to leave for your children and mine to bear. And that is a failure not only of financial foresight, but of moral obligation.

There will come a day when the road reaches a dead-end. And it won't be today's politicians who suffer the consequences. It will be American workers and their children who are left with worthless promises and trillion-dollar debts. We cannot let that happen. As President, I'll work with every member of Congress -- Republican, Democrat, and Independent -- who shares my commitment to reforming government and controlling spending. I'll order a top-to-bottom review of every federal program, department, and agency. We're going to demand accountability. We're going to make sure failed programs are not rewarded ... and that discretionary spending is going where it belongs -- to essential priorities like job training, the security of our citizens, and the care of our veterans.

To get our economy running at full strength again, we need to stay focused on creating jobs for our people, and protecting paychecks from the rising costs of food, gasoline, and most everything else. Above all, we need to get a handle on the cost of oil and gasoline, and to regain energy independence for America.

All across our country, people are hurting. Small farmers, truckers, and taxi drivers are unable to cover their costs. Small business owners are struggling to meet their payrolls. The cost of living is rising, and the value of paychecks is falling. Yet even now, with the price of gasoline still around four dollars per gallon, the Congress has done exactly nothing.

Most Americans understand that producing more of something will lower its price. And if I am elected president, this nation will move quickly to increase our own energy production. Last month, the President finally lifted the executive ban on offshore oil and gas exploration, and called on Congress to lift its ban as well. Lifting that ban could seriously lower the price of oil -- and Congress should get it done immediately. We need to drill more, drill now, and pay less at the pump.

Under my energy plan, the Lexington Project, we will also make use of America's vast coal reserves. As president, I will commit this nation to a concerted effort to make clean coal a reality and create jobs in hard-pressed regions. And America will pursue the goal of building 45 nuclear power plants before 2030, which will generate not only much-needed electricity but some 700,000 jobs as well. We will also accelerate the development of wind and solar power and other renewable technologies, and we will help automakers design and sell cars that don't depend on gasoline. Production of hybrid, flex-fuel, and electric cars will bring America closer to energy independence. And it will bring jobs to auto plants, parts manufacturers, and the communities that support them.

Regaining control over the cost and supply of energy in America will not be easy, and it will not happen quickly. But no challenge to our economy is more urgent. And you have my pledge that if I am president, we're going to get it done.

Our country is passing through a very tough time. But Americans have been through worse, and beaten longer odds. The men and women of the Urban League know more than most about facing long odds, and overcoming adversity. For 98 years, this organization has been at the center of the great and honorable cause of equal opportunity for every American. I'm here today as an admirer and a fellow American, an association that means more to me than any other. I am a candidate for president who seeks your vote and hopes to earn it. But whether or not I win your support, I need your goodwill and counsel. And should I succeed, I'll need it all the more. I have always believed in this country, in a good America, a great America. But I have always known we can build a better America, where no place or person is left without hope or opportunity by the sins of injustice or indifference. It would be among the great privileges of my life to work with you in that cause. Thank you all very much.
9 2008-08-01 How low can housing prices go? Homeowners, economists and politicians aren't the only ones nervously pondering that question these days: Wall Street is also desperate to know how bad it will get, because many of the big securities firms are sittin...
10 2008-08-01 Becoming single in midlife through death or divorce dramatically increases risk for dementia in the older years....
11 2008-08-01 IndyMac Bancorp, the mortgage lender seized by federal bank regulators three weeks ago, filed for bankruptcy protection in Los Angeles to liquidate its remaining assets. Bloomberg News explains that while banks are prohibited from filing for U.S. ...
12 2008-08-01 The bear market in stocks has turned into a bear market for the world's stock exchanges. The share price of NYSE Euronext, which owns the venerable New York Stock Exchange, has tumbled even more than the broader American stock market this year. Th...
13 2008-08-01 CSX said Thursday that four nominees backed by activist hedge fund shareholders TCI and 3G received a larger number of votes than four of CSX's nominees to the railroad's board of directors. But Jacksonville-based CSX said the outcome in the elect...
14 2008-08-01 The Residences at the Ritz-Carlton, Montreal

AMENITIES Restaurants and access to a nearby fitness complex with a swimming pool, among others.

STATUS The residences are to be finished in late 2009; the hotel is to reopen as early as fall 2009.

DETAILS Francophiles across North America gravitate to Montreal, one of the world’s largest French-speaking cities. For those who come in search of a pied-à-terre, a new option is this addition to the nearly hundred-year-old Ritz-Carlton hotel, which despite its name is independent of the chain. The hotel closed for renovation in June and will reopen with 130 expanded rooms and suites — about 100 fewer than before. The addition will hold 35 1,850-to-5,640-square-foot residences, including four two-story penthouses; the original building will have 15 smaller condominiums. All the hotel’s amenities will be offered to owners of the residences, including concierge, room service and housekeeping, and the well-known restaurants like Café de Paris and the outdoor Jardin du Ritz, with its famed duck pond, will remain. The hotel has a fitness area, but guests and owners will have access to a much larger sports club nearby.

AMENITIES A swimming pool and a full-service spa, among others.

PRICES Residences start at just under $600,000.
15 2008-08-01 By the time he died in 1944, the designer Paul Poiret — abolisher of the corset, champion of the pantaloon, purveyor of Belle Époque fantasia — had been doomed to poverty and creative inertia, claims of his genius no longer ringing in fashion’s chorus. The narrative of decline has remained all too common in his industry. Prodigies rise on their talent for reimagining trench coats or tent dresses, and fall on their failure to find backers, balance checkbooks or calculate supply and demand.

As a Los Angeles designer reminds us again and again on “Ashley Paige: Bikini or Bust,” a TLC reality series broadcast on Fridays that centers on her dwindling finances, she is an “artist,” as inclined to think about numbers and profit as a cocker spaniel is to making a tiramisu.

Like whimsical sweaters handmade by old women on farms in Alabama, Ms. Paige’s specialty — the knit bikini — is precisely the kind of item to which buyers at stores like Barneys New York and editors at the groovier fashion magazines cultishly devote themselves. The artisanal is as much a fetish in the fashion world as it is everywhere else. The Ashley Paige bikini is not meant for the 500-meter freestyle — it’s fair to say we won’t be seeing one on Dara Torres in Beijing. Like all things homemade, it traffics in nostalgia, in this instance for a time when sunbathing was a pastime, a sport pursued without regard to oncological consequence. Now you would wear a knit bikini to sit inside watching “Swingtown.”

Ms. Paige seems to have had little problem finding clients or attention. What’s stymied her is expansion: She can’t grow and meet demand too. As she has explained on the show, “My stuff is wanted all over the world, literally, and I’m still sitting here with $4 in my purse.”

The rent for her Hollywood store is rarely paid on time. This means that a big man, named Big Daddy Carlos, with even bigger tattoos is showing up a lot asking for cash. Ms. Paige lives with her mother. One of her struggling employees actually lives in the store, and her knitter, an affable young man named Juan, hasn’t had a vacation in seven years. Ms. Paige gives him one and then frantically calls him back when the actress Juliette Lewis, who is also a musician with a band called the Licks, quickly needs a knit dress for a concert. Such is the state of Ms. Paige’s business and her twisted sense of imperative that getting Ms. Lewis to show up in her clothes is considered a road to salvation.
16 2008-08-01 A restored 15th century palazzo in the heart of Florence is on track to open by the end of the year as a "private residence club," managed by Four Seasons. The Palazzo Tornabuoni, billed as "the world's first private residence palace," will includ...
17 2008-08-01 A small, engrossing, meditative exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum examines a bruised Reinhardt, molecule by molecule. Holland Cotter reviews....
18 2008-08-01 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A bill that aims to improve consumer product safety after millions of Chinese-made toys were recalled last summer cleared Congress on Thursday and now goes to President Bush for his signature.

The legislation cuts the amount of lead allowed in toys and other products, increases financing for the Consumer Product Safety Commission and includes a partial ban on controversial plastic-softening chemicals called phthalates.

By a veto-proof 89-3 vote the measure passed the Senate after the House gave its approval Wednesday, 424 to 1.

The White House previously expressed concern about certain provisions in the bill, but the White House press secretary, Dana Perino, said that Mr. Bush would sign it despite having some reservations.

The commission’s annual budget would rise to $118 million from $80 million starting in fiscal 2010 and grow to $136 million over five years, under the bill.
19 2008-08-01 “I don’t know who did the deal,” Gosper told The Australian. “I am still finding out. I understand it was reached with very senior officials. Whoever was involved in that shift, that position should have been made known to the international media community. As a conduit to that, I should have been informed, too, instead of being isolated and given misinformation for some time.”

He added: “It has dented my reputation quite seriously. People will judge that I have been naïve.”

Journalists arriving at the Olympic press center since last Friday have found online access blocked to Web pages that discuss Tibetan news, Taiwan, the crackdown on Tiananmen Square protesters and other issues deemed sensitive by government censors.

COURT OPENS BEIJING OFFICE The Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for Sport said it was setting up an office in Beijing “in order to resolve all legal disputes which may arise during the Olympic Games.”

The court, which first established an Olympic office for the Atlanta Games in 1996, will be presided over by Dr. Robert Briner of Switzerland and will have 12 additional arbitrators.

“All members of the C.A.S. ad hoc division who are present in Beijing during the Games are either lawyers, judges or professors specialized in sports law and arbitration,” the court said in a news release. The division will handle disputes submitted during the Games by a person or by a sports entity. “As a rule,” the court said, “the C.A.S. renders its decisions within 24 hours.”

The court offices are at the Hotel Park Plaza Wangfujing in the Dongcheng District of Beijing.

U.S. WINS BASKETBALL TUNE-UP LeBron James scored 20 points in his first game with the Olympic team as the United States men’s basketball team beat Turkey, 114-82, in Macau. James sustained a minor ankle sprain last week.

It was the Americans’ first game after arriving in China. Turkey did not qualify for the Olympics, but will host the 2010 world championship.

The United States team will play Lithuania on Friday at 8 a.m. Eastern time.

BAGHDATIS OUT OF GAMES Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus, considered a medal contender in men’s tennis, dropped out of the Olympics because of a right wrist injury he sustained sometime in mid-July. The announcement was made on the Cyprus Tennis Federation Web site.

Baghdatis, who was a finalist at the 2006 Australian Open, will also miss the United States Open, which begins Aug. 25.

SHARAPOVA DROPS OUT Maria Sharapova of Russia pulled out of the Beijing Olympics after a magnetic resonance imaging test on her right shoulder revealed two small tears.

Sharapova, who is ranked No. 3 in the world, was examined by doctors after withdrawing from the Montreal Cup on Wednesday with a sore shoulder after a 7-5, 5-7, 6-2 victory over Marta Domachowska of Poland.

“After yesterday’s match I knew there was something seriously wrong with my shoulder,” Sharapova said on her Web site, mariasharapova.com.

“After taking a few different exams and M.R.I.’s this morning, the doctors found two small tears in the tendons of my shoulder,” she said.

The injury could also force Sharapova to miss the United States Open. (REUTERS)
20 2008-08-01 The procession began Thursday at Hinton Park, near Shea Stadium. About 70 family members and friends had gathered there, dressed in black T-shirts bearing his image. When the motorcade carrying his remains appeared at 1 p.m., shrieks of sorrow erupted. His closest family members, including his mother, father and widow, stayed inside the cars.

On the street, his aunts crowded around the car, pressing their hands against the windows as it slowed. “My beautiful child,” one of them cried repeatedly in Spanish. “No, no, no!”

The mourners marched alongside the hearse the few blocks to the Rivera Funeral Home, stopping at the family home on 37th Drive along the way. (Last week, a funeral Mass was said in Lawrence, Mass., where Sergeant Jimenez’s father lives. After a public viewing, he will be buried on Long Island on Saturday.)

The funeral home is across the street from Our Lady of Sorrows Church, where Sergeant Jimenez was baptized. A color guard took his flag-draped coffin inside.

Outside the church, Specialist Shaun Gopaul, 29, spoke of the man he had considered a brother since the day they met five years ago. Specialist Gopaul was about a third of a mile away when the ambush occurred. He said he tries not to think about it.

Instead, he remembers the days that his best friend would teach him how to dance to bachata and reggaetón music, and the time they spent writing music together.

“I’ll never forget him,” Specialist Gopaul said. “He’s in my heart.”

A cousin of Sergeant Jimenez, Johan Duran, 31, remembered the time they spent playing in the backyard of the house on 37th Drive after the family moved to New York from the Dominican Republic. He remembered his cousin’s bursting-at-the-seams sense of humor.

“Out of any bad situations, he would always make you laugh,” he said. “He was always cracking jokes.”

When Mr. Duran got the call with news of his cousin’s death, he said he felt as if he had been punched in the stomach.

“You know the odds are against you, but you want to believe,” he said. “We’re happy we have some kind of closure.”

Sergeant Jimenez’s wife of four years, Yaderlin, dressed in black, recalled the year and two months in suspense. “We lost everything,” she said in Spanish. “But we had faith in God.”

She remembered her husband’s infectious happiness and said he died fighting for what he believed in.

“If he were here,” she said, “he would also have felt the same way we feel — proud to see how the whole world, the whole town, everyone in the United States has supported him and remember him as the hero that he was.”

As mourners filed out of the funeral home, their eyes fixed on a gold-framed, black-and-white portrait of Sergeant Jimenez outside. They walked down 104th Street, making their way back to the yellow house on 37th Drive.

They gathered by the gate, the flags flapping above them in the breeze, and cried once more.
21 2008-08-01 PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) — Haitian lawmakers ratified Michèle Pierre-Louis on Thursday to be the impoverished country’s prime minister, ending more than three months of political bickering and deadlock in Parliament.

Haiti’s Senate approved Ms. Pierre-Louis for the post by a 12-0 vote, making her the second woman to become prime minister of Haiti. There were five abstentions.

The decision ends a stalemate that has left the Caribbean country unable to sign foreign aid deals, arrange an international donors’ conference or hold overdue elections for a third of the nation’s Senate.

The deadlock began when senators dismissed Prime Minister Jacques-Édouard Alexis on April 12 after a week of riots over soaring food prices left at least seven people dead and destroyed hundreds of businesses.

Lawmakers rejected President René Préval’s first two nominees to replace the prime minister and repeatedly delayed votes on Ms. Pierre-Louis as they jockeyed for party position in the next cabinet.

Ms. Pierre-Louis, 61, is an educator who leads a branch of the Open Society Institute, founded by the billionaire George Soros. She was ratified by the Chamber of Deputies on July 17.

While political wrangling went on behind the scenes, public debate on Ms. Pierre-Louis’s nomination centered on claims that she was gay. Many in the socially conservative nation consider homosexuality to be immoral, and people in the clergy have denounced her.
22 2008-08-01 By the sound and color of it, a majority of the 45,346 fans in attendance Thursday — the second-largest crowd to attend a game at Miller Park — wore Cubbie blue and made themselves heard after each of the Cubs’ four home runs. The playing of “Take Me Out to the Ball Game” in the seventh featured an ear-splitting Cubs reference at the “root, root, root” part. And in the ninth inning, when the Brewers trailed, 11-1, and many of their fans had left, a chant of “Sweep!” began. And at least three replicas of the white and blue “W” banner that flies over Wrigley Field after Cub victories dangled from railings in the second deck.

“It was nice,” Edmonds said. “That’s what I was told was going to happen. I’m even a little surprised by it, but that’s something I’ve seen from Cubs fans since I’ve been in the league. I wasn’t surprised by the Cub fans, but by the number of them.”

Support appeared more evenly divided between the Cubs and the Brewers in the first three games, especially Monday night, a 6-4, back-and-forth thriller decided by Derrek Lee’s ninth-inning double.

“That was as good as any playoff experience I’ve ever been a part of, and surprising, because it’s late July,” said Cubs infielder Mark DeRosa, who came up with the Atlanta Braves. “In September, you expect it. I don’t think we realized how big it was going to be.”

The Cubs and the Cardinals have shared a premier N.L. rivalry for decades, boosted by the driving-distance proximity of the cities and, more recently, their inclusion in the Central Division. Those feelings remain strong. But the cities of Milwaukee and Chicago are even closer — about 90 miles apart, with easy interstate highway access and train service.

“It’s just different in that the cities are so close,” said Craig Counsell, the Wisconsin-raised Brewers infielder. “We’re in the same division. And then you’ve got the scene in Miller Park. You’ve got 40,000 people here, and if you’re not watching the game, you don’t know which team did good.”

Of course, there was not much to the two teams meeting until recently. The Brewers, formed in 1970 when the expansion Seattle Pilots foundered and moved east, played in the American League until switching to the N.L. in 1998. Though Cubs fans often made the trip up Interstate 94 to old County Stadium and eventually Miller Park, there was no rivalry because the Brewers were terrible. Until last year, Milwaukee had not had a winning season since 1992.

“The first thing is, you have to be good,” Counsell said. “You have to have a good team for it to mean something.”

Bolstered by talented, home-grown hitters like Prince Fielder, Ryan Braun and J. J. Hardy, the Brewers finally broke though last year, leading the division much of the season before the Cubs overtook them. This week’s series loomed large because the Cubs had lost 7 of 11, while Milwaukee had gone 9-2 and sliced the Cubs’ division lead from 6 games to 1 since acquiring pitcher C. C. Sabathia from Cleveland.

“Coming in, Milwaukee was playing good ball,” Cubs Manager Lou Piniella said. “We came in here and took it to them all four games.”

Flavoring the competition with animosity fosters a rivalry, too, and that happened in the ninth inning. Edmonds led off, and when reliever Eric Gagné fired ball four behind his back, the plate umpire, Doug Eddings, ejected Gagné. Edmonds hinted Milwaukee Manager Ned Yost ordered the pitch, perhaps out of frustration.

Neither Yost nor Gagné would say whether it was intentional. If nothing else, it added something to a rivalry that should blossom further if the race stays close. The teams play two series in September, three games in each city, the last two weeks of the season.

“Certainly the teams have to be good, and they have to be big games,” Counsell said. “We’re getting to that point.”
23 2008-08-01 Northwest Airlines confirmed on Thursday that it would add fuel surcharges of up to $80 for many domestic round-trip tickets.

The surcharge will apply to travel to about 7,000 city pairs beginning Jan. 10, a Northwest spokeswoman, Michelle Aguayo-Shannon, said. She said Northwest was matching surcharges added by competitors in those markets. Northwest already has fuel surcharges in other markets, she said.

Rick Seaney of farecompare.com wrote in a newsletter that there have been 21 fare increases this year. He did not count Northwest’s surcharge as the 22nd because it covered fewer than two-thirds of Northwest’s city pairs.

Airlines have reversed some earlier increases after competitors failed to match them. If Northwest’s new surcharge sticks, it will be the largest on Mr. Seaney’s list. The largest previous one was a $70 base fare increase by United in April.

Mr. Seaney also said that the pace of fare increases had slowed after what he called a “torrid pace” in the first half of the year, as oil prices dropped and the airlines collected extra money from previous fare increases.
24 2008-08-01 Eastman Kodak posted lower-than-expected quarterly results on Thursday as higher raw material and development costs trimmed margins, overshadowing improved sales of digital cameras and picture frames.

Kodak, which has completed major elements of an expensive transformation into a smaller company that focuses on digital devices and printing services, also said it expected 2008 earnings to be at the lower end of its previous forecast.

The company posted a second-quarter profit of $495 million, or $1.62 a share, down from a profit of $575 million, or $2 a share, a year earlier.

Excluding costs related to an overhaul, a tax refund and other one-time events, the company posted a loss of 13 cents a share.

Analysts had expected a profit of 16 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.

Gross margins fell to 23.5 percent, from 26.1 percent, hurt by higher manufacturing and materials costs, including increased costs of silver, paper and petroleum-based goods. The raw materials are used in the making of Kodak products like traditional film and plates for commercial printers.

The company said in May it would combat higher materials costs by passing them on to customers and raising prices on some products by as much as 20 percent. The changes started July 1.

Revenue in the second quarter rose slightly to $2.49 billion, up from $2.47 billion, outpacing estimates of $2.438 billion.
25 2008-08-01 Mr. Hoekstra also said he believed that the order left the director of national intelligence with too few powers and too many people, and feared that the office was becoming a bloated layer of bureaucracy.

The committee’s chairman, Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas, said he supported Mr. Bush’s efforts to “end the turf wars that have plagued American intelligence.”

But Mr. Reyes, who did not join the walkout, said in a statement that he was “deeply disappointed” that the president “did not seek Congressional or public input into this document.”

The American Civil Liberties Union was also displeased. It maintained that changes in the executive order raised the specter of greater domestic spying, saying new language shifted the focus of the intelligence agencies to American soil. Michael German, national security policy counsel for the A.C.L.U., pointed to the order’s references to the agencies’ working with “private sector entities” and said, “When you have government and private companies operating together in secret, I think that’s very problematic.”

Administration officials, in a briefing for reporters that was given on condition of anonymity, said Congress had in fact been consulted and noted that the revised order included strong language in support of the protection of civil liberties. It also retains prohibitions on assassination and human experimentation that have been in the executive order since it was first issued by President Ronald Reagan in 1981.

“I don’t see a lot of change here,” said Mark M. Lowenthal, a former assistant director of central intelligence. Mr. Lowenthal described the revised order as an “organizational update” that seemed “underwhelming” after months of speculation inside the government about how the powers of various agencies might shift.

One strong rumor had been that the executive order might explicitly authorize Mr. McConnell, whose official representatives in foreign countries have been the Central Intelligence Agency’s station chiefs, to choose officials of other agencies as his representatives abroad.

But while the order gives the director of national intelligence broad power over intelligence “arrangements and agreements” with other countries, it assigns the management of such relations to the C.I.A., and officials said Thursday that C.I.A. station chiefs remained the director’s representatives to other countries.

The order also leaves the C.I.A. in charge of carrying out covert action overseas, “unless the president determines that another agency is more likely to achieve a particular objective.”
26 2008-08-01 The problems hit at a particularly bad time for the transportation authority. The agency released new data last week showing a sharp rise in subway delays and mechanical failures, just as it was proposing a series of fare increases to deal with mounting budget problems.

The source of this latest problem was discovered after the Tuesday morning rush, officials said. Agency officials said they were slow to detect the problem because a monitor showed that two encryption devices were active when in fact only one was.

Officials said that they still did not know what caused one of the devices to fail, but that processing returned to normal after an additional device was brought into service.

Officials said they were looking at adding a feature that will send out a warning signal when an encryption device stops working.

“This will allow N.Y.C.T. to take immediate action to prevent possible future outages,” Mr. Fleuranges said.

In the past two weeks, data problems with London’s Oyster card system required thousands of London bus and train passengers to get replacement cards and crippled last Friday’s morning commute. Last week, about 400 Chicago Transit Authority customers were overcharged because of problems with its fare card vending machines. The Long Island Rail Road has also had ticket sale problems dating to last September.

The problems do not appear to be related, but they underscore the increasing dependence on cashless systems in daily commutes, and the problems that can emerge with even small technical glitches. Credit and debit cards are used in about 30 percent of MetroCard transactions and account for about 62 percent of vending machine revenue, according to the agency.

The MetroCard was introduced in 1994 and gradually replaced the token, which was phased out in 2003.

Transit officials credit the cards, particularly discounted 7- and 30-day unlimited passes, for helping to draw 2.3 billion riders last year, the largest number of riders in a year since 1969.

Transit rider advocates say the vending machines have had sporadic problems over the years, but never to the extent of this week’s.

“They got good reviews from us and other groups when they came out in the first place,” said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign. “I can’t say we get a lot of complaints about it.”

Mr. Russianoff said the most common complaint his group hears is about a machine failing to accept dollar bills or to dispense change.

“When this whole thing with debit and credit cards happened, it was a little bit like a bolt out of the blue,” he said.
27 2008-08-01 Given the scope of the machine outage, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority should have declared a fare holiday and allowed people to ride free. That would have turned a bad situation into an opportunity to generate some much-needed good will.
28 2008-08-01 “We’ve been unjustly tarred with the same brush that the Street has been using with the financial stocks,” said David Warren, the chief financial officer of Nasdaq, the big electronic exchange where the shares of many leading technology companies are traded. “But we’re not a financial company as much as we’re a technology company.”

Exchanges are the pipelines that connect buyers and sellers in the marketplace. They typically benefit from turbulence in the markets because people trade more frequently during volatile times.

Exchanges make money every time someone buys or sells. So it might seem that investors would be cheering these days, because trading in many types of instruments is up.

But judging by the exchange’s share prices, investors seem to be worrying that it is only a matter of time before the pain at banks filters through to the exchanges. Banks have been dumping assets and reducing lending to hedge funds, a process known on Wall Street as deleveraging, and investors fear that will hurt the exchanges.

“Have the fundamentals of the business models been changed or damaged? No,” Niamh Alexander, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said of the exchanges. “But there’s been a fear of deleveraging impacting the trading volume.”

But so far, the impact has been small. For the most part, trading is up. Trading of companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, for example, is up 41 percent from a year ago. Trading of companies listed on Nasdaq is up 7 percent, and trading in American futures is up 22 percent.

Granted, weakness has been spotted in two types of instruments traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange: long-term interest rate derivatives and options on Eurodollars. The outlook for such instruments simply looks too uncertain to many investors, said Donald Fandetti, an analyst who covers the exchange companies for Citi Investment Research.

But overall trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is up, in particular in foreign exchange markets, equities and commodities. Executives at the Merc have been watching to see if banks were reducing trading but, so far, proprietary trading desks and hedge funds have not scaled back, said Craig Donohue, the exchange’s chief executive.

“People will try to think through the connection points between the financial markets, and I do think deleveraging has been a significant concern for investors and shareholders,” Mr. Donohue said.

Mr. Donohue said that banks were mostly getting rid of hard-to-value assets, and those assets are not traded on the exchanges.

For exchanges, there could even be a silver lining to the woes on Wall Street. In some parts of the markets, their biggest competitors are investment banks. Banks handle trading that is off of the exchanges, or so-called over-the-counter trading. With many banks suffering, exchanges may be able to grab some of that business.

The exchanges have offered good news to investors in recent months, with little benefit to their stock prices. Nasdaq closed its acquisition of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, which gave the company a better foothold in options. NYSE Euronext announced connections with so-called dark pools, which provide trading out of sight from the open market. And the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is close to closing its acquisition of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

But each piece of news is greeted with a shrug as investors continue to lump exchanges with bank stocks. When bank stocks rallied in mid-July, the exchanges followed. But they fell soon after when the bank stocks retreated.

“The exchange stocks you would think of as benefiting from volatility,” said Mr. Fandetti of Citi Investment Research. “They’ve now become a product of the credit crunch.”
29 2008-08-01 MOSCOW — Russia’s new president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has staked his tenure on curbing what he acknowledges is the country’s rampant corruption, declared Thursday that the authorities should “stop causing nightmares” for business.

Mr. Medvedev made his remarks as he announced that he was pressing ahead with a national plan to combat corruption that would include increased enforcement and more disclosure of officials’ personal finances. He said business had become infuriated by bureaucrats’ constant attempts to solicit bribes while conducting inspections and similar duties.

“Our colleagues, who are in charge of proper law enforcement systems, are here,” he said during a meeting with business owners in a town 100 miles from Moscow. “In our country, signals have great significance. So see this as a signal that is being given.”

Mr. Medvedev has sought to raise his profile as a corruption fighter even as he has been eclipsed in recent days by his mentor, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, who stunned the Russian business world last week when he publicly upbraided a leading coal and steel company as a lawbreaker and tax evader.

Mr. Putin’s comments sent the stock of the company, Mechel, swooning and helped to depress the overall Russian stock market. Mr. Putin’s aides explained that he was intending to send a message to corrupt conglomerates, but investors reacted by expressing concern about the Kremlin’s extensive influence over industry.

The stock market has also focused on the conflict over TNK-BP, Russia’s third largest oil company, which has repeatedly come under pressure from the government. BP, a British multinational corporation, is engaged in a broad fight with its Russian partners over the company, with speculation rising that the Kremlin wants it essentially nationalized.
30 2008-08-01 BEIJING — In response to President Bush’s meeting with prominent Chinese dissidents at the White House, Beijing on Thursday sharply condemned Washington for interfering in China’s domestic affairs and accused American legislators of politicizing the Olympics.

Shortly after Mr. Bush held talks Tuesday with the five dissidents — Harry Wu, Wei Jingsheng, Rebiya Kadeer, Sasha Gong and Bob Fu — the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution urging China to honor its pledge to improve human rights before the Games, which begin Aug. 8. The resolution passed 419 to 1.

During a news conference Thursday, Liu Jianchao, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, described the House measure as “odious conduct” and said the United States should stop “making use of so-called religious and human rights” issues to score political points, Agence France-Presse reported.

The Chinese authorities also remained resolute about their decision to maintain a firewall on the Internet and limit access for journalists covering the Olympics. Senior officials with the International Olympic Committee, or IOC, have said they were stunned to learn Wednesday that Beijing’s longstanding pledge to provide foreign reporters with unfettered access would not be honored.

Kevan Gosper, a former Olympic athlete from Australia and the chief of the IOC press commission in Beijing, said he had been assured that visiting journalists would have no limitations on their Internet use during the Games. But he said Wednesday that other IOC officials, whom he did not identify, had agreed to let some Web sites be blocked. Olympic organizers say they are trying to convince the government to reconsider its decision to limit access.

In an interview Thursday, Sun Weide, a spokesman for the Beijing Olympic organizing committee, said reporters arriving in China in the coming week should not expect access to sites that discuss topics such as Tibet, Taiwanese independence or the Falun Gong, a banned religious group that China has deemed an “evil cult.” Such sites, he said, “contain information that is in breach of Chinese law.”
31 2008-08-01 “We got some positive news today,” the president said in West Virginia, addressing a coal industry trade association. “It’s not as good as we’d like it to be but I want to remind you a few months ago, there were predictions, and — that the economy would shrink this quarter, not grow.”

But the snapshot of disappointing economic growth released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis on Thursday morning provided no comfort to Wall Street, where a broad sell-off commenced. By the end of business, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 206 points to close at 11,378, a drop of nearly 2 percent.

The rout may have been explained in part by significant changes the government made to historical data on the profitability of American businesses. According to the revised numbers, corporate profits earned in the United States by American companies rose much more swiftly than previously recorded from 2005 through 2007, making the recent decline appear much steeper.

That the economy grew at all this spring is a testament to two bright spots — increased consumer spending fueled by the tax rebates, and the continuing expansion of American exports.

Consumer spending, which amounts to 70 percent of the economy, grew at a 1.5 percent annual rate between April and June, after growing at a meager 0.9 percent clip in the previous quarter.

“Clearly the tax rebates did give some oomph to the economy,” said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG.

Exports expanded at a 9.2 percent annual pace in the second quarter, up from 5.1 percent in the first three months of the year. Foreign sales have been lubricated by the weak dollar, which makes American-made goods cheaper on world markets.

Adding to the improving trade picture, imports dropped by 6.6 percent, as Americans tightened their spending. Imports are subtracted from economic growth, so the effect was positive.

Over all, trade added 2.42 percentage points to the growth rate from April to June. Without that contribution, the economy would have contracted.

But many economists are dubious that consumer spending and exports can keep growing robustly in the face of substantial challenges that are now entrenched in the United States and are gathering force in many other major economies. Japan and much of Europe appear headed into downturns, damping demand for American-made products.

“The trade improvement doesn’t look sustainable,” said Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman Sachs in New York. “In an environment where the global economy is clearly slowing, you’re not being able to get that export growth in future quarters.”

Economists said the sharp drop in imports was largely a function of retailers delaying wholesale purchases in the midst of acute fears about declining American spending power — a dynamic that will eventually give way to new spending.

“This reflects sheer panic by retailers about what the next Christmas buying season is going to look like,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com.

The tax rebates have mostly been distributed. While the checks appear to have bolstered spending, they have failed to generate activity that is likely to carry on even after the cash has cycled through the economy, say economists.

“They slowed the downturn, but it’s clear they didn’t really provide any spark,” Mr. Baker said.

Employers have not hired much, even as shopping has picked up, cognizant that the rebate checks are a one-time event. Businesses have not shelled out for new machinery. Indeed, investment for equipment fell 3.4 percent in the spring months, dropping for the second consecutive quarter.

Rather than stockpile more goods, businesses generally tried to sell what they already had on hand. Business inventories declined in the second quarter by $62 billion, a factor that shaved nearly 2 percent off the overall rate of economic growth.

As the impact of the rebate checks continues to wear off in the coming weeks, households will be left confronting the same set of troubles that have been dragging on the economy for many months: a deteriorating job market, rising prices for food and gas and plummeting housing values.

Tens of millions of Americans have in recent years borrowed aggressively against the value of their homes to finance trips to the mall, dinners out, vacations and new cars. As housing values continue to fall, that artery of finance is rapidly constricting.

Since last summer, when the mortgage crisis provoked panic on Wall Street and many Americans saw access to credit diminish, consumer spending on so-called durable goods like appliances, cars and furniture has been sliding. This spending barely grew in the last three months of 2007, fell at a 4.3 percent clip in the first three months of this year and dropped at a 3 percent pace in the second quarter.

Meanwhile, joblessness is growing, with new unemployment claims filed in the week that ended July 26 swelling to 448,000 — up 44,000 from the previous week. And the purchasing power of wages is being eroded by higher prices for food and energy. Prices paid for goods by Americans surged at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter, after climbing at a 3.5 percent annual clip over the first three months of the year, according to the report on Thursday.

Higher prices, fewer paychecks and less household wealth: It is not a recipe for free-spending abandon.

“Now, consumers have to sing for their supper,” said Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. “Spending growth is slowing and income growth is slowing.”

Democrats in Congress have begun devising a second package of measures to stimulate the economy, centered on aid to struggling states. But the Bush administration has resisted such proposals, and the political stakes of a presidential election year make compromise especially tricky.

The Federal Reserve has lowered interest rates in recent months to encourage businesses to invest and households to spend. But with concern growing about high prices — a trend fueled by lower interest rates — the Fed may not be able to deliver another round, even if growth slows further.

“Looking forward, I don’t think there’s anything to change the lousy trend for the domestic economy,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at MFR, a research firm.

With the last three months of 2007 now officially revised down — from an initial 0.6 percent annual rate of growth to a 0.2 percent decline — many economists expect that these tough times will officially be declared a recession. That label is affixed by a panel of economists at a private research institution, the National Bureau of Economic Research, though typically well after the fact.

President Bush derided such characterizations, along with the academic discipline known as the dismal science.

“You can listen to these economists,” Mr. Bush said in West Virginia. “On the one hand, they’ll say, and then on the other hand. If they had three hands, it would be on the one hand, the second hand and the third hand.”

But for many, the old debate about whether this is a recession has become purely academic, and eclipsed by the troubles at hand.

“All my cousins already know it’s a recession,” said Mr. Barbera, the ITG economist. “They have the luxury of not having Ph.D.’s. The auto companies are in dire straits, the airlines have been shutting down flights and firing pilots. The truckers are in near hysteria because of the price of diesel. If you round up the usual suspects, this is a bad circumstance. And the word we usually use for a bad circumstance is a recession.”
32 2008-08-01 LONDON – Royal Dutch Shell, Europe's largest oil company, reported a 33 percent increase in second-quarter profit Thursday, helped by a higher oil price even as production declined.

Like smaller rival BP earlier this week, Shell profited from an oil price that almost doubled in the second quarter from the year earlier, but a 13 percent drop from a record on July 11 raised some concern among investors about whether oil companies can keep up the pace of earnings growth. BP said earlier a higher oil price started to affect consumer demand for its gasoline, which declined as much as 10 percent in the United States and Europe.

Shell's profit rose to $11.56 billion from $8.67 billion in the same period last year. BP reported a 28 percent increase in profit earlier this week, and Italian oil company Eni said Thursday that profit in the second quarter had risen 52 percent, citing a higher oil price. Exxon Mobil Corp., the world's biggest energy company, is due to report earnings later Thursday.

Shell's shares in London rose 10 pence to 18.5 pounds on Thursday. The shares fell 12.5 percent this year, compared with a 14.7 percent drop of BP's stock and a 9.9 percent decline for Exxon.

Oil companies are under pressure to find new reserves as their traditional fields age and they face increasing competition from state-run oil companies in Russia and the Middle East. Shell is also looking to make up for production lost in recent incidents in Nigeria, where militants attacked an offshore production vessel in June, and in Russia, where it had to sell its share in the Sakhalin Island oil and natural gas project to state-controlled energy company OAO Gazprom last year.

Oil and gas production fell to 3,126 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day from 3,178 thousand barrels.

Shell chief executive Jeroen van der Veer pledged to continue investing to fuel growth. "Shell is making substantial, targeted investments to grow the company for shareholders and help ensure that energy markets remain well supplied," Mr. van der Veer said in a statement Thursday.
33 2008-08-01 He is 75, a former union lithographer, a gourmet cook by avocation, a passionate sports fan who is furious at the fan-gouging sports world in general and the Giants in particular, with good reason. He is one of the die-hards who got into Yankee Stadium 40 years ago, followed his team to the Yale Bowl and Shea Stadium and stayed in, for the last 32 in Giants Stadium, without complaint.

“There is nothing wrong with the place we’ve been playing in,” Palma said. “Why the heck did we have to move in the first place?”

To keep up with the Eagles, the Redskins and the Jerry Joneses, the Giants would say, even if it means discarding devoted fans, as in the case of Palma, who has resigned himself to the Giants, while still “we,” moving next door in two years to a $1.6 billion luxury palace without him.

Over breakfast this week, he laid the brochure for the purchase of Giants personal seat licenses on the table and said: “I’m not going to sit here and tell you that football hasn’t been important to me and my family, but I don’t want to do this and not just because I basically can’t afford to. Ethically, it stinks.”

In some ways, Palma feels as if he raised his adult sons, Mark and Jeff, in Section 112 of the lower stands, bonded with them, cheered with them, jeered with them, from the four choice-location seats that became such prized family heirlooms he had them inserted into his will as part of their inheritance.

Granted, he got the tickets 40 years ago because he had, during his days in the printing business, struck up a close, enduring friendship with the Giants’ long-ago defensive back and current broadcaster, Dick Lynch, who in turn introduced Palma to the late Tim Mara one night at P. J. Clarke’s in Manhattan. But Palma never left during the lean years, and might even have talked himself and his sons into cobbling together $700 per ticket per game in the new stadium for the equivalent seats that he said this season will cost $100 per.

But $80,000 in four installments for the right to pay a staggering ticket markup in the midst of an economic downturn? He could go to Europe and live lavishly, or finance his grandchildren’s college educations. After all these years, all the money spent, he was put on the clock, given a month to respond, to peel the sticker containing his personal information, attach it to the application on the interior back cover and surrender to a $371 million fan-fleecing scheme.

When I asked Palma about the option to buy lesser seats for a cheaper seat-licensing fee, he shrugged. “That’ll be the boys’ decision,” he said. “I’m out.”

In a telephone interview, Mark Palma said he had not yet discussed that with his brother. “I do want to look at it long-term, and not make it an emotional decision,” he said. “But I always assumed we’d have these great seats, and to go sit in the upper deck, well, you start to think, ‘I do have a flat-screen TV at home.’

“And I don’t think that I’m owed anything, but I do feel for my father. He always believed the Giants and the Maras were about football and the fans. He paved the way for us and he’s wanted us to share it with our families. And now, he gets this.”

He gets a brochure in the mail and turns to Page 6, to a glittering new stadium set against the nighttime Manhattan skyline, with the accompanying caption, “There is no sports franchise in the world with a greater history than the New York Giants, and no sports franchise has more loyal fans.”

And Lou Palma says, “Where is their loyalty to me?”
34 2008-08-01 Civil rights groups have begun a welcome attack on a House bill that would temporarily exempt the states from the all-important accountability requirements in the No Child Left Behind Act, which was signed into law in 2002. The attack, led by powerful groups like the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, was unexpected, given that the nation’s two big teachers’ unions actually hold seats on the conference’s executive committee. Recent events suggest that the civil rights establishment generally is ready to break with the teachers’ unions and take an independent stand on education reform.

Despite innocuous packaging, the House bill looks very much like a stealth attempt to gut the national school accountability effort. Introduced by Representatives Sam Graves, a Missouri Republican, and Timothy Walz, a Democrat from Minnesota who is a former teacher, it is supported by the National Education Association, the influential teachers’ union that has been trying to kill off No Child Left Behind for years.

The bill, which is unlikely to pass, would permit the states to ignore the parts of the law that require them to pursue corrective actions at failing schools. That would encourage lassitude in states and districts that have already dragged their feet for too long. It would sap the energy of states that have shown clear progress since the law was passed and are eager to move forward. Once stopped, the reform effort could take years to get moving again.

The support of civil rights groups for the No Child Left Behind Act has been muted in the years since the law was first passed. But with the reauthorization process under way, the groups are making it clear that they view education reform as a civil rights issue. They want changes in No Child Left Behind — but only changes that strengthen the law — and they are fully prepared to fight the unions for those changes if necessary.
35 2008-08-01 “But we have to do more than just provide short-term relief,” he told the audience at the high school. “We have to secure our long-term prosperity and strengthen America’s competitiveness in the 21st century.”

Confronted with the same troubling economic news Friday morning, Mr. McCain said in a statement that "across this country, Americans are hurting, and today’s job numbers are just the latest reminder of the economic challenges we face.”

“Unlike Senator Obama,” he said, “I do not believe that raising taxes is the answer to our economic problems. There is no surer way to force jobs overseas than to raise taxes on businesses.”

Like Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain traveled to Florida — a key state where Democrats have lost the last two presidential elections — to address a meeting of the Urban League. Unlike his speech several weeks ago to another mainly black group, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in which he referred to Mr. Obama as “an impressive fellow,” this time Mr. McCain kept up the blistering campaign of criticism that he began last week.

“You’ll hear from my opponent, Senator Obama, tomorrow, and if there’s one thing he always delivers, it’s a great speech,” he told the crowd, which grew cooler as he spoke. “But I hope you’ll listen carefully, because his ideas are not always as impressive as his rhetoric.”

Indeed, Mr. Obama got a chance to show off his oratorical skills at the town-hall meeting on Friday — not just in addressing the crowd but in taming it as well.

While Mr. Obama was delivering his economic message, a loud ruckus erupted behind him. Then came a question.

“In the face of the numerous attacks that are made against the African community or the black community by the same U.S. government that you aspire to lead,” said Diop Olugbala, a 31-year-old New Yorker, going on at some length, “why is it that you have not had the ability to not one time speak to the interests and even speak on the behalf of the oppressed and exploited?”

Okay, okay, Mr. Obama said, holding up his hand. Let me finish, he said as the rest of the crowd jeered, and I’ll get back to you.

“He asked a legitimate question,” Mr. Obama said to the crowd after finishing his prepared remarks, and then said to Mr. Olugbala: “Every question you raised I have spoken about.” Predatory lending and its impact on the black and Latino community, the death penalty, the war: all of these he has spoken to, he said.

“Now I may not have spoken out the way you would want me to speak out,” he added. “But I am suggesting that I have spoken out, and spoken out forcefully.”

Voting for someone else, he suggested, is your option.
36 2008-08-01 “So nobody really thinks that Bush or McCain have a real answer for the challenges we face, so what they’re going to try to do is make you scared of me,” Mr. Obama said in Springfield, Mo., echoing earlier remarks. “You know, he’s not patriotic enough. He’s got a funny name. You know, he doesn’t look like all those other presidents on those dollar bills, you know. He’s risky. That’s essentially the argument they’re making.”

With his rejoinder about playing “the race card,” Mr. Davis effectively assured that race would once again become an unavoidable issue as voters face an election in which, for the first time, one of the major parties’ nominees is African-American.

And with its criticism, the McCain campaign was ensuring that Mr. Obama’s race — he is the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas — would again be a factor in coverage of the presidential race. On Thursday, it took the spotlight from Mr. Obama when he had sought to attack Mr. McCain on energy issues.

The tactic could cut both ways: it might tap into the qualms some white, working-class voters in crucial swing states may have about a black candidate, or it could ricochet back against the McCain campaign, which has been accused even by some fellow Republicans of engaging in overly negative campaigning in recent days.

The remarks put Mr. Obama’s campaign, which has tried to keep him from being pigeonholed or defined by race, in a delicate position. He did not address the matter himself on Thursday, and his campaign gingerly tried to tamp down the issue, saying he did not believe that Mr. McCain had tried to use race as an issue.

“This is a race about big challenges — a slumping economy, a broken foreign policy and an energy crisis for everyone but the oil companies,” said Robert Gibbs, a campaign spokesman. “Barack Obama in no way believes that the McCain campaign is using race as an issue, but he does believe they’re using the same old low-road politics to distract voters from the real issues in this campaign. And those are the issues he’ll continue to talk about.”

The sparring over race thrust an unpredictable element into the campaign. Contests have often been influenced by racial imagery, whether stark, like the Willie Horton advertisements run against Michael S. Dukakis in the 1988 presidential race, or subtle.

In the 2006 Senate race in Tennessee, Republicans ran an advertisement against a black candidate, the Democrat Harold E. Ford Jr., that featured a white woman saying, with a wink, “Harold, call me.” Some have drawn parallels between that commercial and the McCain campaign’s advertisement juxtaposing Ms. Spears and Ms. Hilton with Mr. Obama.

Mr. McCain addressed Mr. Davis’s “race card” comments later Thursday. “I agree with it, and I’m disappointed that Senator Obama would say the things he’s saying,” Mr. McCain said aboard his campaign bus in Racine, Wis., according to The Associated Press.

Mr. Davis’s comments came as the McCain campaign has adopted a far more aggressive, negative posture toward Mr. Obama in recent days, trying to define him as arrogant, out of touch and unprepared for the presidency. But until this week, the McCain campaign had not invoked race.

Mr. Obama has been the victim of some racist and racially tinged attacks this year, particularly during the primaries.

Underground e-mail campaigns have spread the false rumor that he is Muslim and questioned his patriotism by falsely charging that he does not put his hand over his heart when the Pledge of Allegiance is recited. A button spotted outside the Texas Republican convention asked, “If Obama Is President ... Will We Still Call It the White House?”

But Mr. McCain has condemned racist campaigning and has denounced Republican groups that tried to make an issue of inflammatory statements made by Mr. Obama’s former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and one of his own supporters who referred to Mr. Obama as “Barack Hussein Obama” at a McCain rally.

Mr. Obama has been more explicit about the role of race in attacks against him in the past, but he is rarely specific about who is behind them. “We know what kind of campaign they’re going to run,” he said in June. “They’re going to try to make you afraid of me. ‘He’s young and inexperienced and he’s got a funny name. And did I mention he’s black?’ ”

Steve Schmidt, who runs the day-to-day operations of the McCain campaign, said the campaign had been moved to issue the statement in part because it saw the damage done during the Democratic primary when Obama supporters made accusations that former President Bill Clinton had been racially insensitive, or worse.

“The McCain campaign was compelled to respond to this outrageous attack because we will not allow John McCain to be smeared by Senator Obama as a racist for offering legitimate criticism,” he said. “We have waited for months with a sick feeling knowing this moment would come because we watched it incur with President Clinton. Say whatever you want about President Clinton, his record on this issue is above reproach.”

In the Democratic primary campaign, Mr. Obama’s supporters at several occasions accused the Clinton campaign of using racially charged tactics, particularly after Mr. Clinton equated Mr. Obama’s victory in the South Carolina primary with the Rev. Jesse Jackson’s victory in the nominating contest there in 1988. Mr. Clinton himself then complained in a radio interview in April that the Obama campaign had “played the race card on me.”

Howard Wolfson, who was the communications director of the Clinton campaign, said, “The McCain campaign has obviously been watching our primary very closely and recognized how damaging it had been to be tagged with the charge of race baiting.”
37 2008-08-01 In a de-centered world, all it takes is a few well-placed parochial interests to bring a vast global process tumbling down.

And the Doha failure comes amid a decade of globosclerosis. The world has failed to effectively end genocide in Darfur. Chinese and Russian vetoes foiled efforts to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe. The world has failed to implement effective measures to deter Iran’s nuclear ambitions. The world has failed to embrace a collective approach to global warming. Europe’s drive toward political union has stalled.

In each case, the logic is the same. Groups with a strong narrow interest are able to block larger groups with a diffuse but generalized interest. The narrow Chinese interest in Sudanese oil blocks the world’s general interest in preventing genocide. Iran’s narrow interest in nuclear weapons trumps the world’s general interest in preventing a Middle East arms race. Diplomacy goes asymmetric and the small defeat the large.

Moreover, in a multipolar world, there is no way to referee disagreements among competing factions. In a democratic nation, the majority rules and members of the minority understand that they must accede to the wishes of those who win elections.

But globally, people have no sense of shared citizenship. Everybody feels they have the right to say no, and in a multipolar world, many people have the power to do so. There is no mechanism to wield authority. There are few shared values on which to base a mechanism. The autocrats of the world don’t even want a mechanism because they are afraid that it would be used to interfere with their autocracy.

The results are familiar. We get United Nations resolutions that go unenforced. We get high-minded vows to police rogue regimes, but little is done. We get the failure of the Doha round and the gradual weakening of the international economic order.

A few years ago, the U.S. tried to break through this global passivity. It tried to enforce U.N. resolutions and put the mantle of authority on its own shoulders. The results of that enterprise, the Iraq war, suggest that this approach will not be tried again anytime soon.

And so the globosclerosis continues, and people around the world lose faith in their leaders. It’s worth remembering that George W. Bush is actually more popular than many of his peers. His approval ratings hover around 29 percent. Gordon Brown’s are about 17 percent. Japan’s Yasuo Fukuda’s are about 26 percent. Nicolas Sarkozy, Angela Merkel and Silvio Berlusconi have ratings that are a bit higher, but still pathetically low.

This is happening because voters rightly sense that leaders lack the authority to address problems.

The bottom line is that presidential candidates can talk grandly about global partnerships, but it’s meaningless without a mechanism to wield authority. A crucial question in an authority crisis is: Who has a strategy for execution?

The best idea floating around now is a League of Democracies, as John McCain and several Democrats have proposed. Nations with similar forms of government do seem to share cohering values. If democracies could concentrate authority in such a league, at least part of the world would have a mechanism for wielding authority. It may not be a return to Acheson, Marshall and the rest, but at least it slows the relentless slide towards drift and dissipation.
38 2008-08-01 WHAT Luxury hotel and residential development.      WHERE Downtown St. Petersburg, Fla....
39 2008-08-01 SLOW GROWTH The American economy shrank at the end of 2007 and grew less than forecast between April and June, signaling that the country is in worse shape than expected.      A BIG LEAP FORWARD No longer content to be the home of low-skilled, low...
40 2008-08-02 Citing political realities, Senator Barack Obama signaled an openness to compromise legislation that would include offshore drilling in Florida....
41 2008-08-02 A London jury acquitted Barry George, 48, on Friday in his second trial for the 1996 killing of Jill Dando, one of Britain’s most popular television anchors. Mr. George, described in court as a loner and a fantasist with an archive of more than 2,200 photographs he had taken of women on the street, was sentenced in 2001 to life imprisonment for the doorstep shooting of Ms. Dando, 37, who anchored the BBC programs “Holiday” and “Crimewatch.” An appeals court ordered a retrial after concluding that the prosecution’s evidence of gunpowder traces in one of Mr. George’s jackets was “unsafe.”
42 2008-08-02 Chevron said Friday that record oil prices drove second-quarter earnings up 11 percent to its highest-ever profit, but weak margins from gasoline production led to a big loss at its refining operations.

Chevron, the second-largest oil company in the United States, joined StatoilHydro of Norway and Total of France in posting huge earnings as a result of soaring crude prices.

Oil prices averaged slightly less than $125 a barrel in the quarter, nearly double year-earlier levels, but gasoline prices rose only 25 percent during that same period, resulting in weak profit margins for the companies’ refining and marketing businesses.

Chevron said net income rose to $5.98 billion, or $2.90 a share, from $5.38 billion, or $2.52 a share, a year earlier.

Analysts expected the company to earn around $3.02 a share.
43 2008-08-02 Jack Nash, a former chairman of Oppenheimer & Company who helped pioneer the modern hedge fund business, died July 30 in Manhattan. He was 79.

He died at Mount Sinai Medical Center after a long illness, according to his family.

Mr. Nash, who fled Nazi Germany with his family at the age of 12, joined Oppenheimer as a trainee in 1951 when it was still a small Wall Street investment firm. He left briefly to work for his father’s textile business, but returned to the firm in 1954.

Mr. Nash became the company’s president in 1974, and its chairman in 1979.

At Oppenheimer Mr. Nash met Leon Levy, his longtime business partner. They specialized in leveraged buyouts and transformed the company into one of the world’s largest mutual fund businesses.

Oppenheimer, which once raised $40 million for John Z. De Lorean’s gull-winged sports car, quickly became known for its innovative deals.

The early leveraged buyouts were called Oppenheimer deals because that’s where they started, said Martin J. Rabinowitz, who was a partner at Odyssey.
44 2008-08-02 The Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of American History will reopen its doors to the public on Nov. 21. The opening, which had been delayed, marks the completion of a two-year, $85 million renovation. Improvements include updates to the 42-year-old building’s infrastructure and a new layout with a grand staircase and a five-story skylit atrium, which will feature displays filled with more than 400 of the three million objects in the museum’s collection. The museum has been closed since September 2006 and was originally to reopen this summer. The renovation followed a blue-ribbon commission report issued in 2002 that criticized the museum’s layout and presentation.
45 2008-08-02 Re “McCain Is Trying to Define Obama as Out of Touch” (front page, July 31):

Senator Barack Obama is a well-educated, well-spoken man who has just returned from his first visit abroad as a presidential candidate. By all accounts, he was well received — the trip was successful and without incident.

Here in America, the appearance of Mr. Obama as a presidential candidate seems to have thrown some of the more traditional politicians into a tizzy. They must have short memories — both John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton socialized and were photographed with celebrities. And Mr. Clinton is still doing that. Mr. Obama isn’t, and to insinuate so is just wrong.

Senator John McCain knows better, and it is his reputation that is being damaged by stooping to this level of campaigning.

The Straight Talk Express has permanently derailed. Launching shameful attacks with no basis is typical Republican Party desperation tactics. These attacks have only solidified Senator John McCain’s persona as the third disastrous Bush presidency.

In reducing his campaign to nonsense by saying that Senator Barack Obama is a celebrity along the lines of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton, Senator John McCain makes it increasingly clear that he is incapable of dealing with substantive issues. It also raises serious questions concerning his ability to be president.

Steve Schmidt, Senator John McCain’s campaign manager (and a Karl Rove disciple), deserves credit for honesty, if nothing else.

In this day and age, with our collective troubles at hand, by admitting that his campaign has no greater question to pose to the American people than a fear-mongering one questioning Senator Barack Obama’s maturity — “Is he ready to lead yet?” — he has essentially confessed to owning a gaping hole in his campaign where there should be something called “substance.”
46 2008-08-02 As recently as this spring, executives in Detroit forecast that auto sales would rebound in the second half of 2008, as consumers spent their federal rebate checks and overcame difficulties in the housing market. But the July sales figures suggest that will not be the case.

In fact, the industry’s annualized sales rate of 12.55 million was its lowest since April 1992, showing that the market is continuing to deteriorate.

Soaring borrowing costs for the automakers’ financing arms and other lenders have led to higher automotive loan rates and tighter credit standards, which have cut sharply into sales. G.M. said it is losing 10,000 sales a month that it used to get from customers with below-average credit ratings.

“In the next several months, or even the next year I would say, the unfolding credit situation that customers are facing in dealerships will take center stage,” said James D. Farley, Ford’s marketing chief. “A lot more creativity has to take place in the finance and insurance office to sell a car now.”

Meanwhile, leases are becoming significantly harder to obtain, with Chrysler no longer offering leases through its financing arm.

G.M. and Ford said on Friday that they will cut back on leasing but remain committed to that business.

Falling sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks have caused resale values of those vehicles to plummet, and that has turned many leases into huge money losers for the automakers. Unprofitable leases led to write-downs of $2.1 billion for Ford and $716 million for G.M.’s financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which it partly owns. GMAC this week halted subsidies for leases in Canada.

“All the risk, all the liability and all the expense is being put onto the consumer with this move away from leasing,” said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm Global Insight. “There may be unintended consequences to this move, and they may be unpleasantly surprised that consumers walk away and go someplace else.”

About 20 percent of customers lease vehicles, according to J. D. Power & Associates’ Power Information Network. Mark LaNeve, G.M.’s vice president for North American sales and marketing, said G.M. hoped to cut leasing so that it accounted for between 10 and 15 percent of its business.

“It’s a move that we have to make to reduce our risk in the marketplace,” said Mr. LaNeve. “If the industry can see its way through this, it’s going to give us much higher quality of sale and a much higher profit per vehicle.”

Chrysler said Friday that it would offer 72-month financing deals so that customers could buy a car with monthly payments similar to leases to ease the transition away from leasing.

Ford estimated that total light vehicle sales this year would be 13.7 million to 14.2 million, a considerable drop from the first half’s annualized rate of 15 million. In 2007, automakers sold more than 16.1 million vehicles in the United States.

Ford said that its car sales were up 7.8 percent last month, but that sales of S.U.V.’s, a segment that used to generate huge profits for all three Detroit automakers, plunged 54.4 percent. G.M. sold 18.9 percent fewer cars and 34.7 percent fewer light trucks.

At Toyota, car sales were roughly flat because of shortages of some models, while sales of pickup trucks and S.U.V.’s dropped 27 percent.

Summer is typically a strong season for the automakers, as they unload their remaining inventory from the old model year and begin selling new vehicles. But $4-a-gallon gas and a sluggish economy have kept many consumers who might normally be in the market for a new car away from dealerships.
47 2008-08-02 TOKYO — Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan reshuffled his cabinet and his party’s leadership on Friday in a bid to raise his low approval ratings. But the reshuffle was limited to filling most of the key positions with existing members.

Mr. Fukuda kept Masahiko Komura as foreign minister and Nobutaka Machimura as chief cabinet secretary, in which role he is the top government spokesman.

He moved Bunmei Ibuki, the Liberal Democratic Party’s secretary general, to the post of finance minister, and named Taro Aso, a former foreign minister, as the party’s new secretary general.

The governing party must dissolve the lower house of Parliament and hold a general election by September 2009.
48 2008-08-02 IndyMac Bancorp, the third-largest banking failure in United States history, said Friday that it had filed for bankruptcy protection, less than three weeks after being seized by federal regulators following a bank run by depositors.

The company, based in Pasadena, Calif., filed for Chapter 7 protection on Thursday with the federal bankruptcy court in Los Angeles, indicating it plans to liquidate. IndyMac said it expected the court will appoint a bankruptcy trustee promptly.

The filing was widely expected. It does not include IndyMac Federal Bank, which is now run by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp and is the successor to IndyMac’s former banking unit. Most deposits in IndyMac Federal are insured up to $100,000.

IndyMac Bancorp, the holding company, has $50 million to $100 million of assets, $100 million to $500 million of liabilities, and fewer than 50 creditors, according to the bankruptcy filing.

The collapse of IndyMac was the largest U.S. banking failure in two decades. Regulators at the time said IndyMac ended March with about $32 billion of assets, and about $19 billion of deposits, most of which were insured.

IndyMac was the fifth of seven bank failures this year, the F.D.I.C. said.

IndyMac once specialized in "Alt-A" and other below-prime home loans, which often did not require borrowers to fully document income or assets.
49 2008-08-02 Chinese who try to challenge the one-party state directly say authorities are no more tolerant of dissent than they were in the 1980s, and in some cases they are tougher on citizen-led campaigns to enforce legal rights or stop environmental abuses.

On the other hand, the definition of what constitutes a political challenge has changed. Individuals are far less likely to run afoul of a system that no longer demands conformity in political views or personal lifestyles.

The shift toward a more diverse society helps explain some anomalies in perceptions of life inside China. Amnesty International, the human rights group, reported this week that the rights situation had deteriorated significantly in the months before the Olympics despite China’s pledges to improve its record as a condition for hosting the games.

But a survey conducted by the Pew Global Attitudes Project this spring and issued last month found that an astounding 86 percent of Chinese said they were content with their country’s direction, double the percentage who said the same thing in 2002. Only 23 percent of Americans polled in the survey said they were satisfied with their country’s direction.

The speeches of China’s leaders, with their gray imagery and paternalistic phrasings, have changed relatively little, emphasizing unity, harmony and economic growth under party rule. The reality on the ground, though, has been transformed, partly because a more dynamic economy necessitates a more dynamic society, partly because money gives people options they did not have when they were poor.

Arguably the most dramatic change in the freedoms enjoyed by most Chinese has been the gradual erosion of a population registration system that tied people to their places of birth, preventing internal migration or, at its height, even tourism.

China has not formally abandoned the system, known as hukou, and it can still prove a nuisance. But as hundreds of millions of people have moved from the inland provinces to wealthier coastal cities in search of economic opportunity, authorities in one place after another have found themselves making concessions to this new reality.

Song Daqing, who lives in a single-room home here with his wife and three children, counts himself as a beneficiary of these changes. Born into poverty in Sichuan Province, he worked as a cattle herder, bricklayer and coal miner, earning as little as 60 cents a day before coming to Shanghai in 1998. His early years in this city were marked by frequent mass roundups of migrants by the police, and he was twice held in crowded detention centers before being expelled from the city.

“Now we all have residence permits,” said Mr. Song, who supports his family by selling vegetables. “The police don’t check our paperwork anymore, and even if they found you without a permit, they won’t arrest you, but rather would suggest you get one as soon as possible.”

The relative flexibility the government has shown in allowing this to happen is more a matter of pragmatism than any overt ideological shift, a grudging concession to economic reality.

“China’s economic development relies on the flow of migrants into cities,” said Wei Wei, the founder of Little Bird, an organization that runs a special phone line to help migrant workers protect their rights. “The country’s growth depends on it.”

Little Bird itself is an example of incremental openness. It is a nongovernmental organization, one of thousands addressing social, economic and environmental issues that the party once insisted it could handle by itself. The leeway private groups have to influence public policy is still limited. Those that cross unwritten lines into political opposition often are shut down.

But China’s bureaucracy is more contentious than it was under Mao. Policy advocates within the government — including officials representing weak bureaucracies, like those charged with fighting pollution, improving education and broadening women’s rights — often seek popular support to increase their clout.

A recent example involved a revision of a law covering rights for the handicapped, which the government undertook after several organizations banded together in 2004 to advocate change on the issue. The activists also contacted Chinese legislators and provided a report to the official Chinese Disabled Person’s Federation.

The government never publicly acknowledged the citizens’ action, but a revised law incorporating some of their recommendations was enacted earlier this year. “The pressure came from both inside and outside,” said Wu Runling, director of the Beijing Huitianyu Information Consulting Center, one of the groups involved. “You can’t tell me that our appeal and calls for revision of the law had no meaning at all.”

Although a powerful system of censorship remains a fact of life, and journalists are frequently jailed and detained, feisty publications with mass audiences in print and on the Internet report forthrightly about ills in society.

Greater access to information has emboldened people to assert some rights. Homeowners in cities like Shanghai and Chongqing have resisted government development schemes with some success, and the proliferation of petitioners with all kinds of grievances presents the authorities with an informal check on their power.

“After 30 years, everybody knows about democracy and freedom,” said Wang Xiaodong, a researcher at the China Youth Research Center, a wing of the Communist Youth League. “They know that as taxpayers, we support the government, not the opposite.”

Before the Olympics, Beijing demolished a favorite pilgrimage spot for petitioners who flow to the capital from all over the country to seek redress from perceived injustice. According to a recent report in a Hong Kong magazine, Phoenix Weekly, the government has also hired thugs to intimidate or kidnap petitioners to prevent them from making their cases. Critics of such abuses say that in an indirect way, the state is acknowledging the power of such protest.

“Human rights has become more than just a theory for the public,” said Jiang Qisheng, a student leader during the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and former political prisoner. “In the past they petitioned and complained about injustice, but that wasn’t about defending their rights. They let the higher authorities to decide their rights.

“What they are asking for now is a change in the system, and this reflects a widespread change in attitude,” he said.

Even in the best of times, China’s human rights improvements have been so gradual as to be almost impossible to discern in any month-to-month sense. And in the tense environment before the Olympics, which China fears could invite uncontrollable protests or blemish its international image, the climate has become noticeably more restrictive.

Lawyers have been sternly warned not to represent clients involved in delicate political cases. Tibetans and Uighur Muslims have been subjected to arrests and “re-education” campaigns.

Hu Jia, a Beijing-based political activist who campaigned for years on behalf of AIDS patients and for greater political openness, was arrested late last year and sentenced to three and a half years in prison for “inciting subversion of state power.” Many other dissidents have been warned to stay away from Beijing, or have seen state surveillance and harassment extended to their family members.

The government relies on unwritten laws: political confrontation with the ruling party remains a no-go area, and state stability trumps nascent notions of human rights.

Yet even as the police tightened security before the Games, the power of new information technologies to chip away at the official line was still on display. In a poor county in Guizhou Province in the south, a teenage girl died under mysterious circumstances, and rumors of police malfeasance and a cover-up spread widely on the Internet, prompting public protests to demand a new investigation.

Local authorities initially tried to suppress news of the protests, which turned violent, and impose an official account of events there. But people wielding video cameras uploaded material to YouTube, and some Chinese journalists disputed official accounts that the riots had been put down peacefully.

One of them was Wu Hanpin, a radio reporter who took pictures of the riot. They showed that the police had fired rubber bullets and teenagers in detention whose bruised foreheads suggested beatings.

“I saw a gap between the official story and the reality, which was mind-blowing, like the presence of the armed police,” Mr. Wu said. “So I put some of these things on the Internet, on my personal blog.” Four days later, after registering hundreds of thousands of visitors, his blog was closed by censors.

“The media has made a huge step forward from the ’80s,” said Sun Jinping, a veteran senior editor at a Beijing newspaper. The riot in Guizhou Province, he said, “would have been impossible for the public to know about in the past.”

A View of the Outside

For others, the impact of information about other countries has been just as great. He Weifang, a professor of law at Peking University, said that before the economic reform era began in 1979, the country was much like North Korea, where people were indoctrinated to believe that Chinese were the better off than people anywhere else.

“Today, even the farmers in remote areas have satellite TVs,” Mr. He said. “So whenever they see an election, such as the one held in Pakistan recently, they may wonder why, even though we have approximately the same economic conditions, they can elect their top leaders, and we can’t even vote for the leader of a small county. I think a consciousness of political rights has increased more than anything.”

Even China’s party-run legal system is a fulcrum for experimentation, though in an ambiguous way that highlights the uncertainties in the country’s transition.

Judges do not have the power to rule independently in China. Yet the country now has 165,000 registered lawyers, a five-fold increase since 1990, and average people have hired them to press for enforcement of rights inscribed in the Chinese Constitution. The courts today sometimes defend property rights and business contracts even when powerful state interests are on the other side.

In criminal law, progress is more grudging. Yan Ruyu, a former Beijing police officer who quit the force and became a lawyer after the violent crackdown on protesters at Tiananmen Square, said such cases remained unpopular with most lawyers because the likelihood of prevailing over the state remains so slim.

“There has been progress, but it’s so slow that sometimes one becomes pessimistic,” he said. “It’s empty talk to speak of having an independent judiciary if the party leads everything.”

On the other hand, Mr. Yan says, party control turns every criminal case into a human rights case. That gives every criminal defense lawyer the chance — and for some of them, the incentive — to inch the system forward.
50 2008-08-02 Technologies like e-mailing and blogging give the communicator the power to choose the time and manner of expression. Now, some academics, text messagers and creators of technologies say a trend has emerged: We are constantly just missing one another — on purpose.

Indirect communication, experts suggest, may be turning some people into digital-era solipsists more interested in broadcasting information than in real time give-and-take.

But Ms. Gorman, who works in marketing in Manhattan, said that using Slydial to break off her relationship allowed her to communicate effectively without the potential anxiety.

“If it’s some jerk I went out on a couple of dates with, I can do without that drama,” she said.

“Text messaging someone ‘I would prefer not to see you again’ is really not my style,” she added. “But at the same time, I wanted to avoid an awkward conversation.”

Furthering the popularity of one-way communication are Web sites like Facebook, which have become home to personal news feeds in which users receive updates from friends, acquaintances and colleagues.

Or there is Twitter, a messenging service that lets people send updates of 140 characters about what they are doing or thinking to the mobile phones of people who sign up to receive the constant stream.

The culture of the veritable Personal News Crawl also includes Radar.net, a Web site that permits users to send photos or video bursts taken with a mobile phone to friends — and notify them of the updates with text messages.

John Poisson, the founder and chief executive of Tiny Pictures, the company behind Radar.net, said the service was designed to cater to small groups of close friends, not a broad audience, partly because he said the model of widely broadcasting personal updates was starting to annoy people.

“We’re in this mode where we’re telling everybody everything all the time,” Mr. Poisson said, adding. “It becomes about saying things — just blathering on. We’re at the apex of that trend.”

Unlike text messaging or e-mailing, James Katz, head of the center for mobile communications studies at Rutgers University, said, telephone communiqués had been seen as requiring a sacrifice of time and energy and a higher level of commitment on the part of the communicator. Not anymore.

Missed or indirect communication can often actually be preferable, Mr. Katz said. “You pretend to be communicating, when you’re actually stifling communication,” he said.

Slydial may turn out to be just a fad. Still, Mr. Katz understands why people may be tempted to use it.

“A phone conversation is like wildfire — you don’t know where it’s going to go,” he said.

The company behind Slydial is not denying its duplicitous implications. The company’s Web site, MobileSphere, suggests several appropriate uses of Slydial, including leaving a message for a girlfriend who is a “talker” to avoid a long conversation, and for a wife when her husband does not want to talk about how much he lost at the tables in Las Vegas during a business trip.

An array of recent innovations by other companies has encouraged the use of technology to deceive. One development, for instance, allows the employee who is running late to add background noises resembling heavy traffic to a mobile phone call. Another service places an automated call at a predetermined time so that the recipient can be extricated from a situation (a work meeting, or bad date) under the auspices of taking the “urgent” call.

MobileSphere’s co-founder, Gavin Macomber, said the tool was a time-saver in a world in which conversations could waste time, whereas voice mail can get directly to the point. Part of the reason people are so overwhelmed, Mr. Macomber said, is because they are connected to devices and streams of data around the clock.

“We’re slaves to our devices — BlackBerries and phones, reachable 24/7,” he said.

Mr. Macomber declined to say precisely how the technology bypassed the traditional calling system, noting that the concept was covered by a pending patent.

Slydial is free but users must listen to several seconds of advertisements before going into a voice mail.

It is a small price to pay, said Manny Mamakas, 34, a consultant who lives in the Astoria section of Queens and who said he had been using the test version of Slydial to call family members, like his cousins and two brothers.

“I don’t want to get into ‘hey, what’s going on, how you doing?’ ” Mr. Mamakas said. “I just get to the point, like, ‘I’ll meet you at 3.’ ”

He said he had also used it to call in sick to work — without facing follow-up questions from his boss.

“I don’t want 50 questions,” Mr. Mamakas said. “I just say, ‘I won’t be coming in; I’m under the weather.’ By the time he hears voice mail, it’s already noon.”

He acknowledges that the technology encourages a perhaps not-so-valiant character trait.

“It does make you more cowardly,” he said.
51 2008-08-02 Maria Sharapova will sit out the United States Open because of an injured right shoulder, the first major championship she will miss since she played in her first Grand Slam event in 2003.

The 21-year-old Sharapova had already announced that she was pulling out of the Beijing Olympics because of the injury. Sharapova said in a posting on her Web site Friday that she probably would not need surgery and could be ready to play in two to three months. The Open begins Aug. 25.

“It hurts me so much to miss the Olympics and the U.S. Open, you have no idea,” she said. “Just to type those words hurt!!”

The No. 3-ranked Sharapova has played in each of the past 23 major championships, winning titles at Wimbledon in 2004, the United States Open in 2006 and the Australian Open in January.

Sharapova said a doctor who looked at tests on her shoulder from April and this week told her that she had been playing with a torn rotator cuff tendon since the spring.

“He actually couldn’t believe that I’ve been playing this long with this injury,” Sharapova said. “You can imagine that I was not very thrilled to hear that my medical team did not see this tear in my shoulder back in April.”
52 2008-08-02 McCARTHY--Charles . The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Charles McCarthy, associated with The New York Times from November 1, 1959 until retiring on July 1, 1989....
53 2008-08-03 Actress Christina Applegate, the star of ABC's "Samantha Who?," is fighting breast cancer....
54 2008-08-03 Hundreds of readers commented on Nick Kristof's recent column on the welfare of farm animals and California's upcoming vote on a measure meant to improve conditions in factory farms....
55 2008-08-03 At times this spring, it appeared that Barack Obama's fight with Hillary Rodham Clinton would never end. In some ways, it hasn't....
56 2008-08-03 No nominee could afford to alienate the delegates, and voters, from two such important states....
57 2008-08-03 MASON, Ohio — The way Rafael Nadal has played the past three months, Novak Djokovic said, it felt as if he were an almost unbeatable force on the tennis court. But Djokovic, the No. 3 player in the world, did have one caveat.

“Nobody is unbeatable,” said Djokovic, who proved it Saturday night by knocking off Nadal, 6-1, 7-5, in the semifinals of the Cincinnati Masters. “The way he was playing, we all thought he’s not going to lose anytime soon. I tried not to think about his winning streak and his new ranking spot. I tried to focus on my game.

“I know what it takes to win against him on hardcourts. I got the best of it. I knew I had to step in and be aggressive and take the chances.”

The chances he took paid off. In one swoop, Djokovic eliminated Nadal, stopped his 32-match winning streak and defeated the player who is assured of taking over the No. 1 ranking on Aug. 18. If Nadal would have won this tournament, he would have become No. 1 immediately

Now, Djokovic is eager for his third Master Series championship when he plays Andy Murray in the final Sunday. Already this year, Djokovic won Masters Series events in Indian Wells, Calif., beating Nadal in the semifinals, and at Rome. He also took the first Grand Slam title of his career in January at the Australian Open.
58 2008-08-03 MARIPOSA, Calif. (AP) — Firefighters said Saturday that they were getting closer to containing a 53-square-mile wildfire that had destroyed more than 20 houses in the mountains outside Yosemite National Park.

The blaze, sparked by a target shooter, was about 90 percent contained by afternoon. All evacuation orders had been lifted.

California fire officials say wildfires have charred more acreage already this year than in any other since the 1930s, when the state began compiling statistics.

Elsewhere on Saturday, a wildfire in north-central Washington had blackened more than three square miles of timber and rangeland near Omak.
59 2008-08-03 WASHINGTON (AP) — Backing away from Senator John McCain’s challenge for several Lincoln-Douglas-style debates, Senator Barack Obama agreed Saturday to the three standard meetings proposed by the Commission on Presidential Debates.

In a letter to the commission, the Obama campaign manager, David Plouffe, said the short period between the Republican convention that ends Sept. 4 and the first proposed debate made it likely that the commission-sponsored debates would be the only ones.

“We’ve committed to the three debates on the table,” said Jen Psaki, a campaign spokeswoman for Mr. Obama. “It’s likely they will be the three appearances by the candidates this fall.”

Asked if that meant Mr. Obama rejected more debates, Ms. Psaki said, “We’re not saying that.”

A spokesman for Mr. McCain said the candidate looked forward to debating “as often as possible, but it’s disappointing that Senator Obama has refused his offer to do joint town hall meetings.”

The first debate is set for Sept. 26 in Oxford, Miss. The others are set for Oct. 7 and Oct. 15, with the vice-presidential debate scheduled for Oct. 2.
60 2008-08-03 The Energy Task Force convened by Vice President Dick Cheney in 2001 called for expanded production on federal lands and offshore; these figures, drawn from the data of the federal Minerals Management Service and analyzed by the Environmental Working Group, a research and advocacy organization based in Washington, give a partial sense of how the task force’s priorities have been carried out, and to what effect.

“You have to start with the recognition that most wells drilled in the Rockies are not oil wells — they are gas wells,” said Porter Bennett, the president and chief executive of Bentek Energy, one of the industry’s largest research firms. “There would never be an expectation of huge returns on the oil side,” he added.

Dusty Horwitt, a senior analyst for public lands at the Environmental Working Group, said that opening more lands to drilling would not bring down the price of natural gas. “We’ve turned our Western lands into a pincushion and gasoline is $4 a gallon and the price of natural gas has gone through the roof,” he said. “What these data show is that conservation and renewable energy are likely to be the solution to our energy woes.”

Mr. Horwitt added, “On the oil side, the data show that there’s just not that much oil out there in the West.”

More of the nation’s oil reserves are located in Texas (23 percent), offshore (19 percent), Alaska (18 percent) or California (16 percent), according to the federal Energy Information Administration. And the biggest onshore discoveries — like the Bakken field in western North Dakota and eastern Montana — are mostly not under federal land.

Last month, Mr. Bush lifted the executive prohibitions on drilling on the outer continental shelf, urging Congress to rescind its ban as well. For the last three years, offshore wells have supplied about 32 percent of the nation’s total oil production.

However modest the Rockies’ contribution may be, they are the place where the impact of the rapid expansion of energy drilling infrastructure can best be measured, both in terms of energy production and environmental impacts.

Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming together contain about 10 percent of the nation’s oil reserves and about 30 percent of natural gas reserves. About 90 percent of onshore federal drilling permits were issued there in the 2007 fiscal year, according to federal public lands data analyzed by the Wilderness Society.

The environmental effects have been palpable. The expansion of the energy industry has subdivided parts of western Wyoming and western Colorado into a rabbit warren of wellheads and roads. The Pinedale, Wyo., area had its first ozone alerts last winter, thanks to a combination of factors: natural gas flaring from scores of wells, increased vehicle traffic associated with drilling activities and seasonal temperature inversions. One study showed that the mule deer herd that migrates near Pinedale declined by nearly half from 2000 to 2005.

Brian A. Rutledge, the executive director of Audubon Wyoming, said that in energy-drilling areas around the state sage grouse populations had declined by more than 80 percent in the last seven years.

Industry representatives and their Republican supporters in Congress argue that companies do observe environmental safeguards, like closing some areas to drilling seasonally to protect wildlife. Environmental concerns, environmental reviews and lawsuits can hold up drilling five to eight years after a lease has been awarded, they say.

“If you restrict drilling,” said Mr. Bennett of Bentek, “you’ll go from a situation where we’re growing one billion cubic feet in production a day to a situation where you’re flat or declining in two years” — as happened in the Powder River basin six years ago after environmental restrictions tightened.

Industry representatives argue that the high prices, and the technical skills learned in recovering hard-to-retrieve oil in places like Texas, provide an opportunity to find oil and natural gas that would not have seemed worth the trouble a few years ago.

Marc Smith, the executive director of the Independent Petroleum Association of the Mountain States, said that in the last six years more than $20 billion had been invested in his region to increase energy production.

“Because we are a frontier region,” Mr. Smith said, “it’s heavier lifting to build the infrastructure to ship energy from where it’s produced to where it’s needed.”

Also, Pete Stark, of the energy analysis firm IHS, said: “It takes an increasing number of wells to be drilled each year to replace lost production. The industry is running very hard just to stay in place.”

But for all this activity, the Wilderness Society says, in a state like Colorado, where 4.9 million acres are leased out, just 1.4 million acres are under production. And of 7,124 drilling permits approved on public lands in fiscal year 2007, only 5,343 wells were drilled. Whether the cause of the lag time between leasing federal lands and producing oil and natural gas is due to environmental restrictions or strategy by energy companies, the delays mean that “opening protected areas of the coasts or public lands to new leasing is not going to lower the price of gasoline,” said David Alberswerth, a senior policy adviser at the Wilderness Society.

But Richard Ranger, a senior policy adviser with the American Petroleum Institute, takes the long view.

“There is obviously in the Rockies a tremendous amount of industry investment,” he said. “It is reasonable to expect that surge will bear fruit with new production over the coming decade.”
61 2008-08-03 Despite gloomy economic data, the stock market was little changed for the week.

The government reported that G.D.P. for the second quarter had risen less than expected, and revised figures showed that in the fourth quarter of 2007, the economy actually contracted. The unemployment rate rose in July to 5.7 percent from 5.5 percent. The futures price of oil rose slightly, to $125.10 a barrel from $123.26.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 44.37 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 11,326.32. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 2.55 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,260.31 The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.43 point, or 0.02 percent, to close at 2,310.96.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.94 percent from 4.10 percent the previous week.
62 2008-08-03 Before the switch to fuel injection and computerized controls, engines were subject to damage from prolonged knocking. But today’s engine management systems incorporate electronic knock sensors, which detect the condition and adjust the ignition to stop the problem. As a result, it is almost impossible to hurt a current engine by using 87-octane fuel, industry experts say.

“Modern engines prevent the damage from happening before it starts,” said Patrick Kelly, a fuels analyst with the American Petroleum Institute. “It wouldn’t impact fuel economy. And it wouldn’t impact the emissions. What it would impact is the performance.”

Of course, owners who do not heed the automakers’ recommendations may face consequences — the potential voiding of warranties, for instance. But for the most part, manufacturers’ fuel recommendations include some wiggle room.

Porsche, for example, acknowledges that any of its modern production cars can be run on regular fuel without the risk of damage.

A spokesman for Porsche North America, Tony Fouladpour, added a caveat. “If you want the car to perform at its maximum capability, the best choice would not be 87,” he said. “But we do not forbid it.”

Specifying premium fuel lets a car manufacturer squeeze out more horsepower. BMW, for example, recommends that all the cars it sells in the United States use premium fuel, but they will run on regular.

“There generally isn’t any harm done to the engine by using lower-octane fuel,” said a BMW spokesman, Thomas Plucinsky. “Because our engines do have very good forms of knock sensing and are able to deal with lower-octane fuels, you will not have any drivability issues. You will, however, lose some of the performance.”

How much of a loss? Some indication can be found in the peak horsepower numbers Hyundai recently released for its new Genesis sedan. On premium, the 4.6-liter V-8 engine is rated at 375 horsepower. On 87-octane regular, it is 368.

That seven-horsepower difference — less than 2 percent — seems a small penalty for saving 30 cents a gallon, especially when you can regain that performance simply by filling up with premium.

Does using lower-octane fuel reduce mileage or increase emissions, as some drivers believe? Not according to the Environmental Protection Agency. “E.P.A. fuels engineers say that there isn’t a meaningful difference between regular and premium gasoline,” said Dale Kemery, a spokesman for the agency.

Still, the warning from some automakers can give an owner pause at the pump. The manual for the Smart Fortwo repeats the warning issued for other vehicles sold by Mercedes-Benz: “To maintain the engine’s durability and performance, premium unleaded gasoline must be used.”

But even those stern words may have some room for interpretation. Dave Schembri, president of Smart USA, told John Schwartz, a reporter who was writing for this section’s blog about his experiences in buying a Smart, that he should not worry.

“You could use regular gas — there’s no damage to the car,” Mr. Schembri said.
63 2008-08-03 Day-trippers abound. Throughout the New York region, families are downsizing their vacations, staying closer to home to save money and gasoline.

For the Devlin family, spread out on their beach blankets at Jenkinson’s, the Jersey Shore won out over their condo in Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Myrtle Beach is more than 500 miles from their home in Howell, which means a minimum of two fill-ups each way in their sport utility vehicle, a Ford Explorer, at $110 a tankful, Teresa Devlin explained. “We’ll save gas and more by renting out our condo,” she said.

“We’re just 20 minutes away from here,” her husband, Stuart, added from his reclining beach chair. “So we plan on coming here every other week.”

Another day-tripper, Alisa Walker of Montvale, who was at Jenkinson’s beach with a friend, Suzy Dokmajian of Elmwood Park, said, “Before we might have gone down as far as Atlantic City or Stone Harbor, but this is as far as one tank of gas takes us.”

“Only a tank away” is how the Greater Wildwood Chamber of Commerce markets its beaches. While the beaches may be full, many beachgoers are cutting their stay short. “Instead of staying a whole week, now it’s only maybe three to four days,” said Tracey DuFault, the chamber’s executive director. “There’s a lot of last-minute bookings. Everyone has their eye on the weather. They don’t want to pay $50-plus a tank for a rainy weekend.”

Rich Bilotti, who owns the Surfside Motel on Broadway in Point Pleasant Beach, said his business was down “about 17 percent.” Mr. Bilotti said he, too, was seeing a larger-than-usual number of last-minute bookings, as gas-conscious tourists keep an eye on the weather.

The initial trepidation about gas prices and the economy led to a slow start for the summer season in some areas. “I know initially our rentals were soft, and we didn’t have the bookings we usually had in June,” said Lori Pepenella, marketing director for the Southern Ocean County Chamber of Commerce, which handles Long Beach Island. “But things have picked up. We’re about where we were last year.”

Some hotels and motels at the shore have embraced rebates or gas cards as an incentive for guests. Amy Herberg, general manager at the Williams Cottage Inn in Beach Haven, on Long Beach Island, said the inn was offering a $50 rebate for a midweek stay.

“Maybe they’ll use it to fill up their tank, maybe they’ll use it on a nice dinner out. We tried it out around Memorial Day and it was very popular, so we’re keeping the rebate all summer,” Ms. Herberg said.

Summer rentals can differ widely from town to town. Case in point: At Diane Turton Realtors, Terry Hemmer, a rental manager in the Sea Girt office, in Monmouth County, reported that rentals were down and that tenants were looking to rent for only a week or two, as opposed to a month or a full season.

Barely five miles down the road in the Diane Turton Point Pleasant Beach office, Robert Booth, a rental agent, reported a “better than last year” season in his area, with rentals up by 12 percent. He noted that more families were sharing rentals.

If beachgoers are sharing rentals, they are also sharing rides. At Jenkinson’s, four retirees lined a bench on the boardwalk — Fortune Zacco, Donatella Gerlach, Marilyn Lutz and Julie Fulton, all from the Whiting section of Manchester, in Ocean County.

“We all chipped in for gas for the ride,” Ms. Zacco said. Ms. Gerlach added: “Julie is our designated driver. That’s the only way we could get down here — is to car-pool.”

Gas prices in New Jersey can be a pleasant surprise to nonresidents. Some stations in Point Pleasant Beach were selling regular last week for $3.83 a gallon, while the average was about $4.30 in Manhattan and $4.29 on Staten Island.

“We come down here and gas up. We’re saving $6, maybe $7 a tank,” said Brandon Trifeletti of Staten Island, who was spending his day at Jenkinson’s with his friend Lauren Caruso, also of Staten Island. “Hey, every little bit helps.”

Over the Memorial Day holiday, AAA surveyed the toll bridges between Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey and found that traffic was down about 15 percent from last year. Recent statistics from the New Jersey Highway Authority showed traffic down around 4 percent on both the Garden State Parkway and the New Jersey Turnpike.

But on the Fourth of July, according to figures from the South Jersey Transportation Authority, 97,133 cars passed through the Pleasantville toll booth of the Atlantic City Expressway — a 14.2 percent increase from the 85,026 cars in 2007. And train ridership was up for New Jersey Transit, which has been offering discounts to beach destinations like Point Pleasant Beach.

“This tells you that despite the impact gas prices may have on overall traffic, people are still coming to the shore,” Mr. Weinstein of AAA said.

Nancy Byrne, executive director of the New Jersey Division of Travel and Tourism, said the state is “perfectly positioned” between New York City and Pennsylvania for a vacation that is only one fill-up away. “You almost feel bad saying that you’re doing well because of the gas crunch, but with people staying closer to home, the Jersey Shore is benefiting,” Ms. Byrne said.

Back on the boardwalk on the perfect beach day, Ariel Espaillat from Paterson was shepherding his mother, his wife, his two daughters and his two nephews onto the beach.

“Yeah, the gas prices make a dent in your wallet,” Mr. Espaillat said. “Where it used to cost maybe $30 to drive down here, now it’s like $45.”

“But you got to get out, you can’t stay home all summer,” he said. “You got to have a vacation.”
64 2008-08-03 Lindsay Lipsitz, a daughter of Margarite Lipsitz and Randy Lipsitz of Stamford, Conn., was married on Saturday evening to Brian Eric Weiss, the son of Rhonda L. Weiss and Barry Weiss of Marlboro, N.J. Rabbi Janet Roberts officiated at Tappan Hill in Tarrytown, N.Y.

Mrs. Weiss, 25, is a marketing communications specialist at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, the New York law firm. She graduated from the University of Michigan.

Her father is a partner in the intellectual property department of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, the New York law firm. Her mother is a speech and language pathologist who consults with preschools and elementary schools in Stamford.

Mr. Weiss, 30, is an associate manager in the new products group at Forest Laboratories, a pharmaceutical company in New York. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.

His father is a senior partner in the Edison, N.J., office of Grant Thornton, the accounting firm.
65 2008-08-03 Emily Rachel George, the daughter of Bonnie and Robert George of Chilmark, Mass., was married on Saturday to Dr. Ian Scott Neugeborn, the son of Joan and Michael Neugeborn of Jericho, N.Y. Rabbi William Dreskin officiated at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers, in Manhattan.

The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She is to become a social worker at the Ross Global Academy, a charter school in Manhattan, later this month. She graduated from Washington University in St. Louis, received a master’s degree in education from Hunter College and in May received a master’s degree in social work from New York University.

Her father is an independent financial planner in Manhattan. Her mother retired as the director of admissions for the Ethical Culture School in Manhattan.

The bridegroom, 30, is a third-year resident and a clinical assistant instructor in anesthesiology at the State University of New York’s Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. He graduated from the University of Michigan and received his medical degree, magna cum laude, from St. George’s University in Grenada.

His mother is a second-grade teacher at Sea Cliff Elementary School in Sea Cliff, N.Y. His father is an accountant at the Manhattan law firm Klestadt & Winters.
66 2008-08-03 Founded in 1996, Antares has, by the company’s estimates, about $6 billion in assets and projects under management in Fairfield and Westchester Counties. The company has capitalized on the proliferation of hedge funds and other financial firms in both Greenwich and neighboring Stamford through major investments in office properties.

Most recently, Antares has renovated and fully leased the former Greenwich headquarters of UST Inc., a tobacco company, after buying the 154,000-square-foot building last year for $130 million.

In Stamford, Antares has acquired a total of 1.5 million square feet of office space in the last couple of years. Mr. Beninati said the aggregate cash flow from those seven buildings is 44 percent ahead of projections this year. “The markets have been very turbulent, and we’ve still been able to succeed in the largest parts of our business,” he said.

On the residential end, however, the company appears to have overreached. In January, Antares sold two Greenwich apartment complexes under the threat of foreclosure after its plans to convert them to high-end condominiums failed to attract buyers.

Antares Mansions L.L.C. didn’t fare much better. It built two homes at the Taconic site. One sold for just over $10 million last August, but as the market deteriorated, the price on the second was gradually lowered until it sold for just $6.6 million. In April, the company abandoned the project, selling the five remaining vacant lots for $9 million.

The Lake Carrington property, which is advertised as having seven bedrooms, two elevators, an indoor lap pool, and a 20,000-bottle wine cellar, continues to be listed with Sotheby’s International Realty for $28 million, even with an unfinished interior. According to documents filed in the investor lawsuit in state Superior Court in Stamford, however, the company has a potential buyer for the property at a significantly lower price. A court filing by Antares cites a price of $12.5 million.

Last month, a judge granted the investors’ motion for a temporary restraining order prohibiting Antares from disbursing any funds from the sale, should it go through, pending a hearing.

The three investors — Paul Levy, managing member of Pana Realty Group L.L.C. in Greenwich; Michael Barasch, a lawyer in New York City; and SGS Equities L.L.C., a company in New Rochelle, N.Y., whose managing member is Leonard M. Shendell — are seeking repayment of the $4.8 million they put up for the venture. They accuse Antares Mansions, Mr. Beninati and Mr. Cabrera of violating the offering memorandum terms by failing to repay investor capital ahead of other debt interests.

Last week, Antares filed a countersuit in New York State Supreme Court, claiming the investors’ “wrongful conduct” forced the mansion division to alter its development plans and “sell the project assets in a difficult market.”

Documents filed in the two cases describe a dispute revolving around some $25 million in additional financing secured by Antares Mansions for the projects. The project’s initial financing consisted of about $30 million in bank loans, $10 million from outside investors, and $2.9 million from Antares.

According to Antares’s complaint, the additional loans were needed to maximize the size of the homes. The financing came from another Antares-affiliated entity, the suit says.

By late last year, Antares had defaulted on its initial bank loans. It was eventually able to obtain short-term refinancing for both projects, enabling it to pay off the bank mortgages and some of the additional debt.

A lawyer for the investors, Tab Rosenfeld, said his clients originally received “a completion guarantee” from Antares that effectively put investors ahead of every other stakeholder in line for repayment except for the original mortgage holder. By refinancing the project and paying off the additional debt, however, Antares essentially used investor equity in the project to repay company loans, he said.

Antares strongly disputes this claim. In its lawsuit, it contends the offering memorandum to investors made clear that the venture was “highly speculative.” It also accuses Pana Realty, the lead investor, of preventing it from refinancing in time to stave off default by refusing to provide “certain consents” to an otherwise willing lender.

Antares is also being sued by a former partner: William Paul Dellasorte, president of William Paul Inc., a Danbury construction company. His lawsuit alleges that Mr. Beninati and Mr. Cabrera did not pay him the full profit share and management fees he was entitled to under an oral agreement for construction work on the condominium conversions, the mansions and other projects.

These disputes have not slowed progress on Antares’s most ambitious undertaking yet. In Stamford, construction is well under way on its redevelopment of roughly 80 acres in the city’s neglected South End. Called Harbor Point, the $3.5 billion plan calls for a waterfront hotel, office buildings, public parks, some 400,000 square feet of retailing, and some 4,000 housing units.
67 2008-08-03 Near the beginning of the fifth act of “Hamlet,” just a few lines after he fondles Yorick’s skull, the Prince of Denmark grows distraught at the sight of Ophelia’s burial and avows he’ll do anything to avenge the death of his love — including eat a crocodile. When his boasts are taken for psychosis, Hamlet threatens, “Let Hercules himself do what he may, / The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.” Here, David Wroblewski, in his ambitious first novel, uses the framework of Shakespeare’s tragedy to grant that patient dog its day.

“The Story of Edgar Sawtelle” is not alone, of course, in its reanimation of “Hamlet” (see Matt Haig’s recent novel “The Dead Fathers Club,” for example), but it is surely the first to populate it with so many hounds. Set chiefly in the early 1970s, near the Chequamegon National Forest in Wisconsin, the novel tells the story of the Sawtelle family, which over the generations has strived to establish, through an experimental amalgam of breeding, training and mysticism, the ne plus ultra of the companion dog. The goal is to produce free-willed, “choice making” creatures, ones that, having “learned that a certain expression on a person’s face meant that something interesting lay behind them, or in another room,” will pursue the action best for both themselves and their owners. Wroblewski, who grew up on a Wisconsin dairy farm and until recently worked as a software engineer, wrote his novel over the course of a decade, and he takes as much inspiration from Darwin and Mendel as he does from Kipling and London. The result is a sprawling, uneven work, at times brilliant but elsewhere sentimental and tedious.

After several miscarriages, Trudy Sawtelle gives birth to Edgar, a boy who, like the family’s dogs, can hear but cannot speak. The source of Edgar’s disability is never understood — it is one of the book’s many mysteries — but the muteness enables an almost supernatural connection between him and the animals. Edgar is smart, adamantly curious about both the natural and human world, and the language he creates is a resourceful patchwork of learned and invented signs. (With striking effect, Wroblewski renders Edgar’s statements without quotation marks.)

In the book’s early sections, Wroblewski presents an idyll — Edgar and his father stroll serenely through the early morning woods, Edgar fumbles through the care of his first litter — that can seem mawkish and superficial. Edgar’s father, Gar, is a vague sketch of benevolence and probity, and the outside world exists only in periodic pop culture references — Roger Miller, a man on the moon. Yet how can paradise be destroyed if it doesn’t first exist?

The destroyer enters in the form of Edgar’s uncle, Claude, who, if a more complex character than his brother, is nonetheless depicted with a disconcerting number of clichés. The night Claude arrives, Edgar has a nightmare: “Claude spoke in a voice low and quiet, his face divided by a rippling line of cigarette smoke, his words a senseless jumble. But when Edgar looked down, he found himself standing in a whelping pen surrounded by a dozen pups, wrestling and chewing one another; and then, just as he lapsed into deep, blank sleep, they stood by the creek and one by one the pups waded into the shallow water and were swept away.” The stream of words is graceful, but it amounts to the most obvious foreshadowing. After the “ferociously solitary” Claude repeatedly bickers with Gar, and Gar abruptly dies, Edgar knows but cannot prove Claude murdered his father.

Wroblewski’s literary skill is most apparent in his intoxicating descriptions of the bucolic setting. “The sapphire sky above floated a small, lone cloud made orange by the sunrise,” he writes in one dreamlike sequence. “Sparrows cartwheeled over the wet field like glazier’s points against the sky, and the swallows nesting in the eaves plunged into the morning air.” Similarly, Wroblewski’s handling of the ghost scene (“His head, his torso. Arms held away from his body. All formed by raindrops suspended and instantly replaced”) and his transformation of “the play’s the thing” into an ingenious skit of syringe-clenching dogs display a delightful legerdemain. The book’s climax is a high-voltage ride of multiple perspectives and shifting time frames.
68 2008-08-03 As a practical matter, probably not. Presidents can avoid using computers if they want to. That’s one of the privileges of the office. They are surrounded by a staff entrusted with keeping them plugged in, day and night.

So why have Mr. McCain’s admissions of digital illiteracy sparked such ridicule in wiseguy circles?

Computers have become something of a cultural marker — in politics and in the real world. Proficiency with them suggests a basic familiarity with the day-to-day experience of most Americans — just as ignorance to them can suggest someone is “out of touch,” or “old.”

“We’re not asking for a president to answer his own e-mail,” said Paul Saffo, a Silicon Valley futurist who teaches at Stanford. “We’re asking for a president who understands the context of what e-mail means.”

The “user experience,” Mr. Saffo said, brings with it an implicit understanding of how the country lives, and where it might be heading. As Mr. McCain would lack this, he would also be deficient in this broader appreciation for how technology affects lives.

There will always be people who take great delight in the powerful betraying cluelessness over technology. When Senator , Republican of , was indicted last week on charges of filing false financial disclosures, the news was met with reminders that he once referred to the Internet as a “series of tubes.” Some mocked President Bush, too, when he referred to his using “the ” and “the Internets.” Mr. Bush used to e-mail but gave it up when he became president because of concerns about security and a paper trail — the same things, presumably, a successor would consider.

In the rarefied context of the Oval Office, however, there can be great value in having a president who has an intuitive sense of how a technology works, said Tom Wheeler, a telecommunications entrepreneur and investor who wrote the recent book “Mr. ’s T-Mails: The Untold Story of how Abraham Lincoln Used the Telegraph to Win the Civil War.”

“I don’t think it’s so much a question of what a president is doing today,” Mr. Wheeler said. “It’s a question of how responsive are you to the fact that there will be continuing technological change during your term.”

Mr. Wheeler, a supporter and fundraiser for Mr. McCain’s Democratic rival, Senator , said that Lincoln was the model of a president who embraced technology. Lincoln’s mastery of the telegraph machine not only put him well ahead of most of his constituents on the technology curve but also allowed him to speak directly to his generals and track their actions.

Lincoln gave a speech in 1860 that said the ’ responsiveness to new technology was the chief virtue separating it from . The speech begins, “All creation is a mine, and every man a miner.”

It’s no surprise that Mr. McCain — standard-bearer of the party of Lincoln — has moved to press delete on the notion that he is a Luddite.

“I do understand the importance of the computer,” Mr. McCain reassured in The San Francisco Chronicle last week. “I understand the importance of the blogs.” He said, “I am forcing myself — let me put it this way, I am using the computer more and more every day.” But keeping up with technology “doesn’t mean that I have to e-mail people,” he said. “Now, I read e-mails.” The staff is “constantly showing them to me as the news breaks during the day.”

This was a decidedly different Mr. McCain from the one who said in last year that it was important for leaders to communicate with bloggers, “as painful as that might be.”

Or the Mr. McCain who in an interview with Fortune magazine two years ago called himself a “Neanderthal” about computers, in contrast to his wife, Cindy, whom he called a “wizard.”

“She even does my boarding passes — people can do that now,” Mr. McCain marveled. “When we go to the movies, she gets the tickets ahead of time. It’s incredible.”

Mr. McCain’s sense of wonder evoked the episode in the early 1990s when George H. W. Bush became overly impressed upon seeing a price scanner at a supermarket check-out counter. It suggested to some people that the president, who had spent four years in the White House after spending eight years as vice president, was out of touch with the lives of average Americans.

The McCain campaign is sensitive to the notion that his limited knowledge of computing could be taken as a signal that he is blind to technology.

“You don’t actually have to use a computer to understand how it shapes the country,” said Mark Soohoo, a McCain aide for online matters, at a conference on politics and technology. “You actually do,” interrupted Tracy Russo, a former blogger for .

Not knowing how to use a computer could reinforce a notion that Mr. McCain subscribes to the old-way-of-thinking, said Michael Feldman, a veteran of the Clinton White House and a top aide to former Vice President . It creates a problematic “optic” for the McCain campaign, Mr. Feldman said, especially when juxtaposed with the younger Mr. Obama, frequently photographed with BlackBerry on his belt clip.

“There’s a certain tempo to the thinking of someone who uses all kinds of new media,” said Mr. Saffo, who said he would anoint Mr. Obama, if elected, “the first cybergenic president,” just as was considered the first telegenic president.

McCain supporters point out that his ranking position on the Senate Commerce Committee has steeped him in issues important to the technology sector.

“If John McCain needs to rely on a young staffer to set up his page, then so be it,” said Ed Kutler, a Republican lobbyist and former aide to the cybersavvy former House Speaker . “I can live with that.”
69 2008-08-03 CONDITIONS are most ripe for a bear market to end and a new bull market to begin when investor sentiment and fundamental and technical factors are all in alignment. Unfortunately, the rally that began three weeks ago is fully supported by investor sentiment alone, suggesting that the bottom of this bear market has not yet been reached.

First, consider the technical evidence. Compared with the initial rallies after previous bear-market bottoms, the rally that began in mid-July has been disturbingly weak. In fact, during the first days of the climb, a relatively large number of stocks actually fell. That has led many analysts to conclude that the upward trend is likely to fizzle.

Take note of one particular indicator — based on the proportion of shares trading on the New York Stock Exchange that rise in price in a given session. If July 15 were the bear-market low, according to many technical analysts, there should have been at least one trading session in the subsequent rally in which at least 90 percent of total trading volume was from shares rising in price.

Martin Zweig, president of Zweig-DiMenna Associates, a hedge fund firm in New York, calls such days “9-to-1 up days.” In his 1986 book, “Winning on Wall Street,” Mr. Zweig wrote that “every bull market in history, and many good intermediate advances, have been launched with a buying stampede that included one or more 9-to-1 up days.”

The market’s rally over the last three weeks hasn’t satisfied this precondition. This may seem surprising, because there have been three days — July 16, 17 and 29 — when the Dow Jones industrial average has risen by well more than 200 points. But the volume of rising shares on the Big Board never exceeded 82 percent on any of those days; on one of the three, July 17, it reached just 71 percent.
70 2008-08-03 “We have to think about affirmative action and craft it in such a way where some of our children who are advantaged aren’t getting more favorable treatment than a poor white kid who has struggled more,” Mr. Obama said last week in a question-and-answer session at a convention of minority journalists in Chicago.

During a presidential debate in April, Mr. Obama said his two daughters, Malia, 10, and Sasha, 7, “who have had a pretty good deal” in life, should not benefit from affirmative action when they apply to college, particularly if they were competing for admission with poor white students.

While Mr. Obama’s biracial background in many ways makes him an ideal bridge between racial sensibilities, the issue remains politically treacherous, especially with race taking an increasingly prominent role in the campaign. Indeed, Mr. Obama’s comments have already begun resonating in the long-running dispute over affirmative action, emerging as three states consider ballot initiatives that would ban racial preferences altogether.

“We have to have these conversations about race and class,” said John Payton, the president of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund. Mr. Payton disagreed with Mr. Obama’s stance on his daughters, but said he believed that his comments would lead to a thoughtful national discussion.

Still, Mr. Payton said, “everybody is nervous that in a political campaign we get reduced to slogans, and the narrowest of slogans, so that you don’t get good discussions.”

In some respects, Mr. Obama’s remarks simply reflect a growing consensus that class should play a significant role in affirmative action programs. It already does in states like California and Michigan, where voters have decided that race can no longer be a factor in government hiring or public university admissions. A Supreme Court decision last year, which barred public school districts from assigning students to schools based on their race, has also forced administrators to focus on socioeconomic status in their efforts to integrate segregated public schools.

But the Supreme Court has also said that universities could consider race as they worked to diversify their campuses. Proponents of such programs point out that blacks continue to face discrimination regardless of class or income. Some fear that Mr. Obama’s focus on the socioeconomic status of his daughters — as opposed to the diversity of experience and perspective they might bring to predominantly white campuses — may help conservatives in their battle to eliminate race from university admissions and government hiring.

Ward Connerly, a crusader against affirmative action, said he believed that Mr. Obama’s remarks would buoy support for his ballot initiatives in Arizona, Colorado and Nebraska in November that would ban preferential treatment on the basis of race, ethnicity and sex in government hiring and public education.

Last week, Mr. Obama’s Republican rival, Senator John McCain, announced his support for those measures. He also accused Mr. Obama of injecting race into the campaign, citing his remarks that Republicans would try to scare voters by pointing out that “he doesn’t look like all those other presidents on the dollar bills.” Mr. Obama’s campaign officials said the remark had been misconstrued.

Mr. Obama opposes the ballot initiatives, saying they would derail efforts to break down barriers for women and members of minorities. But Mr. Connerly said Mr. Obama had already helped the cause. “He’s advanced the debate,” Mr. Connerly said. “He’s brought it to a new level.”

Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a professor at Harvard Law School and an adviser on black issues to Mr. Obama, said some of Mr. Obama’s supporters were “obviously concerned about whether this is a retreat from a commitment to affirmative action in its classical sense.”

Mr. Ogletree, who supports Mr. Obama’s presidential bid, said Mr. Obama continued to support race-based preferences and understood that race still circumscribed the lives of many Americans. But he and civil rights lawyers like Mr. Payton say Mr. Obama’s daughters should not be barred from affirmative action programs because they may well encounter racial discrimination, unlike their white peers. Studies suggest that employers often favor white job seekers over black applicants, even when their educational backgrounds and work experiences are nearly identical. Mr. Obama’s “daughters are not going to be judged in a colorblind way throughout their lives,” Mr. Ogletree said.

Some of Mr. Obama’s supporters said they thought he was emphasizing class in part to woo white voters, who typically favor preferences that benefit the poor, surveys show. But his friends and former classmates dispute that, saying his evolving views reflect years of wrestling with the issue of affirmative action, as a matter of policy and in his own personal life.

Mr. Obama was raised by his mother, a white single parent who struggled at times to support him and his sister. In his first book, “Dreams From My Father,” Mr. Obama described how his friends from the private high school he attended sometimes commented on the lack of food in the family’s refrigerator.

In Chicago, where Mr. Obama worked as a community organizer before attending law school, he met white and black steelworkers, secretaries and truck drivers who had lost their jobs. Friends say that as Mr. Obama worked with these poor families, he became keenly aware of his own privilege.

Former classmates say Mr. Obama chose not to mention his race in his application to Harvard Law School to avoid benefiting from affirmative action, an assertion that his campaign declined to confirm or deny.

“His work was with those who didn’t have much, and they were black, Hispanic and white,” said Gerald Kellman, who hired Mr. Obama to help organize poor families in Chicago. “He never had much inclination to use affirmative action as a tool then. He wanted to level the playing field by providing early childhood education programs, access to good schools.”

Even as Mr. Obama embraced more traditional liberal views of affirmative action, he was rarely doctrinaire. As a student, Mr. Obama sometimes engaged in and sometimes avoided the bitter racial debates on campus.

As an undergraduate at Occidental College, for instance, he declined to get involved in student efforts to push for affirmative action and minority hiring. At Harvard, he spoke at a rally in support of students who condemned the school administration for failing to offer tenure to any of its professors who were black women.

But he and other editors at the law review were ambivalent when some students argued that women should benefit from the review’s affirmative action policy. (The review’s leadership, which included several women, ultimately decided that the policy should not single out women, saying a dip in their number for one year seemed to be a statistical anomaly.)

“He was clearly unambiguously in favor of affirmative action as a policy matter, but he recognized some of the ambiguities and the nuances in the argument that the most passionate affirmative action supporters often did not,” said Bradford A. Berenson, who served as associate White House counsel under President Bush and worked on the law review with Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama was sympathetic to minority students who argued that affirmative action undermined them in the eyes of their white colleagues. But he said he never felt that way at Harvard.

“I have not personally felt stigmatized,” Mr. Obama wrote in his letter to the editor in 1990.

A federal judge once asked a friend of Mr. Obama’s whether he had been “elected on the merits” as law review president, Mr. Obama told The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education in 2001. He said the question came up again when he applied for a job as a professor at the University of Chicago Law School.

Mr. Obama has not described how he felt then. But as a state senator, he spoke with empathy about accomplished minority students at elite universities who sometimes lived “under a cloud they could not erase.”

Over the past few years, Mr. Obama has also voiced sympathy for whites who feel resentful of race-based affirmative action and questioned how long such programs need to continue.

Even as he argued that timetables for minority hiring may be necessary where there is evidence of systemic discrimination, he also warned in his second book, “The Audacity of Hope,” that “white guilt has largely exhausted itself in America.”

It was 2006 then, and Mr. Obama was a wealthy senator considering a bid for the presidency. He worried that race-based preferences, while necessary, might undermine efforts at building cross-racial coalitions.

Presaging his recent focus on class, Mr. Obama argued that whites were more likely to join blacks in supporting programs that were not racially based.

“An emphasis on universal, as opposed to race-specific programs isn’t just good policy,” Mr. Obama said in his book. “It’s good politics.”
71 2008-08-03 Athletes themselves don’t sell a brand, says Mary O’Connor, the director of Olympic sponsorships for the Marketing Arm, a promotions agency based in Dallas. Instead, they provide “an emotional connection that can bring a marketing campaign to life.” It’s a gratifying relationship for the athletes as well: many contracts signed by Olympians contain incentive bonuses tied to their performance. Winning gold or breaking a world record, for example, can sometimes double or triple an athlete’s windfall. Conversely, if an athlete tanks, his prospects for future deals can be grim. Of the small number of Olympians wooed by Madison Avenue, Michael Phelps is in a category by himself. Most everyone else, it seems, is scrambling for what’s left over.

SILVER: Deals with major sponsors can range from $100,000 to $500,000 in base pay.
72 2008-08-03 WEISS--Jesse. The Members and Directors of the Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and former Director of the Association. WEISS--Jesse, 90, of New York and Palm Beach, previously of Quogue. After a shor...
73 2008-08-03 HARDCOVER     WHEN MARKETS COLLIDE by Mohamed El-Erian. (McGraw-Hill, $27.95). Investing advice for a time of global economic change....
74 2008-08-03 To celebrate the 2008 Olympics, Lane Crawford, the Chinese luxury retailer, commissioned 12 fashion designers to each design a uniform for their favorite sport. While Stefano Pilati's running ensemble for Yves Saint Laurent might be better suited ...
75 2008-08-04 A new online system shortens the wait for new dog licenses and renewals to 10 to 14 days. Of the 500,000 dogs in the city, officials said that only 20 percent are registered....
76 2008-08-04 Also in Morning Buzz: the Colombian-born lawyer who teaches Spanish to the mayor, a weekend of New York fun four wounded Iraq war veterans, and more headlines from papers in the region....
77 2008-08-04 The former head of Merrill Lynch's trading and investment banking business has dropped plans to start his own hedge fund after potential investors dropped out, Bloomberg News reported citing two unnamed sources. Mr. Kim, who left Merrill last May ...
78 2008-08-04 Humberto Leon and Carol Lim This week's guest bloggers are Carol Lim and Humberto Leon, the co-founders of the downtown boutique Opening Ceremony. Leon and Lim, former luxury retail executives who met as students at the University of California, B...
79 2008-08-04 When a spacecraft headed for Earth orbit was lost Saturday, portions of the cremated remains of 208 people who were being sent into orbit went missing as well....
80 2008-08-04 Contributions to the McCain campaign from oil company employees rose after he promoted his support for offshore drilling....
81 2008-08-04 John McCain urged Congress to abandon its five-week summer recess and return to the Capitol to address the nation's energy needs. He called on his Democratic rival to join him back at work....
82 2008-08-04 When a small container of plutonium leaks at an I.A.E.A. lab....
83 2008-08-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
84 2008-08-04 New Yorkers are fetishizing farmers, a British chef apologizes for recommending a poisonous plant, and other links from around the Web....
85 2008-08-04 Obama's big economy speech, last week: Back in the 1990s, your incomes grew by $6,000, and over the last several years, they've actually fallen by nearly $1,000. "Back in the 90s?" Why not, "When a Democrat was president?" "Over the last several y...
86 2008-08-04 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
87 2008-08-04 After a strong performance last week, Wachovia shares appeared to fall back to earth on Monday, having dropped as much as 10.3 percent. That's a sobering change from last week, when Wachovia shares gained 31 percent. But according to Robert Patten...
88 2008-08-04 - The New York Times: The Jewish Channel, newly available in the New York area, is finding an audience for "Rabbi's Roundtable," documentaries, films and other programming. - TV Week: In a little more than two months, Starz debuts "Crash," its fir...
89 2008-08-04 Silver Alert programs are modeled after the Amber Alert system for missing children....
90 2008-08-04 Boscov's, which describes itself as the largest family-owned, full-service department store chain in the United States, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection early Monday. It is the latest in a parade of U.S. retailers, including Mervyn's and...
91 2008-08-04 Harbinger Capital Management, the hedge fund run by Philip Falcone, has been hit by the unexpected dive in oil prices, according to The New York Post. The sudden drop in oil prices in July apparently caught the hedge fund off guard, with causing H...
92 2008-08-04 Jack Nash, a former chairman of Oppenheimer & Company who helped pioneer the modern hedge fund business, died July 30 in Manhattan. He was 79. He died at Mount Sinai Medical Center after a long illness, according to his family. Mr. Nash, who fled ...
93 2008-08-04 Qinetiq, the British defense technology group, is in talks to buy a privately held provider of consulting services and technology expertise to U.S. intelligence services, The Financial Times reported. According to the newspaper, the British compan...
94 2008-08-04 Steve & Barry's, the low-cost celebrity retailer which filed for bankruptcy protection last month, has received a takeover bid from a hedge fund in a bid keep the business from liquidation, The New York Post reported. While The Post didn't name su...
95 2008-08-04 Baltimore Ravens running back Willis McGahee may miss Thursday’s preseason opener against the New England Patriots because of an ailing left knee. “Right now, we need to get the fluid out of his knee and get that thing settled down a little bit,” Ravens Coach John Harbaugh said.

The rookie Ray Rice could start because of the injury.
96 2008-08-04 When Mr. McCain frames a choice between “the right change and the wrong change,” older Republicans hear echoes from 1972. The choice, President Richard Nixon asserted then of his race against George McGovern, “is between change that works and change that won’t work.”

The fervor inspired by Mr. Obama’s history-making candidacy poses challenges. Just as it partially obscured Mrs. Clinton’s own assault on the glass ceiling limiting women in politics, it has overshadowed Mr. McCain’s war-hero biography and reputation as a maverick.

Mrs. Clinton assailed Mr. Obama as a novice offering “just words,” questioned his ability to respond to a wee-hours national security crisis and threw down shots in a bar to court white working-class voters. She embraced a gas-tax “holiday,” derided by energy experts and editorialists, in arguing that she better understood the travails of ordinary Americans.

At various points, news reports questioned her tactics and suggested that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, had injected race into the campaign by likening Mr. Obama to the Rev. Jesse Jackson. The Clintons complained in turn of news media bias.

Bitter feelings remain. In a Washington Post interview over the weekend, Mr. Clinton offered cursory praise for his party’s presumed nominee; the Obama team has made it clear that Mrs. Clinton isn’t likely to become his running mate.

But McCain advisers paid close attention to the strong finish of a Clinton primary campaign that fell just short of defeating Mr. Obama. “The most important thing we learned is this: Hillary Clinton won 8 of the last 13 primaries,” said Steve Schmidt, Mr. McCain’s top strategist. “He is beatable.”

So Mr. McCain has ratcheted up his attacks, mocking his Senate colleague as a Paris Hilton-like “celebrity,” questioning his readiness to lead as commander in chief, calling for expanded offshore oil drilling in addition to a gas-tax holiday, and elevating attention to Mr. Obama’s African-American heritage by accusing him of playing “the race card.” As journalists question his tactics — for example, directly disputing a McCain advertisement claiming that Mr. Obama sought to bring television cameras on a visit to wounded soldiers — McCain aides assert the press is in “love” with him.

McCain advisers see solid strategic reasons for swinging harder than Mrs. Clinton did. Press-bashing has united Republicans for more than a generation. If many Democratic primary voters get squeamish at the specter of racial polarization, many culturally conservative swing voters that Mr. McCain needs in states like Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan do not.

To some degree, Republicans feel compelled by public opinion to adopt an aggressive stance. The electorate’s desire for change is robust enough, polls indicate, that questions about Mr. Obama may represent the principal barrier to Democratic victory in November.

Obama advisers say their task lies partly in reassuring voters that he can handle the presidency. But another part lies in redoubling their efforts, interrupted by his overseas trip, to move Mr. Obama out from behind speechmaking lecterns and to convey his on-the-ground understanding of voters’ economic struggles. He will try to do so this week in Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, among other places. Mr. McCain will hit Michigan and Ohio as well as Pennsylvania, with an appearance at the Sturgis, S.D., motorcycle rally to underscore his blue-collar sensibilities.

David Axelrod, the chief strategist for the Obama campaign, said voters “have to get more comfortable” with Mr. Obama. “As they see him, hear him, that will help. But ultimately they’re less interested in our biography than their own.”

Other Democrats say Team Obama must also redirect the spotlight onto his Republican rival. “No candidate ever wins a referendum on himself,” said the Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, who advised Mrs. Clinton. “He needs to make the election about McCain, too.”

By doing so, Mr. Obama stands a better chance of capitalizing on the most obvious way the general election battle is more auspicious for him. On touchstone issues like taxes, health care and the Iraq war, Mr. McCain remains aligned with a Republican president whose approval rating continues to hover around 30 percent, while public opinion polls seem to favor Mr. Obama on many issues.

That offers Mr. Obama a line of argument unavailable in his duel with Mrs. Clinton, whose policy stances closely resembled his own.

“Hillary had a very positive substantive policy agenda,” said Howard Wolfson, a top Clinton adviser. “The American people still don’t know what John McCain would do as president of the United States other than continue George Bush’s policies.”
97 2008-08-04 The actress Christina Applegate, 36, who rose to fame playing the airhead daughter Kelly Bundy on “Married ... With Children” beginning in the late ’80s, has been told she has breast cancer and is expected to make a full recovery, the Associated Press reported. “Benefiting from early detection through a doctor-ordered MRI, the cancer is not life threatening,” Ms. Applegate’s publicist, Ame Van Iden, said in a statement released on Saturday. Ms. Applegate, above, has worked plenty since playing Kelly Bundy: she has been nominated for Emmy and Golden Globe awards for her role as the title character in the ABC comedy “Samantha Who?” and was nominated for a Tony in 2005 for her sole appearance so far on Broadway, as Charity Hope Valentine in “Sweet Charity.” She is scheduled to appear on “Stand Up to Cancer,” an hourlong fund-raising special on ABC, CBS and NBC on Sept. 5.
98 2008-08-04 SAN FRANCISCO — Intel is planning to release on Monday the first technical details of a new family of chips intended to soup up computer graphics and, eventually, a broad range of computing tasks.

The new microprocessor family, code-named Larrabee, will be available in late 2009 or early 2010. Intel is releasing the details of its plans ahead of the Siggraph industry conference in Los Angeles, which starts Aug. 11.

The company said it would initially aim Larrabee at the personal-computer graphics market, where its “many-core” design, with more than a dozen and eventually hundreds of processing units on a single silicon chip, would be especially useful.

But Anwar Ghuloum, an Intel parallel computing engineer, said that over the next half-decade Intel planned to make the chip design available to an increasingly broad spectrum of the computing world, from Windows and Macintosh desktop personal computers to handhelds and even supercomputers.

The market for add-on graphics accelerators, which are prized by PC game players, is now dominated by Nvidia and the ATI division of AMD. Intel’s approach will be distinguished by its reliance on the industry standard x86 instruction set, which will allow the chips to take advantage of a huge library of existing software.
99 2008-08-04 SAN FRANCISCO — Deserved or not, the Windows Vista operating system from Microsoft gets a bad rap. But the company’s recent effort to repair Vista’s reputation did not win any rave reviews either.

Last week Microsoft posted videos at MojaveExperiment.com of a test involving about 140 randomly chosen computer users who had low opinions of Vista. These users had no experience with it, so they were shown what was said to be the company’s new operating system, called “Mojave.” In nearly all the cases, they liked what they saw.

At the end, they were told that “Mojave” was really Vista.

The videos show the shocked reaction. “Wow, really?” many of them said, looking just as surprised as the patrons of America’s finest restaurants did in the 1980s TV commercials when the brewed coffee had been replaced by “dark, sparkling, decaffeinated Folgers Crystals.”

On the Web, however, many technology bloggers had a different reaction. “Microsoft thinks you’re stupid” was the heading of a blog entry on the site of the Canadian magazine Maclean’s. The blogger, Colin Campbell, wrote that “Microsoft seems to be shifting blame for its bad P.R. problems over to their customers.”

Like the Folgers campaign, the Mojave Experiment is “a clever test that demonstrates nothing,” said Bob Garfield, a columnist for Advertising Age magazine and host of “On the Media” on NPR.

If a product has a bad reputation, it is not because of faulty perceptions, Mr. Garfield said. It is because of a faulty product. Vista, halfway through its planned three-year life cycle, has drawn more scorn than most major software products do. People have found it hard to set up. Users have complained that it saps memory and that installing drivers or applications is too difficult.
100 2008-08-04 In the beginning, when Elie Singer created the Jewish Channel, he saw that it was good. But the cable companies were without vision.

Frankly, they had heard the whole megillah before, what with attempts like Mosaic TV, Chai TV and JTV to establish cable channels about Jewish life and culture. “But the people who tried to do it before either didn’t know enough about television or didn’t know about the U.S. market,” said Mr. Singer, 38, chief executive of the Jewish Channel, which recently became available in the New York area. “One of the first questions I was asked by cable operators is, ‘What makes you think you can succeed?’ ”

Ultimately, Mr. Singer prevailed, in part because of his job background in ethnic television. The Jewish Channel — a premium offering, at about $5 a month — has been available on Cablevision since September, on Time Warner since early June and on Verizon Fios since mid-July.

The channel’s estimated 20,000 subscribers, most of them in the metropolitan New York area, can choose from programming categories like “Israel”; “history and remembrance,” which deals largely with the Holocaust; and “American Jewry,” which includes documentaries about Jews in the California Gold Rush and other memorable periods.

The channel, which has been labeled the “Jewish HBO,” relies mostly on pre-existing content. Original programming includes “Inside the Issues,” a monthly Charlie Rose-style program produced in partnership with The Jewish Daily Forward, (a newspaper and Web site), and “Rabbis Roundtable,” a group of Reform, Conservative and Orthodox spiritual leaders who convene each month to debate controversial issues like Barack Obama’s loyalty to the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., interfaith marriage and Eliot Spitzer’s infidelity.

“I didn’t have high hopes” for the round table, Mr. Singer said. “I figured people had enough of their rabbis at their weekly or monthly or annual visits to the synagogue, but it’s become one of our most popular productions.”
101 2008-08-04 The bipartisan package he referred to would include more subsidies for alternative energy sources.

Nancy Pfotenhauer, a McCain economic adviser, told CNN on Sunday that “Senator McCain is open to compromise packages” on energy.

Mr. McCain had earlier dropped his own opposition to offshore drilling, saying that soaring gas prices demanded new approaches.

The two sides continued a sharp back-and-forth over recent McCain ads depicting Obama as a shallow celebrity unready to lead, including a commercial that compared him to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton.

Perhaps goaded by the ads, Mr. Obama last week said he was being attacked partly because he had a “funny-sounding name” and did not look like past presidents. The remark from Mr. Obama, an Illinois Democrat who seeks to become the first black president, brought a charge from a top McCain aide that Obama was “playing the race card.”

Mr. Graham vigorously defended such criticism of Obama. “He is living off celebrity, not ideas,” the senator told Fox News. Referring to Mr. Obama’s comment, Mr. Graham said, “To say that that’s not trying to interject the idea that you’re a victim of John McCain trying to make fun of your name and your racial background is a lie.”

But Mr. Kerry, whose own 2004 presidential campaign was derailed in part by tough ads questioning the senator’s service record in Vietnam, said Mr. Obama’s remark was justified.

“What he was saying is, ‘They’re trying to scare you, they’re trying to scare the American people’ — and believe me, I’m an expert on how they do that. They are engaged in character assassination,” he said. “They’ve decided they can’t win on the issues, so now they’ve decided they’re going to try to destroy his character.”

The two sides also differed over the schedule for presidential debates, a day after the Obama campaign agreed to three presidential debates and one vice presidential debate. Months ago, Mr. Obama had said a proposal from McCain of Arizona for a series of joint appearances was “a great idea.”

"Barack Obama doesn’t want to be tested," Mr. Graham said.

Frontrunning candidates generally avoid debates as potentially more damaging than helpful. At the moment, however, it is unclear who the frontrunner is. A lead of nine percentage points that Mr. Obama held in a daily Gallup tracking poll after his recent overseas trip has evaporated, leaving the candidates tied — at least by that measure — among registered voters. The latest Gallup tracking poll, taken from Thursday through Saturday, showed the two candidates statistically tied, with Mr. Obama at 45 percent and Mr. McCain at 44 percent.

If the McCain campaign decides to credit its sharply critical ads for eliminating Mr. Obama’s lead, more of them seem sure to follow.
102 2008-08-04 Two unions representing 65,000 workers at Verizon postponed a strike threatened for Sunday morning, citing progress in late-night negotiations.

The main union at Verizon, the Communications Workers of America, issued a statement soon after the 12:01 a.m. deadline, saying that it would “stop the clock” and that negotiations would resume later on Sunday.

The contract covers workers from Maine to Virginia who are represented by the Communications Workers and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.

At 12:21 a.m. Sunday, the Communications Workers reported progress on major issues, including protecting health care coverage for active and retired workers and strengthening job security provisions in the contract.

That union, which represents 50,000 of Verizon’s 65,000 unionized workers, was holding talks in Rye, N.Y., and Washington.
103 2008-08-04 THOSE who hope to taste dog meat when they visit Beijing for this summer’s Olympics may be disappointed. The Beijing Catering Trade Association has ordered all 112 designated Olympic restaurants to take dog off the menu, and has strongly advised other establishments to stop serving it until September. Waiters have been urged to “patiently” suggest alternative dishes to customers who ask for dog. It’s all part of a wider campaign to avoid offending foreigners during the Games. (Beijingers have also been told to line up nicely, to stop spitting and even to avoid asking tourists questions about their ages, salaries and love lives.)

The order is not likely to bother many residents. Though dogs have been raised for food in China for thousands of years, you have to hunt around to find the meat on modern menus. Certain regions, like Hunan and Guizhou Provinces, are known for their canine predilections — but even in these places, dog is a relative rarity. And in Beijing itself, you hardly find it except in a few Korean and regional Chinese restaurants.

Dog eating, in any case, tends to be a seasonal pursuit. According to Chinese folk dietetics, which classify every food according to its heating and cooling properties, dog is one of the “hottest” meats around, best eaten in midwinter, when you need warmth and vital energy, not in sultry August.

That eating dog is seen as an issue says more about Western preoccupations than Chinese habits. Since time immemorial, Westerners have had a morbid fascination with the weird fringes of the Chinese diet. Marco Polo noted with distaste that the Chinese liked eating snake and dog; modern Western journalists just love to get their teeth into a juicy story about some revolting delicacy like the assorted animal penises served at the Guolizhuang restaurant in Beijing. And for gung-ho foreign tourists, a skewerful of deep-fried scorpions in the night market in central Beijing has become a rite of passage.

In case you’re wondering, there is nothing alarming about the taste of dog: smothered in chilies and aromatic spices in a Hunanese winter stew, it might remind you of lamb. For a Westerner, eating it can feel a little strange, but is it morally different from eating, say, pork? The dogs brought to table in China are not people’s pets, but are raised as food, like pigs. And pigs, of course, are also intelligent and friendly.
104 2008-08-04 “We have two separate cultures in Belgium,” said Mr. Thiéry, a sturdy man wearing shirt sleeves on a warm summer day, clearly exasperated. “It wasn’t this divisive when I grew up. Protesters shout, ‘French people get off our territory’ at our meetings. Flemish authorities refuse to give contracts to our French-speaking schoolteachers; they give Flemish children here 179 euros a year for school trips and other expenses, French children, 68 euros. If we want subsidies, we are obliged to stock our library with 75 percent of the books in Flemish, but it’s ridiculous to have a Flemish library in a mostly French-speaking town.”

Should Flanders ever secede, an independent Flemish nation that hoped to regain European Union membership would need to respect popular elections, including his, he added ruefully. “Ironic, no?” he said.

Els Witte is a Belgian historian. At her apartment, up the street from the headquarters of the European Union in Brussels, she pondered the bad marriage of French-speaking Wallonia and Dutch-speaking Flanders.

“A language is a culture,” she said. “In Belgium the two cultures know very little about each other because they speak different languages. There are singers known in one part, not in the other. Television is different, newspapers, books.”

Francophones have now come to talk about “linguistic cleansing.” Flemish, many of them openly resentful of subsidizing poorer French-speaking compatriots, who for years lorded it over them economically and otherwise (unemployment today is three times higher in rust-belt Wallonia), say the issue is preserving national heritage. “It’s difficult to have a rational conversation,” said Roel Jacobs, a writer born to Flemish parents who lives in bilingual Brussels.

“There are six million Dutch speakers and they’re angry about Francophone influence, but meanwhile they care nothing about the influence of English and Anglo culture,” he went on, “so it’s not rational. We’ve forgotten our true cultural history. In the 15th century Bruges was the most vibrant city outside Italy because it was full of foreigners. Then it was Antwerp, when the foreigners left Bruges. Today the national movement in Flanders is in complete denial of the past.”

A century or so ago Émile Verhaeren, the Flemish Symbolist poet, who was born in Sint-Amands, near Antwerp, and educated at the University of Leuven, wrote in French. Now the university has split into two, the one Flemish, the other French and moved to Wallonia, and the region around Sint-Amands is a stronghold of far-right, anti-immigrant Flemish nationalists.

“Back then the Francophones didn’t want a bilingual country,” Ms. Witte said. “French dominated, and it would have meant they would need to learn Flemish. Educated Flemish spoke in French. But then the electoral system changed and allowed everyone to vote, and more power went to the non-French-speaking Flemish middle and lower classes.”

The other afternoon Francis Dannemark was at home in Brussels. Through the open French doors in his library, a Ping-Pong table crammed the balcony, beyond the stacks of books and DVDs. “I don’t think it will, but for the first time I really believe Belgium could disappear,” he said. Mr. Dannemark is an editor at Le Castor Astral, a French-language publisher. He prints translations of Flemish writers from Dutch, a rarity here.

“Flemish people today revere their writers because for them language is a symbol of independence,” he said. “I was shocked that my French-speaking counterparts didn’t know their neighbors.” He picked up a French translation of “The Belgian Labyrinth,” by Geert van Istendael, perhaps the most well-known living writer in Flanders, who’s still largely unread by Francophones.

“A Flemish friend,” Mr. Dannemark said, “put it to me this way: ‘Flanders has nothing in common with Holland except language, and the Flemish and Walloons have everything in common except language.’ But there’s almost no communication between the two communities, except through rock music, which everybody sings in English, and sports, which transcend everything.”

Mr. Dannemark added: “Flemish culture is dynamic today, Flemish intellectuals are fluent in Dutch and French and English, and they aren’t part of the separatist movement. Many of them come to live in Brussels because we here are the last Belgians. Most people in Flanders now say, ‘I’m Flemish,’ not ‘I’m Belgian.’ It’s as if Flemish-speaking Belgium wanted to leave Europe. And if they weren’t poor, Walloons would probably want to secede too.”

Mr. Jacobs sighed when that remark was repeated to him. “All cultural movements have a history and the nationalist movement in Flanders started long ago when left-wing liberals from French-speaking Belgium promoted Flemish as the language of the people in Flanders,” he said. “They believed promoting the Dutch language would help educate the poor, who could learn French afterward. Then the Catholic Church came to dominate the movement, to see it as rural and religious in opposition to liberal, urban, bilingual Brussels, and it became conservative. Now there’s a xenophobic, far-right wing.

“I consider myself someone from Brussels,” he added. He was at the moment in a cafe in the city. A Francophone literary colleague ambled over with his young daughter in tow, patted Mr. Jabobs on the back, idly picked up a compilation of Flemish writings, one of Mr. Dannemark’s books, which was resting on the table, and rolled his eyes. Discerning the conversation, he suddenly remembered a pressing engagement.

“My family is from Flanders,” Mr. Jacobs went on. “They put me in a Dutch Catholic school. I learned French in the street. I write in Dutch but refuse to publish only in Dutch, so I translate myself into French. But it’s difficult to have a public on both sides. Flemish writers want to be published in Holland, Francophones in France.”

The enmity is everywhere. The other morning Eugene Messemakers was on the street in Vilvoorde, a Flemish town not far away from Brussels. A retired construction project manager, he has been a councilman for 32 years from the mostly Francophone neighborhood of Beauval, he said. French speakers like him make up some 10 percent of Vilvoorde’s population of 31,000. Mr. Messemakers nodded toward city hall, behind him. The entrance had been moved to the rear of the building. His explanation was that the stone front bore old inscriptions chiseled in French. There was a Flemish flag outside, and a European Union flag.

“It’s gotten to the point that landlords want to rent only to Flemish speakers,” he said. “I used to hire Flemish workers for building projects in Francophone areas, but now French workers need to speak Dutch to be hired by Flemish bosses. At my bank, documents are in Flemish and if you ask for them in French you’re told they’re out.”

Ms. Witte, the historian, responded: “Years ago many Flemish went to places like Liège in Wallonia to work and never got the reciprocity Francophones in the Flemish parts of Belgium now want. Even today, there is still a feeling among Francophones that French is so important they don’t need to learn Dutch.”

Asked if the Flemish side, at this point dominant, might be more linguistically accommodating, Ms. Witte, who’s Flemish, paused.

“In a global society, nations are less important,” she answered. “It’s a moral question. Does a culture have a right to stand up for itself? More than that: Do unity and nationhood take priority over one’s culture? That’s not just an issue for Belgians but everyone.”
105 2008-08-04 WEISS--Jesse. The Members and Directors of the Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and former Director of the Association. WEISS--Jesse, 90, of New York and Palm Beach, previously of Quogue. After a shor...
106 2008-08-04 The Open-Network Agenda     Kevin J. Martin, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, won a victory last week when he persuaded two other commissioners to back his plan to impose sanctions on Comcast for interfering with some custome...
107 2008-08-05 BEIJING - The Chinese embassy revoked the visa of Joey Cheek, a former Olympic speedskater and the founder of the group Team Darfur, a day before he was scheduled to fly to Beijing, Cheek said Tuesday. Cheek had planned to fly to Beijing Wednesday...
108 2008-08-05 Hey America, Paris Hilton responds with her own video to John McCain, who dragged her into the presidential race....
109 2008-08-05 Humberto Leon and Carol Lim This week's guest bloggers are Carol Lim and Humberto Leon, the co-founders of the downtown boutique Opening Ceremony. Leon and Lim, former luxury retail executives who met as students at the University of California, B...
110 2008-08-05 Returning from vacation, I arrived home to find at my doorstop the latest issue of Portfolio, the not-quite-new Conde Nast business magazine, whose media critic is one Howell Raines, the former executive editor of The New York Times who left a cou...
111 2008-08-05 You can use any type of beets to make this pungent salad. The yogurt can be mixed into the salad or spooned over the top....
112 2008-08-05 The Republican candidate offered his wife up as a beauty pageant contestant at the bikers' rally. Is that a crime?...
113 2008-08-05 Only 1 percent of Zimbabweans described the economic situation as "good."...
114 2008-08-05 As reported in the Caucus blog, John McCain stopped by the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally in South Dakota on Monday....
115 2008-08-05 A new commercial touts the Republican nominee's record as a reformer in Washington....
116 2008-08-05 Even before Tropical Storm Edouard hit land, an important group was sending the all-clear signal....
117 2008-08-05 The sources of the candidate's campaign funds are being scrutinized....
118 2008-08-05 The Republican candidate stops by the big Sturgis rally in South Dakota....
119 2008-08-05 H.I.G. Capital has sold Stream Holdings to special purpose acquisition company Global BPO Services in a $200 million cash deal. The head of Global BPO, which raised $250 million in an initial public offering last year, is the former president of S...
120 2008-08-05 The world's largest reinsurer Swiss Re agreed to buy Barclays' life insurance arm for 753 million pounds ($1.48 billion) to boost its Admin Re business in Britain. Swiss Re also said on Tuesday it made a mark-to-market loss on structured credit de...
121 2008-08-05 Another ball sped down towards the handsome youth, another prompt rebuff, and now there was a ripple of applause.

'Well done,' said Mrs Lane, and was ready to clap, but the bowler had begun his run forward.

Again … again … a ball came close to where they sat and the fieldsman ran to retrieve it. The innings went on, there were several scatters of applause, and then a burst of clapping when the youth sent a ball almost as far as the children's games.

It was time for tea. The long trestle table was besieged, while a woman stood by the urn and handed out cups. 'I could do with one, Daisy,' said her mother, and the girl ran to join the queue.

Now Mrs Lane remembered that very much more was being expected of her by the girl Emily, so she turned her attention to her and said, 'I don't really think you know yet what you are in for.'

Mrs Lane was a woman with influence, friends in useful places, and she had been finding out from a dozen different sources just what Emily McVeagh was in for.

The girl had defied her father, and said to him that, no, she would not go to university, she would be a nurse. 'She'll be a skivvy among skivvies,' Mrs Lane had said to herself, shocked at the girl's decision.

She knew John McVeagh well, knew the family, had watched Emily's triumphant schooldays with admiration tinged with regret that her daughter was not as clever and with as much presence and attack. The girls were friends, had always caused people to marvel at their unlikeness. One was retiring, easily overlooked, apparently frail, the other immediately mistress of herself and of circumstances, always first in everything, head girl at school, carrying off prizes: Emily McVeagh, friend and champion of little Daisy.

'I know I can do it,' said Emily, calmly.

'But why, why?' Mrs Lane was wanting to ask, and perhaps would have done, except that the youth who had been earning applause came up to her and she leaned up to kiss him and say, 'Well done. Oh, well done.'

There was a little history here.

He accepted a cup of tea from Daisy, and a vast piece of cake, and sat down by his friend, Mrs Lane. She had known him all his life.

Two brothers: the older one, Harry, was adored by his mother. She was known to be discontented because her husband, the boys' father, a bank clerk and hating it, spent every moment of his spare time playing the organ in the church. Instead, it was clear, she felt, of trying 'to get on'. He was unambitious, but the elder son had been offered a job, much more than most schoolboys could expect, before he had even finished school. He, too, had been the clever one, easily passing exams, winning prizes. But this mother had not liked her second son, Alfred, or behaved as if she didn't.

Beating children in those days meant no more than an intention to listen to the wishes of God. 'Spare the rod and spoil the child.' But Mrs Lane, observing, had been shocked. She, too, was the wife of a bank clerk, a senior one, but her husband was a pillar of the Church, and involved with local activities.
122 2008-08-05 Photo: Kent Gilbert for The New York Times
123 2008-08-05 Three tigers attacked a worker at an exotic animal park in southwestern Missouri, the state’s second tiger attack in two days. Sheriff Richard Hill of Stone County said the tigers attacked a 16-year-old worker at Predator World in Branson West after he entered their cage to take photographs of them for customers. Employees managed to pull the teenager from the cage before emergency responders arrived. The boy, whose name was not released, was flown to a Springfield hospital and was listed in critical condition, with injuries that included punctures to his neck. The attack came a day after a tiger mauled a volunteer at the Wesa-A-Geh-Ya animal farm in Warrenton. The roughly 800-pound tiger jumped an 8- to 10-foot-tall gate and attacked a 26-year-old man who was trying to clean the cage, said Sheriff Kevin Harrison of Warren County. The volunteer, whose name was also not released, had surgery on his leg and was expected to recover. (AP)
124 2008-08-05 The authorities said a gun accidentally fired in an El Paso courthouse and injured two federal agents when a bullet ricocheted. Doug Mosier, a Border Patrol spokesman, said injuries to a Border Patrol agent and a United States deputy marshal were not life threatening. Jerry Payan, a United States Marshal’s Service spokesman, said the gun went off in a secured hallway on the third floor of the courthouse. Mr. Payan declined to discuss details or say whose gun was involved. Both agents were taken to an El Paso hospital, and their names were not immediately released. (AP)
125 2008-08-05 RIVERSIDE, Calif. (AP) — A federal judge rejected a mistrial motion on Monday after dismissing a juror who supposedly made an ethnically disparaging remark during deliberations in a copyright infringement lawsuit that pits MGA Entertainment, maker of the popular Bratz dolls, against the toy giant Mattel.

Lawyers for MGA Entertainment had argued that the comment could have tainted the jury against the company’s chief executive, an Iranian immigrant who is Jewish.

Judge Stephen G. Larson of Federal District Court said he was deeply disturbed by the remark but thought that dismissing the juror was an adequate remedy because the remaining nine jurors seemed unbiased and had openly discussed the remark with the judge.

If every jury in the country reacted to racism or bigotry the way the jury in this case did, “we would have a much better jury system,” Judge Larson said, noting that one juror reported the comment to him and that the foreman and others had rebuked the dismissed juror.

The woman told other panel members that her husband, a lawyer, had worked with Iranians and found they were “stubborn, rude, stingy, are thieves and have stolen other person’s ideas,” according to court papers.
126 2008-08-05 General Motors will start production at a second plant in India in the first week of September, stepping up its capacity in the fast-growing market in the face of growing competition and amid softer sales at home. G.M.’s new plant in Talegaon in western Maharashtra state will have an initial annual capacity of 140,000 vehicles and will make a new small car to take on rivals like Nano, an ultralow-cost car from Tata Motors. G.M., which sold 5,706 vehicles in India in July, a 25 percent increase from a year ago, expects to have about 190 dealers there by year-end. Annual passenger vehicle sales in India are forecast to rise to more than two million units by 2010, two-thirds of those small cars.
127 2008-08-05 The man expected to become South Africa’s next president urged a court on Monday to dismiss corruption and fraud charges against him. Inside the Pietermaritzburg High Court, lawyers argued the technicalities of dropping the charges against Jacob Zuma, the leader of the African National Congress. After the hearing, supporters cheered as Mr. Zuma stood outside on a trailer and sang an antiapartheid song that has become his anthem: “Bring Me My Machine Gun.”
128 2008-08-05 Urged by Fatah leaders in the West Bank to comply, Israel, which is negotiating peace with Fatah and trying to isolate Hamas, let them in. Some 181 people were allowed to cross into Israel, with 22 taken to hospitals and treated and the rest put up overnight on a military base. It was said they would soon be transferred to safety among their associates in the West Bank.

On Sunday, Fatah leaders in the West Bank made clear they had no desire to welcome those 181 people. The reasons offered were vague — Gaza should not be stripped of all Fatah followers, and more would doubtless follow if they were let in — and promises were given through Egypt that the men would not be harmed if they returned home.

In truth, the relationship between the Fatah leadership in the West Bank and the Hilles clan was poor. President Mahmoud Abbas, the head of Fatah, who is allied with other former Fatah leaders in Gaza, was angry that the Hilles clan stood on the sideline when street fighting broke out between Hamas and Fatah in Gaza in June 2007. Some Hilles members are with Hamas. And generally the clan cares about itself more than about either party. Send them back, Mr. Abbas told the Israelis.

So Israel sent about three dozen men back and said the others were on their way. As soon as the men stepped into Gaza, Hamas arrested them. Since human rights groups have recently reported on torture in Gaza, alarms were raised. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel sent an urgent appeal to the Supreme Court demanding that Israel stop returning the men to Gaza.

On Monday morning, the Israeli military announced that it would not send them all to Gaza and that it had persuaded Mr. Abbas to allow many of them into the West Bank. So the civil rights group backed off, replaced by two right-wing activists who petitioned the court to stop the transfer of dangerous men across Israel. By day’s end, the army had moved 88 of the men on military buses to Jericho. Several dozen others were sent to Gaza, while 16 were still in the hospital.

And the rest? Israeli security forces were interrogating them because Israeli intelligence considered them terrorists who had possibly shot Israeli soldiers, launched rockets at Israeli towns or engaged in other anti-Israel violence.

So for now, the Hilles clan has been neutralized, Hamas has increased its power, Fatah leaders are seen as two-timing and indecisive, and Israel helped save the lives of some of its enemies. The streets of Gaza were deserted Monday night as Hamas police officers raided apartment buildings where Fatah loyalists lived.

Still, each side had its own interpretation of the meaning of it all. Israel felt it was not getting the credit it deserved. As Avi Benayahu, an army spokesman, said on Army Radio, “There is no other army in the world that would take such a humanitarian approach to help Palestinians, some armed, being chased and fired at by Hamas.” He added that “Israel has not received any praises for its actions. Yet this is the kind of army we have.”

Sufian Abu Zaida, a Fatah lawmaker, told Army Radio he had a slightly different interpretation of what the Hilles drama meant from a Palestinian perspective.

“When a person is faced with the choice of being killed by his own people or arrested by his enemy, he will prefer to be arrested by his enemy,” he said. “And this gives you a pretty good picture of how bad and cruel the situation is in Gaza.”
129 2008-08-05 The home builder WCI Communities has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after failing to obtain financing to stay afloat, its chairman, Carl C. Icahn, said on Monday.

Mr. Icahn owns about 15 percent of the company, or about six million shares.

On Monday, WCI’s stock lost nearly all its value, closing at 2 cents a share after opening at 99 cents. It was a far cry from the $22 a share that Mr. Icahn offered for the company in March 2007; he bought his stake in WCI in early 2007 for about $19 a share.

The company rejected his offer, and took itself off the market. Mr. Icahn was named chairman after a protracted proxy battle.

At the time he was elected chairman, Mr. Icahn said: “Despite the rough road ahead, I believe in the long-term value of the company and view the WCI platform as a unique vehicle to take advantage of the current market disarray.”

The luxury builder, whose business is concentrated in Florida, one of the states hardest hit by the housing downturn, defaulted on its bank debt on July 29 when its liquidity levels fell below the threshold required by its lenders.

“The banks have had enough, and understandably so,” said Vicki Bryan, an analyst with Gimme Credit, a bond research firm.

WCI has $2.18 billion in assets and $1.92 billion in debts, according to its bankruptcy petition.

Its chief executive, Jerry Starkey, will leave the company effective immediately after agreeing with WCI on a “mutually satisfactory severance package” and will be available for consultation, the company said in a statement.

The former chief operating officer, David L. Fry, was named interim president and chief executive.

Beazer Homes USA is the builder most likely to declare bankruptcy next, Ms. Bryan said. When Beazer reports its third-quarter earnings on Friday, the company will probably reveal such significant write-downs on land that is losing value that it might trip the covenants its banks have set to determine its minimum tangible net worth, she said.
130 2008-08-05 Johnson & Johnson said on Monday that it had been subpoenaed by the Justice Department in connection with its sales of bile duct stents, broadening an investigation that has touched its competitors Abbott Laboratories and Boston Scientific.

The United States attorney’s office in Massachusetts requested the information in June, J.& J., which is based in New Brunswick, N.J., said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Abbott Laboratories and Boston Scientific, which also produce the stents, have said previously that they have been contacted by investigators.

The devices, also called biliary stents, are plastic or metal tubes intended to treat obstructions to the liver. They had an American market of about $40 million in 2007 for approved uses, according to the Millennium Research Group, a Toronto market research firm.

In February, Boston Scientific said the Justice Department was investigating whether manufacturers had been promoting the devices for unapproved uses, among them the repair of weakened blood vessels.

Johnson & Johnson is “cooperating and responding to the subpoena,” said Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for Cordis, the company unit that makes stents. She declined to comment further.

Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Mass., and Abbott, of Abbott Park, Ill., also have said they are cooperating.

Biliary stents are approved to treat obstructions in tubes that carry bile, a digestive fluid, to the intestines, but reports to the F.D.A. indicate that they are often inserted to prop open blood vessels in the legs. The reports also stated that unapproved uses may be injuring patients.
131 2008-08-05 Wall Street fell Monday in an erratic session dominated by worries about inflation, which were somewhat soothed by a plunge in oil prices that took crude to its lowest level in three months.

Light crude closed down $3.69 to settle at $121.41 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after it appeared that Tropical Storm Edouard would not threaten oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico. Oil has fallen nearly $26, or 17.6 percent, since it reached a trading high of $147.27 on July 11; Monday’s close was its lowest since it settled at $120.36 on May 5.

Oil’s retreat was welcome news to a stock market that initially sold off after the Commerce Department said an inflation gauge tied to consumer spending had surged 0.8 percent in June, reflecting higher gasoline prices. That was the biggest jump in the indicator since it gained 1 percent in February 1981.

The data came in the department’s report on consumer spending, which fell 0.2 percent in June after removing the effects of higher prices. That data fed investors’ growing concerns about the impact of rising prices on consumers, whose spending is the lifeblood of the economy.

Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist for Stifel Nicolaus, said the economic readings Monday reinforced the negative sentiment in the markets globally. Although the Federal Reserve will hold a regularly scheduled policy meeting on Tuesday, he said investors did not expect much from the session that would help an economy stymied by higher prices and the continuing housing slump.
132 2008-08-05 As a person “of color” and a close observer of the presidential campaign, I disagree with Bob Herbert’s interpretation of the use of the images of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton in the recent ad by John McCain’s campaign (“Running While Black,” column, Aug. 2).

I see the two women as examples of individuals who are famous for being famous rather than for any real accomplishments. I think that was the purpose for using them. I don’t see it as related to how images of a white woman were used in the campaign ad against Harold Ford.

The McCain ad, perhaps ham-fistedly, was intended as a comment on the fascination of the news media with Barack Obama since he began his run for the presidency as well as on the way he was feted during his recent European visit.

The ad asks the question: Should the leadership of the free world be awarded on the basis of star power, or on the basis of one’s résumé and policies? This is a question a lot of people, including Democrats, should be asking themselves. Tali Makell

It’s only August, and the race card is in full play in this election cycle.

It is hard, and painful, to imagine what the next three months of this long campaign will bring, in black and white and living color.

There is no subtlety here. If the McCain ads were written and produced to compare the celebrity of Hollywood rock stars with that of the popular and charismatic Senator Barack Obama, why didn’t the makers of the advertisement use images of rock stars instead of two blond-haired white women?
133 2008-08-05 MY dad gave me great advice growing up: “Identify what you love to do, and then figure out how to make a living doing it.”

I took his advice and thought my life couldn’t get better, since I’m doing what I love. I’m an F-16 fighter pilot with the Oklahoma Air National Guard, a P.G.A. golf professional, a U.S.G.A. member and a golf course owner.

But during one of my business trip flights, my life took a detour.

I am no backseat pilot. Most of my friends are commercial pilots, and I know how good they are. So when I fly commercial, I relax and think how great it is to have someone else do the driving for a change.

I do, however, always notice the people around me.

I was boarding a United flight out of Chicago about three years ago, and I noticed a young Army corporal in dress uniform sitting in first class. I can tell you that none of us in the military can afford a first-class seat. So I figured someone had exchanged seats with him as a way to say thanks to a soldier home on leave.

I eventually made it back to my own coach seat, and within a few minutes we were wheels up. The flight was short, but it was bumpy and I knew the pilots were busy. Short hops are great for passengers, but they can be draining for pilots.
134 2008-08-05 Oil prices fell below $120 a barrel on Monday for the first time since May after it became clear that Tropical Storm Edouard, which is heading toward the Texas coast, is an unlikely threat to offshore oil operations in the Gulf of Mexico.

Crude oil for September delivery closed down $3.69 a barrel, or 2.9 percent, at $121.41 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Crude has now fallen in six of the last nine sessions and is down sharply from its trading record of $147.27 on July 11. Oil prices have fallen nearly 18 percent from their peak close of $145.29 a barrel on July 3.

“This is mostly just part of the larger trend of falling oil prices that has been happening over the past two or three weeks,” said Daniel Ahn, an energy economist at Lehman Brothers. “At the end of the day, this is a response to the market’s realization that it had been overshooting.”

Mr. Ahn added that demand for oil is down 900,000 barrels a day in the United States compared with last year.

Analysts said oil prices were also hit by fears of a slowing economy, which resurfaced on Monday after the Commerce Department reported that consumer spending slowed in June as shoppers continued to be hit by high gasoline and food prices.

The price for a gallon of regular gas fell Monday to $3.881 from $3.887 the day before. Gas prices have fallen nearly 6 percent from a record high of more than $4 a gallon on July 17.
135 2008-08-05 “The Guards have recently tested a naval weapon which I can say with certainty that the enemy’s ships would not be safe within the range of 300 kilometers,” General Jafari was quoted as saying. “Without any doubt we will send them to the depths of the sea.”

General Jafari gave no details about the type of weapon tested, but he said it was Iranian-built and “unique in the world.”

He said it would have the range to reach enemy warships in the Persian Gulf, apparently a reference to United States warships, which have been conducting naval maneuvers there.

Iran has previously made similar claims about its military abilities, but analysts have treated them with skepticism. Last month, Iran said it had test-fired a number of missiles in war-game maneuvers, including at least one that the government in Tehran described as having the range to reach Israel and another that it said was a relatively new torpedo called a Hoot missile (the name means whale in Persian).

Western military analysts said that those war games featured more bluff than real displays of new power and that the statements about the range of the largest missile were misleading.

General Jafari’s comments were the latest sign of tensions between Iran and the United States over Iran’s civilian nuclear program, which Washington and other Western governments have warned could be used to cloak the development of a nuclear weapon, a charge Tehran has repeatedly denied.

The Bush administration has refused to rule out a military option, and in June Israel’s air force carried out what American intelligence officials described as a rehearsal for a possible strike on Iranian nuclear facilities.

Representatives of the six nations met with Iranian officials in Geneva on July 19, with a senior American official taking part for the first time. The talks seemed to produce no progress on the chief demand — that Iran stop uranium enrichment — but the nations gave Iran two weeks to respond to their latest proposal before it would be withdrawn.

Specifically, the nations wanted Iran to accept a formula known as freeze-for-freeze. Under the plan, Iran would not expand its nuclear program, and the United States and the other powers would not seek new international sanctions for six weeks to pave the way for formal negotiations. The proposal, first offered last year, is intended to give Iran incentives to stop enriching uranium.

Iran dismissed the deadline; on Saturday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vowed that Iran would not move “one iota” on its nuclear rights, although he said it welcomed talks.

At the United Nations, diplomats said Monday that they were assessing their options. “We are in the process of consulting with our partners, but the sense is that there is not much by way of a positive reaction from Iran at the moment,” said Jean-Pierre Lacroix, France’s deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.

The State Department official, Gonzalo Gallegos, said the United States was disappointed that Iran had not responded. “The pressure on Iran to comply with the demands of the international community and its obligations will only grow,” he said.

Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, spoke by telephone on Monday with the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Javier Solana. The French Foreign Ministry said Mr. Solana was expecting a further written response from Iran on Tuesday.
136 2008-08-05 Their emergence is an unintended consequence of our use (and overuse) of antibiotics. Hardy organisms like MRSA evolve to withstand the drugs; then, through vectors like the unwashed hands of health care workers, they hitch a ride from patient to patient, hiding like terrorists among the natural bacteria that all humans harbor.

And when a severely ill patient is further compromised by tubes in a vein, the bladder or the lung, the bacteria flourish in defiance of the usual treatments, leading to infections of the urinary tract, bloodstream and lungs. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that there are 1.7 million hospital infections a year, resulting in nearly 90,000 deaths, costing the health system more than $11 billion.

Contact isolation is part of the battle plan to control the spread of drug-resistant organisms. And it is effective, as long as everyone complies. Remember SARS? In that case, respiratory and contact precautions were credited with stopping the epidemic.

Sadly, studies show that nearly 30 percent of health care workers don’t comply. I can understand why such measures are hard to enforce, because isolation precautions create a barrier between patients and their caregivers.

At times, patients in isolation reach out to shake or hold my hand before I’ve put my gloves on. Sometimes I allow myself to touch patients without gloves, partly because the separation makes me feel I am shunning them, as if the hospital were an ancient leper colony.

And isolation barriers can be dangerous for patients. Two studies showed that doctors and nurses were half as likely to enter the rooms of or to examine patients on contact precautions. One study has even shown that patients in isolation have significantly more preventable adverse events, get less care and are more dissatisfied with their treatment than other patients.

Unlike other treatment, contact isolation does not benefit the patient in isolation; rather, it benefits other hospitalized patients and the community. Our goal is to contain the spread of the resistant organism from one patient to another, through health care workers. But family members, who are also subject to the same glove-and-gown requirements, are not nearly as likely to spread the organisms to other patients. In fact, there are no formal, enforceable recommendations for family members.

In the end, I believe, it is contact precaution and prudent use of antibiotics — and not new antibiotics or advanced technologies — that will save us from multidrug-resistant organisms. So the best I can do is to provide a long explanation to the patient and family, and hope they will comply, within reason. This is exactly what I did.

“Last night,” I told my patient, “the lab had called and said that your urine culture was showing a resistant organism. To make sure the organism does not spread to other patients through health care workers, we need to have people wear gloves and gown.”

But in this case, I also took some liberty with hospital policy; after all, the isolation recommendations are murky when it comes to family members. I said, “It is O.K. for him to kiss you.”

“Now you can kiss me,” my patient told her husband. With me standing just a few feet away, he hesitated for a second. And as his yellow gown draped over her and his green gloves held her shoulders, he gave her a long wedding kiss. I felt like a yellow-gowned chaplain who had just remarried a couple.
137 2008-08-05 American consumers, who have suffered years of neglect from government agencies created for their protection, could soon be in for some genuine help. Congress last week overwhelmingly passed the first important reform in 30 years of the creaky Consumer Product Safety Commission. Aides to President Bush have said that he plans to sign the bill into law.

That would be good news, and even better news if he signs it quickly. Consumers have a right to be protected from such hazardous goods, and businesses stand to gain as well. Consumer confidence in product safety desperately needs some help, especially as the nation moves toward what could be a lean holiday season.

Anyone who follows the news knows why this law is needed. Last year alone, nearly 30 million potentially hazardous toys were pulled from the nation’s shelves. Many items were covered in lead paint. Others had tiny magnets that could injure a child’s delicate stomach.

The safety bill, which passed the Senate 89 to 3 and the House 424 to 1, would essentially ban lead in products for children under 12. It would also require testing of children’s products before they could be put up for sale.

Six types of phthalates suspected of damaging human reproductive systems would be banned, either permanently or until further study is done. It would also direct the commission to establish new safety standards for all-terrain vehicles that have caused hundreds of deaths and thousands of injuries, especially to children.

The law would also strengthen the commission, which has long been starved for funds, by authorizing a much-needed budget increase, including $25 million for a public database. The database would soon let consumers quickly list problems with products, and learn about other consumers’ complaints before they made a purchase. There are also protections for whistle-blowers and increased penalties for violating the law.
138 2008-08-05 Photo of sea lion with zoohandler at Central Park Zoo in New York City...
139 2008-08-05 WEISS--Jesse. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the loss of Jesse Weiss, cofounder, business associate and friend of Eugene J. Schwartz and his family. We extend our condolences to his wife, Eva, and his son, Eric and his family. Allan C. ...
140 2008-08-05 A WARNING REJECTED Richard F. Syron, below, chief executive of the mortgage giant Freddie Mac, routinely rejected warnings that could have protected the company from its financial crisis, more than two dozen current and former high-ranking executi...
141 2008-08-06 A new company, Epoch, acts as a broker between companies seeking interim executives and executives looking for flexible work arrangements....
142 2008-08-06 Matthew Yglesias of the Center for American Progress, left, and Ross Douthat of The Atlantic discuss why the McCain campaign has gone negative.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
143 2008-08-06 Overstock.com, as readers of this blog know, likes to sue people whom it deems responsible for the "naked short selling" that it blames for driving down its share price. It has sued more-or-less every big brokerage firm for facilitating such sales...
144 2008-08-06 Observers have all but ruled her out as a potential running mate to Senator Barack Obama, but Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is not going away....
145 2008-08-06 The Kentucky redshirt junior quarterback Curtis Pulley has been dismissed for violating team rules....
146 2008-08-06 Google said Wednesday that it had found a buyer for its Performics search-marketing unit: Publicis Groupe, the giant French advertising holding company....
147 2008-08-06 Edward Wyatt reports on Nigel Lythgoe's departure from "American Idol" and notes that the reality show is now holding tryouts: "Idol" is currently holding auditions for contestants for the new season, and mostly the usual crowds of thousands of ho...
148 2008-08-06 Sudan, a recipient of foreign aid, exports crops as starvation looms in Darfur.
149 2008-08-06 Sudan, a recipient of foreign aid, exports crops even as starvation looms.
150 2008-08-06 Sudan, a recipient of foreign aid, exports crops as starvation looms in Darfur.
151 2008-08-06 Cablevision may decide to sell the Rangers. Or not. But they won't be cheap....
152 2008-08-06 Why are salt and pepper such an enduring pair?...
153 2008-08-06 The Republican candidate visits the football team's practice in West Virginia....
154 2008-08-06 A couple with a child are looking to rent my home. They are in the middle of a bankruptcy, but they promised to pay the rent on time. I am not sure if I am included in the bankruptcy law's "automatic stay" once I rent them my home. Any advice? Har...
155 2008-08-06 The Nasdaq Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange are fierce competitors, wrestling for market share and sometimes crowing about poaching a big-name stock listing from the other. This earnings season, Nasdaq, led by chief executive Robert Gr...
156 2008-08-06 Gurus clamor for Ganges cleanup and other environmental news....
157 2008-08-06 Mr. Bush has faced pressure from Congress and from international advocacy groups to speak out more forcefully or risk being seen as lending credibility or respectability to a government that restricts the freedoms that the president extols so frequently. The White House, however, chose not to do so in Beijing, either by making a similar address or meeting with dissidents or others facing political persecution.

In Seoul earlier Wednesday, though, Mr. Bush said that he did not believe that the Olympics should be used as an occasion to express his criticism of government constraints of worship and free speech and did not need to be since he had raised them with Chinese leaders throughout his presidency.

“My message has been the same,” he said, when asked about the Olympics during an appearance with President Lee Myung-bak in a garden at the Blue House, the ancient compound in Seoul that serves as the office of South Korea’s president. “You should not fear religious people in your society as a matter of fact, religious people will make your society a better place that you ought to welcome people being able to express their minds.”

He added, “And to the extent that people aren’t able to do that and people aren’t able to worship freely is, you know, I think is a mistake.”

In none of Mr. Bush’s remarks has he directly addressed what advocates have called a pre-Olympic crackdown on dissent and potential protest. Nor did he mention Tibet, whose freedom movement and spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, have strong support in the United States and elsewhere.

Even when critical, Mr. Bush reflects a pragmatic view of China and offers a far more lenient judgment of its internal affairs than those of other authoritarian governments, from Myanmar to Belarus, Iran to Zimbabwe. In the same draft, for example, he bluntly calls on Myanmar’s military leaders to release the opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and all other political prisoners.

He first visited China in 1975 when his father, the future president George H.W. Bush, served as the chief American representative to the country after President Nixon’s opening to the Chinese.

He recalled the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution, the swarming bicycles, the stultifying sameness of people’s clothes. And yet, as he has in interviews and remarks leading up the game, he evoked a sense of both nostalgia and awe for the gains the country has made since then. And he suggested that greater freedoms economically, politically and personally would speed the country’s progress.

“We speak out for a free press, freedom of assembly, and labor rights not to antagonize China’s leaders,” his draft speech says, “but because trusting its people with greater freedom is the only way for China to develop its full potential. And we press for openness and justice not to impose our beliefs, but to allow the Chinese people to express theirs.”

The United States and China have complex relations and Mr. Bush has sought from the start of his presidency seven and a half years ago “to set our relationship on a sturdy, principled footing,” the speech says. His remarks credit that strategy for allowing him to speak more forcefully on rights, even if most often in private.

The comments cite the mutual benefits of trade and diplomatic cooperation in security, as has been the case with talks to end North Korea’s nuclear program. They also note an easing of tensions over Taiwan.

“Ultimately, only China can decide what course it will follow,” the draft speech says. “America and our partners are realistic, and we are prepared for any possibility. I am optimistic about China’s future. Young people who grow up with the freedom to trade goods will ultimately demand the freedom to trade ideas, especially on an unrestricted Internet.”
158 2008-08-06 Merrill Lynch will have to cut its common dividend per share 64 percent by 2010 as the high dividend payout will hurt the U.S. investment bank and brokerage's long-term growth prospects, according to analyst Brad Hintz of Sanford C. Bernstein. Mer...
159 2008-08-06 Hong Kong's stock exchange was closed Wednesday due to a severe tropical storm sweeping the region. Trading was canceled after weather officials issued a typhoon warning because of the storm, the exchange said in a statement. The storm was centere...
160 2008-08-06 The chief executive of Asciano Group, the Australian ports and rail operator, said Wednesday his board is open to a fair takeover offer, after earlier this week rejecting an unsolicited 2.89 billion Australian dollar ($2.69 billion) bid. On Monday...
161 2008-08-06 Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners, the international architecture firm founded by Pritzker Prize winner Richard Rogers, is best known for designing skyscrapers, museums and massive public spaces, like the new terminals at Heathrow Airport and Madrid...
162 2008-08-06 “If you are the head of the Washington apple growers association, you may be interested in this,” said Hal Varian, Google’s chief economist.

Users can also slice the data into finer geographic areas than with Trends and view it on a map. And they can download the data onto spreadsheets to compare it to their own forecasts or research.

The tool is aimed primarily at marketers, who may use it to devise and track advertising campaigns. A car company, for instance, could experiment with different versions of a television ad in Cleveland and Columbus, and check the number of resulting searches in each city to see which one is more effective. Or it could use the data to find out where users are searching most actively for “fuel efficiency” and aim ads for a gas-sipping vehicle there.

“It gives you much better insights in terms of what’s happening on a geographic basis, potentially allowing advertisers to target geographically,” said Danny Sullivan, the editor of Search Engine Land. Mr. Sullivan said Google has long given marketers the ability to target ads geographically, but not the tools to learn how to do it most effectively.

Grant Prentice, director of connections research and analytics at Starcom MediaVest Group, said his company uses Google Trends to help devise strategies to reach consumers online and offline. “We have been using it as a research tool to give us some insight into the relative importance of different terms that people may be using to search on a particular subject,” he said.

Mr. Varian said that while Insights was developed with marketers in mind, the economist hopes it will also be used by others. “We are also very interested in uses like the economic forecasting, finance, sociological studies, even in etymological studies to track how new words spread in the population,” Mr. Varian said.

Researchers who track activity in various sectors of the economy could use Insights to get a quick snapshot of the volume of searches for terms related to that sector and get a sense of whether economic activity in that sector is increasing or decreasing.

For instance, Insight shows that searches related to home inspections and appraisals in the real estate category rose sharply nationwide in the second half of July. That might suggest to forecasters — as well as marketers — that the residential real estate market is showing signs of life. Of course, searches for foreclosures were also up sharply.
163 2008-08-06 Mario Ancic of Croatia withdrew from the United States Open with a recurrence of mononucleosis, the second consecutive year that Ancic, ranked 25th in the world, has been forced to miss the tournament. Ancic, a former Wimbledon semifinalist, was slowed throughout the 2007 season because of mononucleosis.
164 2008-08-06 1. Toss apricots with sugar, lemon zest, if using, and cinnamon. Let rest for a few minutes to bring juices out in apricots.

2. Stir yogurt until creamy. Divide half of it between two bowls or parfait glasses. Drizzle with a little honey and sprinkle with nuts. Spoon apricots into each glass, saving a few cubes to garnish tops. Repeat layering of yogurt, honey and nuts, then garnish with reserved apricot cubes. Serve immediately.
165 2008-08-06 BEIJING — The Chinese embassy revoked the visa of Joey Cheek, a former Olympic speedskater and the founder of the group Team Darfur, a day before he was scheduled to fly to Beijing, Cheek said Tuesday.

Cheek had planned to fly to Beijing on Wednesday, but said he received a call from the Chinese embassy in Washington on Tuesday saying that his visa had been revoked. He said he was not given a reason for the change.

Team Darfur is a group of athletes, including 72 current Olympians, who have tried to call attention to China’s link to the conflict in the Darfur region of western Sudan.

“I have always been an absolute believer in the Olympics and what the Olympics can do,” said Cheek, who won a gold medal in Turin in 2006. “I never asked for a boycott.”

A spokesman for the Beijing organizing committee could not be reached for comment.
166 2008-08-06 Perry Weitz and Arthur Luxenberg, the named partners at the Manhattan-based firm where Mr. Silver works, serve as co-chairman and vice chairman, respectively, of Counsel Financial.

Since becoming speaker in 1993, Mr. Silver has released little information about his private law work. Listed as “of counsel” with Weitz & Luxenberg, one of the state’s largest tort law firms, Mr. Silver has said that he does not handle any clients with business before the state.

“I represent individual people, many in federal courts,” Mr. Silver said in an interview last year. “My clients are plain, ordinary simple people.”

Lawmakers are considered part-time employees of the state and are permitted to have outside jobs. At the same time, though, the state Public Officers Law prohibits an official from having business interests “in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the public interest.” It also says officials should not do things that “raise suspicion among the public” that they are violating their public trust.

Mr. Silver declined to answer questions for this article, but in the past he has firmly rejected assertions that his private legal work creates a conflict of interest for his legislative duties.

“I don’t think it’s a conflict,” he told reporters in 2003, when the issue came up around the subject of capping damage awards. “How many times do you want to hear this?”

Mr. Silver’s spokesman, Dan Weiller, said in a recent interview, “He doesn’t play any role in who Counsel Financial makes their loans to through his investment.” Mr. Weiller declined to elaborate on the loans.

But Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said Mr. Silver’s loans to Counsel raised questions because it was difficult to know who was receiving the company’s assistance.

“This is a problem you have with a citizen legislature, all these business relationships raise questions, and on top of it there’s no way for the public to know these relationships are adequately monitored or vetted,” Mr. Horner said. “There’s an ethics black hole when it comes to these issues.”

Over the past decade, a relatively small group of specialized lenders to plaintiff’s law firms has emerged as banks have tightened their lending policies. In return for taking on loans based on contingency fees, lenders like Counsel can command double-digit interest rates.

“A traditional bank is not set up to underwrite the primary asset of a contingent fee law firm,” said Mr. Cody, the president of Counsel. That asset, he said, was contingency fees. “We recognize that asset and will lend against it, whereas a bank will typically lend against a balance sheet asset.”

Mr. Cody would not comment on Counsel’s clients, but the seven clients whose endorsements are listed on its Web site include five New York firms. One of the listed clients, Martin Edelman, has been an active lobbyist in Albany on a variety of issues. He takes credit for drafting legislation passed in 2005 that established new guidelines for payments after wrongful death settlements.

Counsel has also helped finance Masry & Vititoe, which was made famous by the movie “Erin Brockovich,” about an unemployed single mother who wins a huge settlement from a California company accused of contaminating drinking water.

Mr. Edelman, a past president of the state trial lawyers association, said of Counsel, “They permit many law firms to continue that otherwise would not have been able to.”

“A client comes into my office and is badly injured, and I represent them for free, quote unquote, until there’s a recovery, and if there is no recovery there’s a loss,” he said. “That’s the system that allows middle-class people to hire lawyers. Only the ultrawealthy would be able to do that otherwise.”

Critics say Mr. Silver has long been the major obstacle in Albany for those seeking to cap damage claims or otherwise restrict trial lawyers.

“Those of us who work on legal reform know any significant litigation reform is dead on arrival in the Assembly of the State of New York,” said James R. Copland, director of the Center for Legal Policy at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group.

“We know Shelly Silver is not going to let anything happen to upset the plaintiff’s bar,” he added.

Assemblyman Joel M. Miller, a Dutchess County Republican and retired dentist, blamed Mr. Silver for blocking recent legislation that would have made it harder to bring malpractice cases. The speaker is also chairman of the Rules Committee, so he can block bills from coming to the floor.

“Like many other pieces of legislation that don’t fit into the Rules Committee agenda — meaning Shelly Silver’s — it died,” Mr. Miller said. He also blamed the speaker for perennially blocking limits on pain and suffering damages.

Bob Cohen, the policy director at Citizen Action of New York, a nonprofit group, defended Mr. Silver’s support of the trial bar.

”The majority of these injured plaintiffs couldn’t afford to pay lawyers on an hourly basis,” he said. “Given that, I don’t see any problem with the speaker — we have ethics laws, so assuming he’s complied with whatever ethics laws there are — I don’t see a problem with the speaker investing in this company.”

The Legislature polices its own ethics, and tight controls are kept on how much is revealed to the public. Lawmakers are required to fill out ethics forms delineating holdings of more than $1,000. They are also required to report whether they fall within five ranges of values: from category A, which is $5,000 or less, to Category F, which is $250,000 or more. The values, however, are whited out by the Legislative Ethics Commission — which is controlled by the Legislature — before the filings are provided to the news media.

Little is known about Mr. Silver’s business interests and investments. He has what appears to be a substantial stock portfolio, including 53 stock holdings worth at least $1,000 apiece, according to the filing. And it is not known what he actually does at Weitz & Luxenberg.

“The speaker voluntarily limits his legal work to serve only individuals and personal injury cases and does not represent lobbyists or clients who have business before the state,” said his spokesman, Mr. Weiller.

He would not say whether the speaker ever appears in court to represent clients or describe his legal work in more detail.

Representatives of the law firm declined to comment.
167 2008-08-06 Just as Bill Clinton looks at Obama and sees his own oblivion, so does Jesse Jackson. As Shelby Steele wrote in The Wall Street Journal, Jackson and his generation of civil rights leaders “made keeping whites ‘on the hook’ the most sacred article of the post-’60s black identity,” equality pursued by manipulating white guilt.

Now John McCain is pea-green with envy. That’s the only explanation for why a man who prides himself on honor, a man who vowed not to take the low road in the campaign, having been mugged by W. and Rove in South Carolina in 2000, is engaging in a festival of juvenilia.

The Arizona senator who built his reputation on being a brave proponent of big solutions is running a schoolyard campaign about tire gauges and Paris Hilton, childishly accusing his opponent of being too serious, too popular and not patriotic enough.

Even his own mother, the magical 96-year-old Roberta McCain, let slip that she thought the Paris Hilton-Britney Spears ad was “kinda stupid.”

McCain’s 2000 strategist, John Weaver, was equally blunt with Newsweek’s Jonathan Alter: “It’s hard to imagine America responding to ‘small ball’ when we have all these problems.”

Some of McCain’s old pals in the Senate are cringing at what they see as his soulless transformation into what he once scorned.

“John’s eaten up with envy,” said one. “His image of himself was always the handsome, celebrity flyboy.

“Now somebody else is the celebrity,” the colleague continued, while John looks in the mirror and sees his face marred by skin cancer and looks at the TV and sees his dashing self-image replaced by visions of William Frawley, with Letterman jokes about his membership in the ham radio club and adventures with wagon trains.

For McCain, being cool meant being a rogue, not a policy wonk; but Obama manages to be a cool College Bowl type, which must irk McCain, who liked to play up his bad-boy cool. Now the guy in the back of the class is shooting spitballs at the class pet and is coming off as more juvenile than daring.

Around the McCain campaign, they grouse that Obama “hasn’t bled.” He hasn’t bled literally, in military service, just like W., the last holder of an E-ZPass who sped past McCain. And he hasn’t paid his dues in the Senate, since he basically just stopped by for directions to the Oval Office.

As a new senator, Obama was not only precocious enough to pounce on turf that McCain had invested years in, such as campaign finance lobbying, ethics reform and earmarks. When Obama did reach across the aisle for a mentor, it was to the staid Richard Lugar of Indiana, not to the salty Republican of choice for Democrats, McCain.

When the Illinois freshman took back a private promise to join McCain’s campaign finance reform effort, McCain told his aide Mark Salter to “brush him back.” Salter sent an over-the-top vituperative letter to Obama. “I guess I beaned him instead,” Salter told Newsweek’s Howard Fineman.

McCain could dismiss W. as a lightweight, but he knows Obama’s smart. Obama wrote his own books, while McCain’s were written by Salter. McCain knows he’s the affirmative action scion of admirals who might not have gotten through Annapolis without being a legacy. Obama didn’t even tell Harvard Law School that he was black on his application.

McCain upbraids Obama for being a poppet, while he’s becoming a puppet. His mouth is moving but the words coming out belong to his new hard-boiled strategist, Steve Schmidt, a Rove protégé, nicknamed “The Bullet” for his bald pate.

Schmidt has turned Mr. Straight Talk into Mr. Desperate Straits. It’s not a good trade.
168 2008-08-06 “The market has been completely turned on its head this summer,” said Andrew Heaney, who runs a New York heating oil cooperative, Heat USA. “I’ve been in this business for 15 years, and this is the most volatile we’ve ever seen.”

A recent editorial in a small-town Vermont newspaper warned of calamity. Record heating oil prices “could be New England’s own Katrina disaster,” wrote The Stowe Reporter.

“The cost of energy is getting out of reach,” said Mark Wolfe, the executive director of the National Energy Assistance Directors’ Association, which represents state programs offering help to poor households.

“It’s not just going to affect poor people, but also moderate to middle-class households. People are going to become more impoverished to pay for heating this winter.”

Heating oil retailers face another problem. Given the nation’s credit crisis, many say they are finding it hard this year to get new credit lines from banks to help them cope with the rise in prices. As a result, they are not building inventory as much as they would in a normal year, Mr. Gilligan said. “The cost of hedging has become very pricey,” he said.

“People are going to have a tough time,” said David Moody, the dispatcher and a driver at Flynn’s Oil Company, a small distributor in Exeter, N.H. “We are trying to avoid having angry customers. Having angry customers before the start of winter, well, that’s not good business.”

The average heating oil bill in states like Massachusetts, Maine and New Hampshire, in a region where eight million households use heating oil to fire their furnaces, is set to jump by as much as $1,500 this winter compared with last year, according to estimates derived from the government’s latest forecasts for energy prices.

Amid a slowing economy, high energy costs are weighing heavily on pocketbooks, and have become a major political issue. Airlines and automakers have posted billions of dollars in losses, consumers have cut some of their spending to compensate for costlier gasoline, and soaring energy prices have contributed to inflation across the economy.

But Democrats and Republicans are deeply split about how to respond. The deadlock in Washington was apparent last month when the Senate failed to pass a bill to double energy assistance to low-income households because Republicans insisted on including measures to allow for more offshore drilling.

“This could be the winter of our discontent,” said Daniel J. Weiss, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress. “This is going to have a huge impact. It will start to pinch people in September and October and could influence this fall’s elections. Remember, it is much easier for people to drive less than it is to heat less.”

Consumers are not entirely powerless, of course, and have already started to react to higher energy bills. Gasoline consumption is down by 2.4 percent in the last month, compared with the same period last year, according to the latest figures from the Department of Energy.

Oil futures, which reached a record of $145.29 last month, closed at $119.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Tuesday. Gasoline prices have also declined after reaching a nationwide peak of $4.11 a gallon. Gasoline is now selling for $3.87 a gallon on average, according to AAA, the automobile group.

Heating oil futures settled Tuesday at $3.28 a gallon, down 2 percent. Retail prices can add $1 a gallon or more to futures prices after marketing and distribution costs. “The deteriorating demand picture reinforces our belief that oil prices are approaching a tipping point,” energy analysts at Lehman Brothers said in a report last week. They forecast crude oil prices to average $90 a barrel by the beginning of next year.

With prices still high, policy makers are under pressure to act. While Democrats want to rein in what they see as excessive speculation in commodity markets and have proposed to release some oil from the nation’s strategic reserves, Republicans are pressing to open more areas to offshore drilling. This deadlock has prevented the passage of any energy legislation lately, although many experts say there is little Congress can do to reduce prices in the short term.

“It is one thing if you can’t drive your car, but it is quite another thing if you can’t stay warm on a cold winter night,” said former Representative Joseph P. Kennedy II, the president of Citizens Energy, a nonprofit organization that provides low-cost energy assistance to poor people.

Mr. Kennedy and others have urged Congress to provide more money for the federal energy assistance program, which helps poor households pay their energy bills. But a proposal to double the program’s financing to $5.1 billion failed in the Senate two weeks ago by 50 to 35, as Republicans opposed the bill because it did not include any provision to increase domestic energy supplies, and the White House threatened to veto it.

At last year’s financing level of $2.5 billion, only 16 percent of households eligible for energy aid received money from the program, called the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, and known as Liheap.

Senator Bernie Sanders, Independent of Vermont, said before the vote, “The economy is tough, and the reality is that we will have people freezing to death this winter if there is no substantial increase in Liheap funding.”
169 2008-08-06 The pullback in oil prices, which have fallen nearly 20 percent in under a month, has fanned optimism that the crisis in the commodities markets might have eased, and gasoline prices might soon come down further.

Of course, the likelihood of a decline is small comfort to the millions of people already facing much higher costs for fuel, food and other products. The price of oil has risen 65 percent in just a year. And the turns of recent months have revealed an oil market with the attention span — and mood swings — of an angst-ridden teenager.

“We cannot declare victory that we slayed the dragon yet,” said Fadel Gheit, who tracks the oil industry at Oppenheimer & Company.

Among investors, there is a broadly held view that growth is slowing not just in the United States but worldwide, and that demand for fuel will ease in turn and bring oil prices back to more reasonable levels.

“It’s a fact that demand is slowing down,” Mr. Gheit said. “I do believe, more likely than not, we’ve seen the peak in oil prices.”

On Tuesday, investors were eager to celebrate, even if prematurely. During this year’s financial travails, stock market enthusiasm has several times been ignited only to be dashed by fresh disclosures of problems at banks or renewed signs that the housing market has still not found its bottom.

Market gains were led on Tuesday by shares of financial firms and companies dependent on consumer spending. Makers of tires and airplanes and other industries that have suffered from higher petroleum prices got some relief as well. Chevron, the oil giant, was the only Dow component to decline, slipping 0.4 percent to $82.49 a share.

The Dow ended the day at 11,615.77, up 331.62 points, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed up 2.8 percent.

In another bit of good news, Cisco Systems, the networking giant, reported a 4.4 percent gain in profit after the close.

Oil’s decline paralleled a drop in the prices of other raw materials. Corn and soybean prices fell again on Tuesday after rain in the Midwest eased concerns about the fall harvest. The prices of metals — silver, nickel and copper — also dropped. Gold fell below $900 an ounce for the first time since June.

Raw material prices tend to go up when the dollar weakens, making them a convenient hedge for investors. Gold, in particular, is a popular place to park money when paper currency values are falling. When the dollar strengthens, as it did on Tuesday, commodity prices drop.

A drop in oil also tends to drag down the entire commodities sector, because of the trading strategies of many big investors. “When the oil market weakens, it tends to stem the vigor in precious metals,” said James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC.

The Fed’s statement issued in early afternoon made no mention of the sinking oil prices and surging stock market, which occurred as the policy makers met in Washington. By a 10-1 vote, they agreed to keep the so-called federal funds rate at 2 percent — the third month in a row that the rate, which influences the costs of mortgages, car loans and other consumer credit, has stayed steady.

That move was expected. What drew the attention of Wall Street analysts was the policy makers’ decision to partly reverse the assessment of the economy they had issued after their last meeting. In June, the bankers had ratcheted up their worries about inflation while declaring that the downside pressure on the economy seemed to have diminished.

This time, they reinstated their concerns about overall weakness, while repeating their view from June that “the inflation outlook remains highly uncertain.”

“They backtracked from their earlier assessment about the downside risks to growth,” said Lawrence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor. “That was the most important point in the statement they issued.”

Between the two meetings, the government reported that consumer spending had weakened, the economy had grown more slowly than expected, the unemployment rate had spiked, and tens of thousands of jobs had disappeared.

The one dissenting vote came from Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who argued, as he has in the past, that a spike in inflation was imminent and the Fed should raise rates to discourage purchases on credit. A handful of other policy makers have expressed similar views, but they voted with the majority on Tuesday.
170 2008-08-06 “Barack Obama supports safe and secure nuclear energy,” Bill Burton, a campaign spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Nuclear power represents more than 70 percent of our noncarbon generated electricity. It is unlikely that we can meet our aggressive climate goals if we eliminate nuclear power as an option. However, before an expansion of nuclear power is considered, Obama thinks key issues must be addressed including: security of nuclear fuel and waste, waste storage, and proliferation.”

Those concerns, as well as the near meltdown at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania in 1979, and the ability to generate electricity cheaply in other ways, left the nuclear reactor construction business moribund for decades. More than 100 reactor orders were canceled in the 1970s, including all those ordered after 1973, and billions of dollars of work was abandoned.

But market conditions have improved as demand for power has risen and the price of natural gas, a competing fuel, has jumped. Lately some environmental groups that had been critical of nuclear power have embraced it, seeing the technology as a way to meet the nation’s growing energy demands without contributing more heat-trapping gases.

In addressing the nation’s energy demands, Mr. Obama has focused on alternative energy sources like wind and solar, as well as conservation, which would apparently also be the main beneficiaries of the decade-long $150 billion government investment effort he promises if elected. He barely mentions nuclear power, usually just alluding to it in a sentence here or there.

“I think we do have to look at nuclear,” he said in an interview this spring on “Meet the Press,” “and what we’ve got to figure out is can we store the material properly? Can we make sure that they’re secure? Can we deal with the expense?”

In his appearance at the nuclear plant, Mr. McCain expressed none of those doubts or concerns, asserting in his statement that the construction of the 45 new nuclear power plants by 2030 would create 700,000 jobs, a figure that many experts find to be inflated. He also said his experience serving on the nuclear-fueled aircraft carrier Enterprise had convinced him of the safety of nuclear power.

Mr. McCain took no questions and limited his appearance to his statement and a tour of the plant with a single reporter and a photographer, part of a recent campaign strategy to limit his availability to the news media.

During the tour, while standing in the center of the plant’s control room, surrounded by elaborate panels and consoles crammed with switches and green and red lights, he asked several questions related to the plant’s safety. “What would give you great cause for concern?” he asked Phillip Skarbek, the shift manager, and Anthony F. Earley Jr., the chief executive of DTE Energy, the owner of the plant, who conducted the tour.

The plant has had a troubled history, with its original generating station, Fermi 1, which opened in 1957, suffering a partial fuel meltdown on Oct. 5, 1966. No outside contamination occurred, but Fermi 1 was taken off line in 1972 and decommissioned in 1975.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission says it expects to receive applications by the end of 2010 to build 34 nuclear plants, although only a handful are likely to be finished in the next decade. If demand for electricity continues to rise, as seems likely, it will be hard for the industry to maintain market share, much less displace the main carbon dioxide emitters, plants that burn coal.

To try to jump-start the nuclear construction business, Congress in 2005 gave the industry three incentives. It provided loan guarantees of up to $18.5 billion, which would cover up to 80 percent of the value of a new reactor; it offered financial credits for producing electricity; and it offered a form of insurance to compensate for regulatory delays.

Still, the so-called nuclear renaissance is moving slowly. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed by President Bush on Aug. 8 of that year and has yet to produce a plant order.
171 2008-08-06 A federal agent was fatally shot outside a busy post office in Pembroke Pines after a fight, and dozens of police officers searched the area for the gunman, the police said. The Customs and Border Protection agent died at a Fort Lauderdale hospital, said Sgt. Brian Davis, a police spokesman. The agent, Donald Pettit, 52, was with his young daughter when he was shot, said Carlos Baixauli, a spokesman for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
172 2008-08-06 ROME — The government cover-up making headlines and befuddling the public in Italy this August has been a clumsy attempt to hide the truth.

The truth, in this case, refers to an 18th-century allegorical figure in a painting by Tiepolo that serves as a backdrop for government news conferences in Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s official residence.

It was retouched in recent weeks to cover an exposed breast, which “might have upset the sensitivity of some viewers,” Paolo Bonaiuti, the prime minister’s spokesman, told a Milan daily newspaper, Corriere della Sera, over the weekend. “That breast, that little nipple, ends up right in the shots that TVs make during press conferences.”

Mr. Bonaiuti said the touch-up had been the “initiative of those who look after the prime minister’s image.”

The painting depicts “The Truth Unveiled by Time” and the original is in the Palazzo Chiericati in Vicenza, which houses the civic museum. A few years ago Mr. Berlusconi saw the work, liked it and asked for a digital copy that was later blown up, said Alessandra Bertuzzo-Lomazzi, a manager there. The painting became the backdrop for news conferences earlier this year, after Mr. Berlusconi became prime minister for the third time.

“It’s a wonderful concept, that the passing of time will show who is right and who is wrong,” said Antonio Paolucci, the director of the Vatican Museums. “It’s the perfect choice of a message for a government.”
173 2008-08-06 CINCINNATI (AP) — Procter & Gamble, flexing its brand strength in consumer products, reported a 33 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit Tuesday as it countered soaring energy and commodity costs with higher prices.

The company, which makes products like Tide detergent, Olay skin care and Pampers diapers, said results were also helped by growth in developing markets like China and Russia, the weaker dollar and cost-cutting efforts.

P.& G. said it earned $3.02 billion, or 92 cents a share, up from $2.27 billion, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding tax benefits, earnings were 80 cents a share.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected 78 cents a share.

The company, which is based in Cincinnati, said revenue jumped to $21.27 billion for the quarter, up from $19.27 billion in the period the previous year, topping analyst expectations for $21.05 billion.

For its full fiscal year, sales rose 9 percent, to $83.5 billion.

The company has already raised prices this year on products like Iams dog food, Cascade dishwasher detergent and Oral-B power toothbrushes, and has increases planned in September for Gillette shaving cream, Dawn dishwashing liquid and other items.

P.& G. said it expected energy and commodities costs to jump $3 billion more in the coming year.

Its shares gained $2.15, or 3.3 percent, to $67.97, in afternoon trading Tuesday.

The company expects 2009 adjusted profit of $3.80 to $3.87 a share, lifting the upper end of its range by 2 cents from earlier guidance.
174 2008-08-06 The state has terminated the contract for a state pathologist whose work was the subject of complaints by prisoners’ advocates, although officials said the move was not related to the criticism. The pathologist, Dr. Steven Hayne, will have 90 days to perform autopsies for up to 500 outstanding cases, said Steve Simpson, commissioner of the State Department of Public Safety. Dr. Hayne was criticized this year after evidence surfaced indicating that two prisoners who were convicted partly on the basis of his autopsy findings had not committed the crimes. In April, the Innocence Project filed a complaint against Dr. Hayne seeking to have his medical license revoked. Mr. Simpson said the termination was because the state was planning to hire a full-time medical examiner.
175 2008-08-06 High gasoline costs have put a crimp into volunteer activity at charities across the country.

Organizations, including the American Red Cross and Catholic Charities, have complained that the current tax deduction for use of a personal car while performing volunteer services for charities was too low at 14 cents a mile. That is compared with 58.5 cents a mile for corporate employees who use their cars for business purposes.

More than 100 charitable groups have signed a letter asking Congress to address the problem. And on Wednesday, four senators plan to announce a proposal to reset the charitable mileage deduction to 70 percent of the corporate deduction.

“This is typical of how grass-roots politics works,” said Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, who is co-sponsoring the bill with Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York, Russ Feingold of Wisconsin and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, all Democrats.

Mr. Ensign added, “You hear from people out there who are affected by something, they make a case for a change, and you go, ‘Gee, that makes a lot of sense, why wasn’t it done a long time ago?’ ”

The Internal Revenue Service recently reset the mileage deduction offered to corporate employees to 58.5 cents a mile from 50.5 cents a mile in response to soaring gasoline prices, but it cannot do the same for charities without an act of Congress.
176 2008-08-06 Whole Foods Market on Tuesday announced that it would suspend its quarterly dividend and curb its expansion plans because a weak economy had significantly slowed sales growth at its stores.

Profit at the chain, based in Austin, Tex., declined 30 percent in the third quarter, ended July 6, compared with the quarter a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year increased 2.6 percent, paltry growth for a chain that has routinely posted double-digit increases. The average growth in sales at stores open at least a year was 10.9 percent from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2007.

The chief executive and co-founder, John P. Mackey, also predicted a weak outlook for fiscal 2009, with sales growth of 6 to 10 percent, including newly opened stores, and same-store sales growth of 1 to 5 percent.

“We’re going through a tough time here,” Mr. Mackey said in a conference call with Wall Street analysts. “I’ve never seen our comps this low in the 30 years I’ve been with the company.”

Shares of Whole Foods, which had already dropped 44 percent since the first of the year, dropped nearly 18 percent in after-hours trading, to $18.84.

Because of the slowing sales, Mr. Mackey announced that the company would reduce the number of stores it plans to open in fiscal 2009 to 15, instead of 25 or 30. He also said the company would aggressively cut administrative costs and discretionary capital expenses not related to store openings.
177 2008-08-06 “We’re confident that there is no strength to the allegations and that he will prevail once again,” Mr. Ginsberg said in an interview.

But Elie Honig, an assistant United States attorney, told a magistrate judge, Ronald L. Ellis, that Mr. Gotti was a dangerous man accused of many serious offenses.

“The defendant ordered and oversaw the three murders,” Mr. Honig said. “He’s led a life of violence.”

Mr. Gotti, known as Junior, is the son of John J. Gotti, who received the nickname the Teflon Don because he evaded several convictions from 1984 to 1990. The elder Mr. Gotti was convicted in 1992 of authorizing the killing of Mr. DiBono, who was found shot seven times — with four bullets to his head — slumped in a Cadillac sedan in the parking garage of the World Trade Center. Mr. Gotti received a life sentence and died in prison in 2002 at age 61, having made the family name synonymous with organized crime.

Five other men who prosecutors said were members of the Gambino crime family were also listed in the indictment.

At a news conference in Tampa, an assistant United States attorney, Robert E. O’Neill, said that the alleged criminal acts involved “the Gambino crime family reaching out to the Tampa Bay area,” and that the investigation had a wide range, including work by federal investigators in New York, New Jersey, Miami, Philadelphia and Tampa.

The indictment includes sweeping accusations of racketeering against Mr. Gotti from 1983 through July of this year. During that time, Mr. Gotti held several positions in the Gambino crime family, according to the indictment, including de facto boss.

Mr. Gotti insisted at each of his previous trials that he had left the Mafia life.

Charles Carnesi, one of Mr. Gotti’s lawyers who represented him in court on Tuesday, told Judge Ellis that the government had unfairly made his client a target because there is “a group in law enforcement that are disgruntled.”

In September 2005, after a six-week federal trial that included charges that Mr. Gotti ordered the June 1992 kidnapping of Curtis Sliwa, the founder of the Guardian Angels and a WABC radio talk-show host, a divided jury failed to reach verdicts on three charges — kidnapping, racketeering and extortion and conspiracy — and voted not guilty on a fourth charge of securities fraud.

Retrials on the three unresolved charges ended with deadlocked juries in March 2006 and September 2006.

Prosecutors have had one victory against Mr. Gotti. In 1999, he was sentenced to nearly six and a half years in prison after pleading guilty to six charges: bribery, conspiring to extort money, understating his income on a loan application, running an illegal gambling operation, understating his income on a tax return and loan-sharking. He was released in 2005.
178 2008-08-06 There is also a broader sense among investors that the slowdown in economic growth will curb fuel demand around the world, pulling prices back to more reasonable levels. Oil prices have fallen about 17 percent in three weeks. Gas prices in the United States have dropped back below $4 a gallon. And the economic downturn has been worse in some countries than financial experts had anticipated.

“There’s no real magic other than the softening economy,” Ric Navy, an analyst at BNP Paribas, said. “You can try to decide whether it’s anything more than that, but that’s in the eye of the beholder.”

The decline came in tandem with a similar drop in the prices of other commodities like corn, wheat and rice. Corn and soybean prices fell again Tuesday after rain in the Midwest eased concerns about the fall harvest. The prices of other commodities — gold, silver, nickel and copper — also dropped.

Raw material prices tend to go up when the dollar weakens, making them a convenient hedge for investors. Gold, in particular, is a popular place to park money when paper currency values are falling. When the dollar strengthens, as it did on Tuesday, commodity prices drop.

A drop in oil also tends to drag down the entire commodities sector, because of the trading strategies of many big investors. “When the oil markets weakens, it tends to stop the vigor in precious metals,” James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC, said.

European stocks performed even better than Wall Street: in afternoon trading, the benchmark indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris were up more than 2 percent.

Markets made a slight jump higher after the central bank held its benchmark rate steady at 2 percent.

Emphasizing the dangers to the economy, the Fed said in its statement that a substantial easing of interest rates in recent months, “combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate economic growth.”

By a vote of 10 to 1, policy makers declared that inflation remained “of significant concern” — a description that seemed to give less importance to the inflationary risks of keeping rates low than the policy makers had at their meeting on June 25.

Earlier on Tuesday, the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, reported that activity among service-oriented businesses was better than expected in July. The group’s index rose to 49.5 from 48.2 in June, on a scale where readings below 50 indicate contraction. While the industry is still suffering from the downturn — new orders fell for the month, including orders for both exports and imports — there were no signs of a significant collapse.

In overnight trading, Asian stocks fell on the slump in commodity prices, which dragged down commodity producers. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 2.5 percent, to close at 21,949.75.
179 2008-08-06 McCLUNG--Richard Goehring, age 95, died of heart failure on August 2, 2008. Husband of the late Jean Barrett Coffin McClung. Father of Jean McClung Halloran, Mary Goehring McClung and Priscilla Barrett McClung Jelliffe. Father-in-law of John Hare ...
180 2008-08-06 MARKET RALLY Federal Reserve policy makers voted to hold their benchmark interest rate steady, bolstering a stock market already energized by a decline in oil prices.      VOLATILE COSTS The price of natural gas and heating oil have fallen lately,...
181 2008-08-06 When Senator John McCain on Monday offered up his wife, Cindy, to compete in the Miss Buffalo Chip contest in Sturgis, S.D., he probably did not know -- as an ESPN writer suggests -- that the contestants sometimes wind up topless, walk about in th...
182 2008-08-07 The Chinese director Zhang Yimou will preside over the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics....
183 2008-08-07 Here's another risk for companies to consider disclosing in their financial statements: People might say nasty things about them in Internet chat rooms. CompuCredit, an issuer of credit cards to the fiscally challenged, has included this risk fact...
184 2008-08-07 The McCain campaign has decided to return some contributions from a fund-raiser who has been linked to more than $50,000 in questionable contributions from an extended family in California and a few of their friends....
185 2008-08-07 This season's final "So You Think You Can Dance" performances lifted Fox to No. 1 in the ratings on Wednesday....
186 2008-08-07 Can parsley stems prevent artichokes from oxidizing?...
187 2008-08-07 The Apple iPhone is acceptable for business use, says Gartner. But companies should still be concerned about some security and usability issues....
188 2008-08-07 The Republican candidate encounters upset over a DHL deal resulting in a shift of employment from a hub in Ohio, that was connected to lobbying by his campaign manager, to another place in Kentucky....
189 2008-08-07 A cluster of unusual donations from California to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign has cast an unwanted spotlight on a prominent McCain fund-raiser in Florida and his Jordanian business partner who apparently solicited the contributions...
190 2008-08-07 On Wednesday unsurprisingly ABC renewed "Wipeout" for a second season....
191 2008-08-07 The McCain campaign releases another Web ad, this one using compliments -- over the last several years -- from leading senators in the opposing party....
192 2008-08-07 The health of your mouth appears to influence your body's overall health....
193 2008-08-07 The Walt Disney Company will re-brand Toon Disney as Disney XD, "a cable channel that will target boys," next February....
194 2008-08-07 If average investors hoped to get rich buying shares of publicly traded hedge funds such as Och-Ziff Capital or Fortress Investment Group, they've had a rude awakening, David Weidner writes in his column on MarketWatch. Shares of publicly traded h...
195 2008-08-07 Nationwide Mutual Insurance said on Wednesday that it has agreed to buy the portion of Nationwide Financial Services, its provider of life insurance and annuity products, that it does not already own for $2.4 billion. Nationwide Mutual said it wou...
196 2008-08-07 Ivory Tower | A physics professor says that in much of academe ignorance of math and science is almost a point of pride. "Our economy is teetering because people can't hack the math needed to understand how big a loan they can afford," he writes. ...
197 2008-08-07 A hedge-fund manager accused of faking his own suicide tried to plead guilty to bail jumping on Wednesday, but his case was postponed after he told the judge that his drug therapy was affecting his ability to think clearly. The manager, Samuel Isr...
198 2008-08-07 After struggling to gain consumer acceptance, Monsanto on Wednesday announced that it would try to sell its business of producing an artificial growth hormone for dairy cows. The company will focus instead on its thriving business of selling seeds...
199 2008-08-07 Easy money, it turns out, has created enormous problems at Bank United, Florida's biggest regional bank. By aggressively peddling a popular type of high-interest loan to risky borrowers, the bank tripled its profits in 2006 as real estate on Flori...
200 2008-08-07 STMicroelectronics, a semiconductor company, sued the Credit Suisse Group on Wednesday, saying that the bank had defrauded STMicroelectronics by investing its cash in unauthorized and unsuitable investments. STMicroelectronics says that it instruc...
201 2008-08-07 After failing to win a bid for Yahoo, Microsoft plans to buy back as much as $20 billion of its stock to boost its flagging share price, according to a top-rated software analyst. In comments to Bloomberg News, which pushed shares of the giant sof...
202 2008-08-07 WASHINGTON — The Small Business Administration has terminated a contract awarded to a former Bush administration official after the agency’s inspector general found that the official’s firm had submitted false documents to qualify.

The VBP Group, of Scottsdale, Ariz., won the $1.2 million contract to manage a national training program for small businesses in September. The company was founded by Vernon B. Parker shortly after he left his job in 2006 as assistant secretary for civil rights at the Agriculture Department.

The agency confirmed on Wednesday that it had revoked the contract when it saw a draft of the inspector general’s report, dated July 18, that found that VBP had not met the agency’s requirements for the 8(a) contracting program and that VBP’s approval was “based on documents submitted by VBP that were false or of questionable authenticity.”

Mr. Parker did not return a call for comment.

The inspector general investigated the contract — 90 percent of the agency’s budget to provide advice and training to small disadvantaged businesses seeking to win government contracts — at the request of the House Small Business Committee.

According to the report, VBP did not have the experience to merit a waiver from the program’s requirement that contractors be in business for two years. Also, “a more thorough validation” of VBP’s credentials, the report said, would have shown that its claims of Agriculture Department contracts were not valid and that bank deposit slips submitted from the department were for salary payments, not contracts.

Mr. Parker, according to the report, also “falsely certified he was not a federal employee” when he initially applied for contractor eligibility. But, the report said, he was, in fact, still employed at the Agriculture Department.
203 2008-08-07 This 30-second advertisement for Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, will be broadcast in crucial states, according to the campaign. It is called “Broken.”

THE SCRIPT An announcer says: “Washington’s broken. John McCain knows it. We’re worse off than we were four years ago. Only McCain has taken on big tobacco, drug companies, fought corruption in both parties. He’ll reform Wall Street, battle big oil, make America prosper again. He’s the original maverick. One is ready to lead: McCain.”

ON THE SCREEN Black-and-white images of the White House, the Capitol and the interior of the floor of the House of Representatives — with lawmakers in motion — flash on the screen. Then a profile shot of Mr. McCain is followed by a gas pump with its numbers turning upward. The screen fades to black momentarily, and then, everything is in color. The next scenes show Mr. McCain talking to voters beside his Straight Talk Express bus, climbing into his campaign plane and at a town-hall-style meeting with the stripes of an American flag in the background. The words “The Original Maverick” appear on the screen at the end.

ACCURACY Although the McCain campaign said it stood by the contention in the commercial that “we’re worse off than we were four years ago,” Mr. McCain has not echoed that assessment publicly. At a Republican debate in January, he said, “I think you could argue that Americans over all are better off, because we have had a pretty good prosperous time, with low unemployment and low inflation and a lot of good things have happened.” During his four terms in the Senate, Mr. McCain has burnished his reformist credentials on some issues. He was a leader of the effort to pass a bipartisan campaign finance reform bill that imposed new limits on political contributions. But Mr. McCain, who is sometimes referred to as a maverick, has not always voted against business interests or broken with his party. Although the advertisement says he would “battle big oil,” his support of expanded offshore oil exploration would seem to suggest otherwise.

SCORECARD This commercial has Mr. McCain implicitly breaking with President Bush, by saying that Americans are worse off now than four years ago. In doing so, and portraying himself as a maverick, Mr. McCain is trying to distance himself from an unpopular Republican administration, and from Washington, at a time when a souring economy and high gasoline prices could pose a threat to him. Mr. McCain has been in the Senate for two decades, a fact that could undermine that maverick message. The advertisement strikes a more positive tone than Mr. McCain’s other recent commercials, and does not refer to his likely opponent, Senator Barack Obama.
204 2008-08-07 It appears, however, that Mr. Sargeant, the finance chairman of the Florida Republican Party and the part-owner of a major oil trading firm, International Oil Trading Company, did not actually solicit the donations from the Abdullahs and their friends.

That task fell to a longtime business partner, Mustafa Abu Naba’a. Mr. Sargeant said in an interview that he has known Mr. Abu Naba’a for more than a decade and has worked with him on commercial ventures, including a contract with the Pentagon to supply fuel to the military in Iraq.

Through Mr. Abu Naba’a’s connections, Mr. Sargeant has raised more than $100,000 in contributions from several dozen Arab Americans in California, including the Abdullahs, for four candidates: Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Giuliani, Mr. McCain and Charlie Crist in his successful campaign for Florida governor in 2006. Mr. Crist is a close friend and college fraternity brother of Mr. Sargeant.

Several of the donors were emphatic in interviews that they had made the contributions on their own and had not been reimbursed. Indeed, while the donors do not fit the typical profile of people who often make large political donations, it appears many have made relatively successful livings, toiling away at small businesses they own: an auto repair shop, a discount stereo warehouse, a realty company.

Brian Rogers, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, said the campaign strictly followed campaign finance laws and as a general rule would look into a matter if flags were raised, but he declined to say whether it would look into the contributions tied to Mr. Sargeant.

Mr. Sargeant is a former Marine fighter pilot who has business interests around the world. He hosted a fund-raiser for Mr. McCain at his lavish home in Delray Beach, Fla., this year. Mr. Sargeant estimated he had raised more than $200,000 for Mr. Giuliani and helped a business associate raise a similar amount for Mrs. Clinton.

But Mr. Sargeant’s business dealings have caused controversy. Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, opened an investigation last month into whether his company has been overcharging the military for its contract in Iraq, although Mr. Sargeant said Mr. Waxman’s office had an erroneous understanding of what the company was billing.

As for his political fund-raising, Mr. Sargeant said he often turned to his business associates and asked them to solicit their extended families, although Mr. Sargeant said he was unclear exactly how Mr. Abu Naba’a knew the Abdullahs in California.

Mr. Sargeant said Mr. Abu Naba’a, who has a home in Florida, was unavailable for an interview because he was abroad.

Faisal Abdullah, a Palestinian immigrant who works as a director of operations of a window treatment company, identified himself in an interview as the driver behind the McCain donations from his relatives and friends. He sent them to Mr. Abu Naba’a, whom Mr. Abdullah described as an acquaintance.

Mr. Abdullah is an unlikely McCain fund-raiser, admitting he had soured on the Republican Party as a result of President Bush.

Nevertheless, he said that he harbored vague designs on a political career and that a discussion with Mr. Abu Naba’a gave him the idea that fund-raising was a way to get started. He said he initially collected numerous $500 checks for Mr. Crist from relatives and friends, and late last year, set out to raise money for the presidential campaign.

Mr. Abdullah said he cajoled a few relatives into giving the maximum donations to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Giuliani, the early front-runners last year.

But when Mr. McCain claimed the mantle of presumed Republican nominee in March, Mr. Abdullah decided to support him.

“This is the horse I’m betting on for the future,” Mr. Abdullah said.

He told his friends and relatives that the contributions were tax-deductible, something he later seemed surprised to learn from a reporter was not true. Many in his circle appear to have little affection for Mr. McCain but said they gave mostly as a favor to Mr. Abdullah.

Abdullah Makhlouf, the owner of a discount stereo store who is one of Mr. Abdullah’s closest friends, and his wife contributed $9,200.

“He’s like a worse copy than Bush,” Mr. Makhlouf said of Mr. McCain.

When a reporter initially contacted Mr. Makhlouf, he denied giving to the McCain campaign.

After eventually admitting to the donation, Mr. Makhlouf added, “I’m still not going to vote for him.”
205 2008-08-07 When was the last time you thought about the Earth’s magnetic field? Or, for that matter, the solar wind? Perhaps now is a good time to do so.

Last year, NASA launched a constellation of five new satellites to investigate substorms — celestial events caused when the Earth’s magnetic field captures energy from the solar wind and then releases it. Data from the satellites and ground observations show that the Earth’s magnetic field lines — stretched well into space by the solar wind — suddenly snap back into place like giant rubber bands and shower the planet with solar particles. As astronomers have recently reported, that sudden release of energy is what causes the northern lights to flicker and dance.

If you have ever seen the northern lights, you know they cause a wonder that is itself a kind of question. We’re used to clouds sliding past on a windy day and the steady, predictable movements of celestial objects. But there is something startling about the aurora borealis, and not least its unpredictability. To see great sinuous sheets of light towering over the dark horizon is to feel that some fundamental force is being illuminated in the most diaphanous of ways. Until now, the cause of the aurora’s sudden shifts in mood was unclear. Now we know.

Perhaps it’s better simply to say that now astronomers know. What we get to do instead is imagine. The next time you see the northern lights, you’ll be able to imagine immense lines of magnetism reaching toward the moon, capturing the solar wind as if they were sails, and then spilling the wind’s particles into Earth’s atmosphere. What we are seeing, in a sense, is the last iridescence of a particle-breeze blowing outward from the Sun.
206 2008-08-07 TOPEKA, Kan. (AP) — Phill Kline, who first drew national attention for his anti-abortion stance as attorney general of Kansas, was easily defeated Tuesday in the Republican primary for district attorney of Johnson County, a Kansas City suburb.

Mr. Kline lost to Steve Howe, a former assistant district attorney in the county, who received 60 percent of the vote.

Mr. Kline has been district attorney since January 2007, when he was chosen to fill a vacancy in the post. In October, he filed 107 charges against Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Mid-Missouri, accusing its clinic of performing illegal late-term abortions. Mr. Howe and the Democratic candidate, Rick Guinn, have said they will review the case, but anti-abortion groups are skeptical. Mr. Kline began investigating Planned Parenthood’s clinic in 2003, while serving as Kansas attorney general. He lost his race for re-election in 2006.
207 2008-08-07 The Blackstone Group may be best known as an immense private equity firm, but the firm’s earnings report on Wednesday made it clear that Blackstone has been buoyed by its hedge fund operations.

Blackstone reported $165.6 million in profit for its second quarter, excluding costs tied to its initial public offering last June. That represented a nearly 75 percent drop from the same period last year, a consequence of the troubles still plaguing the credit markets. On the basis of generally accepted accounting principles, the firm reported a pretax loss of $185.5 million.

Yet Blackstone’s results, which amount to 15 cents a unit, still beat the average analyst estimate of 8 cents a unit, according to Bloomberg News.

Other publicly traded alternative-asset managers also reported quarterly earnings on Wednesday. Och-Ziff Capital Management, a big hedge fund, said it earned $93.3 million, while GLG Partners, a large hedge fund based in London, reported profits of $44.2 million. Both figures exclude costs related to the firms’ public offerings.

Despite the fanfare that greeted their public debuts, alternative-asset managers have not fared well in the stock markets. The stocks of Blackstone, Och-Ziff, GLG and the Fortress Investment Group have all fallen by at least 37 percent since they began trading last year. That does not augur well for the prospects of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, a chief Blackstone rival that is planning to go public soon.
208 2008-08-07 The conference, which ends Friday, is held every other year; this year there are more than 22,000 participants.

A report released at the conference by the Joint Learning Initiative on Children and H.I.V./AIDS, an independent, international study group, urged governments and donors to develop new approaches to alleviate the plight of children in areas hard hit by the epidemic.

Dr. Jim Yong Kim of Harvard University said that about 6 percent to 10 percent of children needing therapy were receiving it, compared with 30 percent of adults. An important factor, Dr. Richter said, is that too few infants are being tested for the infection.

Michel Sidibe, an official of the United Nations AIDS program, said that 1.5 million children had died of AIDS in the past five years and that 15 million children had lost one or both parents to AIDS, the United Nations definition of an orphan. An estimated 2 million children under the age of 15 are living with H.I.V.

Dr. Richter said that in the developing world much of the money for children in AIDS programs went to consultants and overhead costs.

It would be more effective, and more efficient, to give money directly to families and communities, she said, adding that poor people have shown that they make good decisions about getting food and other provisions. In some cases, she said, mothers are unable to take their children for medical care because of financial barriers, including being able to pay the bus fare to treatment centers.

Other speakers said that children would also be better helped by examining the dynamics of families. Studies in Botswana and Tanzania that were cited at a news conference showed that men were often unwilling to care for the sick except when women were unavailable. Over all, the speakers said, at least two-thirds of those giving care to infected people in Africa are women and girls.

Lorraine Sherr of University College London, meanwhile, said that more needed to be done to help families cope psychologically after AIDS deaths. She said she could find only 16 published studies on bereavement in the developing world among those affected by AIDS and that in discussing fathers in affected families, researchers reported only on those who had died.

“We need to know about live fathers,” Professor Sherr said.
209 2008-08-07 No reasonable, caring person would argue against making consumer products safe (“The President and Product Safety,” editorial, Aug. 5). But how safe and at what cost?

No matter how much we spend on regulatory regimes and testing, and no matter how many product liability lawsuits the second-guessing tort bar brings against manufacturing companies that employ our families, neighbors and friends, risk in the real world will never be eliminated entirely.

The reckless among us, for example, will always foolishly endanger themselves and others, regardless of a product’s safety. Nonetheless, consumer injuries and deaths caused by poorly designed or harmful products in the United States have actually been trending downward for decades and have never been lower, despite the impression one may get from media coverage.

None of which is to say we should become complacent and ignore opportunities to make additional safety gains. But public policy debates, including editorials, can always be more candid about the costs such gains entail. Thus one can criticize specific elements of the reform legislation Congress has passed — such as the unleashing of 50, sometimes politically motivated state attorneys general to interpret and enforce federal regulations — without opposing product safety generally.
210 2008-08-07 Since last September, the bank’s share price has plunged 93 percent, twice as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Regional Banks index. A year ago, the stock was $15.49 a share but closed on Wednesday at $1.50 a share, after gaining 19 cents.

In an interview, Mr. Camner, who is also the bank’s controlling shareholder, testily defended the bank’s strategy. “We did it for over 10 years,” he said, referring to the bank’s use of a risky but highly attractive product known as an option adjustable-rate mortgage.

“For a very long time, it was an excellent performing package.” he said. “It gave the borrower a chance to manage his money. If they qualified, it was an excellent loan.”

He also dismissed as “completely absurd” and “idiotic” concerns that the bank’s practices have eroded the strength of the bank’s assets, despite a recent revision by one brokerage firm of its shares to underperform.

Around 2003, as the Florida housing market took off, the bank, led by Mr. Camner and Ramiro Ortiz, its president, began promoting option adjustable-rate mortgages. Such loans enable borrowers to defer payments on interest as well as principal. Many banks found a bonanza in these loans, whose full interest expense can be counted as interest income by the bank whether or not the bank actually receives the money, making the loans all but irresistible to promote.

The strategy proved lucrative: Bank United’s assets more than doubled to $15 billion from $7.1 billion in 2003, while its total loans rose to $12.5 billion from $3.9 billion. By last October, the end of the bank’s fiscal year, Mr. Camner had allowed option adjustable-rate mortgages to dwarf overall mortgages three to one.

When the national housing market began to slide, Florida’s imploded. And while the broader banking industry struggled with mounting bad loans, falling home values and a weak economy, Bank United found itself on a particularly slippery slope as its newfound base of risky regional borrowers eroded. From mid-2006 to early 2008, the percentage of its assets designated as nonperforming soared more than fivefold to 4.75 percent.

“The bank clearly did not understand the risks,” said Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets. “We believed that they pursued that business because it drove revenue and earnings growth.”

Indeed, the bank kept expanding. By the end of March, 48 percent of its $9.8 billion residential loan portfolio was outside Florida.

“By opening up offices across the country,” Mr. Ortiz said in an interview, “we were diversifying risk.” But, he added, “we never anticipated a national downturn.”

Now, some analysts fear that continued weakness in the housing market could cause an accumulation of nonperforming loans. Although losses as of May 31, were small, Mr. Cassidy said the ratio of nonperforming loans was high relative to other banks. For example, at the National City Corporation, an Ohio bank that expanded into Florida in recent years, the ratio is about 2 percent, less than half that of Bank United.

“The bank is currently well capitalized,” Douglas Rainwater, a banking analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott, said of Bank United. “But given the amount of nonperforming loans and the trend in their growth, losses would most likely increase substantially at some point.”

For the Corporate Library, an independent governance group based in Portland, Me., that is tracking the bank, the bank’s board also appears not to have fully understood the risks the company was taking. Mr. Camner’s compensation, which ballooned to $5.64 million, including a salary of $475,000, had grown “way out of whack” compared with other institutions its size, the group said.

“Outrageous compensation often signals a failure of oversight and backbone, so it often correlates to poor performance for shareholders in other categories,” said Nell Minow, the editor of the Corporate Library. “A board that can’t say no to outrageous pay requests can’t say no to poor strategy.”

In the interview, Mr. Camner repeatedly bristled at the criticisms and grew angry when a reporter asked questions about his compensation package, saying everything was fully disclosed.

It was apparently not the first time the bank had reacted strongly to questions it felt were critical.

When John Pandtle, then an analyst for the financial services company Raymond James, rated Bank United’s stock as underperform in February, the bank declined to allow Raymond James to participate in a meeting with investors and analysts.

In a note, Mr. Pandtle told clients the bank’s executive management had repeatedly refused to take phone calls and e-mails “seeking information about several areas where we have fundamental concerns, including rapidly deteriorating asset quality.” Mr. Pandtle declined to comment for this article.

Mr. Camner’s family ties have also been questioned by the Corporate Library. One daughter, Danielle, was previously at the bank but has left. Another daughter, Lauren, is a senior vice president and still serves on the board.

Meanwhile, Mr. Camner remains senior managing partner of Camner Lipsitz and Poller, a law firm that reaped $12 million in fees from the bank over the last three years, and where a third daughter, Errin, is the managing director.

Both Ms. Minow and Mr. Rainwater wondered whether these relationships were in the interest of shareholders. “If you bid the business out to other law firms,” said Mr. Rainwater, “perhaps you could save some money for shareholders.”

Today, Bank United is sufficiently eager to raise money that Mr. Camner has agreed to give up the supervoting shares that have given him control of the bank he founded 24 years ago, if the bank is able to raise $400 million from investors.

“There is a reality,” he said. “We need to conform to corporate governance, meaning that almost every company has one class of stock; there is only so long that you can have two classes.”

Still, he defended his income and other benefits, saying that everything the company has done was fully disclosed. “There is an independent committee that passes on everything,” he said.
211 2008-08-07 First the equipment for Iggy Pop and the Stooges was stolen; now the members of Iron Maiden are missing a guitar. The Associated Press reported that one of the band’s guitars had been stolen during a concert in Greece. According to the group’s Web site, ironmaiden.com, the instrument, said to be one of a kind, belonged to the guitarist Adrian Smith, above, and disappeared on Saturday. The band is offering an award of a Maiden tour jacket for its return.
212 2008-08-07 On Thursday, the eve of the opening of the Beijing Olympics, the PEN Center will present a night of readings dedicated to dissident Chinese writers. The event is the culmination of an eight-month campaign, “We Are Ready for Freedom of Expression.” The project is an appeal to the Chinese government to release 45 writers and journalists imprisoned in China. Edward Albee, Russell Banks, Philip Gourevitch, Jessica Hagedorn, Hari Kunzru, Rick Moody and Martha Southgate are scheduled to participate, as well as Francine Prose, the president of PEN American Center. The readings will feature new and never-before-translated works by dissident writers, including Tsering Woeser, Liao Yiwu and others, as well as letters from jailed writers and their families. Co-sponsors of the event, to be held at the Tishman Auditorium at the New School, 66 West 12th Street, Greenwich Village, include the school, the Independent Chinese PEN Center and PEN Canada.
213 2008-08-07 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 40.30, or 0.35 percent, to 11,656.07, after having been down nearly 100 points early in the session. The gain brought the Dow’s two-day advance to about 370 points.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 4.31, or 0.34 percent, to 1,289.19, and the Nasdaq rose 28.54, or 1.21 percent, to 2,378.37.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 4.86 points, or 0.67 percent, to 725.90.

Investors showed enthusiasm for technology companies on Wednesday. Cisco rose $1.28, or 5.7 percent, to $23.93 after its report. Microsoft, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow, rose 81 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $27.02.

But financials remained a weak spot. Freddie Mac fell $1.55, or 19 percent, to $6.49, while Fannie Mae fell $2, or 15 percent, to $11.60.

Freddie Mac, which substantially increased its reserves for bad loans, lost about three times what Wall Street expected on a share basis. The company also announced that it expected to cut its third-quarter dividend.

The well-being of Freddie Mac and its fellow mortgage finance giant Fannie Mae, is a big concern on Wall Street as the government-chartered companies hold or back nearly half of all American mortgage debt.

The companies have lost billions of dollars because of failed loans over the last year, and the federal government has pledged to help both companies with larger lines of credit or stock purchases if necessary.

Other financial stocks also fell as investors worried about the sector. Citigroup slipped 22 cents to $19.70, while Wachovia fell 65 cents, or 3.4 percent, $18.41.

J. Stephen Lauck, chief executive and portfolio manager at Ashfield Capital Partners in San Francisco, said impressions about the health of the financials would continue to shape investor sentiment.

“It’s a very cautious environment,” he said. “What we need in this market is for the financial stocks to stabilize. I think they’ll stabilize well before the housing market fixes itself.”

Mr. Lauck said the housing sector would most likely take several years to recover.

In the meantime, the drop in energy prices, as well as a retreat in gold and other commodities, is offering investors some solace.

But investors still appeared cautious about placing bets on companies that do best when consumers are in a mood to spend. Rising commodity costs have hurt consumers, whose spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the United States’ economic activity.

Among consumer discretionary stocks, TJX Companies, parent of the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls retail chains, fell 91 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $34.47.

Sprint Nextel fell $1.21, or 14 percent, to $7.34 after posting a second-quarter loss on severance and other costs.

The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 98 19/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 4.05 percent from 4.02 percent.

Following are the results of Wednesday’s Treasury auction of 10-year notes:
214 2008-08-07 GENEVA (AP) — The International Red Cross said Wednesday that Colombia broke the Geneva Conventions by using the group’s emblem in the covert military operation that freed Ingrid Betancourt and other hostages last month.

New video of the operation contradicts a Colombian government claim that the emblem was a last-minute addition to the ruse that helped the military rescue 15 hostages from FARC rebels, the Red Cross said.

“It seems to be a deliberate, improper use of the emblem,” said Anna Schaaf, a Red Cross spokeswoman, noting that such use violates international law.

Use of the Red Cross symbol in a military operation violates the first Geneva Convention because it could damage the relief group’s neutrality in conflicts, endangering medical personnel on the battlefield who are using the symbol for protection.

Colombia apologized to the Red Cross, and President Álvaro Uribe blamed Colombia’s military for not reporting the findings of an internal investigation.
215 2008-08-07 Q. When I download files from the Web with Firefox, they always get dumped on my desktop. Is there a way I can have the files go into a specific folder?

A. On the Windows version of Firefox, go to the Tools menu to Options and click the Main icon in the Options box. In the Downloads area, go to the “Save files to” area and click the Browse button to select the new download location of your choice. You can also have Firefox ask you where to put the file each time you download something.

For the Mac edition, go to the Firefox application menu and select Preferences. Click the Main icon and select your new file-download location in the box.
216 2008-08-07 The growth hormone, approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1993, was one of the first applications of genetic engineering used in food production. When the artificial hormone, which is made in genetically modified bacteria, is injected into cows, it increases milk production by about a gallon a day. A 2007 survey by the Department of Agriculture said 17 percent of the nation’s dairy cows were receiving it.

Despite the government’s approval, many advocacy groups have long maintained that Posilac is bad for the health of cows. Some even claim it could pose a cancer risk in people, though little scientific evidence has emerged to support that view. Their concerns have been fueled by the refusal of many countries, including Canada and members of the European Union, to permit the use of the hormone.

“I think they saw the handwriting on the wall and gave up,” said Andrew Kimbrell, executive director of the Center for Food Safety, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington. “It’s a major victory for consumers.”

Mr. Kimbrell said the original idea of marketing a growth hormone for milk production was flawed because milk is so emblematic of childhood. Fear of the effects of the artificial hormone was one of the primary drivers behind the growth of the organic dairy industry, he said.

But Elena Gonser, a dairy farmer in Everson, Wash., contended that consumers had been misled by misinformation. She added that Posilac, which is also known as bovine somatotropin or BST, was safe and effective.

“I believe it’s just catering to ignorance to tell people it’s BST-free, and it’s better for you,” said Ms. Gonser, who along with her husband runs a farm that has 70 cows.

But she added: “I’m not surprised to find they want to step back from it. It’s gotten a bad rap for so long.”

Monsanto’s announcement comes after a year of pitched battles over labeling on dairy packages. A year ago, Monsanto tried unsuccessfully to persuade federal officials to crack down on labels that say the milk has been produced without the hormone, arguing that milk from treated cows was the same as that from untreated cows.

In the months since, a Monsanto-backed advocacy group and a handful of dairy organizations have struggled to have similar laws or regulations passed at the state level. In Pennsylvania, for instance, the secretary of agriculture banned the labels, only to have his order overturned by the governor amid a consumer uproar.

Monsanto will continue to sell and market the product until a buyer is found, said Christie Chavis, who leads commercial development and strategy for the company’s animal agriculture business unit. Posilac is sold in 20 countries.

Ms. Chavis said that the artificial hormone was safe and also good for the environment, saying that it takes fewer cows and less resources to produce the same volume of milk.

Jim Werkhoven, a dairy farmer in Monroe, Wash., said he was disappointed when he learned of the move on Wednesday from a Monsanto industrial relations executive.

“I certainly understand from a business perspective why they may be doing this,” he said. “At the end of the day, the customer is going to be the one that sets the rules, and at the end of the day, it’s going to be the customer that pays the price.”
217 2008-08-07 When I arrived at the right part of Robert Wagner Jr. Park at the bottom of Manhattan at 1 p.m. on Tuesday, I had come to see a site-specific dance performance. The park is extensive, but eventually the River to River Festival flags had helped me find the spot. It proved to be tourist heaven, with a perfect view across the harbor to the Statue of Liberty and sunlight glistening on the water. People kept crossing the little plaza where the show was set to occur and taking photographs of one another.

Three female tourists were resting just opposite me, two of them lying flat on the ground, another leaning against the wall. But no: these were three of the Monica Bill Barnes dancers. As Elvis Presley songs started to play, the dancers started to move in time (while security guards crossed in front of them on their way to and from the public toilets a couple of yards away). Soon these three became a synchronized backing group while in the foreground a lead female couple moved, one supporting her partner, who was wearing one of those tourist Liberty foam crowns. Some tourists looked askance that fellow vacationers were making such exhibitions of themselves, but the onlookers did not let the commotion interrupt their main business of posing and photographing.

Elvis went on in songs like “You Don’t Have to Say You Love Me” (which in my book belongs to Dusty Springfield) and “Jailhouse Rock” (which is his alone), and Ms. Barnes’s six performers, changing costume items, covered more and more space. For one song, they stood on the raised parapet and gesticulated; for another, four of them swept through the plaza, three of them now dressed in old-style white debutante dresses, the fourth in khaki shorts; for a third, they struck poses along the promenade.

Most of the moves could have been handled by many of the real tourists, though the dancers all managed to perform single air-turns in sync. And their most exuberant moment came at the end, when they rushed through the space, with Stars and Stripes kites attached to their headdresses and flying in the breeze. I forget at which point two of them acquired debutante white plumes or a third a tiara.

With the temperature at 81 and rising, the dresses must have been extremely hot, not least for the young woman who was wearing hers over a T-shirt (which in turn she wore over a leotard). But such are the sacrifices that some New York dancers make for their art.

The whole show, called “Game Face,” lasted some 20 minutes. It was so harmlessly daft, so vaguely appealing in its response to Elvis and such a happily silly surprise in that setting that I scarcely like to point out that its choreography in another context would have been of minimal interest.
218 2008-08-07 Those of us who pay lip service to green living can now be more genuinely P.C. — with the Dell Studio Hybrid PC, a fashionably curvy computer with special power-saving features.

The PC, which starts at $500, weighs about four pounds and is about eight inches wide. Dell says it uses 70 percent less electricity than a standard PC, yet it is still powerful enough to run Windows Vista. Inside are a low-power Intel Pentium Dual Core processor, four gigabytes of memory and a 320-gigabyte hard drive.

The Hybrid, available now at dell.com, includes a CD/DVD writer and can read Blu-ray discs with an optional upgrade. Another option is a TV tuner that lets you watch television on the PC.

The computer includes a removable case that comes in six translucent colors. While the internal parts of this PC are still made of plastic, metal and silicon, Dell also offers a case in a bamboo finish for the ultimate in eco-friendly style. JOHN BIGGS
219 2008-08-07 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Pentagon opened a second round of bidding Wednesday for a $35 billion Air Force tanker contract after an error-plagued first attempt that featured a bitter competition between the Northrop Grumman Corporation and the Boeing Company.

A revised draft request for proposals has been issued to build 179 aerial refueling tankers meant to replace the Air Force’s fleet that dates to the 1950s. The Pentagon plans to release the final request to both companies on Aug. 15. The new bids will be due Oct. 1 and a decision is expected this year.

Northrop won the original contract, in a partnership with the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, more widely known as EADS, the parent of Airbus, but Boeing filed a protest. A Government Accountability Office review later found “significant errors” in the Air Force’s decision, and the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, reopened the bidding.

The new round will be limited to the eight issues where government auditors found problems with the initial bidding. Both companies have indicated their bids will be similar to their original designs.

A major focus will probably be some of the guidelines for the plane’s design. For example, Northrop’s tanker was larger than Boeing’s, and the G.A.O. concluded that the Air Force unfairly gave Northrop additional credit for that even though there were no size requirements.
220 2008-08-07 It feels like a historical inevitability: scavenger hunts, cinema, the game of Clue, video and the iPod (well, Microsoft’s Zune media player) have converged in “Suspicious Package,” a distinctly 21st-century form of participatory theater. By participatory I don’t mean sitting in the front row and being called to the stage or getting splashed by the actors. No, this is wearing a prop and reading lines and following stage directions — with the stage being three Brooklyn blocks, that is — from a Zune.

When making a reservation to attend, you choose to portray one of four roles: the Detective, the Producer, the Showgirl or the Heiress. (That’s right: only four people join in at a time.) The “cast members” assemble at the Brick Theater in Williamsburg and meet Gyda Arber, the exuberant actress-director who, with her mother, Wendy Coyle, conceived this novel hybrid. (Some have called it iPod noir, but is that right? Shouldn’t it be iNoir or something? And now that I think of it, can this be called a theater review if I took part?) Ms. Arber asks the “performers” to introduce themselves and answer a mild question or two.

And then each is given a Zune, already loaded with a character-specific audiovisual file. You watch the opening credits (in black and white, of course, with appropriately melodramatic music), follow the directions (on a simple map of the neighborhood), see your character’s flashbacks (featuring Brick actors), hear voice-overs and scene-setting audio and read the lines you are given. Walking down the street, you find some of the other characters seeking their ... destiny. You cross paths with each, as the characters’ fates intersect. If you’re lucky, you share hard-boiled banter with a fun-loving cast over 45 minutes. I was, and I did.

Each character has a shady past, and the group assembles at the end to share perceptions and information about the roles. If you can embrace the recreational spirit behind this singular experience (the result of painstaking synchronization on Ms. Arber’s part, though there’s plenty of wiggle room) — and if you like role-playing games with your ear buds — you’ll be smiling.
221 2008-08-07 Mr. Corrigan, a former president of the New York Federal Reserve, formed the group in April to develop a private-sector plan for minimizing future problems in the financial markets. He said in an interview that he hoped the report’s suggestions would be adopted industrywide within two years.

The report focuses on several issues, including accounting rules for bundles of mortgages, new tests for liquidity and disclosure of risks in complicated financial instruments. The findings have already been presented to Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the New York Federal Reserve.

In a cover letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., the group attributed some of the crisis to human psychology.

“The root cause of financial market excesses on both the upside and the downside of the cycle is collective human behavior — unbridled optimism on the upside — and fear — bordering on panic — on the downside,” the letter said. The panic underlying the collapse of the investment bank Bear Stearns was clearly on the minds of executives as they worked on the report.

They outlined ways to reduce “counterparty risk,” the intricate links that connect financial companies and their trading partners. As Bear Stearns struggled in early March, investors feared that too many of those links would collapse if the bank folded — leading some Wall Street executives to say that Bear Stearns was not too-big-to-fail but rather too-interconnected-to-fail.

The report suggests that the industry create a way to close-out trades, should another major financial player face trouble. It also said the markets may be more “accident prone” because of new ways of doing business like Wall Street’s loan packaging, in which banks that originate loans to consumers then repackage them to sell to investors. And it listed the ability to make bets against credit — a trade that made some investors rich — as a possible cause of market instability.

Mr. Corrigan said a prior version of his group created rules that helped the financial system through recent turbulence. Under those rules, investors could no longer resell derivatives contracts without the permission of the party on the other side of the trade.

Now Mr. Corrigan is pushing for the industry to establish a central clearinghouse for derivatives. The clearing project is supported by the Federal Reserve, but many Wall Street firms are concerned that such a move could open their lucrative over-the-counter trading operations to competition from exchange companies.

Another hotspot in the report is the section about accounting for bundles of mortgages and other loans that have been packaged. Those have been kept off the balance sheet, and many in the industry think that rules that would put the bundles back on the books should apply only to the future. The report suggests putting loan packages from the past — which will force many banks to raise more capital from investors.

Mr. Corrigan said he knows the report presents a challenge, but that Wall Street firms need to adopt more of a spirit of “financial statesmanship.”

The publication of the report, he said, does not signal an end to the crisis.

“Since roughly March, we’ve kind of been bumping along the bottom,” he said. “That’s likely to continue for at least some period in the future.”
222 2008-08-07 Even if the United States advances after facing Japan and New Zealand in the remainder of group play, without rapid improvement the Americans seem to have little chance of getting through the knockout phase of the tournament against such potential opponents as Germany, Brazil and North Korea.

The Olympic opener began on a misty, foggy night in a sparsely populated stadium in this seaport of 2.8 million residents, northeast of Beijing. Quickly the evening turned even gloomier for the United States.

In the second minute, Solo came off her line to punch away a pass that was chipped into the penalty area. There is no margin for error on such a play. If a goalkeeper goes for the ball, she must clear it. This time, though, the only thing that Solo seemed to punch was teammate Lori Chalupny’s head. Left free, Leni Larsen Kaurin of Norway headed the ball into an empty net.

Two minutes later, Markgraf made a soft back pass that was intercepted on the right flank by the Norwegian forward Melissa Wiik, who outran Christie Rampone and blasted a superb shot inside the left goal post from 16 yards.

“You can’t do that in this tournament,” midfielder Heather O’Reilly said. “I think we came out a bit flat.”

Norway had seemed to be a fading power after defeating the United States in sudden death to win the gold medal 2000 at the Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. The Americans defeated the Norwegians by 4-1 in the bronze medal match at the 2007 Women’s World Cup and twice beat them by 4-0 earlier this year.

But the United States is a depleted team now. Wambach is not the only absentee. Defender Cat Whitehill and midfielder Leslie Osborne were previously lost to knee injuries. Chalupny seemed dazed after her collision with Solo and left the game after 15 minutes. The team’s self-assurance also appeared to limp onto the unable-to-perform list.

“I think there were a lot of nerves,” Solo said. “It’s our first Olympic game. But we had glimpses of brilliance. You could see the potential out there. I think we’re going to come back stronger.”

The Americans have no choice, or they will face an early exit.

Against Norway, they often played awkwardly in their new possession offense, making imprecise passes, rushing and mis-hitting shots as Norway sat back and waited to counterattack. Angela Hucles started in Wambach’s place at forward but was largely invisible. Natasha Kai got several accommodating chances, but she seemed hurried and shot wildly. The defeat was Sundhage’s first after building a 21-0-1 record this year. But it almost certainly will not be the last in these Olympics.

“I think they miss Wambach,” the Norwegian midfielder Ingvild Stensland said. “She moves and draws two backs to her and opens room for everyone else. She’s a fighter. They miss that.”
223 2008-08-07 Almost since Beijing was named the host city for the Olympics in 2001, human rights activists have sought to link the Games to China’s policies on Tibet and other issues. This spring, raucous protests greeted the arrival of the Olympic torch in Paris, London and San Francisco. More recently, human rights groups have accused the Chinese government of curtailing the freedom of journalists to report in the country and cracking down on dissenters.

Indeed, police led away four American and British activists Wednesday morning after they unfurled pro-Tibet banners in front of the iconic National Stadium, according to a press release issued by the group Students for a Free Tibet. Sun Weide, spokesman for the Beijing organizing committee, told the Associated Press that the protestors were persuaded to leave by police and were not arrested.

Barring activists such as Cheek violates Olympic ideals of internationalism and freedom of expression, said Phelim Kine, Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch. “The Chinese government seems to want to have it both ways,” Kine said in a telephone interview. “It says that it will enable people to protest during the Olympic period, but is bending over backwards to ensure that any individual who might actually want to pursue that right to protest is barred from entry into China.”

On the same day that Cheek discovered his visa was denied, the group's co-founder, Brad Greiner, was informed there were problems with his visa, said Martha Bixby, Team Darfur's executive director. He was asked to report to the Chinese consulate, she said.

Cheek said he did not plan to protest while in China, and in fact his group had advised the 72 Olympians who are members not to pack any Team Darfur gear because the International Olympic Committee bars athletes from making political statements.

He also said that several Olympic athletes who joined the group told him they had been pressured by national Olympic committees not to speak out. “There’s systematic pressure on athletes around the world to just go there and be quiet,” said Cheek, who added that U.S. athletes did not express such concerns to him.

Emmanuelle Moreau, a spokeswoman for the International Olympic Committee, said she was aware of Cheek’s visa situation but said she could not comment. Because Cheek is not a current Olympian, “visa applications from non-accredited persons do not fall within the I.O.C.’s remit and we are therefore not best placed to answer you on this question,” Moreau said in an e-mail message.
224 2008-08-07 With Mr. Bush’s planned attendance at the Games prompting debate and criticism, the White House has sought to strike a balance between expressing support for advocates of greater political and personal freedom in China and cultivating cooperation with China’s government on a host of trade and security issues.

Mr. Bush has faced pressure from Congress and from international advocacy groups to speak more forcefully or risk being seen as lending credibility or respectability to a government that restricts the freedoms that the president frequently extols. The White House, however, chose not to do so in Beijing, either by making a similar address or by meeting with dissidents or others facing political persecution.

In Seoul, South Korea, on Wednesday, though, Mr. Bush said that the Olympics should not be used to criticize government constraints on worship and free speech and did not need to be because he had expressed his criticism to Chinese leaders throughout his presidency.

“My message has been the same,” he said, when asked about the Olympics at an appearance with President Lee Myung-bak in a garden at the Blue House, the ancient compound in Seoul that is the office of South Korea’s president. “You should not fear religious people in your society as a matter of fact, religious people will make your society a better place that you ought to welcome people being able to express their minds.”

He added, “And to the extent that people aren’t able to do that and people aren’t able to worship freely is, you know, I think is a mistake.”

In none of Mr. Bush’s remarks has he directly addressed what advocates have called a pre-Olympic crackdown on dissent and potential protest. Nor has he mentioned Tibet, whose freedom movement and spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, have strong support in the United States and elsewhere.

Even when critical, Mr. Bush has reflected a pragmatic view of China and has offered a far more lenient judgment of its internal affairs than those of other authoritarian governments, including Myanmar, Belarus, Iran and Zimbabwe. In his remarks on Thursday, for example, he bluntly called on Myanmar’s military leaders to release the opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and all other political prisoners.

He first visited China in 1975 when his father, the first President Bush, was the chief American representative to the country after President Nixon’s opening to the Chinese.

He recalled the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution, the swarming bicycles, the stultifying sameness of people’s clothes. And yet, as he has in interviews and comments leading up to the Games, he evoked a sense of both nostalgia and awe for the gains China has made since then. And he suggested that greater freedoms economically, politically and personally would speed the country’s progress.

“We speak out for a free press, freedom of assembly, and labor rights not to antagonize China’s leaders, but because trusting its people with greater freedom is the only way for China to develop its full potential,” he said. “And we press for openness and justice not to impose our beliefs, but to allow the Chinese people to express theirs.”

The United States and China have complex relations, and Mr. Bush has sought from the start of his presidency in 2001 “to set our relationship on a sturdy, principled footing,” he said. He credited that strategy for allowing him to speak more forcefully on rights, even if most often in private.

He cited the mutual benefits of trade and diplomatic cooperation in security, as has been the case with talks to end North Korea’s nuclear program. He also noted an easing of tensions over Taiwan.

“Ultimately, only China can decide what course it will follow,” he said. “America and our partners are realistic, and we are prepared for any possibility. I am optimistic about China’s future. Young people who grow up with the freedom to trade goods will ultimately demand the freedom to trade ideas, especially on an unrestricted Internet.”
225 2008-08-07 GUDELL--Etta (nee Reiss), 91. Beloved wife of the late Siegbert. Adored mother of Loretta and Michael Soloway, Howard and Naomi Gudell. Cherished grandmother of Spencer, Seth and Melissa. Etta was the definition of a survivor up to her final days ...
226 2008-08-07 HOUSING WOES Freddie Mac, the mortgage giant that has been hobbled by record foreclosures, cut its dividend by 80 percent after posting a quarterly loss of $821 million and predicted that home prices would fall further than projected.       Bank U...
227 2008-08-07 Those of us who pay lip service to green living can now be more genuinely P.C. --  with the Dell Studio Hybrid PC, a fashionably curvy computer  with special power-saving features.     The PC, which starts at $500, weighs about four pounds and is ...
228 2008-08-08 The Olympic spirit will be displayed on top of the Empire State Building....
229 2008-08-08 Senator John McCain, who is not known as a mellifluous orator, is already playing the political game of lowering expectations for his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention in Minneapolis next month....
230 2008-08-08 ­Senator John McCain went to see the giant pig at the Iowa State Fair today and then used the hog, which remained sound asleep through the commotion of his visit, as a symbol of the merits of free trade....
231 2008-08-08 Humberto Leon and Carol Lim This week's guest bloggers are Carol Lim and Humberto Leon, the co-founders of the downtown boutique Opening Ceremony. Leon and Lim, former luxury retail executives who met as students at the University of California, B...
232 2008-08-08 M&M's introduces its new premium candy with a sultry marketing campaign.
233 2008-08-08 CBC showed the opening ceremony live from Beijing. And that wasn't the only difference between how CBC covered it and how NBC will later tonight....
234 2008-08-08 Israel is at the forefront of desert farming, but even the world's most high-tech farms can't control the weather.
235 2008-08-08 Israel is at the forefront of desert farming, but even the world's most high-tech farms can't control the weather.
236 2008-08-08 Another group of investors that gambled on mergers has folded, as Société Générale closed its New York arbitrage team, Bloomberg News reported....
237 2008-08-08 The AP's Lee Powell takes in the scene on the night of the opening ceremony at the Beijing Olympics, from outside the security perimeter around the Olympic Green. (Aug. 8)
238 2008-08-08 The Republican candidate's latest commercial segues from the Obama-celeb phenom to issues of taxes, a tried and true G.O.P. theme....
239 2008-08-08 During the 24 trading days since the July 4 weekend, there were 13 days in which the S.&P. 500 moved at least 1 percent, including five days when it rose or fell more than 2 percent. By contrast, there were only two days with 2 percent moves durin...
240 2008-08-08 Fireworks lit up the night sky over Beijing on Friday, marking the beginning of the opening ceremonies for the XXIX Olympiad. The games will last for the next 16 days and 17 nights. (August 8)
241 2008-08-08 Once-reclusive China commandeered the world stage Friday, celebrating its first-time role as Olympic host with a stunning display of pageantry and pyrotechnics to open the Summer Games. (Aug. 8)
242 2008-08-08 How do you classify fruits and vegetables?...
243 2008-08-08 The Opening Ceremony begins in Beijing. (Photo: Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) Although NBC did not provide live television coverage of the spectacular four-hour-long opening ceremony from the Bird's Nest stadium in Beijing today - and in fact, ...
244 2008-08-08 Fannie Mae, the battered mortgage-financing giant, cut its dividend by 80 percent after reporting its fourth-straight quarterly loss, one that vastly exceeded analyst expectations. Fannie said it lost $2.3 billion, or $2.54 a share. Before a one-t...
245 2008-08-08 Live blogging from the Bird's Nest....
246 2008-08-08 A Wilson Betemit baserunning error leads to a strange play at first, which had the Yankees laughing....
247 2008-08-08 The recovery of financial services stocks and the energy markets has hit some hedge funds in July, putting the $2 trillion industry in line for its worst year in two decades, MarketWatch said. Citing data by the Hennessee Group, hedge funds fell a...
248 2008-08-08 A panoramic view of the opening ceremony at the National Stadium in Beijing on Friday.
249 2008-08-08 More than one hundred current and former Olympic athletes published an open letter to Chinese President Hu Jintao urging him to seek peace in Tibet and safeguard human rights in China....
250 2008-08-08 Over the last two decades he also produced a spate of sometimes witheringly self-deprecating reminiscences, among them “The Smoking Diaries” (2004), “The Year of the Jouncer” (2006) and “The Last Cigarette” (2008), all published by Granta, in which he chronicled his myriad problems — including his addictions, his waning health, his extramarital affair and his debilitating guilt over it, the vicissitudes of aging and many obstacles to the staging of his plays. At his death, he was working on a stage adaptation of “The Last Cigarette.”

“So here I am, two hours into my sixty-sixth year,” he wrote to begin “The Smoking Diaries.” “From now on I’m entitled to certain benefits, or so I gather — a state pension of so many pounds a week, free travel on public transport, reduced fee on the railways. I assume I’m also entitled to subsidiary benefits — respectful attention when I speak, unfailing assistance when I stumble or lurch, an absence of registration when I do the things I’ve been doing more and more frequently lately, but have struggled to keep under wraps — belching, farting, dribbling, wheezing. I can do all these things publicly now, in a spirit of mutual acceptance.”

Simon James Holliday Gray was born on Oct. 21, 1936, in Hayling Island, Hampshire, England. He was educated in London, then received degrees from Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and Cambridge. He began teaching in his early 20s.

As he told it, his playwriting career began serendipitously. One of his stories was sold for adaptation for television. Upon learning the adapter would be paid more than he would, he volunteered to adapt it himself. Emboldened, he then wrote an original play for television, but it was rejected because of its subject matter — the main character, a criminal, spends most of his time onstage in transvestite disguise. He turned it instead into his first play, “Wise Child,” which was a success in London, starring Alec Guinness, in 1967. (It flopped on Broadway five years later, even with Donald Pleasence in the lead role.)

“Butley,” the play for which Mr. Gray is best known in the United States, opened in London in 1971, directed by Harold Pinter and starring Alan Bates, two men with whom Mr. Gray would work frequently afterward. The play, which transferred to Broadway in 1972, concerns the emotional demise of a university lecturer whose professional and personal lives convulse catastrophically on a single day, and he responds in the only way he can: with brilliantly bitter invective.

Mr. Bates won a Tony Award for his performance, a tour de force so memorable (he reprised the role in a 1974 film) that for a quarter of a century it stanched enthusiasm for a revival with any other actor. “Butley” did not appear on Broadway again until 2006, this time with Nathan Lane.

“Otherwise Engaged,” Mr. Gray’s biggest Broadway success, ran for 309 performances in 1977. A dark comedy that, like “Butley,” featured a troubled protagonist facing down unwanted intrusions, it starred Tom Courtenay as a determinedly dispassionate publisher whose planned restful day of listening to a “Parsifal” recording is interrupted again and again by ever more annoying visitors.

Mr. Gray didn’t always focus on the lives of intellectuals. His plays include “The Rear Column,” a kind of “Heart of Darkness” story set in Africa and based on a true episode in the life of the explorer Henry Morton Stanley; “Molly,” a melodrama set in the 1930s about an adulterous affair between a middle-aged woman and a younger man; and “Cell Mates,” a spy story that made headlines when one of the lead actors, Stephen Fry, vanished in midrun of the 1995 production, surfacing days later in Belgium. An incensed Mr. Gray wrote a vitriolic account of the whole business, “Fat Chance.”

But his best-known works are the ones that plumbed the territory he called “the world I know best.” “Most of one’s friends tend to be publishers, schoolteachers, students or actors,” he said.

In “Quartermaine’s Terms” (1981), he wrote about a feckless and unhappy band of teachers at a school for foreign students. (Its Off Broadway premiere, in 1983, featured a pre-“Cheers” Kelsey Grammer.) In “The Common Pursuit” (1984), a kind of British “Big Chill,” he wrote about university friends as their lives progress to some 20 years beyond their days together.

Mr. Gray is survived by his wife, Victoria Rothschild, the youngest daughter of the third Baron Rothschild and a fellow lecturer at his college. The two had an eight-year affair before Mr. Gray ended his first marriage, to Beryl Kevern. He had two children with Ms. Kevern, a son, Benjamin, and a daughter, Lucy, who also survive him.

The disintegration of his family and his sorrow and guilt over it were among the things he addressed, with a typically self-flagellating acceptance of his folly, in his memoirs. So was his inability to give up smoking.

“One way or another, I’m coming up to the last cigarette,” he wrote.
251 2008-08-08 “We are taking the precautionary effort of returning any and all contributions that were solicited by Mr. Abu Naba’a,” said Brian Rogers, a spokesman for the McCain campaign. “We had an issue with the idea there were people giving to the campaign who had no intention of voting for or supporting John McCain.”

Earlier Thursday, the campaign said it was reviewing all the donations collected by Mr. Sargeant, who has raised more than $500,000 for Mr. McCain. The campaign said it would send a letter to all of Mr. Sargeant’s donors reminding them of a variety of restrictions, among them that campaign contributions may not be reimbursed and may not be made by foreign nationals.

If a donor has failed to meet those standards, the campaign said, it will arrange for a refund.

Given that Mr. Abu Naba’a is a foreign national, some Democratic officials questioned the legality of his bundling money for Mr. McCain. But several election law experts who were consulted said that while foreign nationals were clearly barred from making donations themselves, federal statutes did not explicitly forbid them to solicit contributions. They do come close, though.

In 2004, the Federal Election Commission considered the case of Zury Ríos Sosa, a Guatemalan who was the fiancée of Representative Jerry Weller, Republican of Illinois. The commission issued an advisory opinion that said Ms. Ríos, as an “uncompensated volunteer” for Mr. Weller, could “solicit funds from persons who are not foreign nationals.”

Nevertheless, Paul S. Ryan, a lawyer at the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center, said there seemed to be some tension within the opinion, because it cites a regulation that says foreign nationals shall not “directly or indirectly” play a role in the “decision-making process” of any person’s “election-related activities,” including the making of contributions.

Mr. Ryan said that if he were representing the McCain campaign, he would seek an opinion from the commission.

Mr. Rogers, of the McCain campaign, said its lawyers believed that the bundling by Mr. Abu Naba’a was permissible. The campaign decided to return the money, he said, because “it just didn’t sound right to us, the whole situation.”
252 2008-08-08 BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, Mich. — Phil Mickelson, coming off a tough finish at last week’s W.G.C.-Bridgestone Invitational, got off to a rough start in the first round of the P.G.A. Championship on Thursday at Oakland Hills Country Club. But Mickelson quickly righted the ship after consecutive bogeys on his opening holes (Nos. 10 and 11) and wound up well positioned with a par 70, putting him two shots behind the leaders.

“I’m just happy to have shot even par today,” Mickelson said. “After the start, bogeying the first two holes, I thought it was pretty good to hang in there, fight and make some birdies, because there were a lot of holes that were tough to get to.”

Although Mickelson, ranked No. 2 in the world, bogeyed three of the last four holes at Firestone Country Club last Sunday, falling out of the lead and ceding the tournament victory to Vijay Singh, he came to Oakland Hills with a positive outlook. Earlier in the week, he talked about the margin between winning and finishing fourth at Firestone.

“Inches,” he said, holding up the thumb and forefinger of his right hand to indicate the amount by which two putts down the stretch stayed out of the hole. “That’s all it was.”

One concern for Mickelson this week might be the right side of the golf course. He eliminated it from play with a fade off the tee last week, but it was back in play Thursday. His first three drives moved hard left to right, the first two in fairway bunkers and the third into the rough.
253 2008-08-08 Gol Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes, the Brazilian airline, suspended dividend payments for the rest of the year and reduced growth forecasts, sending its shares down sharply. The carrier said it would cancel leases on seven planes and offer 5 percent fewer seats in 2008 than previously planned. It was the second reduction in capacity this year. Gol, based in São Paulo, is seeking to conserve cash after back-to-back quarterly losses.
254 2008-08-08 Syria released Aref Dalila, one of the country’s most prominent dissidents, on Thursday after nearly seven years in prison. International rights groups and President Bush had pressed for his release. Mr. Dalila, left, a former dean of the economics faculty at Damascus University, was serving a 10-year term for trying to change the Syrian Constitution, inciting armed rebellion and spreading false information. He had been a vocal critic of the government and its economic policies.
255 2008-08-08 TIANJIN, China — For one half Thursday, two very different teams tried to employ contrasting tactics in the same oppressive conditions when the United States men’s soccer team opened Olympic play against Japan.

But it was only when the Americans matched Japan’s aggressive outside play that they were able to post a 1-0 victory.

A thick haze hung over the field and the 93-degree heat limited most runs to no more than a few yards. The Americans attempted to control the early pace by running their offense through their two central midfielders, Sacha Kljestan and Michael Bradley.

Japan preferred to operate on the flanks. The Japanese eventually got behind the Americans’ wide defenders, but their long crosses could not create a goal.

The United States began the second half by moving its attack to the outside. That paid dividends early when Stuart Holden took a pass on the right side of midfield in the 47th minute and fed Marvell Wynne, who made an overlapping sprint down the right flank.
256 2008-08-08 I do not wish to respond to the entirety of Nicholas D. Kristof’s Aug. 7 column, “An Olive Branch From the Dalai Lama.” Mr. Kristof himself says that both sides will surely flinch at some terms, and he is correct about that.

The one point that needs immediate clarification is on the autonomous rights of the Tibetan people. The way it is presented, the reader may get the impression that the Tibet issue is only one of education, culture and religion.

Even according to Chinese law as spelled out in the White Paper on the Regional Ethnic Autonomy in Tibet issued by the Chinese government in 2004, Tibetans are entitled to the following rights: full political right of autonomy; full decision-making power in economic and social development undertakings; freedom to inherit and develop their traditional culture and to practice their religious belief; and freedom to administer, protect and be the first to use their natural resources, and to independently develop their educational and cultural undertakings. Lodi Gyari
257 2008-08-08 Japan, unable to compete physically with the Americans in the center of the field, preferred to operate on the flanks and counterattack. When the players became less uncomfortable in the muggy air, they had some success springing Atsuto Uchida and Keisuke Honda on the outside with wide passes out of the back. Neither of the American fullbacks, Michael Orozco and Marvell Wynne, was able to keep up in the first half.

“We know the Japan team is very dangerous on counterattacks, and they find the good spots between the defensive line and midfield line,” said the United States coach, Peter Nowak. “We didn’t pay attention to who was coming from the defensive line.”

Japan’s midfielders and defenders repeatedly got behind the American back four. But high crosses were easily snatched out of the air by the goalkeeper, Brad Guzan. Low crosses into the box were frustrating for the 6-foot, 3-inch keeper, though, and they often surprised a criminally unsuspecting American defense. But no Japanese players could connect in the box.

“There were some lapses, there was no perfect game from us,” Nowak conceded.

Shini Kagawa of the Japanese team took a short corner kick in the 21st minute, playing a combination with Uchida that sprang Kagawa behind the American defense again. He sent a dangerous low ball across Guzan’s bow, but it was bungled badly at the far post by Mossato Morshige, a defender who pressed up for the corner kick. Another counter attack in the 40th minute saw a low cross from Uchida narrowly missed by Hirovuki Taniguchi before halftime.

The United States came out with renewed urgency in the second half, and it paid immediate dividends.

“For about five minutes, we wanted to press, press, press, and take the game to them — and we got a goal,” said Freddy Adu, a crowd favorite in Tianjin. “Once you get a goal, it’s very, very hard in these weather conditions to come back from a goal down.”

Stuart Holden took a pass on the right side of midfield in the 47th minute, working a few nifty combination passes with Wynne. Wynne mustered all of his effort to make an overlapping sprint with the ball down the right flank, deep into Japanese territory. His low cross was well defended, but the clearance fell to Holden at the top right of the box. Holden held his ground and released a low hard shot that had just enough force to be slowed, but not stopped, by Shusaku Nishikawa, the Japanese keeper.

Holden and Adu, who started up front next to McBride, were more active in the second half, pleasing a crowd that cheered loudest whenever Adu — and later Jozy Altidore, who replaced McBride in the 74th minute — touched the ball.

Both teams play their next qualifying matches on Sunday, with the United States team facing the Netherlands and Japan facing Nigeria.
258 2008-08-08 SECURITIES INQUIRY Citigroup agreed to buy back $7.3 billion of auction-rate securities and pay $100 million in fines to settle with regulators, and Merrill Lynch made a similar offer.      POOR CHOICES Most plaintiffs who forgo a settlement offer...
259 2008-08-08 Even in these dog days of summer, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the city's health commissioner, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, traveled to a Brooklyn park on Monday to spread a piece of welcoming news among dog owners: They can now license their pets onl...
260 2008-08-09 What does preserving food do to its molecular structure?...
261 2008-08-09 A new spot attacks John McCain for his NIMBY support of storing nuclear waste at Nevada's Yucca Mountain....
262 2008-08-09 "The 21.5 overnight rating was the best on record for a non-domestic Summer Games opener, with the closest being an 18.5 from Sydney in 2000."...
263 2008-08-09 NBC received a 21.5 overnight rating for Friday night's telecast, the best on record for a non-domestic Summer Games opener....
264 2008-08-09 Ray Ray McElrathbey will graduate from Clemson on Saturday. McElrathbey, a running back, gained national attention in 2006 for raising his then 11-year-old brother, Fahmarr, while their mother dealt with drug problems. He missed last season with a knee injury but has two years of eligibility left. He will play at Howard this fall.
265 2008-08-09 The Olympics have apparently given some bar owners at Houhai Lake a wide opening to fleece visitors unversed in the Chinese language and unskilled in the ways of Chinese bargaining....
266 2008-08-09 Mr. Ellsberg first offered the papers to several senators and Henry A. Kissinger, the national security adviser. He found no takers. He then offered them to newspapers.

The New York Times decided to publish the materials and was followed by other newspapers. The Times won a landmark case when the Supreme Court ruled that the government had not met the heavy burden of proof required to stop publication of something in advance.

But in the later trial of Mr. Ellsberg and Mr. Russo in Federal District Court, on charges of violating conspiracy, theft and espionage laws, other important issues were raised but not decided. One was whether the Espionage Act of 1917 prohibits publication of secret material, or whether it must be passed to an enemy to be a violation.

The men were cleared even though their case never reached a jury, because Judge William M. Byrne Jr. dismissed the case in May 1973 after several bizarre twists. These included the judge’s learning that the office of Dr. Ellsberg’s psychiatrist had been burglarized and that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had lost records of perhaps illegally taped telephone conversations, as well as the fact that during the trial, the judge himself was approached about becoming director of the F.B.I.

From Mr. Russo’s perspective, the ordeal — even the beatings he claimed to have endured after being imprisoned for refusing to testify to a grand jury — was worth it. “The case has messed up my life,” he said in an interview with The Times in January 1972, “but what difference does that make?”

Mr. Russo was born in Suffolk on Oct. 14, 1936, and grew up in a middle-class family. He earned a degree in aeronautical engineering at Virginia Tech in 1960, then worked for NASA, helping to design the space capsule. He next earned two master’s degrees at Princeton, one in aeronautical engineering and one in public affairs.

He went to work for the RAND Corporation, which sent him to Vietnam to work on a study that involved interrogating Vietcong prisoners, whom he admired for the strength of their convictions. He broke out in tears in court when telling of a prisoner’s reciting poetry to him.

After returning to work at RAND in California, Mr. Russo experimented with the counterculture, riding motorcycles and writing poetry, according to Peter Schrag in “Test of Loyalty: Daniel Ellsberg and the Rituals of Secret Government” (1974).

Tom Wells, in his “Wild Man: The Life and Times of Daniel Ellsberg” (2001), said that Mr. Ellsberg — who had worked on preparing the Pentagon Papers as an analyst and moved to RAND in 1968 — told Mr. Russo he wanted to meet “some hippies,” particularly women. Mr. Russo took him to a commune.

Mr. Russo became Mr. Ellsberg’s closest male friend at RAND, Mr. Wells wrote; their conversations increasingly turned to the 2 of the 15 copies of the Pentagon Papers that had been deposited at RAND.

Mr. Russo pushed Mr. Ellsberg to use his more influential position to make the contents public. At first, Mr. Russo told Mr. Wells, Mr. Ellsberg “rolled his eyes at the ceiling.”

But Mr. Ellsberg increasingly concentrated on how to release the study and how much of it to release. He eventually decided to hold back four of the volumes, covering 1964 to 1968, to avoid criticism that he had harmed the peace negotiations.

Mr. Ellsberg said in his obituary of Mr. Russo that he had thought Mr. Russo would not be in danger of prosecution. But it turned out Mr. Russo, too, was indicted. Both admitted doing everything charged in taking the documents to be copied and releasing them to newspapers, but contended that this did not constitute a violation of the law.

Mr. Russo had earlier refused to testify before a grand jury and was imprisoned until he agreed to do so, but he never had to testify. In a news conference after the final trial, he recalled that it was “in the bowels of that courthouse I was beaten up by guards.” Prison officials denied this.

Mr. Russo was married and divorced twice and had no children. He worked for the Los Angeles County Probation Department for many years.

He told The Times that the Pentagon Papers case had transformed him into a “committed, full-time radical.” He always credited the Black Panthers with being his strongest supporters.
267 2008-08-09 One way to envision the bottom would be to look back at where prices were five or 10 years ago, before the current price run-up. There are some better ways, though.

Noting that home prices have outpaced inflation in the past, one can calculate how much houses appreciated annually in the decades before the bubble, and then figure out how far out of line prices are now. Edward E. Leamer, director of the U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast, has crunched these numbers for various regional markets.

In Ocean City, N.J., for example, inflation-adjusted house prices rose about 1.6 percent a year from 1988 through 2002. Compared with what this rate would predict, the city’s houses in the first quarter of this year were overvalued by 51 percent. Over the previous year, they had fallen 0.6 percent; at this pace, Ocean City house prices will be at the right level in about 13 years. The model foretells eternal decline for some cities. It predicts that Kingston, N.Y., will not return to “normal” for almost four centuries.

Part of the reason these numbers may be hard to swallow, Mr. Leamer says, is that they do not capture the many differences between the economic conditions of the 1980s and today, or even 2002 and today. Income, mortgage rates and popular vacation spots have changed since then, as have myriad other factors deeply entwined with house prices.

Many experts look to price-to-rent ratios to estimate where house prices should be in a region. Because renting is a direct alternative to buying, and because rents tend to be less volatile than prices, rents are often considered to be a good shorthand for figuring out the intrinsic value of a home.

In the past decade, the price-to-rent ratio in many markets has exploded, indicating that people have been paying much more for their homes than the property is actually worth. From 1994 to 2002, for example, Phoenix had an average ratio of 11, according to data from Moody’s Economy.com. After peaking in the last quarter of 2002 at 22.5, it cooled to about 17.3 in the first quarter of this year.

This measure is popular but problematic because some economists say many of the homes that people rent (apartments in multifamily buildings) may not be comparable to the types of homes that people buy (single-family houses).

Another ratio that housing economists watch is the ratio of home prices to per-capita income. This is telling because it shows whether Americans can actually afford the houses in their area.

Looking at previous peaks and troughs in the income ratio can provide an idea of where the housing market will bottom in a particular city. In Boston, for example, the housing market peaked in the late 1980s around 11, and then hovered around 7.5 when it bottomed in the late 1990s, according to Mr. Case. This time around, it peaked at over 12, and in the first quarter of this year, it was just over 10.

Income and employment have had a particularly depressing effect on some regional housing markets.

In the Midwest, said Mr. Case, “they never had a boom. There was no bubble. There’s just a bust because employment’s dropping like a rock.” In Detroit, for example, the price to per-capita income ratio grew gradually from 1991 to about 2004, and has dropped steeply since then.

Some economists argue that the price to per-capita income ratio is misleading, because the price used in that model does not take into account the full cost for buyers. This full cost should include not just the price of the house but mortgage rates as well.

“As long as anyone can remember, as long as we have data, mortgage rates have been about 1.6 percent above the 10-year Treasury rate,” said Christopher J. Mayer, an economist and senior vice dean at Columbia Business School. “Today, it’s more like 2.5 percent above the 10-year Treasury. That’s a gigantic difference, literally reducing the amount of house someone could afford by 20 percent.”

He has put together, in a model that has not yet been published, a rough calculation of where house prices should be if mortgage markets were functioning the way they had been in the last few decades.

This model shows that big-bubble cities like Miami and Phoenix were still overvalued in the range of 13 percent in May. It also found that San Francisco and Boston homes were corrected to the right level, and that homes were actually undervalued in New York by 5 percent.

Still, Mr. Mayer says prices in these cities will probably continue to fall because of deteriorating mortgage markets and economic fundamentals.

Yet another ratio worth watching is the relationship of housing inventory to sales. This measures the imbalance between supply and demand, which is the economist’s holy grail of market behavior.

A recent International Monetary Fund paper argued this measure was the strongest determinant of housing prices in the short run. Booming areas were often overbuilt and have the most inventory to clear out before prices can recover. Inventory-to-sales ratio declines across California, for example, have given hope that the state is nearing recovery.

Economists put together many of these variables, along with others, to predict where housing prices will fall. Moody’s Economy.com, for example, uses a complex data cocktail to calculate how overvalued each U.S. metropolitan area is. Its model takes into account per-capita income, wealth, vacation home demand, the attractiveness of investing in housing relative to other types of investments, and shifts in the availability of mortgage credit.

Mr. Mayer’s model, while unusual for its emphasis on mortgage rates, also uses rents, property tax rates, personal income tax rates, government interest rates, expected inflation and other factors.

The wrench in all these models is that this is the first national housing bust since anybody started keeping track of many of these useful data points. It is hard to predict how the national trends will affect state and city housing markets, which are otherwise very local organisms.

Trends from past national housing cycles are not especially helpful this time around. Mr. Case said that gross residential investment, the building of new homes, as a percent of gross domestic product peaked at about 5.6 percent and hit its trough at about 3.5 percent in three previous national housing cycles, from 1973 to 1991.

These levels might therefore seem like good guidelines for the current cycle, which peaked at 5.5 percent in 2006. But the indicator has already dipped below that historic bottom, falling to 3.1 percent of G.D.P. in the second quarter of this year.

For these reasons, some experts argued that it was silly to try to build a mathematical model for the market’s overvaluation. Too much is unknown, they say, to make any predictions.

“I try to avoid house price forecasting,” said Paul S. Willen, senior economist and policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. “Let me just say this, as an economist, that asset pricing is something we’re exceptionally bad at.”
268 2008-08-09 Telecom Italia, Italy’s biggest phone company, said second-quarter profit slid 12 percent on price cuts enforced by regulators and slower mobile phone growth in Italy and Brazil. Net income fell to 639 million euros ($961 million) from 725 million euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement. Sales dropped 4.1 percent, to 7.54 billion euros. The company cut its full-year revenue forecast because of reduced outlooks in Brazil and Germany, where competition has stiffened.
269 2008-08-09 Chad Pennington’s 2008 season will open in Miami, as planned, only he will be wearing the uniform of the Dolphins instead of the Jets. Pennington, released by the Jets after they acquired the future Hall of Famer Brett Favre, agreed to a deal with the Dolphins on Friday that could be worth $11.5 million over two years. At least $3.5 million will be guaranteed.

The move reunites the 32-year-old Pennington with Bill Parcells, the Dolphins’ vice president for football operations. Parcells drafted Pennington with the 18th overall pick in 2000 when he was the Jets’ general manager.

Pennington, named the N.F.L.’s comeback player of the year in 2006 after returning from a second shoulder operation to lead the Jets to the playoffs, joins a Dolphins team looking to recover from a 1-15 season in 2007.

He gives Miami a more seasoned presence than Josh McCown, who was No. 1 on the depth chart after signing a two-year contract during the off-season. McCown has started more than 10 games only once in six seasons. Chad Henne, a second-round pick this year, and John Beck, a second-round choice in 2007, are the other quarterbacks on the roster.

Among quarterbacks with at least 1,500 passing attempts, Pennington is ranked first on the career list with a 65.6 completion percentage. The Jets lauded Pennington as a coach in the huddle, and he is a voracious student of the game.

Pennington was routinely criticized for his lack of arm strength. He lost his starting job last year to Kellen Clemens, who was in his second season, but appeared to be leading the quarterback competition in this year’s camp.
270 2008-08-09 The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights urged the International Criminal Court on Friday to investigate the involvement of government ministers and members of Parliament in the postelection violence that left at least 1,500 people dead. Florence Jaoko, director of the agency, said the group had drawn up a list of 200 people who should be investigated. The list was not made public. Violence erupted after the presidential election on Dec. 27, leading to fighting between ethnic groups and revenge killings.
271 2008-08-09 Anna Netrebko has ended plans to play the role of Mimi in Puccini’s opera “La Bohème” in December and January, the Metropolitan Opera announced. Ms. Netrebko, who is expecting her first child in September, said she would need more time before returning to the stage. Maija Kovalevska, above right, who is scheduled to play Mimi throughout most of December, will replace Ms. Netrebko for the performances. Ms. Netrebko will play the title role in Donizetti’s “Lucia di Lammermoor,” which begins on Jan. 26.
272 2008-08-09 CAMBRIDGE, England — In its first published rating of the potential threats facing Britain’s 60 million people, the government said on Friday that a flu pandemic, not a terrorist attack, was likely to have the greatest impact.

The assessment came in a report known as the National Risk Register, ordered by Prime Minister Gordon Brown as part of an effort to enhance Britain’s readiness to deal with threats to national security. The document was compiled on the basis of previously classified estimates from a wide variety of government departments, including MI5, the domestic intelligence agency.

A flu pandemic was rated only fifth in a list of the most likely threats but first in terms of its public impact. The assessment said that half of the population, about 30 million people, could be infected, that up to a million of them might need hospital care, and that 50,000 to 750,000 might die.

The Cabinet Office, the executive arm of 10 Downing Street, said in the report that the government had stockpiled enough doses of an antiflu drug to “treat all those who fall ill in a pandemic of similar proportions” to, among others, the epidemic of the so-called Spanish flu of 1918, which was estimated to have killed more than 20 million people around the world.

“The government is collaborating actively with international partners on prevention, detection and research, and is taking every practical step to ensure that the U.K. is prepared to limit the internal spread of a pandemic and to minimize health, economic and social harm as far as possible,” the report said.

The report listed the most likely threat to national security as another attack on the country’s transport network similar to the one on July 7, 2005, when Islamist terrorists launched suicide attacks on London’s transit system, killing 56 people, including the four bombers. It said the country’s railway system, including subway systems in London and other cities, remained the most vulnerable element of the transport network, ahead of airports and airlines because of the higher levels of security given to air transportation.
273 2008-08-09 OTTAWA - Lawyers for a young Canadian man imprisoned at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, filed a lawsuit on Friday against Prime Minister Stephen Harper to try to force him to intercede with American officials on the prisoner’s behalf.

Mr. Harper has declined to ask the United States to repatriate the prisoner, Omar Khadr, 21, who is scheduled to go on trial in October on charges of killing a United States soldier in Afghanistan in July 2002, when he was 15.

Critics say that Mr. Khadr was a child soldier and that he should be helped rather than punished. Mr. Harper, whose right-wing Conservatives won power in January 2006 on a law-and-order platform, says Mr. Khadr is facing serious charges.

The lawsuit asks Canada’s Federal Court to order the prime minister to intervene before the United States military trial starts.

“We’re doing it to compel Stephen Harper to finally do the right thing and stand up for the rights of a Canadian citizen,” said Lt. William Kuebler, who represents Mr. Khadr before the American military tribunal.
274 2008-08-09 According to a study conducted this summer by the Consumer Reports National Research Center, shrinkage is occurring across a broad spectrum of goods, Mr. Marks said. The study will be published by Consumer Reports in October.

Some of the worst offenders are canned tuna, paper towels, chewing gum, butter-type spreads, candy bars — and, perhaps most drastically, coffee and ice cream. In many cases, he said, the traditional one-pound can of coffee has dwindled to 10 or 11 ounces. And many ice cream containers have shrunk from a half-gallon to 1.5 quarts.

Having just bought what I thought was a half-gallon of ice cream, I checked my freezer and was taken aback when I read the label. No 64 ounces here, just a mere 48 ounces dolled up to look like a half-gallon.

I felt snookered, but it was my own fault. I had not checked the container’s actual size or the unit pricing label, steps Mr. Marks says are essential if you are going to get your money’s worth in groceries these days.

Also, he advises, look sideways at a package before you buy it. “Companies won’t change the height or length of a container. It’s the width,” he said. “The Hershey’s bar you pick up at the register looks like the old 3-ounce bar but it’s only 1.5 ounces. Hold it up. It’s as thin as a wafer.”

THE incredible shrinking package game is hardly amusing when one contemplates a rapidly expanding grocery bill. But, in a funny way, it may be a good idea for food manufacturers and shoppers alike, said Harry Balzer, a vice president of the NPD Group, a marketing research firm based in Port Washington, N.Y.

With the soaring cost of wheat, corn, eggs, milk and other staples, grocery producers are faced with a dilemma, said Mr. Balzer, who studies food consumption. “People hate paying more for groceries. How do manufacturers deal with rising food costs without passing it along directly to the consumer?

“One option that you’re seeing, they keep the price the same but lower the amount. In effect, it’s a price increase,” he said, “but it’s not an increase in out-of-pocket expenses.”

Actually, I pointed out to Mr. Balzer, it is certainly an increase in what I pay out of pocket if my half-gallon of ice cream lasts only 1.5 quarts’ worth of servings or my box of cereal runs out after a week instead of two.

Mr. Balzer agreed. “There’s no question that you’re paying more for food,” he said. But, he added, consider the challenge facing food producers. “They have to make a decision: Do you raise the price of a product and risk that customers may not buy it, or do you modify the packaging and risk that people might feel deceived?”

As flawed as the system sounds, Mr. Marks of Consumer Reports believes that the grocery dance keeps everyone happy, more or less. “In effect, grocery manufacturers are still raising prices, yet people are paying the same — which is somehow appealing to the American psyche.”
275 2008-08-09 “This was the Postville prosecution guilty-plea machine,” said Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants’ Rights Project of the A.C.L.U. “The entire process seemed to presume and be designed for fast-track guilty pleas.”

One defense lawyer who received the scripts from prosecutors on the day of the raid said he became convinced that the hearings had been organized to produce guilty pleas for the prosecution. As a result, the lawyer, Rockne Cole, declined to represent any of the arrested immigrants and “walked out in disgust,” he wrote in a letter to a Congressional subcommittee that is scrutinizing the raid and the legal proceedings that followed.

Mr. Cole wrote that he was most dismayed to see that the scripts specified the particular plea agreements that would be offered to the defendants. “What I found most astonishing,” he wrote, “is that apparently Chief Judge Reade had already ratified these deals prior to one lawyer even talking to his or her client.”

Preparations for the hearings were overseen by Linda R. Reade, the chief judge of the Northern District of Iowa court, who declined to comment for this article. In an interview in May during the hearings, Judge Reade said she had begun to organize them in December, when she was advised by the immigration authorities to expect a “major law enforcement initiative.”

The hearings were conducted in emergency courtrooms set up in the National Cattle Congress, a fairground in Waterloo. Magistrate judges took guilty pleas from immigrants in groups of 10, then the immigrants were immediately sentenced, five at a time. Only a handful of the workers, mostly illegal immigrants from Guatemala, had prior criminal records.

The scripts were compiled before the raid by court officials under the supervision of Robert Phelps, the clerk of court, with input from the office of United States Attorney Matt M. Dummermuth, prosecutors said. Iowa defense lawyers said they were not included in any discussions before the raid.

Mr. Phelps declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Dummermuth said the intention was not “pushing people into pleading guilty.”

“These documents were there to make sure people were fully advised of their rights and fully understood the consequences of their decisions to plead guilty,” said the spokesman, Bob Teig.

In the May interview, Judge Reade, a former federal prosecutor who was nominated by President Bush in 2002, said she was surprised by how many Agriprocessors defendants had pleaded guilty rather than contest the charges. She said she had planned to spend the summer presiding over trials in those cases.

The scripts were presented by prosecutors to about two dozen defense lawyers who were summoned by the court in meetings at the Cedar Rapids courthouse on May 12 while the raid was under way. Several lawyers who were present said prosecutors told them that they might each be assigned more than two dozen clients.

The scripts specified that prosecutors would offer a particular type of plea agreement that leaves no discretion to judges to raise or lower sentences. Some defense and immigration lawyers said the inclusion of these plea agreements was a sign of overly close cooperation between the court and prosecutors.

“Here you have a court communicating with one side and not the other about substantive issues,” said Robert R. Rigg, a Drake University law professor who is president of the Iowa Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. “The court had bound itself to the agreement before the plea was accepted.”

Professor Rigg and other legal scholars said such plea agreements were generally negotiated between prosecutors and defense lawyers after a defendant was charged, and were later approved by the judge. The rule governing the plea bargaining says, “The court must not participate in these agreements.”

Stephanos Bibas, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who is an expert on federal criminal procedure, reviewed the scripts at the request of The New York Times. He said that they contained nothing “legally questionable,” but gave an appearance that “raises eyebrows.”

“It does make it look like the prosecutor and the judge have worked it out ahead of time and made it a fait accompli,” Professor Bibas said. “The defense can think the judge is behind this.”

The Agriprocessors hearings have become a national test case for the Bush administration’s crackdown strategy of bringing criminal charges against illegal immigrants caught in workplace raids. Until recently, most illegal immigrant workers, if they had no prior records, were swiftly deported on civil immigration violations.

The hearings were the highest profile use of an expedited procedure, known as fast track, in a court in the American interior. Such fast-track criminal immigration proceedings, on a smaller scale, have become common in the last year in courts near the Mexican border.

Prosecutors and judges said the Iowa court had used scripts in past criminal hearings and had posted them on the court’s Web site. Paul A. Zoss, a magistrate judge who presided in the Agriprocessors hearings, said the court was seeking to help defense lawyers prepare their cases.

Iowa defense lawyers said they had seen scripts, but never a complete playbook like the one they were handed in May, describing a guilty plea process from start to finish. But some lawyers who represented immigrant defendants said they found the scripts useful.

“Whether the court prepared them or the prosecution prepared them does not change the fact that they were helpful,” said Christopher Clausen, a lawyer who represented 23 immigrant defendants.
276 2008-08-09 A PLUNGE in orders for German exports this week increased fears that Germany, and much of Europe, is slipping into recession. When preliminary figures for second-quarter economic growth are released next Thursday, most economists expect that nations using the euro will show a decline in economic activity.

With Japan also expected to post a negative figure for second-quarter growth when it reports on Wednesday, and the economy already weak in the United States, the three major world economies are all stumbling, which cannot be good news for the emerging (and growing) economies like China and India.

“It now looks likely that the euro zone will be the first major economy to fall into recession,” Jonathan Loynes, the chief European economist for Capital Economics, wrote after the report of sagging orders in Germany.

Mr. Loynes was relying on a popular definition of recession — two consecutive quarters of declines in gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation. In the United States, the official measure is more complicated, relying in part on judgment of experts at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Some economists think the experts will eventually conclude that a recession has already begun.

Germany has remained the world’s largest exporter even with the rise of China, which passed the United States in 2007. Germany’s reliance on exports makes the data on new orders among the most watched. The figure for June, reported this week, was down 2.9 percent from May and was 8.4 percent below the figure from a year ago.
277 2008-08-09 Re “Obama Walks a Delicate Path on Class and Race Preferences” (front page, Aug. 3): Barack Obama can and should favor affirmative action that is “universal, as opposed to race-specific,” while still honoring the original primary race-based intent of the program: to actively remove effects of past illegal and immoral racism.

Mr. Obama should support programs in which universities allocate a large share of seats to applicants who commit to mentor K-12 students in neighborhoods that the universities identify as having suffered most from past racism.
278 2008-08-09 Re “Federal Judge Says Cross Can Stay on San Diego Hill” (news article, Aug. 1):

One suspects that the supporters of the San Diego cross and Larry Alan Burns, a federal judge, are seriously lacking in irony and maybe logic. The cross makes sense only as a memorial because of its religious significance.

If the only way you can defend the presence of the cross is to strip it of all Christian significance and declare it a secular, “patriotic and nationalistic” symbol, it loses its point entirely. It’s hard to believe that a devout Christian could do both.
279 2008-08-09 The final concert by the Police, at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night, could have felt like any number of things: a victory lap, a spectacle, a backward glance, an amen. It was all of the above to one degree or another, but what it ultimately suggested was the last day of school. At the close of a reunion tour that stretched past a year, reaching well over three million fans and earning more than $350 million, this three-piece rock band seemed not only festive but also relieved, and frankly giddy at the prospect of freedom.

“It’s been a huge honor to get back together,” a full-bearded Sting said several songs into the show, before thanking the group’s drummer, Stewart Copeland, and its guitarist, Andy Summers, “for your musicianship, your companionship, your friendship, your understanding, your patience with me.” Have a nice summer, he could have added.

Instead he sounded a note of jocular confession: “The real triumph of this tour is that we haven’t strangled each other.” Not that it hadn’t crossed their minds, he added. The crowd roared knowingly, well versed in the history of a band that broke up in 1984, at the pinnacle of its success, in a bitter haze of clashing egos.

So the tour, which began in May 2007, has apparently been more of a diplomatic rapprochement than a sentimental journey. But it has also been a chance for the band to revisit its pioneering sound, a sparse but kinetic hybrid of reggae, punk and new wave that conquered charts and airwaves from the late 1970s to the mid-’80s. The grand finale on Thursday, a benefit for the New York public television stations WNET and WLIW, was no different in that regard: it confirmed the unusual chemistry that always bonded these artists, musically if not personally.

Along with most of its bigger hits, like the tersely reverberant “Walking on the Moon,” the band played a handful of less celebrated tracks, including “Hole in My Life,” a jaunty complaint, and “Demolition Man,” a hard-charging boast. Social commentary arrived in the form of songs like “Driven to Tears” and “Invisible Sun.”

There was ample opportunity to savor the atmospheric and judicious guitar playing of Mr. Summers, and the propulsive, breezily intricate drumming of Mr. Copeland. Of course Sting’s soaring vocals were front and center throughout, as were his mostly durable songs.
280 2008-08-09 WASHINGTON (AP) — The efficiency of America’s workers grew at a slightly slower pace in the spring as companies sought to produce more with leaner work forces.

The Labor Department reported Friday that productivity — the amount an employee produces for every hour on the job — grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the quarter. That was down from a 2.6 percent growth rate in the first quarter.

Economists were forecasting productivity to pick up slightly to a 2.7 percent pace.

Meanwhile, growth in compensation — wages and benefits — also slowed as companies were less generous amid troubles in the economy and uncertainty about their own prospects.

Unit labor costs slipped to a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, from a 2.5 percent growth rate in the first quarter.

Unit labor costs measure how much companies pay workers for every unit of output they produce. Economists look to this barometer for clues about inflation.
281 2008-08-09 “Fannie and Freddie’s decision to curtail support of the mortgage market is going to make mortgages more expensive for potential home buyers, which is going to hurt the overall economy,” said Howard Shapiro, an analyst at Fox-Pitt, Kelton. “They’re the only real buyers in this market, and they’re going to buy less. That’s really bad news.”

Fannie Mae also announced measures intended to conserve capital, including cutting its dividend to 5 cents a share from 35 cents and reducing the company’s operating costs 10 percent by 2009. The company’s stock price closed on Friday at $9.05, down 9 percent.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages from banks and other lenders, providing those financial institutions with capital to make new loans. The companies own or guarantee more than $5 trillion in mortgages, or nearly half of all home loans in the United States .

Fannie Mae’s poor results on Friday, in many ways, are a reflection of a declining housing market. Executives said home prices in some states — like California and Nevada — had declined by more than 25 percent in the last two years and would continue to fall.

“The housing market has returned to earth fast and hard,” said Fannie Mae’s chief executive, Daniel H. Mudd, in the call with analysts. “The crisis that we all observe as we drive home everyday continues to strain our results and capital, and we’re still in that dark tunnel.”

But the poor results are also an indication of how much more limited the companies’ options have become. As an extension, the government’s leverage over the housing market has also waned, since lawmakers have long relied on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

“The government has done a lot to help these companies, but mortgage rates are continuing to rise and the housing market is continuing to decline,” said Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse. “They’ve already become part of the problem because the government has to worry about them instead of relying on them to save everyone.”

Of particular concern, said Mr. Orenbuch and others, are persistent rumors that one or both companies will require a bailout.

After the companies’ stock prices each declined by more than 80 percent this year, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. proposed an emergency plan last month that would give the federal government power to inject billions of taxpayer dollars into the companies if either were likely to fail. Mr. Paulson has repeatedly said he hopes never to activate the plan.

“The government wanted its bailout plan to be strong enough to calm the markets, but not so strong that they’re forced to use it,” Mr. Orenbuch said. “But so far, it’s only been partially effective. It’s stabilized the companies, but hasn’t done anything to help the costs of new mortgages go down.”

And as the companies continue revealing losses, some observers are beginning to speculate which one is at greater risk.

Much of the concern focuses on Freddie Mac, which has posted smaller losses than Fannie Mae, but which might be more exposed to risks of becoming undercapitalized.

By law, regulators are compelled to consider taking over either company if it falls below minimum capital requirements. Some analysts say that the types of loans Freddie Mac has bought, and the smaller amount of capital the company has on hand, puts it at greater risk.

“Freddie is at much greater risk than Fannie,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting company.

Freddie Mac maintains that it is adequately capitalized. But Ms. Petrou said her analysis indicated that some loans owned by Freddie Mac put the company at risk of needing to raise significant amounts of capital very quickly if those mortgages were downgraded by rating agencies. However, it is unclear whether investors are eager to hand the company more money.

Moreover, said Ms. Petrou, that eagerness is unlikely to grow as conditions continue declining.

“As long as people are having conversations that focus on who is in worse shape, rather than talking about how healthy everyone is, it’s going to be hard for these companies to do much that really improves the housing marketplace,” she said.
282 2008-08-09 NIEMIEC--Richard. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Richard Niemiec, associated with The New York Times from November 16, 1964 until retiring on April 1, 2004....
283 2008-08-10 Aired Friday night on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" on ABC: President Bush made history by becoming the first sitting U.S. president to attend the Olympics in a foreign country. He said he's been looking forward to it ever since he heard that in China, peop...
284 2008-08-10 A look at how Senator John McCain runs his sometimes freewheeling campaign....
285 2008-08-10 BEIJING - One of the teams billed as a prime nemesis for the United States in these Olympics lost its opening game on Sunday night. Defending gold medalists Argentina fell to a strong Lithuania team, 79-75, after Linas Kleiza hit a go-ahead 3-poin...
286 2008-08-10 Readers of Rachel Donadio’s essay “More Bang for the Book” (July 27) should know that John Cleese has not come late to management education. Early in his career, together with Antony Jay, he founded Video Arts, a company that produced a number of management education films, starring, of course, John Cleese.

I often used their “Meetings, Bloody Meetings,” a humorous look at the dysfunctions of unplanned meetings, in my M.B.A. classes at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto.
287 2008-08-10 The alternate story Lessing creates here begins when Alfred Tayler and Emily McVeagh meet at a country cricket match when they are not yet 20. The meeting is pure fiction, yet believable; at its best, the novella has a rich, Hardyesque appreciation of rural life, which suits Alfred perfectly. Weaving in details of their actual histories, Lessing allows her father to resist his own mother’s pressure to join a bank; he becomes a farmer instead. Lessing instinctively “got” her father, and he is the simpler character, granted a long, happy life.

Her relationship with her controlling mother was always fraught. “I hated my mother,” she recalls. It’s not a surprising line in the Lessing canon, and even now she doesn’t entirely break free of her old resentment. She grew up hearing that her mother had been heartbroken when a doctor she deeply loved was drowned. She lets the fictional Emily become his wife, but it’s a cold marriage. Character, Lessing seems to be saying — specifically her chilly mother’s — doesn’t change.

Yet she extends compassion to her mother by sounding one of her truest, most enduring themes: Emily, the efficient nurse, feels she has lost any sense of herself in this traditional marriage. So Lessing kindly kills off the husband. As a widow, the other Emily comes into her own, helps impoverished children and establishes a chain of Montessori schools.

The novella sketchily fills in history without the Great War. Britain does just fine, but there are conflicts around the world, and in one of Lessing’s less inspired touches, women’s hairdos express support for rival sides in a Turkish-Serbian war. (Ringlets for Turks, spit curls for Serbs.) But Lessing doesn’t intend anyone to stay in this alternate world for long. At times she even drops in a line about the actual story to come. “In life, my father’s appendix burst just before the Battle of the Somme, saving him from being killed with the rest of his company.”

In the book’s eloquent second half, she explores how war permanently damages even its survivors. Lessing’s father was visited in dreams by his dead comrades and endlessly told stories about “the Trenches, tanks, star-shells” as a way, his daughter believes, “of ridding himself of the horrors.” Her mother, so capable in London and a social butterfly in Persia, arrived in Africa and took to her bed for a time, calling her small children to her side and whimpering, “Poor Mummy.” Lessing writes that “nothing fits” in her mother’s sad transformation, and she makes it fit by blaming the war. Emily had nursed so many wounded soldiers. “They died, you see, and often we could do nothing,” she tried to tell her daughter, who refused to hear. Looking back, Lessing concludes, “My mother’s wartime ordeals were ravaging her from within just as my father’s Trenches were eating away at him.”

That may be partly true, but much too neat. For one thing, it diminishes elements of Emily’s life that Lessing herself has described. Some of her most poignant scenes, here and in “Under My Skin,” are of the once beautiful dinner dresses, the “silvery stockings, brocaded shoes” Emily had so wrong-headedly packed for her glittering new life in Africa. It’s touching to see Lessing trying so hard to understand her hated mother’s unhappiness. And it’s part of the brutal honesty we have come to expect from her that she can’t quite get past her anger.

“Alfred and Emily” may be, above all, a way for Lessing to give artistic shape to her own indignation. “To this day I can feel the outrage I felt then,” she says of her volatile reaction to her mother’s self-pity. Of her father’s war stories she says, “We were complicit in a rage of understanding,” and believes that his “rage at the Trenches took me over” and “never left.”

In “Memoirs of a Survivor,” which Lessing has called “an attempt at autobiography,” the heroine takes in a girl named Emily, and it is Emily’s childhood she sees in the dreamlike world behind her wall. That childhood hints at Emily McVeagh’s but is even closer to Doris Lessing’s: a stern, unloving mother figure and a hapless soldier father.

In its generosity of spirit, its shaped and contained fury, “Alfred and Emily” is also an extraordinary, unconventional addition to Lessing’s autobiography. She’s said she has written her last book (well, she has said a lot of silly things), but there isn’t the slightest tone of valediction or summing up here. That’s why she remains so vital: even in old age, she sounds as fierce and passionate as a girl.
288 2008-08-10 1. Make the jam: in a 3 quart pot and using a wooden spoon, mix together the sugar, orange zest and juice, and vanilla bean and seeds. Place a candy thermometer in the pot and set over medium heat. Bring to a boil and cook for a few minutes, until it reaches 220 degrees. Add the peaches and boil, stirring occasionally, until the peaches turn into a thick jam and the thermometer returns to 220 degrees, 35 to 45 minutes. Wear long oven mitts as the jam can splatter. (When the jam begins to stick to the bottom of the pan, it's nearly there). Transfer the jam to a wide pan to cool. Remove the vanilla bean.

2. Prepare the crust by melting the butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Cook until the white milk solids start to brown and smell nutty, 5 to 10 minutes. Strain through a fine sieve set over a heatproof container. Freeze until solid.

3. In a large bowl, mix together the confectioner's sugar and flour. Scoop the chilled brown butter into the flour mixture and, using a pastry cutter, blend until crumbly. Transfer the crumb mixture to a 9-by-13-inch baking pan and firmly pat it evenly across the bottom of the pan. Refrigerate for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, adjust the oven rack to the middle position and preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Bake the crust until golden, 18 to 20 minutes. Let cool.

4. Make the filling: whisk together the eggs, sugar, zest and flour in a large bowl. Place the vanilla bean and seeds and the butter in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Cook until the white milk solids start to brown and smell nutty, and then strain through a fine sieve. Carefully add the brown butter to the egg and flour mixture, whisking until the butter is incorporated. Remove the vanilla bean.
289 2008-08-10 A new resort opened Thursday outside Santa Fe, N.M. Located on 57 acres at the foothills of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, Encantado, an Auberge Resort, consists of a main lodge (with a restaurant, a lounge and meeting space), a 10,000-square-foot spa, a fitness center and pool and 65 luxury casitas. The casitas are outfitted with up-to-date technology as well as bathrooms with heated floors and soaking tubs, private terraces and fireplaces. Guests will have access to the 1.6-million-acre Santa Fe National Forest, and to downtown Santa Fe on a free shuttle service. Nightly rates start at $425. There is also a “bed and breakfast” promotion through next June. Those who book two or more nights will receive daily breakfast for two; those who stay three nights or more will receive the breakfast and a room upgrade (www.encantadoresort.com).
290 2008-08-10 Recovering souvenir-plate collectors may want to check out the New York-centric dishware from Fishs Eddy on Broadway in Chelsea. The 212 Skyline line is the classic, with a labeled Manhattan skyline around the circumference of the plates and bowls. There are also Central Park, Five Borough and square-plated Brooklyn lines available; items like salt and pepper shakers and butter dishes are more portable gifts.

Brooklyn is a good decade into its 15 minutes of fame, so the messenger bags from Brooklyn Industries, an upscale chain of clothing stores with a Brooklyn rooftop logo, is a good choice. Their T-shirts are also cool, if you can stand the $32 price tag: there are Brooklyn Bridge images and Brooklyn spelled out in sign language. But the best, for those looking to be obscure, just reads BQE, as in Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, the much-maligned, always-under-construction highway linking the two boroughs.

For less than half the price (and, for better or worse, less than half the hipness), you can pick up the T-shirts and bags from the Strand Bookstore near Union Square. Its “18 miles of books” slogan is very New York (though perhaps not as New York as the fact that a Spanish version is available, “18 millas de libros”). The T-shirts come in all sizes and what was once just an iconic tote bag is now available in all kinds of varieties. By the way, they also have sharply discounted New York City books, including gift-ready classics like the Pulitzer Prize-winning “Gotham: a History of New York City to 1898,” and “The Encyclopedia of New York City.”

Should there be lovers of strawberry Charleston Chews or bubble gum cigarettes on your list, Economy Candy is a good place to shop. To add the New York element, add a Yankees giant Pez dispenser ($18) or an Economy Candy T-shirt, featuring the logo of a kid with a tremendous cowlick presiding over a colorful smorgasbord of treats ($10).

Those who don’t believe in the division of church and T-shirt may consider a visit to the Church of St. Mary the Virgin’s gift shop near Times Square. They sell “Smokey Mary” T-shirts in their gift shop on Sundays, but no cheating: the store doesn’t open until Mass is over. The church’s heavy use of incense explains the nickname, but not the flaming censer logo (ask for the story). A small bottle of the incense itself, made especially for the church by a parishioner who now lives in Arizona, is $10, and they’ve recently begun stocking what may be the worst possible New York City gift in history, a bound 320-page photocopy of Kyle Babin’s 2008 doctoral thesis about music at St. Mary’s from 1868 to the present.

But perhaps the best spot around for great New York gift-shopping is the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. They have a bit of everything, including some subway stuff, Fishs Eddy skyline butter dishes, unusual notecards, New York-based kids’ books, New York City restaurant cookbooks, and perhaps the only wrapping paper in the world worth its price. For just $4.95 you get wrapping paper printed with an old city map that could just as easily be a poster. Wrap something in that, and your gift doesn’t even have to be that great after all. (Idea: a liter of genuine New York City tap water, drawn from your hotel sink into a delabeled Poland Springs bottle.)

NO APPLES, BIG OR OTHERWISE

Vintage New York, 482 Broome Street, (212) 226-9463, or 2492 Broadway at 93rd Street, (212) 721-9999; www.vintagenewyork.com.
291 2008-08-10 Lill Saether and Maria Hjorth each shot a course-record 64 at the Scandinavian T.P.C. in Stockholm. Saether birdied six of her first seven holes and had a nine-under-par 135 total after two rounds. She led by one stroke over Hjorth and Lora Fairclough (66) and by two over Annika Sorenstam (71) and Johanna Head (70).
292 2008-08-10 “This is an activity that is completely and utterly inconsistent with a drinking water supply,” he said. “This cannot happen. This would destroy the New York City watershed, and for what? For short-term gains on natural gas? We’re not saying no exploration for natural gas anywhere in New York State. We’re saying the part of New York State that is the New York City reservoir system should be off limits to this kind of activity.”

Mr. Gennaro, who appeared with officials from the environmental groups Riverkeeper and the Natural Resources Defense Council, is one small player in a very big game. (Riverkeeper called for a permanent ban on drilling in the watershed.) But he seems intent on ringing the bell loudly over an issue that so far has been the subject of quiet, low-profile discussion between city and state agencies, but of very little public discussion.

He is calling for a yearlong moratorium on gas drilling in and around the watershed and plans to hold public hearings on the issue in early September. He has also asked the Environmental Protection Agency to render a formal opinion on whether gas drilling could put the city’s filtration waiver at risk.

There are more than three dimensions of chess in gaming this out.

There is the utterly fortuitous prospect of a lucrative gas boom coming at a time when New York is desperate for new revenue, and upstate is equally desperate for new economic activity. There is the national energy crunch to push for domestic exploration. There is the eternal conflict between upstate and downstate over water issues and land rights. There are conflicting instincts among landowners: hope of winning the gas lottery versus fear about the consequences for the environment and on the quality of life in their communities.

Industry officials, who have largely kept a low profile, say that they welcome state oversight and that the industry has a track record of being environmentally responsible. But they also warn that a drilling moratorium or undue regulation could discourage production.

“New York has to be careful how it deals with these issues so it doesn’t send a negative signal to the industry that chills the interest in the play in New York State,” said Tom West, an Albany lawyer who represents several gas companies. “These companies have limited investment dollars, and they’re going to invest them where the natural gas opportunities exist and where there’s a regulatory climate that promotes it.”

This is all early. State officials say there are only six drilling proposals on file, none of them in the watershed. No one knows how much gas will be found upstate. Most of the gas-rich areas are outside the watershed, so companies may just avoid areas where the environmental bar is highest. And Judith Enck, Mr. Paterson’s deputy secretary for the environment, said an updated environmental impact review demanded by the governor would ensure that all drilling proposals get a thorough analysis.

But asked about declaring the watershed off limits, she said: “We’re not willing to say that a large piece of geography should be off the table. The governor agrees that the New York City watershed is absolutely critical and must be protected, but he also believes you can have economic development and protect the watershed at the same time.”

Mr. Gennaro said that’s too much to take on faith.

“Unlike natural gas, which we can get from other places in the Marcellus Shale, we have no other place to go for our drinking water. This is it. We have one and only one drinking water system.”
293 2008-08-10 “We all watch the show,” said Andrew Stevens, 25, a digital art director at Y&R, where stark white paneling has replaced oak-shrouded walls and Dartmouth green carpeting. “It’s much more conservative today. No smoking, no drinking in the offices.” Wearing a slim tie, a porkpie hat and shorts, he added, “I only wear a tie because I don’t have to.”

Jessica Kolski, 30, the global director of creative connections, looked around her office, her minifridge stocked with Pellegrino and V8, and mused, “Just think about how many cigarettes were smoked in here.”

A few floors above, Ian Reichenthal and Scott Vitrone, both 38, who work as a team as executive creative directors, share a corner office. “We are the last of a dying breed,” Mr. Reichenthal said, alluding to the reduced numbers of admen who actually work on Madison Avenue.

The Lexington Avenue offices of another ad agency, JWT, formerly J. Walter Thompson, were recently made over by the team that designed Google’s headquarters in New York. JWT, founded in 1864, created an ad for the “Mad Men” season-one DVD set, claiming in a press release to be the only real-world agency linked with the series.

But JWT’s work environment looks nothing like that of Sterling Cooper, the fictional ad agency on “Mad Men.”

There are only two private offices at JWT, which is dominated by open, communal work spaces. The agency is decorated in bold, playful colors, with purple, sky blue and green walls and floors.

Conference rooms with rose-colored glass walls offer a look at admen and adwomen in meetings.

Several employees are set up with laptops in what they call the “Salinger tent,” a work area sectioned off by a floor-to-ceiling tarp with a quote from the opening of “The Catcher in the Rye” cut into it. Furry beanbag chairs are scattered throughout.

The conference rooms have playful names painted beside the doors — “Cathedral,” “Hive” and “Tree House” — to help foster a more creative environment. A huge image of a baby bottle on a door leads to the breast-feeding room.

One can practically hear the men from Sterling Cooper quipping, “What is this, day care?”

“ ‘The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit’ is dead,” said Andrew Essex, 43, the chief executive of Droga5, a boutique agency formed in 2006 that attracted much attention for a YouTube-circulated ad for the Ecko clothing line, in which a designer spray paints Air Force One with graffiti.

“Execs don’t look anything like Donald Draper,” Mr. Essex said, referring to the show’s main character, the creative director of Sterling Cooper, who has a corner office, a wife who looks like Grace Kelly and a dark past. “Today, it’s the man in the artisanal T-shirt, selvaged denim with holes in them and really expensive vintage sneakers from a small boutique in Japan.”

Mr. Essex added: “The personalities haven’t changed that much, just the accouterments, like carefully harvested facial hair. Our agency people dress like well-paid teenagers, but that teenager may be 38.”

It’s not just the look of ad agencies that has changed. In “Mad Men,” sexist attitudes are regularly part of the plot lines and seem incompatible with the world of agencies today. Executives and secretaries meet for midday romps at the Roosevelt Hotel, which still operates on Madison Avenue at 45th Street.

At Droga5, Mindy Liu, 29, the assistant to the founder and creative chairman of the agency, upends the entire notion of secretaries from the “Mad Men” era, with her fuchsia hair, multiple piercings and tattoos.

Surrounded by a collection of plastic Japanese dolls decorating her desk, she wore a pin of her boss’s face as a joke. A Post-It note was stuck to his office wall. It read, “David, I am going to get a tattoo tomorrow,” and was signed, “Mindy.”
294 2008-08-10 On a recent Saturday, we decided to seek out this Dog Run of Eden. However, when we made our way to the intersection to which we had been directed, things did not look good. We found ourselves at the junction of Queens Boulevard and the entrance to the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. This neither looked nor sounded like the ideal place for a dog run.

We crossed Queens Boulevard. We crossed back. I called 311, the city’s official help number, but the very pleasant woman who answered didn’t seem to have access to a dog-run database. A Web search on my Treo yielded a map on the parks department site displaying a big block of green called Sherry Park. All we saw was highway. Then we spotted the run, which was, in fact, right where Queens Boulevard meets the B.Q.E.

I’d pictured the park as bursting with nature. Not just green, but covered in grass (or at least wood chips), with a profusion of trees for shade. Being a relatively new dog owner, I wondered if this expectation was based on repeated viewings of “The Dog Whisperer,” which is set in Los Angeles. In L.A., or at least on the show, dog runs are huge spaces and very green.

At least there were dogs. Sherry Park, as it turns out, is a large expanse of concrete, perhaps five or six times the size of the Doughboy run, and set far enough back from the street that the noise from the highways isn’t terribly noticeable. A bunch of dogs immediately ran up to us, and within a few minutes, Mandy was frolicking happily.

The only green area was a small slope at the back of Sherry Park, which the dogs didn’t seem particularly interested in, and the weeds that invariably flourish amid urban concrete.

MANDY is an obsessive sniffer, and nothing grabs her interest as much as unusual plants. She licks tall grass and loves to bury her face in leafy weeds. Still, she didn’t seem bothered by the concrete. Upon arriving at the dog run, she immediately started wiggling and hopping around, the way she does when she is excited. In fact, all the dogs visiting Sherry Park that day seemed more playful and at ease than the ones I’d seen at the Doughboy run.

Sitting at one of three shaded concrete tables, each of which had a built-in chessboard, was Raquel Leon, 25, of Woodside. Ms. Leon was visiting Sherry Park for the first time with her father, whom I had met at the Doughboy run with Draco, the family’s golden retriever. Ms. Leon summed up the differences between the runs. “They don’t really like it,” she said of dogs’ reactions to the Doughboy run. “They need space.”

Debbie Phelan, who was accompanied by Lucy, her terrier-Lab mix, agreed. “It’s well kept here,” Ms. Phelan said. “People look after it.”

And, indeed, as I looked around, I noticed what I first took to be a portable toilet (for humans, presumably), but which turned out to be a tool shed, flanked by gardening implements that at least suggested the possibility of regular upkeep.

“It’s a pity there aren’t more,” Ms. Phelan said of the run. “This is a good one. Well, it’s the only one I know around here, but we like it.”

As our dogs explored and roughhoused, we were joined by Josie Callanan, 37, of Woodside, and her Jack Russell terrier, Jinx, a k a Jinxsie. Ms. Callanan didn’t think much of the Doughboy run, either. “It’s too small,” she said. “It’s not a dog run.”

The day was hot and humid, and as the dogs settled down in the shade of the tables or lapped at the water in one of two metal bowls, my thoughts wandered. Was this as good as it got for the hundreds of dogs in the neighborhood? Were the only options tiny and dusty or big and concrete?

Despite the generally positive vibe — Mandy was simultaneously panting with fatigue and wiggling with happiness — I had to admit that I was disappointed. Then, Ms. Phelan, as if reading my mind, asked: “Have you been to Forest Park, out by Woodhaven Boulevard? Great dog run.”
295 2008-08-10 Late last month, Zvonko Busic, who had spent the last three decades in United States prisons, was quietly granted parole and — within days — flew back to his native Croatia, a free man.

It turns out that Mr. Busic, a self-proclaimed Croatian independence fighter who was imprisoned for his role in another 1970s terrorist attack, had been the object of suspicion of many of those who looked into the La Guardia bombing. They included Mr. McTigue and Edwin T. Dreher, who, as a deputy police chief at the time, was put in charge of solving the case as the city’s No. 1 police priority.

There was also Frank McDarby, a detective who interrogated Mr. Busic in an F.B.I. office 33 years ago; the crime writer Kevin F. McMurray, who spoke with Mr. Busic for three hours in 1997 in a visitors’ room at the federal penitentiary in Lewisburg, Pa.; and Robert K. Tanenbaum, a former prosecutor from the Manhattan district attorney’s office who had nagging doubts about Mr. Busic.

Each, to some degree, had been intrigued — and even tormented — by the unsettled matter of whether Mr. Busic had played a role in the La Guardia bombing. Each, over the last two weeks, has peered back into history and wondered anew if Mr. Busic escaped punishment for one of the biggest unsolved terrorist acts in the nation.

“There is a lot of suspicion that he was involved,” Mr. Tanenbaum said. “There was definitely conversation about that, at that time.”

He added: “It’s an unsolved case. It was a major atrocity. And I’ve always been concerned about this.”

Over the years, Mr. Busic, who is now 62, has maintained his innocence in the La Guardia bombing. He reiterated that in a statement read on Friday by his lawyer, Marc D. Blackman of Portland, Ore., in which he said he and his wife, Julienne, “to this day, have absolutely no knowledge about who did” it.

The couple, now living in a small town on the Croatian coast, was convicted of playing a role in the hijacking of a Trans World Airlines jet and, as part of the same operation, for planting a bomb in Grand Central Terminal in September 1976, 10 months after the La Guardia bombing. That bomb killed a city police officer as he tried to defuse it at a Bronx demolition range.

“Rumors that Julie or I had something to do with the La Guardia bombing have haunted us for over 30 years,” Mr. Busic said in his statement. He added: “We would welcome a process that would allow us to put these unsupported and reckless rumors to rest once and for all. But we are only two people with no power to convene such a process. Should those with such power do so, we would fully cooperate, as I said long ago when contacted by law enforcement officials.”

Regarding his release, Mr. Busic said, “It is inconceivable to me that I would have been granted parole if there was any evidence linking me to that horrible crime. There is no way to prove a negative, of course, but I believe that my release on parole comes as close to doing that as one can get.”

The La Guardia case — known to law enforcement officials as Lagbomb — remains an “open homicide” investigation, a police official said. It has long been eclipsed by modern acts of terrorism, including the Sept. 11 attacks, whose masterminds are well known. Unofficially, it is a stone-cold whodunit for the F.B.I. and the Police Department.

But 33 years ago, after the bomb went off in a baggage area used jointly by T.W.A. and Delta Air Lines, it was an intense inquiry for hundreds of law enforcement officers and other personnel.

Investigators scanned passenger manifests from flights preceding the blast. They analyzed bits of fabric, parts of timepieces and other forensic clues. They tracked down two men seen running from the blast, then questioned and cleared them. They looked at the Palestine Liberation Organization because Golda Meir, the former prime minister of Israel, had been in New York. They heard a Minneapolis police chief’s tip about a bomber in his state — but it was a dead end.

“When this happened, we got calls from all over the world,” said Mr. Dreher, the former deputy police chief. “It was just a madhouse in the beginning.”

The La Guardia bombing reinforced the notion that the city was a stage for groups seeking attention for international causes. For instance, on Jan. 24, 1975, a bomb went off at Fraunces Tavern in Lower Manhattan, killing four people. It was one of 49 bombings attributed to the Armed Forces of National Liberation, a Puerto Rican nationalist group known as the F.A.L.N., between 1974 and 1977.

The Croatian nationalist movement linked émigrés from Croatia in several parts of the globe, all of them aiming to free their home from Communist Yugoslavia.

“They were involved in multiple bombings in New York,” said Neil Herman, a retired F.B.I. agent who was a supervisor in the local Joint Terrorism Task Force.

It was not until Mr. Busic was arrested for the 1976 hijacking and Grand Central bombing — and returned to New York after his capture in Paris — that he became someone of interest to investigators still stymied in the La Guardia case.

Once in New York, Mr. Busic began to meet the people who would come to be gripped for decades by their suspicions about him.

Mr. Tanenbaum was a prosecutor in Robert M. Morgenthau’s office, a senior member of its homicide bureau. He prosecuted self-proclaimed members of the Black Liberation Army for the killing of two police officers, as well as members of the Colombo crime family.

Mr. McTigue, a sergeant assigned to the police bomb squad in 1976, was blinded in the left eye and lost two fingers of his left hand in the explosion of the bomb planted in Grand Central. When it detonated at the bomb squad demolition range hours later, Mr. McTigue recalled, “I got hit right in the face.”

He was 41 at the time, a police officer since 1956. He got the Medal of Honor. He said he spent three months in a hospital and a decade getting “patched up — I lost count of my operations at 17. Tracheotomy. Skin grafts. The whole deal.”

Mr. McDarby, an investigator who had kept his beard from his time working narcotics operations, went to the F.B.I.’s New York offices on the night Mr. Busic was flown back from Europe.

Recalling the interrogation, Mr. McDarby, 67, said that Mr. Busic drew a picture of the bomb planted in Grand Central, but said he “did not mean for anyone to get hurt or killed.” Calling himself “the commandant,” Mr. Busic recounted how he got the ingredients for the bomb, built it with dynamite and tested it with a “lamp switch in his apartment” in Manhattan.

“After all that was said and done, he had to go to the bathroom and we had a minute break,” Mr. McDarby said. “Eddie Dreher was there and he said, ‘Get back in there with him and talk to him. You know what I want.’ He was referring to La Guardia.”

As the interrogation continued, Mr. McDarby said “inconsistencies” arose. Mr. Busic began to sweat profusely. He first said he had heard about the bombing from someone at his apartment, then said he had learned of it from repeated radio news alerts during his taxi ride home.

“I said, ‘Wait a minute, you told me a half-hour ago that the neighbor told you,’ ” said Mr. McDarby. “He said, ‘Oh, I am tired, I have not slept in four or five days.’ His lips were quivering.”

The interview was interrupted by a federal agent, who claimed he had to rush to get Mr. Busic before a federal judge, and it was never finished, Mr. McDarby said. He said the agent threatened to arrest Mr. McDarby and others if they did not release Mr. Busic; Mr. McDarby said he believes the threat arose from a turf dispute.

Years later, Mr. McDarby met one night at Elaine’s, an Upper East Side restaurant, with Charles E. Rose, a prosecutor with the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York. Mr. Rose wanted to take a fresh look at the case, Mr. McDarby said, but it never happened and Mr. Rose joined a private practice in 1994 and died four years later.

Mr. Tanenbaum, 65, interviewed Mr. Busic as part of his investigation of the hijacking and the subsequent Grand Central bombing. But he also believes that interference by the federal authorities — who ultimately charged and prosecuted Mr. Busic and others in the 1976 case — prevented any real chance to explore Mr. Busic’s possible role in the La Guardia bombing.

Today, he wishes that a state case against Mr. Busic and his comrades had been pushed.

“We know there’s a likelihood that some of Busic’s accomplices would have talked about the La Guardia bombing case, that we might have learned more about the La Guardia bombing case,” Mr. Tanenbaum said.

Mr. McMurray, the crime writer who developed an interest in Mr. Busic, corresponded with Mr. Busic and his wife. And then he got a chance to interview him in 1997.

Mr. Busic again denied a role in the La Guardia bombing. He told Mr. McMurray, 58, that he would take a lie-detector test to prove his innocence because “he believed he was still in prison because they held him on suspicion of being the La Guardia bomber.” Mr. Busic served more than 31 years of a life term and was granted parole and deported on July 24.

Mr. McTigue, 73, who lives in Rockland County, followed Mr. Busic’s path through prison for three decades. And he was always struck by the similarities in the two bombings.

“Both bombs were in a public locker in a transportation facility, a few days after a holiday, and both were large and heavy,” Mr. McTigue said. He noted that both devices utilized dynamite and “a 9-volt battery, possibly for a lantern.”

Mr. McTigue testified several times before the United States Parole Commission in federal prisons where Mr. Busic was held, in California, Maryland, New York and three times in Lewisburg, Pa.

He did it, he said, “to make people aware of the crime he committed and also, on several occasions, to point out what I felt was his solid connection to the La Guardia incident.” Mr. McTigue said he hoped the La Guardia case would be solved.

Now, Mr. Busic is “wandering around Europe somewhere,” with his wife, according to his father-in-law, who spoke by telephone from his home in Portland but declined to provide his name. He said he was tired of the subject of his son-in-law’s suspicion in the La Guardia bombing.

“They like to dredge that up,” he said. “I don’t care what they think. If they think he did it, prove it.”

Mr. McTigue notes that a condition of Mr. Busic’s parole is that he not return to the United States.

“I’m sad that he’s out of our hands,” Mr. McTigue said. “Eleven people lost loved ones, and scores of people were injured, and no one has ever been brought to justice. That’s a terrible mark on our society and it should never be forgotten.”
296 2008-08-10 “I think a certain amount of tension is very healthy, and a certain amount of different views,” he said. “Because of the bubble that a president is in, and the bubble that a candidate is in, sometimes you find out afterwards something that — ‘Oh boy, I wish I had heard thus and such and so and so.’ So I appreciate and want some of the tension; I don’t want too much of it, obviously, because we have to have certain efficiencies. But I think there is a balance there.”

Mr. McCain hungers for information. He can regularly be seen reading newspapers from cover to cover, and aides say he embraces the briefing books given to him each night. His aides say he is especially studious when it comes to economic issues, an area in which he has admitted weakness. A former Navy pilot, Mr. McCain preaches the need to improvise under pressure, subscribing to the military maxim that no plan survives first contact with the enemy. The bursts of temper fellow senators have endured are rarely directed at his underlings. Indeed Mr. McCain has a history of being surrounded by people who are intensely loyal to him — and remain so even after being pushed off his ship.

But if Mr. McCain’s management style has kept him well informed and flexible, its drawbacks have been especially evident in the many often turbulent months since he began his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. It offers a contrast to the more rigidly controlled and nearly corporate management style that has marked the campaign of Mr. Obama, his Democratic counterpart. If anything, it recalls the freewheeling ways of the last Republican senator to win his party’s presidential nomination, Bob Dole in 1996.

Mr. McCain’s style contains contradictions, veering between a shoot-from-the-hip tendency and assertions of damn-the-consequences authenticity on the one hand and a grudging acceptance on the other of the need to give in to the discipline of programmed politics. While he avidly seeks advice and contrary opinions, he routinely resists basic political counseling, such as when aides pleaded with him not to campaign sitting on a horseshoe-shaped couch in the back of his bus because they feared it made him look like an old man rumbling around the country in an R.V. He refused.

His management of his campaign offers a glimpse of how he might run the White House. He would, it appears, be a president who is intensely interested in issues (particularly foreign affairs) and open to conflicting opinions, but also impetuous at times and tolerant of the kind of internal churning that can impede orderly decision-making and keep aides on edge.

While President Bush has been criticized for being too insular and too slow to adapt to changing circumstances, Mr. McCain’s leadership of his campaign suggests a less hierarchical, more free-form style, much closer to that of President Bill Clinton.

For now, Mr. McCain’s executive style looms as a potential obstacle to his hopes of getting to the White House. His campaign has been rocked by personnel changes and often well-publicized differences. And for all the efforts to maintain discipline, he continues to be plagued by misstatements and apparent gaffes as he at times bucks what his own campaign is trying to do. After his campaign spent days mocking Mr. Obama for suggesting that proper tire pressure was one way of conserving fuel, Mr. McCain undercut the message, stating : “Senator Obama a couple of days ago said that we ought to all inflate our tires, and I don’t disagree with that. The American Automobile Association strongly recommends it.”

As Mr. Obama’s campaign pounced on the remark, the McCain campaign quickly sent out an e-mail message to reporters noting that Mr. McCain had gone on to say that he did not believe that would lead to energy independence.

By all accounts, the most recent shake-up of his campaign has helped. It put Steve Schmidt — known for a tough management style and who made clear he would leave if he was not given the authority to impose discipline — in a senior role at headquarters, working alongside Rick Davis, a longtime survivor of the McCain staff wars.

Mr. Schmidt has sought to cut down on Mr. McCain’s use of his cellphone and limit the people who have regular access to Mr. McCain in an effort to keep him more focused, advisers said. He has been the impetus for an effort by Mr. McCain to limit sharply his engagements with reporters, the kind of freewheeling encounters that Mr. McCain enjoys — and that helped him charm the news media for years — but that often lead him to veer from his campaign’s message of the day.

There are 8 a.m. calls every day in which the campaign settles on the daily message or attack. Someone in Mr. McCain’s entourage — typically Nicolle Wallace, a Schmidt ally and a veteran of Mr. Bush’s 2004 campaign and White House who recently joined the campaign as a traveling senior adviser — is given the responsibility of making sure Mr. McCain agrees to the message and tries to stick to it.

“Now there is a management structure,” Ms. Wallace said. “It is formally headed by Steve and Rick. This is one of the things that has been improved.”

Mr. McCain seems to draw much of his management philosophy from his military experience. He has cited as evidence of his executive ability his role reviving the Navy’s largest air squadron, the beleaguered VA 174, the Replacement Air Group at Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Fla., in 1975. It had about 50 planes, half “in such bad shape that they had to be grounded,” as he put it when challenged at a Republican debate last October about his management credentials.

“Soldiers are taught to expect the unexpected and accept it, and revise, improvise, and fight their way through any adversity,” he said as he recounted how he turned around the operation.

In his campaign, Mr. McCain weighs in on all major decisions, but does not get involved in too many details. He has explicitly signed off on every major new line of attack and new advertisement, watching the advertisements on a laptop, aides said.

But unlike Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton, Mr. McCain has displayed no particular interest in or knowledge of the minutiae of politics. He rarely gets involved with discussions about what states he should visit, other than to insist that he spend a day or two at home in Arizona most weekends. One of his pollsters, Bill McInturff, said that Mr. McCain was not the kind of candidate who asked to look at the detailed cross-tabs of every poll.

“The guy’s incredibly engaged in this process,” Mr. McInturff said, “but he’s not a client who has much tolerance for sitting through an hourlong presentation, or 30- to 40-minute presentation of slides and charts.” Mr. McCain’s advisers said he pays more attention to his campaign’s spending and fund-raising than he did before it nearly went broke in July 2007. Mr. McCain told friends he was surprised — and mortified — when that happened. Mark McKinnon, a former adviser, pointed to Mr. McCain’s reaction to that crisis — slashing staff and dismissing some senior advisers — as evidence of management strength. “He did all the things you need to do to right the ship,” Mr. McKinnon said.

Yet even now the campaign continues to have its share of drama. Several Republicans in regular contact with the campaign said two pollsters, Mr. McInturff and Ed Goeas, had fundamental differences over the campaign’s message. They said the two differed over the degree to which Mr. McCain should establish his differences with Mr. Bush and the extent to which he should run on a “Washington is broken” message, which Mr. Goeas supports.

Mr. McInturff declined to comment when asked about the divisions. But, he said more broadly, “there can be differences of thought, but campaigns don’t collapse because you have differences of opinion.” Mr. Goeas did not return calls.

Mr. McCain also tolerates, or, some aides said, encourages, tension in his upper ranks. He did nothing to tamp down a wave of speculation this summer that his former chief campaign strategist, Mike Murphy, would be brought back into the fold, reports that set off waves of tensions among other aides who had a history of battling with Mr. Murphy. Mr. Murphy ultimately announced he was taking a job at MSNBC.

In recent weeks, Mr. Murphy and another former top aide, John Weaver, were critical of Mr. McCain’s advertisements attacking Mr. Obama. The two men privately urged Mr. Schmidt and Charlie Black, a senior adviser, to get off that course and spend as much time building up Mr. McCain as tearing down Mr. Obama, advice also offered by a member of Mr. McCain’s panel of outside advertising consultants, Alex Castellanos. They met stiff, angry resistance, several people familiar with the episode said.
297 2008-08-10 ON Wednesday, the United States Justice Department revealed its evidence that Dr. Bruce E. Ivins, on his own, committed the worst act of bioterrorism in the country’s history. This 18-year veteran scientist of the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Fort Detrick in Frederick, Md., is accused of killing five people and sickening 17 others in the fall of 2001. Dr. Ivins died on July 29 of an apparent suicide without a chance to give his side of the story.

After reading the affidavits and listening to the Justice Department briefing, I was both disheartened and perplexed by the lack of physical evidence supporting a conviction.

Dr. Ivins was a friend and colleague of mine for nearly 16 years. We worked together at Fort Detrick. He was a senior scientist, and I was, first, a bench scientist and, from 1999 to 2003, the chief of the bacteriology division.

The Justice Department has presented different types of evidence to support its argument that Dr. Ivins was the person who mailed anthrax to Tom Brokaw, Tom Daschle and others in September and October of 2001. Much of this evidence is outside the realm of science: Dr. Ivins’s alleged fixation with a sorority; strange comments in excerpts from his e-mail messages; a connection to a Greendale school that might or might not explain the fictitious return address on anthrax mailings. I will not address these points beyond noting that they are highly circumstantial.

As a scientist, however, I feel compelled to comment on what should have been the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s strongest link between Dr. Ivins and the terrible crime — deadly anthrax spores. In the summary of its findings, the F.B.I. states that investigators used four different genetic techniques to match the anthrax-laced attack letters to a unique DNA footprint of a single anthrax spore preparation in one flask that had been in Dr. Ivins’s custody.

Sounds reasonable. Yet the investigators present no details on the scientific methods they used to make this match or how they employed them. That’s a problem, because without such detail it is hard to tell if they specifically ruled out a similar match between the anthrax in the letters and anthrax preparations with the same DNA footprint kept at a number of other labs around the country. The basic methods of genetic analysis are well known. Why not provide enough detail about their procedure to enable other scientists to tell whether they could actually single out Dr. Ivins’s spore preparation as the culprit?
298 2008-08-10 I worked in the 1970s as the first civil rights compliance officer in Wisconsin and the first affirmative action officer for Madison. As an ardent advocate of affirmative action, I withheld funds from grantees who refused to set goals and timetables to hire women and members of minorities.

Recruitment campaigns were advertised in the white media only, with no comparable outreach into minority communities. No efforts were made to assist members of minorities or women to meet the minimum standards required for the jobs. Affirmative action programs were successful in breaking down many barriers.

Thirty-five years later we do not have perfect equal employment opportunity or perfect recruitment of students, but today members of minority groups and women are working in police and fire departments, the trades and top management and are attending college.

Barack Obama is right. Affirmative action should be broadened to assist all economically deprived people, regardless of color or sex.
299 2008-08-10 BEIJING — In golf, an 8 — the dreaded snowman — is usually a number to be avoided. But at 8 past 8, more or less, on Friday morning — 12 hours before the opening ceremony at the Bird’s Nest, and just about when thousands of couples were lining up at the marriage bureau to tie the knot on that most auspicious of days — Qinghe Bay Golf Club in Beijing officially opened.

A couple of dozen V.I.P.’s marched down the clubhouse steps, between two rows of bowing caddies, posed for some photos, then climbed into golf carts and sped off to an assigned tee. By 8:18, the first ball had plopped into the drink; a flailing tee shot had failed to carry the water on the 390-yard 10th on the club’s west course. Players on the east course stayed dry a little longer.

Some Chinese scholars say that the Chinese invented golf, and that the game was played here during the Song Dynasty in the 10th century. But golf probably arrived here with the British, who built clubs in Shanghai and Beijing in the 1920s. The most famous of them, Hungjao in Shanghai, was paved over after the Communist Revolution and turned into a zoo.

The first modern golf course in China, Hot Spring, an Arnold Palmer design in Zhongshan, was built in 1984. There are now more than 400, including a dozen 18-hole layouts at Mission Hills, an industrial-size complex in Shenzhen that is the largest golf resort in the world. In 1997, there were only 10 golf courses in the Beijing area, said Sophie Liu, assistant to the general manager at Qinghe Bay. Her club now brings the number to about 50.

Officially, the Chinese government still frowns on golf, because it is Western and capitalist, and shows its disapproval by taxing golf courses at the same rate as nightclubs. But in reality some government officials are enthusiastic players, and even those who are not cannot fail to notice that golf has become a magnet for investors. The number of active players is growing by 25 or 30 percent a year.
300 2008-08-10 Lisa María Pérez, the daughter of Dr. Norma Zapata-de Pérez and Darío Pérez Cuervo of McLean, Va., was married on Saturday to Timothy Hayes McCarten, the son of Susan Hayes McCarten and Dennis J. McCarten of Narragansett, R.I. The Rev. Ramón J. Casellas, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at San Francisco de Asís church in San Juan, P.R.

The bride, 26, and the bridegroom, 27, met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they both graduated magna cum laude. They also both received law degrees from the University of Virginia.

Ms. Pérez is keeping her name. She is an associate in the Washington office of Latham & Watkins.

Her mother, an ophthalmologist, has a practice in Lake Ridge, Va., of which the bride’s father is the office manager.

In September, Mr. McCarten is to become an associate at the Washington office of Clifford Chance, the London law firm.

His parents are lawyers in Narragansett; his father is also a violin maker and owns an instrument shop bearing his name in Pawtucket, R.I.
301 2008-08-10 While Lincoln Center presents a splendid revival of “South Pacific,” inviting audiences to consider the prejudices of white Americans against “people whose skin is a different shade” (as one of its songs puts it), Gateway Playhouse in Bellport is mounting an earlier landmark musical by the same librettist-book writer exploring the same theme.

“Show Boat,” with book and lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II, was groundbreaking in several ways. It integrated songs and plot into what many critics deem the first serious American musical and had black and white performers sharing the stage.

Unlike “South Pacific,” which depicts American service people on foreign turf, “Show Boat” is based on home soil and addresses the nation’s black-white color divide. Both shows have been accused of being racist themselves by today’s standards, but both are heartfelt in their stands against bias.

By 1949, when “South Pacific” debuted — with Richard Rodgers supplying the music and Joshua Logan as co-book writer — Hammerstein had become a smoother storyteller. The 1927 “Show Boat,” with glorious music by Jerome Kern, covers more than four decades in the lives of a traveling troupe of performers in sometimes lurching fashion. It touches deep chords, having inspired three films and about a half-dozen Broadway revivals.

Given the show’s pedigree, it would be wonderful to report that this production is as compelling as Gateway’s previous show, “Beauty and the Beast.” Alas, such is not the case.

Under Bill Theisen’s lackluster direction, this “Show Boat” is competent and professional but never passionate or surefooted enough to draw audiences fully into its embrace. The actors have strong voices, but many are not quite suited to their roles. Michelle Weber’s choreography, perhaps hampered by lack of space, lacks pizazz. Even though the program lists 10 musicians, including the musical director, Nathan W. Perry, the sound system often makes them sound like a calliope.
302 2008-08-10 He had a batch of songs and a plan: to simplify. Bright Eyes’ most recent album, “Cassadaga,” was a painstaking, sprawling project, wrapping elaborate orchestral arrangements around Mr. Oberst’s songs about breakups, rehab, spiritual quests and life as a professional musician. Released in 2007, “Cassadaga” took a year to complete, in multiple studios. And the results were mixed. Even in songs about personal crises, the spontaneity and unguarded tone that Mr. Oberst’s fans cherish were often sacrificed to elaborately constructed and sometimes labored production.

For his new album Mr. Oberst decided to set limits: a few musicians, a short time. “A lot of what happens is, for me anyway, a reaction to what came before,” he said. “I really wanted to hear space in this music and not have it become too bloated with instrumentation, and to keep the essence of the song.” He’s not striving for a hit single; his goals, he said, are “freedom and longevity.” The hit, like Neil Young’s “Heart of Gold,” might turn up sooner or later.

“A lot of people that achieve a certain amount of those two things, freedom and longevity, I think they inevitably at some point have a height — a song or an album that gives them a little leverage to do what they want. Sometimes I think, ‘Well, do I need that to happen to me?’ But I don’t know if I do. It doesn’t seem to be affecting anything.”

“I’m pretty happy with the level at this point,” he added. “My friends that are in the next tier of celebrity, what they have to deal with — it doesn’t look like any fun at all.”

Mr. Oberst has been writing, recording and performing songs for half his lifetime, since he was a teenager. The last time he released albums as Conor Oberst, from 1993 to ’96, they were on cassettes. His first songs were home-recorded and strictly low-fi, with Mr. Oberst — before his voice changed — bravely unveiling all his insecurities on a four-track tape.

After a few years in the band Commander Venus (alongside musicians who would end up in two other Omaha bands, Cursive and the Faint), Mr. Oberst started working with various musicians as Bright Eyes. His lyrics, sung with quivering immediacy, revealed every one of his growing pains. Like his albums with Bright Eyes, “Conor Oberst” is a collection of songs about love, mortality, the state of the world and the lure of the road. But the lyrics are more imagistic than narrative. And unlike many of Mr. Oberst’s previous songs, they rarely leave a listener wondering who the real-life people were behind the lyrics.

One song that does, “Danny Callahan,” is about a boy dying with “bad bone marrow.” Fans have been Googling the name to no avail. The song is about a boy Mr. Oberst met for a moment. “I don’t know if that was his last name,” he said. “I know it was his first name.”

“When you write a song,” he said, “the goal is not to convey the details of your life. You should write a memoir or something if that’s what you’re going to do. The idea is to get to a truth that is apart from the person who created it, something that anyone can look at and find something that resonates as being true — not true in the factual sense, but true in the more universal sense, a truth that you can see.”

His songs have often been called confessional, but he doesn’t like the term. “I’ll always draw from my experiences because that’s the material that’s most readily available to use,” he said. “But I don’t make any bones about drawing from other people’s experiences. To me also, when I write a song, the pronoun is really not important at all. I’ll even forget sometimes and sing the wrong pronoun, whether it’s she or he or it or I or you. Because they’re all interchangeable. To me it’s what comes after that, the rest of the line. That’s where the truth is going to be.”

Lately, he said, his songs have become more opaque. Facing larger audiences he is exposing less; the diaristic details are still there, but they mingle with Dylanesque enigmas. At first, he said, “I was writing for myself, for my 10 friends that I knew were going to listen to it, and that was it. Then you can’t deny that there’s other people, strangers, that are not only going to be hearing it and absorbing it but judging you. That’s always a weird thing to realize.”

Still, there’s nothing detached about the songs on “Conor Oberst.” He’s still looking inward, as he does in “Eagle on a Pole”: “It’s such a long way back to all the fun I had/When nothing ever seemed to bother me.”

The sound of the music is sparse and rootsy, a straightforward recording of a handful of musicians making down-home connections to folk, country and the 1960s rock of the Grateful Dead and the Band. It’s a world away from current Top 10 radio formats, but disarmingly natural. The songs can be jaunty or sorrowful, bruised or optimistic, and often all at once, from the gallows-humor honky-tonk of “I Don’t Want to Die (in the Hospital)” to the quietly haunted fingerpicking and disillusionment of “Lenders in the Temple”: “Something so wild turned to paper/If I loved you well, that’s my fault.”

He made the album with a few friends in an out-of-the-way place: a small mountainside resort hotel overlooking Valle Místico, in Tepotzlán, Mexico, which is also a well-known place for U.F.O. sightings.

Mr. Oberst has a penchant for the paranormal. “Cassadaga” was named after a century-old community of spiritualists in Florida. “I really believe in the way the energy can consolidate in certain geographical spots,” he said. “You can find it in a lot of different places, beautiful natural spots, or if you look at Islam or Judaism or Christianity, these ideas of holy places. With Cassadaga, so many minds focusing on the same concept in the same place really reverberates in the air and everywhere. Any place where people are praying and meditating and tuning their minds for one reason, I think you can feel it. I know that sounds a little hippie-dippie.”

Mr. Oberst and his musicians spent five weeks in Tepotzlán. Their equipment was hauled up narrow roads by pickup truck; the piano wouldn’t fit through any doorways and stayed on a porch, where it “got more and more out of tune,” Mr. Oberst said with a smile. The musicians included Mr. Walcott, from Bright Eyes, and other familiar sidemen. The album was recorded on 16-track tape — “the first record I’ve made in probably five years that hasn’t been inside a computer at some point,” Mr. Oberst said. And the microphones captured not only the instruments but crickets and the thud of fireworks — a frequent occurrence — from the valley below.

One drunken night the musicians cajoled Mr. Oberst into calling Janet Weiss, the drummer from Sleater-Kinney, Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks and, in 2007, Bright Eyes. He casually invited her to Mexico; she went down for a weekend and ended up adding a backup vocal. “You can’t say no to that guy,” she said by telephone from Portland, Ore. “He’s like the kindest person you ever met. And so much fun. You know something good is going to happen when you hang out with that crew.”

The studio was idyllic, she said. “You couldn’t get away form the fact that you were in natural surroundings. There were spiders and birds and bats. It was very organic, the exact opposite of a typical studio. I think it’s really important for him to be transported into some sort of zone, some sort of creative space where something’s going to happen, and it’s not going to feel like work.”

Mr. Oberst has a year of work lined up without Bright Eyes. He has started a tour with the Mystic Valley Band — the musicians from the new album — that will reach New York City with shows at Terminal 5 on Nov. 8 and 9. He’s also working on an album with M. Ward, the guitarist who has collaborated widely in indie rock, and Jim James, the singer and leader of My Morning Jacket. Recording sessions are planned for the studio in Omaha and for Shangri-La Studios in Malibu, Calif., where Mr. Young and the Band made albums.

“One of the recurring themes in my life, and I think on the record too, is just the optimism of changing scenery,” Mr. Oberst said. “It’s escapism in a sense. But it’s not running from something so much as it is: ‘I wonder what’s ahead. I wonder what better thing I can find in the next place.’ ”
303 2008-08-10 Each owner pays one-eighth of the property taxes on a unit as well as an annual fee covering a range of hotel-style services. For a two-bedroom unit, the annual fee is $7,600, and for a three-bedroom, it is $9,900. Housekeeping service, which is required between stays, is extra — $250 or $290 per week, or $35 or $45 per day.

The condos will all be fully furnished, each with a balcony and ocean views. “One of the sweet things about this arrangement,” said Wendy Guiles, a sales agent for the project whose office is in the Congress Hall hotel two blocks from the site, “is that owners will be able to experience all the different views, as they stay in different homes on different visits.”

Owners and their guests — who may stay unaccompanied during planned vacation weeks that the owners designate — get free use of an underground parking garage, as well as access to grocery-shopping, laundry and other services arranged through the building concierge. The Ocean House will also have a three-tiered swimming pool with a bar, at the center of its courtyard; a fitness center with steam rooms; and a lounge.

There will be a storage center, where clothes and seasonal sporting gear can be kept and delivered to the door with every stay.

The new development is to rise on the 1.82-acre site of the existing Coachman’s Motor Inn. Cape Advisors bought the inn two years ago and has kept it open this summer for a last season before demolition, which is to occur after Labor Day, Mr. Bashaw said. Demolition and pile-driving are prohibited during July and August in this community, established as a resort town in the era of stagecoaches by families seeking a shoreline getaway from Philadelphia.

Cape May, set on the southern tip of New Jersey, just south of Wildwood and roughly an hour down the shore from Atlantic City, flourishes as a family-style resort area, with pedestrian shopping along brick-lined streets, a children’s arcade, mini-golfing, skeeball, bars and nightclubs of various genres, and the gamut of places to eat — from haute cuisine to Hot Dog Tommy’s where the owner entertains those standing in line with terrible jokes while wearing a hat in the shape of a hot dog.

The community is famed for its collection of 19th-century buildings, many of which have been converted to small hotels. Mr. Bashaw, who grew up spending summers in Cape May along with his cousin and current partner in Cape Advisors, Craig Wood, bought a fading Victorian right after he got out of college, renovated it, and turned it into the Virginia Hotel.

Cape Advisors owns and operates nine properties, including Congress Hall, and manages two others.

Mr. Bashaw is also active in Atlantic City, where Cape Advisors is about to open the Chelsea Hotel, the first nongaming hotel to be established there in recent memory, and also plans to build a casino hotel on another site.

The Ocean House will be the builders’ first fractional ownership project, however. “It just makes so much sense for Cape May,” Mr. Bashaw said, “where so many families have the tradition — or would like to — of going every year but couldn’t really afford the $550-per-night for a great room with views and first-class service at a top-notch hotel like Congress Hall, or the alternative, buying a house or a condo for $1 million-plus at the beach, paying the taxes on it, managing the upkeep and all that entails for a place they would only live a certain number of weeks a year.”

Nationally, fractional ownership has been holding strong in a volatile real estate market, according to the most recent report from Ragatz Associates, the resort market research firm. Around the country last year, sales grew by 8.3 percent, and home values increased by 8 percent at such projects — contrary to the overall real estate market, which moved in the opposite direction virtually everywhere, including New Jersey, where home values sank 5 to 10 percent in most communities.

Contracts have already been signed for about a fifth of the 320 shares at the Ocean House, according to Sandy Montano, who is managing the development for Cape Advisors. In June, a construction trailer was moved onto the property and signs erected, which seemed to spark a burst of interest in the project, she said.
304 2008-08-10 AZAZEL JACOBS’S “Momma’s Man,” a film about a grown son’s fraught homecoming, is also a literal home movie, starring his own parents and shot in the TriBeCa loft where he grew up. When Mr. Jacobs, 35, started writing the script, he was thinking about the familiar indulgences of a return to the nest. “You wake up and there’s coffee waiting, and you ask yourself why you ever left,” he said. But he soon became more interested in the murky flip side to those family comforts: the feeling of regression and disorientation. “Some mornings,” he added, “you wake up and you don’t even know what year it is.”

One Saturday last month Mr. Jacobs, visiting from Los Angeles, found himself slipping again into a Proustian time warp. An interview that began with coffee in SoHo and continued over lunch with his parents in their Chambers Street apartment led to his childhood bedroom. It is where Mr. Jacobs stays when he’s in town and where his film’s dread-stricken protagonist, Mikey (Matt Boren), holes up for an extended vacation from his own life, abandoning his job and family in California without explanation.

Reaching for one of the many boxes against the wall, Mr. Jacobs — like Mikey in “Momma’s Man” — rummaged through a stash of yellowed juvenilia. He pulled out magazine clippings, class photos, a middle-school paper on the punk band the Clash (complete with his teacher’s incredulous notation “F — Are you kidding?”) and a few lovingly preserved “hate letters,” records of soured teenage romances, one of which gets a memorable cameo in the film.

With “Momma’s Man” — which is scheduled to open Aug. 22 and will screen at BAM Cinématek this week along with his first two features, “Nobody Needs to Know” (2003) and “The Good Times Kid” (2005) — Mr. Jacobs set out both to evoke and to confront the pull of the past. The initial impulse, he said, was to document the remarkable time capsule that is the Jacobs residence. His father, Ken, is a giant of the avant-garde filmmaking world and his mother, Flo, is a painter and longtime collaborator with her husband. Their rent-controlled loft, where they have lived since 1966 and where they raised Azazel and his older sister, Nisi (also a filmmaker), is very much a character in the movie, a kind of bohemian magic kingdom, filled with mazelike, floor-to-ceiling stacks of books and bric-a-brac.

“I went through periods where I was embarrassed of the house,” Mr. Jacobs said. “That changed when I started bringing girls over and they’d say it was cool.”
305 2008-08-10 When the Microsoft Zune digital music player first appeared, it was the latest in a long line of gizmos to which the phrase “iPod killer” was hopefully attached. And let’s be clear about something: This column makes absolutely no suggestion that there is any credible evidence that this is happening. The most recent figures from NPD Group, the retail-data collector, showed Apple’s device holding 70 percent of the MP3-player market, compared with 3 percent for the Zune. (This put Microsoft in third place, behind SanDisk, at 10 percent.)

Rather, what this column wonders is: Who is buying Zunes, and why? After all, market share aside, more than two million of the things have reportedly been bought by somebody since the first version appeared in late 2006. Robert Schaltenbrand suggests that these consumers simply find the Microsoft product superior. That isn’t a surprising analysis, because Schaltenbrand is the Zune’s brand manager. But in fairness, the product offers some distinct features, like a built-in FM radio receiver. And there is Zune Social, meant to let owners share playlists and actual music. This last idea — and the community that it implies — has been heavily promoted: you and your Zune friends can wirelessly swap songs; settle into your seat in a cafe and you can find fellow Zunesters around you and compare tastes with them; and so on.

But the most salient feature of the Zune seems to be that it’s not an iPod. Jesse Thorn, host of the public-radio show (and popular podcast) “The Sound of Young America,” is a Zune proponent, praising, for instance, its ability to sync wirelessly with a computer. Plus he was able to update his first-generation Zune with the improved software and firmware designed for the newer version — in contrast to Apple’s charging iPod Touch owners for upgrades, he makes a point of saying. Turns out Thorn has always resisted buying an iPod, having been put off initially by the price and later by the ever-growing number of “self-satisfied people carrying a ubiquitous object.” That sounds hostile, but Thorn is actually quite good-humored. On “Jordan Jesse Go,” another (less formal) podcast he co-hosts, he and his friend Jordan Morris regularly joke about the song-swap feature, inventing the term “rocket up your Zunehole” to describe the practice. Thorn also seems to take pleasure in examples of product-design oddities, like the inclusion of brown among the device’s first-generation color choices.

This is not the attitude you associate with fanatical brand devotion. Similarly, Julia Sliwinski, a media strategist in New York, likes the Zune her boyfriend gave her but has never detected the kind of cult-product passion that attached to the Rio Karma MP3 player she used to own. She hasn’t swapped songs with any other Zune owners because, she says, “I don’t know any.” Asked directly, she admits that “I probably wouldn’t buy an iPod,” as she is “a little bit anti-Apple.”

Community and togetherness seem like a reasonable counterpunch to iPod’s supposed attraction as an individuality enabler that allows owners to wallow in their own tasteful personal soundtracks. But in real life, the cafe patron checking for other Zune owners is less likely to find one than to arouse mild curiosity about his eccentric product choice. Meanwhile, owning an iPod seems roughly as individualistic as a gray flannel suit. Add to this those Apple ads pitting a cool Mac against a hapless PC: they may boost sales, but they have also inspired vitriol among those who find Apple loyalists snobby and smug. It probably didn’t help when a guy who emerged online sporting Zune logo tattoos, declaring himself the ultimate fan of the device, was met with schoolyard-bully-level taunts and mockery. (In a potentially discouraging sign, he recently announced he was disappointed with the Zune’s progress and intended to cover at least one of his tattoos.)

Schaltenbrand, the Zune brand manager, maintains that iPod reaction aside, authentic Zune fandom and the social elements of the device are a big part of its (very gradual) growth. Still, it’s hard to deny that the longstanding Microsoft-Apple brand antagonism is weirdly distorted in the music-player market — the iPod seems somehow both elitist and market dominant. This inevitably leaves room for an underdog rival or two. Microsoft may not think of itself that way, but possibly, when it comes to the MP3-player market, it’s learning to think different.
306 2008-08-10 Finally, Mr. Simmons transferred ownership of the house to his wife, Tashera, and they found a buyer willing to pay $1.4 million for it. But this plan, too, unraveled — because of a lawsuit brought by Amusing Diversions Inc., a company that had signed a contract with him in 2003 to promote a line of dog clothing.

In court papers, the company said Mr. Simmons had failed to promote the project at public events and in appearances, and had arrived late and intoxicated at the one event he had attended. Mr. Simmons also neglected to mention that he had previously been charged with neglecting his 13 pit bulls in New Jersey, according to the complaint.

When he did not appear to defend himself, the clothing company won a judgment of $253,000, plus legal fees and interest. Daniel A. Eigerman, a lawyer for the company, said that despite Mr. Simmons’s earnings on concerts and the sale of tens of millions of albums, few assets had been found — except for the Harlem house.

The company went back to court to challenge Mr. Simmons’s transfer of the property to his wife. In May, Justice Emily Jane Goodman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan voided the deed transfer, paving the way for the sheriff’s sale.

The house is on a brownstone street that connects the bustling 125th Street shopping district with the fashionable neighborhoods of the Mount Morris Park Historic District and Marcus Garvey Park. It is just down the street from a new condominium, 2002 Fifth Avenue, where residents who paid as much as $1.3 million for units have been feuding with a drummer group in the park. Last year a town house up the street sold for $1.7 million.

With real estate prices like these in the neighborhood, it might have seemed possible that Mr. Simmons could have come up with the cash to settle the judgment, thus avoiding the auction. But his lawyer, Mr. Richman, said that with Mr. Simmons stuck in Arizona and many of his assets tied up in bail proceedings, that will now be difficult at best.

PERHAPS she grew tired of being photographed on the streets of SoHo, carrying groceries with her baby, Kieran, in a front pack or a stroller.

Everyone needs a getaway now and then, not least those in the public eye. So it happened that Julianna Margulies, the actress, perhaps best known for her role of Nurse Carol Hathaway on the first six seasons of “E.R.,” wanted more than her sprawling apartment on West Houston Street.

With the help of their broker, Chris Pomeroy of Halstead Property, Ms. Margulies and her husband, Keith Lieberthal, a lawyer she married last year, found a weekend house about two hours away in Columbia County, N.Y., in a 4,000-square-foot white clapboard Dutch colonial on 98 acres in Livingston.

Mr. Pomeroy would not comment on the sale. But Alan Weaver, the selling broker from Halstead’s Hudson Valley office, confirmed that the property, built in a wooded area outside town, closed last month for about $2.45 million, more than 10 percent below the $2.75 million asking price. It has a tennis court and a rustic pool built into a hillside to resemble a pond. The property abuts a rural spread owned by David Rockefeller.

Ms. Margulies, 41, won an Emmy for her role opposite George Clooney on “E.R.” in 1995, but turned down a $27 million three-year contract to continue in the role. Since then she has worked in theater, movies and television dramas, including episodes of “The Sopranos,” “Scrubs” and the 2006 film “Snakes on a Plane.”

She gave birth to her first child in January. Soon afterward, she appeared as a relentless defense lawyer in the Fox television series “Canterbury’s Law,” which went on the air in March, ran through April and was officially canceled in May.

The house in Livingston was built eight years ago, with an 1850s wing imported from Canada and other interior elements salvaged from old houses in Hudson, N.Y., Mr. Weaver said. There is also a 1740s barn, redesigned as a summertime entertainment center.

Mr. Weaver said the previous owner loved period houses but was too tall to live in them, so he set about creating a house that was spacious and comfortable while still evoking an earlier era.

Ms. Margulies lived on the Upper West Side for years, then in 2004 bought a 2,500-square-foot apartment for $2.4 million on West Houston, between Mercer and Greene Streets, in one of the first new apartment buildings in SoHo in several decades. Mr. Weaver said that although there was some weakness in the housing market in Columbia County, demand for more expensive properties remained high.
307 2008-08-10 As the 1950s were winding down, a changing of the guard at G.M. — when Harley Earl, the design chief, was succeeded by Bill Mitchell — prompted a house cleaning. To save storage costs, dozens of show cars were slated for disposal.

A problem cropped up, according to the current owner of Warhoops, who is the son of the original owner and is also known as Harry. The Detroit company that usually hauled G.M.’s scrap refused the consignment because the cars, made of fiberglass rather than metal, had no salvage value. The elder Mr. Warholak, having earned G.M.’s trust in previous sensitive assignments, was given the job, in part because the Warhoops salvage yard was less than 10 miles from the G.M. design center in Warren.

Three cars were shipped without incident. The fourth delivery caught the attention of a curious G.M. employee who sounded an alarm back at headquarters after following a truck hauling a dusty show car to the Warhoops yard.

“The remaining Motorama cars were never shipped,” Mr. Warholak said. “But to compensate my father for his trouble, the Chevrolet Biscayne, the La Salle II Sports Coupe and La Salle II Sedan, and the Cadillac Eldorado Brougham Town Car were left in his possession. Later, G.M. personnel came to supervise the destruction of three of the cars with sledgehammers. Because my father hoped to fix up the Town Car for use in my sister’s wedding, it was spared.”

The cars’ remains were left to the ravages of weather for nearly 30 years. Their sentence was commuted only after Mr. Bortz read an article in Automobile Quarterly revealing their whereabouts.

Mr. Bortz’s fascination for dream machines began in 1954 when, as an impressionable 12-year-old, he was one of nearly two million spectators who attended the Motorama extravaganza during its first visit to Chicago.

“Dream cars are nothing like today’s concepts and design studies,” Mr. Bortz said. “The dream cars mark the high point of American design. They are the truly the Van Gogh masters of the automotive world.”

The notion of cars making artistic and fashion statements has deep roots. In 1904, wealthy prospects were invited to the top floor of Macy’s to view the latest in European custom coach designs. In 1917, with World War I raging, Cadillac, Packard and other top domestic brands finally gained access to the annual Automobile Salon. The top New York hotels hosted these black-tie events for the Four Hundred members of the social register and their chauffeurs.

When the Great Depression ended the champagne and caviar feasts, G.M. initiated what it called Industrialist’s Luncheons at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan for top banking and financial executives. Live music, floral arrangements and magnificent paintings created an elegant setting for the production models on display.

The first G.M. show open to the public was the 1949 Transportation Unlimited exhibition at the Waldorf. In 1950, the inaugural year of the Pebble Beach Concours d’Élégance, G.M. borrowed the name of its permanent exhibit at the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry to rechristen its New York fashion show the Midcentury Motorama.

After a two-year break, the G.M. Motorama returned in 1953 with major improvements. Now it was a $5 million show that drew 1.5 million attendees during a six-month, six-city tour. To supplement standard production models, G.M. introduced its first wave of dream cars. Seven were pure flights of fancy, but the Chevrolet Corvette was such an overwhelming hit that it was immediately approved for production and rushed into showrooms.

Motorama momentum grew for four years and generated many memorable designs. Unfettered by concerns over the cars’ production feasibility, designers toyed with extravagant shapes, soaring fins, exotic propulsion systems and impractical gimmicks. The best ideas graduated to production models, while the turbine engines and titanium body panels never made it past the pages of Popular Science. As television matured into a mass-market entertainment medium while the public grew less inclined to make the effort and pay the cost of attending live events, the G.M. Motorama lost some of its cachet. Only production models starred at the final Motorama event, in 1961.

Mr. Bortz’s enthusiasm for automotive artifacts led to the purchase of an experimental supercharged Pontiac called the X-400 in the late 1970s. After word of that acquisition spread, he became the nation’s most powerful magnet for dream cars. By 1988, when his son alerted him to the dream-car exposé published by Automobile Quarterly, he already owned half a dozen of the one-off designs.

When Mr. Bortz visited the Warhoops yard that year to view the shattered and stacked remains of the Chevrolet Biscayne, the yard’s owner realized he had found a kindred spirit who respected the car’s heritage. “The price discussed a day later via telephone seemed outrageous,” Mr. Bortz recalled, “until Warholak revealed it was for not one but a total a four dream cars, three of which were stashed out of sight during my visit.”

Mr. Bortz describes the Biscayne’s condition at the time as “beyond junk.” Powertrain and chassis parts were missing, the body was cut into pieces, and the delicate hand-made windshield frame was a twisted mess. But, because of its place in history, he couldn’t stand to leave the car behind.

Bonding the body back together was a three-year effort. Molds were made to create a new windshield, replacing the swept-back glass that G.M. called Astro-Dome design. A fortuitous file cleaning at G.M. yielded photos of the chassis that proved instrumental in getting the car rolling again. A standard 1950s-era Chevrolet V-8 now provides power in place of the original driveline, which Warhoops donated years ago to a local high school’s shop class.

Mr. Bortz is a preserver, not a restorer, and his revival of the Biscayne has been a 20-year endeavor. “It’s still a work in progress,” he explained.

“Whether the car is in pristine condition or in its present state awaiting paint, chrome and trim, what matters most is the image created during a very significant design period.”

Mr. Bortz added: “The La Salle II roadster is what I call junkyard fresh. While every other car at Pebble Beach is either lovingly preserved or lavishly restored, the Biscayne and the La Salle II are both unfinished. Their intrinsic beauty is evident without sparkling chrome or a perfect paint job.”
308 2008-08-10 THE wonderful era of the ultra-cheap car could be over before it has begun.     Introduced to great international fanfare in January at the New Delhi Auto Show, the Tata Nano was heralded as the great hope for the Indian middle class. A bare-bones...
309 2008-08-10 A huge market rally on Friday, driven by a drop in oil prices and a rise in the dollar, led the indexes to big gains. Oil futures fell nearly every day last week and ended at $115.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest level s...
310 2008-08-11 Michael Hurwitz, the director of New York City’s Greenmarket program, is answering readers’ questions this week about farmers’ markets and community-supported agriculture....
311 2008-08-11 A look at the article The Atlantic just released....
312 2008-08-11 There is almost a template for commercials that appear during coverage of the Olympics. So it comes as something of a surprise that the commercial being run by the John McCain presidential campaign during the Summer Olympics is a negative one....
313 2008-08-11 The joint venture of Lionsgate, Paramount and MGM is scheduled to debut in October 2009....
314 2008-08-11 The Fox Business Network thinks that the hours after the markets close are prime times to challenge the entrenched business competitor CNBC -- particularly now that the Olympics are under way, and CNBC is showing sports in those hours....
315 2008-08-11 An anonymous risk manager gave a first-person account of the recently-deflated credit boom to The Economist, recounting the time when his or her profession was considered obsolete....
316 2008-08-11 There were also two sets of fun-house mirrors set up; the first ones made people look wider and the second ones made them look, well, skinny. And commercials the team ran to advertise the week’s events featured the Joe Tex song, “Skinny Legs and All.”

The Saints belong to the independent Northern League, which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. The team is known for an unconventional approach to marketing that is at odds with the staid, stolid — even stuffy — traditions of M.L.B.

The Saints have a pig as a mascot and earlier this season gave away a “bobblefoot” doll, inspired by the restroom problems of Larry Craig, the Idaho senator.

And a deal with a product that is sold with the slogan “Zero calories, zero sugar, zero guilt” is not too much of a stretch for a team that once put on “Nobody Night”: locking out fans until the fifth inning of a game, when it became official, so the attendance could be listed as zero.

For a team so eager to spoof the trappings of baseball, the concept of naming rights is a juicy target. Once upon a time, it was unthinkable that marketers could buy their way onto the façades of stadium by paying team owners to brand what were once unbranded spaces.

By now, however, sports fans are used to seeing product or corporate names on the homes of their favorite teams, and the selling of naming rights has become big business.

Citigroup is paying an estimated $400 million over 20 years for the right to brand the new stadium of the New York Mets as Citi Field. At a recent conference sponsored by the trade publication Advertising Age, Casey Wasserman, chief executive at the Wasserman Media Group, predicted that naming rights to the new stadium for the football Giants and Jets being built in Northern New Jersey could go for more than $800 million.

“People have come to expect there’s going to be a naming-rights deal” for a stadium, says Mike Veeck, president of the Saints as well as its parent, the Goldklang Group, which owns six minor-league teams in cities that include, in addition to St. Paul, Brockton, Mass. (the Brockton Rox); Charleston, S.C. (the Charleston RiverDogs); and Fort Myers, Fla. (the Fort Myers Miracle).

“We felt we could give them a real push,” Mr. Veeck says, referring to Skinny Water, “and have some fun with it.” Indeed, the Goldklang motto is, “Fun is good.”

Mr. Veeck comes by his penchant for promotion naturally. His father was Bill Veeck, known for attention-getting ideas for major league teams like the Chicago White Sox and the St. Louis Browns.

Perhaps the elder Veeck’s most famous stunt came during a game in 1951, when he sent a midget named Eddie Gaedel to bat as a pinch-hitter for the Browns. Gaedel, who walked on four pitches, wore the number 1/8 on his uniform, which is in the Baseball Hall of Fame.

“My old man used to say, ‘Operate for a couple years and then get out of town, because the winners come back to haunt you,’ ” Mr. Veeck says, laughing.

He recalls being interviewed on a radio show and a caller complained about having won a car in a promotion at a ballpark — but the car could not be driven off the field.

“I said, ‘Hi, Jack,’ ” Mr. Veeck says. “It was the dumbest promotion I’ve ever done, and it’s a lengthy list.”

When marketers come along “and say, ‘We want to have some fun,’ that’s very rare,” he adds. “That’s like an answer to a prayer.”

So he was pleased, he says, when he heard from the executives at Skinny Nutritional. They had read an article in an airline magazine about the Goldklang Group and its unusual approach to marketing, citing examples like Nobody Night.

“We liked the way they were thinking,” says Don McDonald, president and chief executive at Skinny Nutritional in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., referring to the Goldklang gang. “They’re very promotion-minded.”

So, too, is Skinny Nutritional, which has sponsored headline-generating events like giveaways of gasoline (“Zero gas”) at stations in metropolitan areas like Minneapolis and Philadelphia.

“We happened to hit in Philadelphia the day gas hit four bucks,” Mr. McDonald says. “It made all the Philadelphia stations.”

Likewise, the announcement that the Saints would play for a week in Skinny Water Stadium garnered coverage in the local media, he adds.

A promotion centered on baseball, a sport almost synonymous with beer, may at first glance seem an unlikely choice for a product called Skinny Water.

“That’s what we thought, too,” Mr. McDonald says, but the fans attending Saints games are “families — husbands, kids, wives — and that’s the market we want to hit.”

And the team “has a tremendous following,” he adds, attracting outside the stadium what amounts to “a tailgate party, which starts about two hours before game time.”

Baseball teams certainly seem more open to affiliating with food and beverage brands that are not automatically associated with the sport. Kozy Shack, which makes puddings, recently signed a sponsorship agreement to become the official pudding of the Mets.

Skinny Nutritional paid $50,000 for the promotion with the Saints, Mr. McDonald says, which includes $30,000 worth of media in the form of radio, television and newspaper ads that were run by the team as well as the ballpark ads like the signs and the stencil in the outfield.

“We see minor league baseball as a great way to introduce the product into other markets,” he adds.

Skinny Nutritional has another sports connection: One of its five flavors, Acai Grape Blueberry, is named after Pat Croce, who was involved with the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team and the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team before becoming an author of self-help books and a TV personality.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times newspaper and on nytimes.com.
317 2008-08-11 An estimated 15 percent of the world's population watched the opening ceremony,...
318 2008-08-11 Digital piracy is forcing studios to make television shows available sooner in international markets....
319 2008-08-11 John McCain said Russia's military campaign appeared to be aimed at toppling the democratically-elected government of Georgia, and not merely at resolving the status of South Ossetia....
320 2008-08-11 In his column today, Adam Nagourney writes that both campaigns have used this summer to patch up weaknesses, test new lines of attacks and lay the foundation for how they want to portray their opponent in the fall....
321 2008-08-11 Thoughts on yogurt, iced tea and caffeine....
322 2008-08-11 Simbol Mining has nabbed $6.7 million in a series A round of funding led by MDV-Mohr Davidow Ventures and Firelake Capital. The start-up plans to put the funding toward helping in its mission to extract lithium carbonate fuse in lithium-based batt...
323 2008-08-11 Just how much Bristol-Myers Squibb is willing to pony up for ImClone Systems may hinge on how a contract for a new version of ImClone's sole product is interpreted, The Wall Street Journal reported. ImClone, which rejected Bristol-Myers' recent $4...
324 2008-08-11 It seems to be rough going for Carl C. Icahn this year. The activist investor's hedge funds are reportedly suffering their first losses since their launch in 2004 and Icahn Enterprises, the publicly-traded holding company for Mr. Icahn's hedge fun...
325 2008-08-11 UBS is to elect Swiss Life Chairman Bruno Gehrig to the board of directors of the Swiss bank, Swiss media reported on Sunday. Zurich Financial Services Chief Executive James Schiro has also been asked, Swiss newspaper Sonntag reported. SonntagsZei...
326 2008-08-11 LAS VEGAS — As Senator Barack Obama headed off for a vacation in Hawaii last week, Senator John McCain was left in the continental United States with the Iowa State Fair to himself. Mr. McCain’s campaign promised to take full advantage this week of Mr. Obama’s absence — for starters, Mr. McCain was scathing about his rival in his weekend radio address — but up close and personal, Mr. McCain sounded as though he would not mind some August beach time himself.

“I think if you were going to take a week off, this is probably an intelligent time to do it,” Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, told a small group of reporters on his campaign plane in a brief session on Friday night. As for himself, “what we do is try to take a day or two down, but it seems when I do that they fill it up with briefings and prep and issues and meetings.”

What makes the difference, Mr. McCain said, is getting enough rest. “If I can sleep in until about 7:30 or 8, then it really helps me,” he said. “I think when I get up real early, like 5:30 or 6, and don’t go to bed until 10, 10:30 or 11, it seems to help me get up a little later in the morning.”

Mr. McCain has made a number of verbal gaffes in recent months, including referring three times to Czechoslovakia, a country that has not existed since 1993. In his comments on the plane, Mr. McCain did not address whether his gaffes had anything to do with fatigue, but he seemed to suggest that they might have. “If I put in three or four 18-hour, 20-hour days in a row, then I’m not sharp,” Mr. McCain said. “It’s just a fact.”

The issue is sensitive for Mr. McCain, 71, who would be the oldest person elected to a first term if he wins. Although Mr. McCain sometimes looks tired on the campaign trail, his aides say he has more energy than they do as they run the grueling marathon of this long presidential campaign. On Friday, Mr. McCain started at 8:30 a.m. in Cincinnati, made campaign stops in Iowa and Arkansas, and ended more than 16 hours later in Las Vegas.
327 2008-08-11 JACKSON, Miss. (AP) — A casino bus carrying tourists overturned in northwestern Mississippi on Sunday, killing three people and injuring several others.

The bus belonged to Harrah’s Tunica and was carrying 43 people when it flipped over in a median at an intersection in Tunica, said a Tunica County spokesman, Larry Liddell. The tourists were headed to the airport for a flight to South Carolina, where many were from, officials said.

The bus was the only vehicle in the accident, which was under investigation, Sgt. Leslie White of the Mississippi Highway Patrol said. The identities of those killed were not immediately released.

Twenty-seven injured people were taken to Baptist Memorial Hospital in Southaven, a spokesman, Thomas Whitehead, said. One was in critical condition.

Four were taken to the Regional Medical Center in Memphis, 35 miles north. Three were in critical condition late Sunday and one had been discharged, a spokeswoman, Sandy Snell, said.

SHERMAN, Tex. (AP) — Federal authorities moved to shut down the companies linked to a bus involved in a crash on Friday that killed 17 people going to a religious festival in Missouri.

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ordered the operator of that bus, Iguala Busmex of Houston, and Angel Tours Inc. to cease commercial operations, saying the companies posed an “imminent hazard.”

Inspectors found a second Iguala Busmex bus in Carthage, Mo., and took it out of service on Sunday after it failed an inspection, said a National Transportation Safety Board spokeswoman.
328 2008-08-11 “A Ruling May Pave the Way for Broader Use of DVR” (Business Day, Aug. 5) misses the mark on the importance of the Second Circuit’s finding that Cablevision’s remote DVR service does not violate copyright law.

It said that “for most consumers, the decision does not make much difference.” Nothing could be further from the truth. Had it not been overturned, the lower court’s holding would have outlawed “buffer” copies — the very temporary copies (in this case 1.2 seconds) that every digital device and service must make to play digital content.

Had the studios bringing the lawsuit succeeded, countless consumers would have been exposed to liability via the simple operation of their computers.

Internet service providers, consumer electronics and computer manufacturers, broadcasters, cable companies, Webcasters and others could be subjected by media companies to arbitrarily high licensing fees over and above what they already pay for the right to carry digital content.

This would raise the cost of new devices and services and likely lead to some services (like remote DVR) never being rolled out, to the detriment of consumers and technological innovation.

It makes little sense to criminalize the making of “copies” when that action is at the root of every digital action, no matter how minor. Merely opening a document creates a copy of it in a computer’s memory. Merely viewing an online article automatically creates two copies: one in the computer’s memory and another in the hard drive.

Under the studios’ theory, those activities would violate copyright law. The decision also shows that current copyright law should be substantially reformed as technology and user practices change.
329 2008-08-11 We support Victor Davis Hanson’s conclusion that markets need to determine where and what is produced for the global agricultural community.

This argument can be strengthened by recognizing that the Doha framework agreement on agriculture has an enormous impact on the health of poor people around the world.

The pressure on developing countries to provide increased access to agricultural and food imports from the developed countries threatens the livelihood of millions of small farmers, who are unable to compete with protected, subsidized, oil-based industrialized agriculture. In turn, this leads to decreased earnings and employment, poverty, and reduced access to education and health care services.

The writers are, respectively, an assistant professor and a professor at the School of Public Health, New York Medical College.
330 2008-08-11 “Education as a Civil Rights Issue” (editorial, Aug. 1) asserts that civil rights organizations support strengthening the No Child Left Behind Act. While you are correct that education is a civil rights issue, we disagree with your generalization about the position of civil rights groups.

The failures of No Child Left Behind’s hand-tying mandates are acutely felt by minority students nationwide: students and teachers in communities of color are smothered by the testing mandates of this broken law.

Civil rights leaders have recognized the law’s shortcomings. They have united to sign the Joint Organizational Statement on No Child Left Behind Act, which has been endorsed by more than 20 prominent civil rights groups and more than 120 other organizations.

The N.A.A.C.P., Aspira, the League of United Latin American Citizens and the National Urban League have joined the call to overhaul No Child Left Behind.

Yes, education is a civil rights issue, but strengthening No Child Left Behind is not the way to level the playing field.
331 2008-08-11 And in what Verizon officials said was a breakthrough, the company will no longer pay all of the health insurance premiums for newly hired workers after they retire. Rather, it expects to achieve significant savings by having to pay only a fixed amount for each newly hired worker after retirement, based on a worker’s number of years with the company.

The contract dispute came as Verizon was preparing to provide television service in the five boroughs of New York City to compete with other cable providers. Verizon, which has almost 230,000 employees nationwide, recently obtained a 12-year franchise from New York State regulators in which it promised to make its television service, known as FiOS, available to all of the city’s 3.1 million households by 2014.

Union officials said they expected the agreements would increase union membership by 2,500 by limiting subcontracting, making about 1,000 temporary jobs permanent and promising to make any additional FiOS jobs union. During the negotiations, some union officials said their chief concern was that Verizon had transferred thousands of union jobs in its landline division to its nonunion divisions and to nonunion subcontractors.

“This is a breakthrough agreement in many ways,” said Larry Cohen, president of the communications workers. “It creates new union jobs, including major growth areas like FiOS; it takes a big step forward on health care; and it brings hundreds of Verizon Business employees the union rights they deserve.”

Mr. Cohen said Verizon’s $20 billion effort to install fiber optics for television and Internet service promised growth for both Verizon and its unions.

“Over all, we see this as an agreement where we can move forward together to work with Verizon, rather than just being a contract for three years,” he said.

The settlements will raise future pension payouts for union members and will require union members and retirees to pay higher medical co-payments.

“From the start, our goal has been to continue to provide our employees with a package of competitive wages and benefits,” said Marc C. Reed, Verizon’s executive vice president for human resources.

The agreements call for Verizon to contribute $2 million a year toward a jointly administered fund so the unions and company can work for health care reform, with the goals of controlling costs, improving quality and providing health coverage for all Americans.

The two sides agreed to three-year contracts, shorter than the previous five-year contracts. Mr. Reed said the shorter contracts would give Verizon more flexibility to adapt to the rapid changes in the communications industry.

Now, Mr. Reed added, “our Verizon Telecom business group can focus on the important business of competing and offering choice to customers in broadband and television services.”

Verizon will be competing for cable subscribers with Cablevision, Time Warner Cable, Comcast and others that have a cost advantage because they generally use lower-wage, nonunion labor.
332 2008-08-11 The trustees for Fort Ticonderoga, the historic site in upstate New York, are considering the sale of valuable artifacts to escape a financial crunch, according to The Associated Press. The fort, a National Historic Landmark that was the site of a bloody battle (1758) during the French and Indian War, recently lost the financial support of a major donor, Forrest E. Mars Jr., according to an e-mail message obtained by the news agency, and attendance has dropped off sharply in recent years.
333 2008-08-11 NBC’s coverage of the opening-night Olympics ceremony on Friday attracted an average of 34.2 million viewers, making it the largest opening-night audience ever for an Olympics held in a country outside the United States, according to Nielsen Media Research. The 1996 opening ceremony in Atlanta averaged 39.8 million viewers, and the opening ceremony for the 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake City, which was broadcast live, averaged 45.6 million viewers.
334 2008-08-11 The greater source of ambivalence, then, had to do with the lineup: a small handful of great acts, a heap of decent acts, a few flat-out clunkers, and no discernible vision to make them all cohere. On Friday and Saturday the festival felt like a consecutive pair of Radiohead concerts, with bonus features — which is essentially what it was. That wasn’t a problem for most in attendance, who, judging by the numbers, had come for this purpose. (Sunday’s headliner was Jack Johnson, a mainstream folk-rocker known for his environmental activism. Advance ticket sales for that day were less robust.)

Radiohead has the clout to command a main attraction’s spoils: a slot after dark, when the skyline and the statue are lighted; full-stage production values, complete with Fortress of Solitude décor; respectful silence from the two smaller stages. Each show was triumphant, stretching past two hours, with two encores. Half the songs were the same from night to night, but otherwise the shows were strikingly distinct.

The sound of the band is atmospheric, potent and at times operatically intense — a good fit for the majesty of the setting — and on both nights it conveyed both gravity and depth. Most of the songs from “In Rainbows,” issued last year, landed gracefully, with Thom Yorke’s vocals soaring or seducing against a cold glow of keyboards and guitars.

Two of the best younger bands on the festival demonstrated affinities with Radiohead’s musical temperament, but in wildly divergent ways. Grizzly Bear, performing on Friday, was melodic and utterly engrossing. On “Little Brother,” the members of the band engaged in a four-part vocal harmony; on “Two Weeks,” a new song, Daniel Rossen played an electric piano ostinato while Edward Droste sang barbed reassurances. (“I told you I would stay,” is a refrain with a hint of reproach.)

Animal Collective, which played as a trio on Saturday, ran with harshly disruptive experimental urges, taking them much further than Radiohead ever has. Panda Bear and Avey Tare, the band’s two singers, took turns with the lead, and with percussive detail. At times the music was merely grating, but when things clicked — as on “Fireworks,” with its tussle of jackhammer-triplet rhythm — the pull was unmistakably powerful.

Various other groups reached for more straightforward rock ’n’ roll uplift — Kings of Leon, the Virgins, the Felice Brothers — and others, like Andrew Bird, settled for something quirkier. (Mr. Bird’s one-man violin orchestrations and theremin-like whistling, impressive in measured doses, got cloying after a while.) There were modest flashes of hip-hop, from acts like the Roots, which imbued its set with jazzy abstraction, and the Somali rapper K’naan, who spent much of his set unspooling self-affirmative rhymes.

The likeable New Jersey-born singer-songwriter Nicole Atkins managed some local flair in her set, preceding her song “Maybe Tonight” with an announcement: she was bringing on a special guest, someone any New Jerseyite would appreciate. It turned out to be three people, dressed up as a pork roll, egg and cheese, an allusion to the regional delicacy also known as a Taylor ham sandwich. (Ms. Atkins might have reconsidered her song choice as she reached the line: “I’ve been informed you could be the death of me.”)

And in the end there were a few bands viciously intent on starting a party. Metric dropped a strong dance-rock set, with its lead singer, Emily Haines, strutting across the stage in gold lamé; CSS turned its performance into a riot of driving backbeats. And Girl Talk, a Pittsburgh dance-music collagist, quickly had his stage crowded with freak-show partiers, oversize balloons, and a generous spewing of toilet paper. (Apparently he didn’t get the eco-friendly memo.)

Girl Talk’s music amounted to an attention-deficit D.J. set. But he whipped the crowd into a froth, something that hardly anyone else managed all weekend. At one point he got site-specific, playing a fast-cranked version of “Paranoid Android,” a Radiohead tune. Never mind that he paired it with Jay-Z’s “Roc Boys,” in a musically strained mash-up; it was a show of deference to his host, as well as a show of impudence. Only one of those things will serve the needs of All Points West as it looks ahead to future seasons.
335 2008-08-11 Verizon and its two major unions announced on Sunday that they had reached a tentative three-year contract with raises totaling nearly 11 percent and with the company continuing to pay 100 percent of current workers’ and retirees’ health premiums.

The deal, announced eight days after the contract expired, averted a strike threatened by 65,000 Verizon workers from Maine to Virginia.

On Friday, with negotiations dragging past the contract deadline, Verizon’s two main unions — the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers — had set a strike deadline for Monday. The two unions had originally threatened a strike for Aug. 3, but had postponed any job action because the talks were making progress.

The tentative contract calls for a 3.25 percent raise in the first year, 3.5 percent in the second year and 3.75 percent in the third, yielding raises of 10.9 percent compounded over the three years.

In what the two unions said was an important breakthrough, the settlement calls for unionizing 600 technicians in Verizon Business, a largely nonunion division that specializes in serving corporate customers.

And in what company officials said was a breakthrough, Verizon will no longer pay all the health insurance premiums for newly hired workers after they retire. Rather, the company expects to achieve significant savings by making a defined contribution for each newly hired worker after retirement based on the number of years an employee worked.
336 2008-08-11 INTERNET PRIVACY RULES A House committee has asked 33 cable and Internet companies to provide details about their privacy standards as the debate over Internet privacy heats up between the advertising industry and civil liberties groups. [C1.]    ...
337 2008-08-11 McCARTHY--William J., age 85, of Bronxville, New York, died on Saturday August 9th, at his home. Mr. McCarthy was a graduate of Xavier High School in Manhattan, Georgetown College and Georgetown Law Center, Washington D.C. and New York University,...
338 2008-08-11 More evidence of the turmoil among the Clinton campaign staff is expected to surface this week when The Atlantic Monthly publishes an article based on a few hundred e-mail exchanges, many of them fiery, among the most prominent of Senator Hillary ...
339 2008-08-12 A City Council bill would crack down on stores that lure customers inside by blasting cold air....
340 2008-08-12 Welcome to real-time blogging of the women’s gymnastics team final competition — live from The New York Times headquarters in Midtown Manhattan.

The United States is going for a gold medal behind the strength of Shawn Johnson, Nastia Liukin and Bridget Sloan. The Americans made the eight-team final with a second-place finish in qualifying. China, still seeking its first gold in this event, will be the Americans’ toughest challenger. The Chinese had the top score in qualifying with 248.275 points, while the U.S. finished with 246.800 points.

Romania, Australia, France, Brazil and Japan also qualified. Scores from qualifying do not carry over to the final.

 Joining us with analysis of the team finals, will be the head coach of the University of Georgia women’s gymnastics team, Suzanne Yoculan.

Yoculan, 2008 national coach of the year, has had a remarkable run of success in 25 years at the university. She has led her team to nine national titles, including the past four — 2005 through 2008. Her teams have won 16 Southeastern Conference championships and have finished in the top three nationally in 19 of the past 21 seasons. Two members of her 2007-8 squad, Courtney Kupets and Courtney McCool, were United States Olympians in 2004. For more information about her program, visit this link

 Check back with us shortly after each rotation for analysis on what each did right, and what cost them on their scores.
341 2008-08-12 I've always had a soft spot for the literary executor who burns his or her benefactor's private papers. Otherwise, it's just a matter of time before somebody takes your personal diary and turns it into a blog. First they came for Samuel Pepys and ...
342 2008-08-12 A Hungarian pepper and tomato dish can be used many ways....
343 2008-08-12 Michael F. Price's MFP Investors is shorting Citigroup and Wachovia, as the value investment firm feels that neither bank is done suffering pain....
344 2008-08-12 Hot off the press and into our mail room - the new issue! Spotted: the fall issue of T Magazine arriving at the office today! While most of you won't see our women's fashion issue until Saturday, we thought we'd tantalize you with this unauthorize...
345 2008-08-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
346 2008-08-12 After drought, an elephant may never forget. After disaster, humans quickly do....
347 2008-08-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
348 2008-08-12 Belgian-Dutch financial group Fortis said on Monday that together with Royal Bank of Scotland and Spain's Santander, it had sold a number of ABN Amro private equity assets to a consortium led by Goldman Sachs. "The assets sold were in companies lo...
349 2008-08-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
350 2008-08-12 Vietnam has reportedly tapped Credit Suisse to advise on the initial public offering of state-owned MobiFone, one of the country's top three largest mobile phone network providers....
351 2008-08-12 It wasn’t quite a riot, but it could have passed for one on Monday at the Metropolitan Opera House, where normally genteel opera lovers spent up to five hours in line sputtering over new policies on ticket exchanges.

“This is an insult, what we are being put through today,” said Wanda Flickinger of Bronxville, N.Y., a Met subscriber for more than 40 years. She stood behind a strip of yellow security tape with hundreds of others in the bowels of Lincoln Center, waiting to get to a door leading into the Met’s Founders Hall — and from there to join another line that snaked up the red velvet staircases of the house toward the box office. Security guards brought out chairs for the many elderly people in line.

Monday was the first day that season subscription holders were allowed to exchange individual tickets for other performances. Lines had been long in previous years, but several factors made it worse this year. The first person in line showed up about 5 a.m., five hours before the box office opened, Met officials said.

Reconstruction at Lincoln Center made the lobby inaccessible from the main entrance, forcing people to line up in the basement. It was also the first day for members of the Metropolitan Opera Guild — a support group — to buy tickets.

More significant, the Met was no longer allowing subscription holders to switch dates immediately when they put in their orders online or by mail or phone. Adding insult to injury, in their eyes, was a new $5 charge per ticket exchange at the box office.
352 2008-08-12 WASHINGTON — Blackwater Worldwide, the contractor whose provision of private security in Iraq has been under scrutiny, and its affiliated companies may have improperly obtained more than $100 million in contracts meant for small businesses, according to federal auditors.

A report by the Small Business Administration’s inspector general, issued in July, found that Blackwater and its affiliates, including Presidential Airways, won 39 contracts in the fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007 despite indications that the companies employed more than the number specified by the federal government. In some cases, the report said, the companies also had higher revenues than allowed for a small business.

Blackwater is a major provider of security for American diplomats in Iraq and was the subject of a Congressional hearing after a Blackwater shooting in Baghdad last September left 17 Iraqis dead.

Blackwater and Presidential Airways, both based in Moyock, N.C., and owned by EP Investments, of McLean, Va., won 31 contracts set aside for companies with revenues of $6.5 million or less, and one additional contract for a company with no more than $750,000 in annual revenues. Those contracts, in all, were valued at $2.1 million.

In addition, Presidential Airways, which carries both passengers and cargo, won some $107 million in contracts reserved for companies whose revenues were no more than $25.5 million or had fewer than 1,500 employees.
353 2008-08-12 The Justice Department has challenged an agreement that the Countrywide Financial Corporation reached in a bankruptcy court in Pittsburgh, saying it would make it harder to investigate and sue the mortgage lending giant.

Last month, Countrywide agreed to pay $325,000 to the Chapter 13 bankruptcy trustee in Pittsburgh, Ronda J. Winnecour, to cover legal costs and settle litigation accusing it of abusive practices in 293 separate cases.

But the Justice Department said a “nondisparagement” clause in the Countrywide agreement might impede its own investigation of the lender. The Office of the United States Trustee is a Justice Department arm that handles bankruptcy cases.

“The nondisparagement provision is over broad and may impede, impair or otherwise chill witness testimony in the United States Trustee’s ongoing investigation of Countrywide or in current or anticipated litigation against Countrywide,” the accting United States trustee, Roberta DeAngelis, wrote on Aug. 4.

Ms. DeAngelis called for the nondisparagement provision to be stricken or revised to make clear it will not impede her office or other investigations or litigation by third parties.
354 2008-08-12 “NATO’s decision to withhold a membership action plan for Georgia might have been viewed as a green light by Russia for its attacks on Georgia,” Mr. McCain told reporters on Monday in Erie, Pa., “and I urge the NATO allies to revisit the decision.”

While Mr. McCain has long called for excluding Russia from the Group of 8, and isolating it on the world stage, his probable Democratic opponent, Senator Barack Obama, has made clear he favors more engagement with Russia (even as he speaks of reviewing relationships with Russia, including its interest in joining the World Trade Organization).

The question of how to handle a Russia that is rich with oil revenues and increasingly independent has divided the foreign policy establishment.

Charles King, a professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and the author of “The Ghost of Freedom: A History of the Caucasus,” said that rhetoric like Mr. McCain’s might have spurred Georgia to act unwisely. “It hurts because it has encouraged Georgia to try to push maximalist positions — ‘We’ve got to get this territory back at all costs, and if we get it back, the United States will support us,’ ” Dr. King said.

Mr. McCain acknowledged in a recent interview that his stance on Russia had divided some of his foreign policy advisers.

“If Henry Kissinger thinks that I’m wrong, he’ll pick up the phone — and he has, several times,” he said of the former secretary of state, “and say ‘You’re wrong on this; you shouldn’t be so hard on the Russians, O.K.?’ ”

Robert Kagan, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a top McCain foreign policy adviser, said that people who found Mr. McCain’s rhetoric on Russia inflammatory were living in denial.

“The reason he’s right is that Russia has now entered into an entirely different realm of international behavior which we haven’t seen in decades,” Dr. Kagan said. “Russia is clearly trying to establish an old hegemony over its near neighbors.”

In recent days, the Obama campaign has highlighted Mr. Scheunemann’s lobbying ties to Georgia. Mr. Scheunemann’s firm, Orion Strategies, has represented Georgia since at least March 2004, lobbying specifically on the issue of NATO membership. Mr. Scheunemann talked with members of Mr. McCain’s staff in December 2005 about a Senate resolution Mr. McCain submitted expressing support for the government of Georgia, and he later called them to express thanks after it passed, according to Justice Department records.

McCain campaign officials condemned the Obama campaign for casting “aspersions” on Mr. Scheunemann, and noted that Mr. McCain had long advocated similar positions. (Other advisers to Mr. McCain have ties to leaders in the region backed by the Kremlin: Paul J. Manafort, a business partner of Mr. McCain’s campaign manager, Rick Davis, advised Viktor Yanukovich, the former Ukrainian prime minister, whose party was opposed by the Bush administration and Mr. McCain because of its ties to Mr. Putin.)

On Monday, though, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama found themselves on the same page in dealing with the current crisis, perhaps reflecting the delicacy of the situation. Both said Russia had escalated the dispute beyond its catalyst, the conflict over South Ossetia; both said the United Nations Security Council should call for an end to the violence; both called for putting Georgia on a path toward membership in NATO; and both spoke of deploying an international peacekeeping force in the disputed areas that set off the fighting.
355 2008-08-12 The two young men were far from alone in trying to help protect the country.

“We’re just here to control the situation,” said Giorgi Kristesiash, a government employee in Gori, standing under a statue of Stalin in the city’s main square, wearing civilian clothes but with a Kalashnikov rifle strapped to his back. He was part of a group of a dozen civilians, some in camouflage and some wearing bulletproof vests, who said they were there to defend the city from Russian attack.

“There’s a huge panic; we’re here to say there’s nothing,” Mr. Kristesiash said early Monday, before Georgian forces retreated from Gori. A pack of young men, who appeared to be in their early 20s, heading toward the hospital where soldiers had congregated, said they had traveled there, just like Mr. Monasalidze and Mr. Kharadze, to join the fight.

“The main legend of Georgia is that Georgians are warriors because they are subject to constant invasion,” said Anna Lagidze, an educational psychologist in Tbilisi. A legend going back a thousand years, she explained, is that the men went into battle with grapevines tied around their waists so that if they died, new grapes would spring up where they fell.

Irregulars and volunteers fighting in Abkhazia in the early 1990s only added to the modern myth. “Many of them now think it is the last chance to defend their homeland,” Ms. Lagidze said. “It comes from the knowledge that the army is not enough and every man is valuable.”

Mr. Monasalidze and Mr. Kharadze took the train on Friday to Gori, where they tried to join the military units moving into South Ossetia. The army would not take them. When Mr. Kharadze called his mother from his cellphone around midnight, he told her they were planning to push ahead anyway to the South Ossetian capital, Tskhinvali.

It was the last their friends or family heard from the young men.

Since then, Ms. Kharadze has found herself among thousands of Georgians searching for family members, dead or alive, as people fled from deadly bombardments in cars, on flatbeds pulled by tractors and even on foot. According to a rough count by the ministry in charge of refugees, there were 15,000 internally displaced people as of late Monday afternoon, 7,000 of whom had escaped to Tbilisi.

Ms. Kharadze and her husband, Kakha, traveled in the opposite direction, toward the fighting in Gori on Sunday, with three color photographs of their son. Several people there recognized him from the photos, she said, but no one knew what had happened to the young men.

“You have to go to each hospital, because it changes all the time,” said Dr. Giorgi Sulava, a physician in charge of admissions at the Javakhishvili State University clinic in Tbilisi, holding the handwritten list of the names of those who were being treated and those who had already been released. He said that the hospital in Gori was being used only for initial treatment. Longer-term patients were being dispersed among the hospitals in Tbilisi, where family members, their faces drawn with worry, stood outside to read the lists.

So far, the young men’s names have not shown up. “They have a lot of friends that are in the reserves, and when they all left, I think they thought they should go, too,” said Giorgi Bitadze, 21, a university student who knew Mr. Monasalidze and Mr. Kharadze from the neighborhood. He recalled fondly that they were both as eager to win a laugh as they were to play soccer in the street.

Mr. Monasalidze’s mother, Nana Tsitskishvili, said that her son had lied, telling her he was going to a girlfriend’s house when he left, but that she was not completely surprised. “Everyone in Georgia stood up on their feet, were ready to go,” Ms. Tsitskishvili said, wearing a scarf on her head because of treatments for brain cancer.

She broke down talking about him but said: “You still have the feeling that he’s alive. He’s just not able to contact you.”

Displaced people who said they had fled the Russian bombardment in South Ossetia described a harrowing fight that the young men from Tbilisi were trying to join. On the outskirts of the town of Mtskheta, which lies near Gori and Tbilisi, about 250 refugees were gathered in drab military tents, down the hillside from the ruins of an old fortress.

“The planes came in and they started to bomb. The ground was covered with dead people, and there was nowhere to go,” said Goderzi Zenashvili, 48. “The people that died, they died from their houses falling in on them, from the shrapnel and from concussions.” He escaped his village, Eredvi, with his wife, two children and mother in the family Opel and went to Mtskheta.

He and his family had lived in Tskhinvali before the first fighting broke out over a decade ago. They had moved from their home there to the village. But he said that what he had experienced in the current war was far worse.

“Back then, there was just the firefights. This time, they had the bombardment from the planes,” Mr. Zenashvili said. “Against Russia, when we don’t have anything and they have the planes, we can do nothing.”

As he told his story, a young woman in a brown striped shirt burst into tears. Like Mr. Zenashvili, she was a refugee for the second time in her life, said an older woman who knew her, and now she had given up hope for the future. Less than a mile away, Georgian troops, some so fresh from Iraq they were still in their desert camouflage, massed along the highway, preparing the defense of the capital.
356 2008-08-12 “He was not only wrong, he was aggressively wrong,” said Tom Andrews, national director of the Win Without War coalition, referring to Mr. Bayh. “In my view, he would contradict if not undermine the Obama message of change, turning a new page on foreign policy and national security.”

Mr. Bayh was unavailable for an interview, but his spokesman, Eric Kleiman, contrasted his evolution on the war with the position of Mr. McCain, saying that Mr. McCain has said he would cast the same vote again. “Senator Bayh has shown the judgment that we need to admit that mistakes were made and we need to learn from them,” Mr. Kleiman said.

Eli Pariser, the executive director of the antiwar group MoveOn.org, said that Mr. Obama had a variety of factors to weigh in making a choice and that he was not ready to say that Mr. Bayh should be ruled out because of his views at the start of the war.

“We are not going to get into which particular person is good or bad,” Mr. Pariser said. “We hope that emphasizing Senator Obama’s judgment against the war is something they consider in making their pick.”

Mr. Bayh’s political allies say he now concedes his vote on the war was a mistake, the product of personal assurances from George J. Tenet, the central intelligence director, to Mr. Bayh, a member of the Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, that Iraq possessed unconventional weapons.

Mr. Bayh’s record points up the risks and rewards for Mr. Obama of adding a running mate from a Republican-leaning state, someone whose votes and credentials could compensate for perceived weaknesses of Mr. Obama but potentially alienate progressive Democrats crucial to Mr. Obama’s success.

But admirers, some of whom are actively promoting Mr. Bayh as a No. 2, say he could complement Mr. Obama in areas like executive experience and economic expertise, while bolstering the image of a generational change. And his earlier allegiance to Mrs. Clinton could help soothe disgruntled Clinton supporters.

Mr. Bayh and Mr. Obama made a joint campaign swing in Indiana last week that would have provided an opportunity for the Obama campaign to gauge the personal and political chemistry between the two men, who have worked together in the Senate on an initiative to promote responsible fatherhood — a signature issue for both.

“Evan has a lot of experience,” said Lee H. Hamilton, a former House member from Indiana and a respected Democratic elder. “He has got Hollywood good looks, and he speaks well. He would be very loyal.”

Mr. Bayh, whose father, Birch, was a liberal Democratic senator and presidential candidate in 1976, has compiled a moderate-to-conservative record both as governor of Indiana from 1988 to 1996 and as senator since 1999. He was first elected to state office in 1986 at age 30, as Indiana secretary of state.

In the past few years, Mr. Bayh has been a more reliably Democratic vote on social policy, and he opposed President Bush’s nominees to the Supreme Court. But this spring, he frustrated Democratic leaders by holding out against new spending in the federal budget. But that reflects his fiscal conservatism; in Indiana, his record on cutting taxes as governor and leaving office with a $1.6 billion surplus is a hallmark.

One conventional assessment of Mr. Bayh is that he is a bland, unexciting politician who would not energize a national ticket. His 1996 keynote speech to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago was panned. In a recent column, Dick Morris, a former consultant to President Bill Clinton, described Mr. Bayh as a “cream puff” for failing to go on the attack in that speech, a decision Mr. Bayh later described in a book, saying his view was that voters were tired of negative politics.

In the Senate, Mr. Bayh is known to slip away to attend school events for his children, and he rarely gives floor speeches. Aides say he considers committee work to be the best venue for real accomplishment in Congress. Through his membership on the Banking Committee, Mr. Bayh this summer was able to add to the newly enacted housing bill a provision that allows taxpayers who do not itemize to take a deduction for property taxes — a provision important back home where property tax increases have taken a toll.

Despite his strong support for authorizing force in Iraq, Mr. Bayh showed his disillusionment with the conduct of the conflict in December 2004 by calling for the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. He voted against the confirmation of Condoleezza Rice as secretary of state in 2005, citing her role as an architect of the Iraq war.

He pushed for sending more heavily armored vehicles to Iraq, which turned out to be a benefit for military personnel and Indiana companies that received contracts to produce the equipment. And he has pushed for more focus on the care and treatment of Iraq war veterans suffering from traumatic brain injuries caused by the improvised explosive devices used against them in the conflict.

It is not unusual for Indianans to be considered for vice president, and five have served in that capacity, with Senator Dan Quayle the most recent during the presidency of the first George Bush. Mr. Bayh himself was considered potential running-mate material by the last two Democratic presidential contenders — Al Gore and Senator John Kerry, and some Democrats say now may be his time.

“The antiwar people cannot define the Democratic Party,” said Al From, a founder of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, of which Mr. Bayh was chairman for four years. “I think Evan’s real strength is you get someone on the ticket who has a record of being strong on national security, and that is a very important quality to have.”
357 2008-08-12 Orville Moody, the golfer known as Sarge, who spent 14 years in the Army playing and teaching golf, then emerged from obscurity to win the 1969 United States Open, his only PGA Tour victory, died Friday in Allen, Tex. He was 74.

The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, a form of cancer, said his daughter Michelle Blackmon.

When Moody captured the Open at Champions Golf Club in Houston, he was in his third year as a PGA Tour member and he used an unorthodox cross-handed grip as he sank a tricky 14-inch putt on the final hole to avoid a four-way playoff.

Moody proved to be an outstanding shotmaker and he was a five-time runner-up on the PGA Tour, but he was ultimately stymied by poor putting.

“It wasn’t the same thing every time,” he told The Record of Hackensack, N.J., in 1990. “The first time I’d take it back, I’d have it in my hands so tight, it’d jump backward. Then I’d try to ease up, and I’d go at it like it was melted butter. I wondered how guys could hit a 3-footer straight.”
358 2008-08-12 To protect people against the human variant of mad cow disease, health experts say, it is crucial to keep central nervous system tissue of beef cattle out of the food supply. And that means controls and testing at slaughterhouses, where there is a risk that tissues will become mingled when animals are killed and processed.

Testing for the presence of central nervous system tissue has been a tedious affair, involving chromatography, polymerase chain reaction assays or other laboratory techniques. What has been needed is a simple test that can be performed on cattle carcasses or meat products rapidly and in real time.

That test may be close to reality. Scientists with the Department of Agriculture and Iowa State University report in The Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry that they have detected nervous system tissue on cattle carcasses with a fluorescence-based method.

The technique devised by Jacob W. Petrich and colleagues takes advantage of the fact that nervous system tissues contain high concentrations of a compound, lipofuscin, that fluoresces when exposed to light. By analyzing the fluorescence with a spectrometer, the method can detect even small amounts of nervous system tissue on a carcass.
359 2008-08-12 Many people are sure that exercise improves their mood, and studies have suggested that exercise is almost as effective as antidepressants in relieving symptoms of depression. But a new study has found that even though people who exercise are less likely to be depressed or anxious, it is probably not because they exercise.

Dutch researchers studied 5,952 twins from the Netherlands Twins Registry, as well as 1,357 additional siblings and 1,249 parents, all 18 to 50 years old. They recorded survey data about the frequency and duration of exercise and used well-validated scales to uncover symptoms of depression and anxiety. The study was published Monday in The Archives of General Psychiatry.

Studying twins allowed the researchers to distinguish between genetic and environmental effects, and they found that the association of exercise with reduced anxious and depressive symptoms could be explained genetically: people disinclined to exercise also tend to be depressed. One does not cause the other.

This does not mean that exercise is useless in alleviating depressive symptoms. “Exercise may still be beneficial for patients being treated for an anxiety or depressive disorder,” said Marleen H. M. de Moor, the lead author of the study and a doctoral student in psychology at VU University Amsterdam. “But we couldn’t find evidence for a causal effect in the population at large.”
360 2008-08-12 The upward momentum for the dollar began last week, after the European Central Bank warned that the collective economy of its 15 member nations was showing signs of a slowdown. On Friday, Italy reported that its economy unexpectedly shrank last quarter, and Germany may also report a contraction.

“It was the first time that the E.C.B. had tipped its hat toward acknowledging economic weakness,” said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. “Up until then, the markets were singularly focused on how bad it is in the U.S.”

The bleak news means that the European bank will probably lower its benchmark interest rate in the near future, in effect making it cheaper to borrow money in the form of euros. That reduces the value of the euro against other currencies and helps the value of the dollar to rise.

Until last week, Europe’s chief central banker, Jean-Claude Trichet, had seemed more concerned about choking off inflation by raising interest rates. His remarks last Thursday led to a shift in sentiment among currency traders about how the euro could be valued by early next year.

Since Friday, the dollar has gained 2.6 percent against the euro, which closed on Monday at $1.4928.

These same bleak forecasts have helped tamp down the price of oil, which fell 75 cents on Monday to settle at $114.45 a barrel, after touching its lowest level since May 2.

For months, oil seemed to rise on the slightest signs of supply disruptions or tensions in the Middle East and other crude-producing regions. But some analysts now say they think that demand for energy will fall as the world’s economies slow; on Monday, oil prices fell despite the breakout of violence between Russia and Georgia.

Still, oil prices are 60 percent higher than they were a year ago. And it is impossible to tell where the dollar will move.

“You can’t say the all-clear has sounded,” said Jonathan Lewis, who manages currency strategy at Samson Capital Advisors. “Is it really a surprise to see a correction? It shouldn’t be. Did the global economy change that much in the past few weeks? No.”

But crude oil and the dollar may continue to move in tandem. Commodities are priced in dollars, so many investors use raw materials as a hedge against their currency bets. When the dollar strengthens, oil tends to cheapen, and vice versa.

On Monday, the market moves helped push the Dow Jones industrial average up 48 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,782.35. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 0.7 percent, to 1,305.32, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained more than 1 percent, to 2,439.95.

The Dow was up nearly 140 points in midafternoon, but the major indexes fell back after the Fed said that many domestic banks tightened their lending standards in the last three months, confirming fears that the credit crisis remains a serious problem for businesses and households, particularly Americans seeking mortgages.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32, to 100 2/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.99 percent, from 3.93 percent.

Following are the results of Monday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
361 2008-08-12 “Traveling, in general, puts pressure on the family unit, but when you have a child with a disability, there are very often larger issues,” said Philip H. Levy, the president of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Network, an organization based in New York for people with disabilities of all ages across the United States.

Jacqueline Kotler, an executive assistant at Doyle Kos, a music management company in New York, has a son, Zak, 3, who has Prader Willi syndrome, which she said is a rare genetic disorder that “affects the hypothalamus, so it affects temperature regulation, appetite.” If left alone around food, she said, “he can literally eat himself to death.” His brain, she said, “will not tell him to stop.”

Zak’s eating times are scheduled every three hours, with strict portions. Ms. Kotler said a recent trip to Austin, Tex., for the South by Southwest Music Festival involved preparing “food for four days, and putting everything into a grid, putting everything into the freezer, portion controlled.”

Ms. Kotler said that because both she and her husband travel, they stagger their business trips. Family members and a nanny help, but, she said, “one hurdle that we’re still facing as far as going away — or that myself, or my husband or my nanny is not there — is that Zak gets a hormone shot every night, and we’re the only three people that know how.”

Some special needs children cannot understand that a parent is away. “When you have a child who doesn’t speak, I can’t explain anything,” said Candi Nichols Carter, a television producer in Chicago, and the creator of the children’s entertainment company It’s Hip Hop, Baby! “I had to go to Vegas for four days to work on a show,” she said. “I can’t explain that to him, that ‘Mommy’s going to be gone for four days.’ The next day, he wakes up and his mother is just gone. It’s got to be traumatizing.”

Ms. Nichols Carter’s 5-year-old child, Emerson, presents a multitude of challenges. In an e-mail message, Ms. Nichols Carter wrote: “Emerson is a child with a mental disability. We found out a year and a half into his life that he was born with a chromosome abnormality. As a result he had many physical problems early on and currently struggles with a severe speech delay.”

While language problems heighten issues for children like Emerson, Mr. Levy said, “children with disabilities will very often have more anxiety around the separation.” He advises business travelers to “maintain some type of continuity and consistency,” by building communication into travel schedules, such as dinnertime calls on a speakerphone, a technique Ms. Nichols Carter uses.

Some parents completely reschedule their jobs around their children’s needs.

Ms. Barnes said via e-mail that when her boyfriend, Chad Watson, took his new position, he negotiated a contract with “total control over dates of business travel with at least two weeks notice prior to travel.” And after Shane was born, Ms. Barnes said she knew she would have to find a job working with his schedule. She said she started nursing school while Shane was in the hospital “because I knew I needed a schedule change.” She added that she and Mr. Watson are “like ships passing in the night on the three nights that I work.”

In her family, Ms. Nichols Carter is the road warrior, not her husband. Beyond daily needs, Emerson sees several specialists. “We both can’t have crazy work schedules and have to do all those appointments,” she said.

Family involvement, often from grandparents, can also help. Ms. Kotler said her parents and her in-laws have taken care of Zak. Early on, Ms. Barnes’s parents helped, becoming part of what she called Shane’s “tag team.”

Baby sitters can fill gaps, though qualified help is hard to find. One option is SitterCity (www.sittercity.com), based in Chicago. Genevieve Thiers, who started the service in 2001, described it as “like Match.com, but for parents and caregivers across the country.”

She said the service has “hundreds of thousands of caregivers” across the country, about 30,000 of whom can baby-sit for special needs children. Ms. Barnes uses Sittercity and said she is “in the process of finding one that works for us.”

Other aids include Forms4Parents (www.forms4parents.com), started about a year ago by Linda Kagan, a lawyer in New York. Parents can use the service to fill out forms with information about a child’s special needs, medical and other information, and then print out those document for caregivers. Ms. Kagan said that “paranoia, a dose of lawyering and a dose of parenting gave rise to this idea.”

Care for special needs children can be expensive. Skilled baby sitters charge more, usually “an extra dollar or two more per hour,” according to Ms. Thiers.

Beyond schedule complexities and costs, Mr. Levy said taking care of special needs children puts significant pressure and guilt on parents and siblings. He said that divorce rates can be higher among such parents, but added, “If you get through the initial issue of pressure, it can bring the family closer together.”
362 2008-08-12 JERONIMO--Bob, Memorial Wednesday, August 13, 3:30pm at Campbell Chapels, 81st and Madison...
363 2008-08-12 As the Senate debate on the use of force against Iraq neared its climax in October 2002, Senator John McCain turned on the floor to Senator Evan Bayh to ask what had led him to take such ''a visible, as well as important'' role in seeking Congress...
364 2008-08-12 REVEALING INDICTMENTS The indictments last week of 11 people  accused of stealing credit card numbers from millions of Americans provide a detailed picture of how the Internet is enabling new kinds of financial crimes on an international scale.   ...
365 2008-08-13 Taking Questions: A first round of answers from Michael Hurwitz, the director of New York City’s Greenmarket program, on farmers’ markets and community-supported agriculture in the city....
366 2008-08-13 The move is part of a continuing effort by John McCain to seize on the events overseas to portray himself as presidential and in command on the world stage while at the same time not appearing to be political....
367 2008-08-13 Jane Hamsher of the blog Firedoglake and James Pinkerton of Fox News debate whether foreign affairs will give John McCain the victory.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
368 2008-08-13 Diana Fu is a Rhodes Scholar studying international development at Oxford University. She researches disadvantaged populations in China and works to draw attention to the marginalized. Diana will be contributing to the blog throughout the Olympic Games.
369 2008-08-13 While private equity firms have been mostly shut out of deal-making these days, the rise of corporate and international buyers has still brought them one benefit. They can exit some of their investments by selling portfolio companies....
370 2008-08-13 Cindy McCain, the wife of Senator John McCain, learned the meaning of "grip and grin" today when enthusiastic supporters pulled her hands and she sustained a minor sprain in one of her wrists....
371 2008-08-13 One of the more unusual schemes to raise money for Barack Obama comes from Dr. Emil Chynn, of the Park Avenue Laser Vision Center who describes himself as an "avid" Obama supporter....
372 2008-08-13 The latest in the ad wars between the presidential candidates....
373 2008-08-13 A year after financial tremors first shook Wall Street, a crucial artery of modern money management -- securitizations -- remains broken. And until that conduit is fixed or replaced, analysts say borrowers will see interest rates continue to rise ...
374 2008-08-13 One little girl had the looks. The other had the voice. (Aug. 13)
375 2008-08-13 European financial groups ING and Zurich Financial Services reported quarterly profits that met or exceeded expectations on Wednesday, helped by strong insurance businesses and limited investment write-downs....
376 2008-08-13 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing reported its first drop in quarterly profit in three years, as falling trading volume and the absence of one-off gains led to a 6 percent decline in second-quarter earnings....
377 2008-08-13 Credit Suisse has been fined 5.6 million pounds (10.6 million) by Britain's Financial Services Authority over pricing errors on certain asset-backed securities....
378 2008-08-13 H&R Block said Tuesday that it is unloading its brokerage business business to Ameriprise Financial in a $315 million cash deal....
379 2008-08-13 Alexander Shabalov, Enrico M. Sevillano and Rade Milovanovic tied for first in the 109th U.S. Open, which ended Sunday in Dallas. Each scored eight points in the nine-round tournament. Some of the games from the tournament can be replayed at Monro...
380 2008-08-13 Two Nebraska wrestlers, including one who won an N.C.A.A. championship in 2007, have been dismissed from the team after posing naked for videos and photographs on an Internet pornography site. Paul Donahoe and Kenny Jordan were let go Tuesday, three days after a blog posted images of them. Donahoe won a national title at 125 pounds in 2007 and was the third-place finisher in 2008.
381 2008-08-13 The average score on the ACT college admissions test fell slightly this year to 21.1 out of a possible score of 36, down from 21.2 last year, the testing agency said. This year’s average was equal to the 2006 average. Over all, 22 percent of the 1.42 million 2008 high school graduates who took the test this year received scores indicating that they were ready for college, which the agency defines as likely to earn a “C” or higher in first-year courses in English, math, reading and science. That number was down from 23 percent last year but up one percentage point compared with the three previous years.
382 2008-08-13 Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, has made a property tax measure one of the central policy objectives of his young administration. He has crisscrossed the state in recent weeks on a campaign-style tour to promote the plan.

“The governor does have a big megaphone,” said Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party. “This is a bad idea that will harm our schools, and we want to drive that home as the Legislature heads back into session.”

Billy Easton, executive director for the Alliance for Quality Education, said, “Millions of New Yorkers will see this ad buy multiple times, and it’s our hope that Governor Paterson will hear from them.”

The 30-second commercial opens to ominous-sounding piano music as a narrator says, “Everyone agrees property taxes are a problem, but Gov. David Paterson’s property tax gimmick is the wrong answer.” The narrator then cites what the Working Families Party and the Alliance for Quality Education say were some of the effects of plans to cap property tax increases in other states: larger class sizes, billions of dollars in education cuts and laid-off teachers.

The commercial ends with the narrator saying, “Tell David Paterson hurting schools is the wrong answer.”

Mr. Paterson’s office responded to the advertisement on Tuesday in a written statement calling the cap plan “sensible” and citing progress by students in Massachusetts, where a cap on increases was put in place. It also tied the cap in with the governor’s plan to turn New York’s economy around.

“There is widespread recognition among New Yorkers that runaway increases in property taxes are deeply hurting our state,” the statement said. “Anyone who does not acknowledge this trend is out of touch with working families. The longer we wait to approve a property tax cap, the more we will hamstring New York from reaching its full economic potential.”

The timing and size of this advertising campaign raised questions about whether opponents of the plan suddenly feared that it was gaining momentum.

“We do not see a groundswell of support in the Assembly for the tax cap,” said Bob Master, a co-chairman of the Working Families Party. “Nevertheless, you know, we want to send a clear message to the governor and to all members of the Assembly, and really to all citizens of the state, that this tax cap gimmick is not a solution. It is only a sound bite that has not been thought through.”
383 2008-08-13 Mr. Hua’s escape is sure to irritate the government when it is eager to keep international attention focused on the Olympic Games. In recent days several small demonstrations have occurred here, most of them orchestrated by foreign activists to urge Tibetan independence. The police quickly broke them up.

Last Thursday, three members of an American Christian advocacy group were dragged away from Tiananmen Square after they held a prayer vigil and news conference on religious freedom.

The Beijing Public Security Bureau declined to confirm if Mr. Hua was detained. In a telephone interview on Monday, his brother said the police had called him repeatedly, asking where Mr. Hua was. During the interview, the line was disconnected five times, which the brother attributed to monitoring by security agents.

Sharon Hom, the executive director of Human Rights in China, said Mr. Hua had called its Hong Kong offices after his escape and asked staff members there to publicize his plight. “He fears for his safety,” Ms. Hom said.

She said the detention of the brothers highlighted a contradiction between the government’s claims of religious freedom and the reality experienced by those who tried to worship outside state-run institutions. She cited comments by Qin Gang, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, who insisted last week that Chinese citizens had complete religious freedom. “This does not seem to be the case of someone enjoying religious freedom,” she said.

Mr. Hua twice eluded surveillance on Sunday. The police had warned the brothers not to leave the house, posting officers outside. At 1 a.m., the two slipped out and cycled toward the church.

In the e-mail message to Human Rights in China, Mr. Hua said that shortly after 6 a.m., seven or eight plainclothes officers pulled up in two cars, yanked the brothers from their bikes and beat them. They were taken in separate vehicles to an office near the church, he said.

Mr. Hua wrote that the officers had confiscated his Bible. But, after four or five hours, the two guards fell asleep and Mr. Hua quietly walked away. “But now, I’m afraid to go home,” he wrote.

In the past week, a dozen people, mostly Americans and Canadians from Students for a Free Tibet, have been detained and deported after they unfurled Tibetan flags or, in one case, staged a “die in” at Tiananmen Square. In one protest, four activists hung a large banner that read “One World One Dream Free Tibet” near the National Stadium.

John Hocevar, a group spokesman, said the authorities had been inconsistent. At Tiananmen Square on Friday, four people splattered themselves with red paint and lay down as a fifth shouted slogans for more than 10 minutes before the police led them away. Later, he gave hours of interviews without police intervention. But protesters could not pull out a banner on Saturday before officers tackled them.
384 2008-08-13 Wall Street skidded lower on Tuesday as downbeat news from JPMorgan Chase and other financial companies stoked anxiety about the continuing impact of the credit crisis on the economy. The Dow Jones industrials fell nearly 140 points.

JPMorgan said late Monday it had incurred wider losses in its mortgage holdings so far in the third quarter than in the second quarter. In a regulatory filing, the bank said it lost $1.5 billion, after hedges, in its mortgage-backed securities and loans this quarter, versus $1.1 billion in the second three months of 2008.

The losses were proof to investors that the financial sector’s problems appear to be nowhere near a resolution.

Goldman Sachs also fell after several analysts lowered their ratings and earnings estimates for the investment bank. And UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, reported further losses and write-downs of $5.1 billion during the second quarter.

The market’s losses were mitigated for part of the session by a drop in the price of oil.

Light crude settled down $1.44 at $113.01 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange despite word from BP that it had shut down an oil pipeline that runs through Georgia as a precaution during the fighting between Georgian and Russian troops.
385 2008-08-13 The losses have taken a heavy toll at UBS, known for its conservative investment strategy.

Seeking bigger returns and to compete with larger rivals, UBS heavily invested in the market for subprime mortgage securities.

Now, Marcel Rohner, who took over as chief executive last year, is reducing risk and cutting 5,500 jobs, almost half of that in the investment banking business. Some investors would like UBS to sell Paine Webber, the American brokerage house that it acquired in 2000.

The losses at UBS have already led to the departure of a chief executive, a chairman and other senior managers and led it to seek emergency investments from Singapore and Middle East funds. Since then, UBS has had to buy back nearly $20 billion in auction-rate securities as part of a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and remains part of an investigation by state and federal regulators into whether it helped American customers evade taxes.

The management of UBS has pledged to revive confidence among its customers and shareholders, who saw the investment banking losses harm the reputation of UBS as a wealth manager. Investors also criticized how the wealth management business subsidized the investment banking unit with relatively inexpensive capital. Some shareholders welcomed the changes but said much more needed to be done, especially in the wealth management division. “The split will increase visibility and accountability, which is a good thing in a market like this, but it may be more important to stabilize outflows at the wealth management business and to hire private bankers,” said Adrian Darley, a fund manager at Resolution Asset Management in London.

UBS, the world’s biggest wealth manager, said clients withdrew a net 17.3 billion Swiss francs ($15.9 billion) from its two wealth management businesses in the second quarter, which was more than analysts had estimated. The biggest withdrawals happened in April, Mr. Rohner, the UBS chief, said, adding that he expected the worst to be over. The wealth management unit contributes more than 70 percent to group revenue.

Shares of UBS initially rose 3.8 percent on Tuesday in Zurich as some investors interpreted the announcement of the revamping as a sign that UBS was addressing its problems as write-downs in the second quarter met analysts’ expectations. But at the end of the trading day, UBS was down 2.4 percent in Zurich, bringing its decline for the year to 51.5 percent; shares fell 6.4 percent in New York on Tuesday.

Splitting the three divisions will make it easier to hold managers and staff directly accountable and “make UBS more effective and agile,” the bank said. The split, which is to be completed by the end of 2009, is the result of a review that revealed weaknesses with the integrated business model and “unnecessary layers of complexity,” Mr. Kurer said.

Still, he acknowledged that the changes were no miracle cure and that the bank would need to do more. “We’re by no means at the end of the road of a recovery,” he told analysts during a conference call. “There will be and must be more measures.”

Florian Esterer, a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management, said the plan to separate the businesses did not make up for a lack of an overall strategy. “It’s reacting to market pressures,” Mr. Esterer said. “I’m still missing a clear vision as to what they really want to do with the business.”

As part of the changes, UBS named John Cryan as chief financial officer, succeeding Marco Suter. Mr. Cryan was head of the financial institutions group at the investment banking unit. The bank also hired Markus U. Diethelm, the chief legal officer of Swiss Re, as general counsel and nominated four members to the board, including William G. Parrett, a former chief executive of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.

UBS also reported on Tuesday that it had a net loss of 358 million Swiss francs ($3.3 million) in the second quarter compared with a profit of 5.55 billion francs ($5 billion) a year earlier. The loss was eased by a tax credit of 3.8 billion francs ($3.5 billion).

The investment bank had a loss of 5.23 billion francs ($4.85 billion) after about $5.1 billion in write-downs and UBS said it would continue to reduce staff, costs and risky assets.

UBS posted revenue of 4 billion francs ($3.69 billion) in the period, down from the 16 billion francs ($14.8 billion) it reported in the second quarter of 2007.

It gave a bleak outlook for the second half of the year, saying it did not expect “any improvement in current adverse economic and financial market trends.”
386 2008-08-13 CYBER ASSAULT Internet experts in the United States said attacks on Georgia's cyberspace infrastructure began weeks before shooting started between Georgia and Russia.      IN NEED OF REPAIR The market through which mortgages are packaged and sold...
387 2008-08-14 Officials unveiled $14 million worth of renovations to Story Playground, Soundview Park, Aqueduct Lands Playground and Devoe Park....
388 2008-08-14 Taking Questions: A second round of answers from Michael Hurwitz, the director of New York City’s Greenmarket program, on farmers’ markets and community-supported agriculture in the city....
389 2008-08-14 Rising prices of milk, bread and other groceries have caused the inflation rate in the New York metropolitan area to rise at a rapid rate in the last year....
390 2008-08-14 McCain makes promises he can't keep....
391 2008-08-14 Two huge photovoltaic arrays to generate 800 Wal-Marts worth of power for California....
392 2008-08-14 Humble hoop star's incredible struggle against adversity (not) gets the violin treatment in this Slate sendup of those sappy Olympic profiles....
393 2008-08-14 NBC dominated the Wednesday night ratings, as it has ever since the Summer Games in Beijing began on Friday. The network drew an average of 27.2 million viewers during prime time, the second lowest rated night of coverage so far. Saturday was the ...
394 2008-08-14 The former top lawyer at Apple on Thursday agreed to pay $2.2 million to settle federal regulators' charges that she altered company records to conceal improper backdating of stock options for senior managers, including the chief executive, Steven...
395 2008-08-14 Jerome R. Corsi's book about Senator Barack Obama appears to have distracted him for another project he was planning in January: exposing the government's lies about the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center....
396 2008-08-14 Which number to look at? A nasty inflation number today. But remember what the guide says: DON'T PANIC. Basically, what we're seeing is pure commodity price inflation, with not a hint of a wage-price spiral. And the commodity boom seems to be over...
397 2008-08-14 What lessons can broadcast television learn from cable? Also: classic television shows could find new life in the move to digital TV....
398 2008-08-14 It's hard to keep up with Paul A. Goble, the former State Department analyst on Soviet nationalities, as he follows the discussions in Russia about the Georgian standoff. We didn't even have time to post his piece on Tuesday on all the Russian Web...
399 2008-08-14 Intermet, which supplies auto parts to customers such as Chrysler, filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors, its second bankruptcy filing in four years. In Wednesday's filing, made in Delaware, the company said it planned to continue normal ...
400 2008-08-14 Ten American exchanges have agreed to give two market watchdogs more power to ferret out insider trading regardless of where it occurs in the United States, regulators said Wednesday....
401 2008-08-14 American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia Airlines said Thursday that they had signed a joint business agreement for flights between the United States and Europe, and will apply for antitrust approval from U.S. and European regulators....
402 2008-08-14 The toughest part about being in Beijing for the Olympics and away from home so long, says Carmelo Anthony, is being away from his son, Kiyan....
403 2008-08-14 > "Cracks are starting to show in Dubai's well-crafted and glitzy property-marketing machine," according to the Wall Street Journal. The "cracks" won't surprise too many industry observers-an investor-driven market and a vast over supply of proper...
404 2008-08-14 The International Olympic Committee and Beijing Olympic organizers faced tough questions on Thursday about China's human rights record and promises made about openness before the games began. (Aug. 14)
405 2008-08-14 Severine Bremond, a 2006 Wimbledon quarterfinalist, and the former United States Fed Cup players Jamea Jackson and Ahsha Rolle were among seven women awarded wild-card entries into the United States Open by the United States Tennis Association.

The others were the Americans Gail Brodsky, Asia Muhammad, Melanie Oudin and CoCo Vandeweghe. An Australian player will also receive a wild card.
406 2008-08-14 All told, there are roughly a dozen competitive Congressional races in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New Hampshire, nearly all of them in districts now held by Republicans, according to analysts and strategists in both parties.

Meanwhile, all but 2 of the 11 Congressional Democrats who won office in 2006 in the Northeast appear headed into the general election campaign in a strong position, the analysts said.

This is a blow to Republicans because members of Congress are considered most vulnerable after their first term and Republicans had been expected to vigorously challenge freshmen lawmakers in the Northeast.

As a result, Democrats are in a strong position to expand their dominance in the Northeast region, where they already hold 60 of the 81 Congressional seats and hope to improve their numbers even further by aggressively contesting Republicans for eight more seats.

In the midterm elections of 2006, Democrats picked up 11 seats in the region.

“Republicans are playing defense in the Northeast,” said Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island who is not facing a serious challenge this year. “There could be a dramatic political realignment in the Northeast if Republicans don’t head it off right now.”

Most of the Republican-held seats in the region that are being contested are in play as a result of retirements by longtime incumbents who managed to win re-election repeatedly despite large numbers of Democrats in their districts. At the same time, there are up to three Republican incumbents who face what Democratic and Republican strategists agree are difficult re-election campaigns.

Democrats are also being helped by a growing concern among voters about the state of the economy and continuing doubts about the war in Iraq, strategists say. Democrats are also doing very well in their fund-raising efforts. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has $54.6 million on hand, compared with $8.4 million raised by the National Republican Congressional Committee.

Given the Republican Party’s limited financial resources and the number of Republican incumbents with fights on their hands elsewhere in the country, it is unclear how aggressively party officials will be able to defend its open seats in Northeast, though the party says it will mount an all-out effort.

At this point in the campaign, it is expected that there will be competitive races in at least 60 Congressional districts nationwide, said David N. Wasserman, the House analyst for The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. Mr. Wasserman said most of those districts are held by Republicans.

That reflects the degree to which the party remains on the defensive after having lost its majority in 2006, when Republican candidates struggled against the weight of President Bush’s unpopularity, a stream of bad news from Iraq and various Congressional scandals.

Mr. Wasserman said the challenge that Republicans face nationally is especially large in the Northeast because that is where polls show President Bush to be the most unpopular.

He said a stark sign of how hard the situation is for Republicans was on Staten Island, where several prominent Republicans declined to run for the seat vacated by Mr. Fossella, which had long been considered a virtual lock for Republicans.

“The exclamation point on this year’s Congressional elections is that Republicans don’t have a competitive candidate on Staten Island,” Mr. Wasserman said. “The Staten Island Republican Party has been renowned for producing powerful politicians for years — for decades.”

But Republicans are not solely playing defense in the Northeast. They are taking aim at a handful of Democrat-held districts that independent analysts and even Democrats said Republicans have a shot of winning.

Among this group of vulnerable Democrats are two first-term members, Representative Christopher P. Carney of Pennsylvania and Carol Shea-Porter of New Hampshire. Republicans are also mounting a challenge against Representative Paul E. Kanjorski in Pennsylvania.

Republican hopes of toppling two Democratic freshmen in New York, Kirsten Gillibrand and Michael Arcuri, are less likely, political analysts said.

In the meantime, the unexpected retirements of five Republican congressmen, two from New Jersey and three from New York, have created prime opportunities for Democrats. The benefits of incumbency, including high visibility and access to federal money for their districts, had long protected these lawmakers in an increasingly Democratic region.

Perhaps no better example is Representative James T. Walsh, a 10-term Republican from New York who announced in January that he would retire when his term expired. Mr. Walsh has a key role over appropriations and is a fixture in his Syracuse-area district, making him a formidable candidate to challenge.

But with Mr. Walsh out of the way, Democrats appear to be in a strong position to pick up his seat, in part because of the fund-raising advantage held by Dan Maffei, the Democratic candidate. Mr. Maffei, who lost to Mr. Walsh by about 3,400 votes in 2006, has nearly $1 million in his campaign account, compared with nearly $110,000 raised by his Republican opponent, Dale Sweetland, a former county legislator.

In another sign of trouble for Republicans, there are two Congressional districts in which the party’s incumbents stand only an even chance of holding on their seats, according to analysts monitoring the races.

One is Connecticut’s Fourth Congressional District, where Mr. Shays, the Republican incumbent, has proved to be a nimble politician who has frustrated repeated attempts to defeat him.

Mr. Shays, the only House Republican in Connecticut to survive the 2006 elections, has survived largely by blurring any distinction between himself and Democrats in a district that has voted solidly Democratic in the last two presidential elections.

Now, he is being challenged by Jim Himes, a former Goldman Sachs executive. Mr. Himes has $1.4 million on hand, compared with $1.7 million for Mr. Shays, according to the latest campaign finance disclosure reports.

The other embattled Republican incumbent is Representative John R. Kuhl Jr. of New York’s 29th District, in the state’s Southern Tier. His Democratic opponent is Eric Massa, a former Navy officer and a former staff member of the House Armed Services Committee, whom Mr. Kuhl defeated two years ago with 52 percent of the vote. In a measure of the tightness of the race, Mr. Massa has $652,000 in his coffers, compared with nearly $619,000 for Mr. Kuhl.
407 2008-08-14 DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistan (AP) — A missile strike in a Pakistani tribal region killed at least nine suspected insurgents, including foreigners, Pakistani officials said Wednesday, raising suspicions that the United States was again seeking out militants in Pakistan.

A spokesman for the American military denied that it was behind the four missiles, which reportedly struck late Tuesday, destroying a compound in a mountainous area near Angore Adda in South Waziristan. However, past strikes are believed to have been conducted by the Central Intelligence Agency using Predator drones.

The tribal regions are considered havens for militants linked to Al Qaeda and the Taliban who plot and stage attacks on United States and NATO forces in Afghanistan, and the United States has repeatedly urged Pakistan to bring those areas under control. The missile strikes, however, have strained ties between the United States and Pakistan.

A Pakistani military official said at least nine people died in the latest strike. Two Pakistan intelligence service officials said 22 to 25 people — including Arabs, Turkmens and Pakistani militants — died in the strike, which was apparently launched from Afghanistan.

They said the camp was linked to the group of the Afghan warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, whose followers are fighting in Afghanistan. They said it was not clear if the camp leader, an Afghan identified as Cmdr. Zangeer, or other senior militants had been killed.
408 2008-08-14 When Senator John McCain led a Senate investigation three years ago of Jack Abramoff, the disgraced lobbyist who later pleaded guilty to fraud charges, Mr. Abramoff’s old firm turned to a former McCain campaign adviser for help.

The firm, Greenberg Traurig, which had quickly cut its ties to Mr. Abramoff, hired Randy Scheunemann, who had been the McCain campaign’s foreign policy adviser in 2000 — and is again this year — for advice on handling the Senate investigation.

“After Greenberg Traurig severed ties to Mr. Abramoff, Mr. Scheunemann advised the law firm on how best to cooperate with the Senate investigation,” said Brian Rogers, a spokesman for the McCain campaign. “The record reflects that the law firm cooperated.”

Mr. Rogers said he believed that Mr. Scheunemann was hired because he had worked in Congress for more than a decade and had experience with investigations, and not because of any ties he had to Mr. McCain. He added that Mr. Scheunemann had served the firm in an advisory role, and had never spoken with Mr. McCain about the issue.

Since the Russian invasion of Georgia, Mr. Scheunemann has drawn attention for his lobbying efforts on behalf of the Georgian government, for which he lobbied until March. Mr. McCain has been outspoken in his support of Georgia. During a flight on Tuesday on the McCain campaign plane, Mr. Scheunemann told reporters that Mr. McCain has known the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, for more than a decade.

Craig Holman, the governmental affairs lobbyist for Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization, said Mr. Scheunemann’s dual role — sometimes advising Mr. McCain as a candidate, and sometimes advising private clients on their interactions with him as a senator — raised potential red flags. “This is a serious revolving door problem: a person who keeps fluctuating between being a lobbyist, and advising candidates,” Mr. Holman said.
409 2008-08-14 “Why not help somebody?” said Kay Brooks, 21, an administrative assistant from Brooklyn, who said she has no qualms about swiping someone else in on her monthly card when she exits the system. “It’s free for me.”

Ms. Brooks, who was at the 81st Street subway station in Manhattan on Wednesday, also said she was envious of the people who unknowingly got free rail tickets and MetroCards because of the vending machine error.

“Lucky them,” she said. “Who wouldn’t take a free MetroCard? It’s not like I stole it. The machine wasn’t working.”

The software problem, which went undetected starting in 2001 when the vending machines were installed, lasted until May, when technicians upgrading the software discovered it. The glitch let sales go through on debit cards from some small banks even if the accounts did not have enough money to cover the cost. In those cases, nothing was charged to the accounts.

Officials estimated that hundreds of Long Island and Metro-North riders received free tickets worth tens of thousands of dollars. Officials said, however, that riders would not necessarily have realized they had gotten free tickets unless they closely scrutinized their monthly statements.

Representatives of the two railroads said on Wednesday that they were not aware of anyone’s coming forward in the last seven years to correct the error.

But Dan Brucker, a spokesman for Metro-North, said that the railroad’s customers were known to commit surprising acts of honesty. He said that riders frequently mail tickets to the railroad, saying that the train they were riding on was too crowded for a conductor to collect them. The uncollected tickets could be reused (or discarded), but some riders prefer to mail them in.

Mr. Brucker also said that riders often turn in monthly commuting passes that they have found — even though they could use the passes themselves or cash them in.

But for some, the temptation of a free ride would seem to be overpowering.

The authorities believe that a Long Island couple and a Manhattan man discovered the computer glitch by accident three years ago and then began exploiting it. The three have been arrested and charged with using Long Island Rail Road vending machines to obtain $800,000 worth of free tickets and MetroCards, many of which the authorities said they resold.

Some transit riders interviewed this week saw the suspects as urban Robin Hoods, stealing from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and selling to the straphanger at a discount.

“I wish I could have met them and gotten a deal,” said Bob Dellavecchia, 36, an aquarium designer from New Jersey. “I sympathize with them. The system didn’t miss that money.”

But others noted the agency’s financial troubles, which may lead to a fare increase next year.

“The M.T.A. doesn’t care about the passengers,” said Marcia Moore, 46, a home health care aide from Brooklyn. “All they care about is raising the fares. But that’s not right to do.”

In the days of the token, there were slugs and foreign coins. But the MetroCard has brought its own ways to game the system.

Walter Reyes, 48, a messenger from the Bronx, said that if he is on a bus and someone boards without a MetroCard or proper change, he will sometimes swipe the person in on his unlimited-ride card and then pocket the fare in cash. “The M.T.A. already has too much money, so I don’t feel bad,” he said.

Ryan Koo, 19, a porter from Queens, said that he had sometimes used a younger sister’s student MetroCard. “Generally, though, I think it’s wrong to steal rides,” he said.

Many people said that they would refuse a free ride, even if they found that they had acquired a free ticket or a MetroCard from a machine’s mix-up.

“I’d feel bad about it,” said Sonya Carrington, 23, a Harlem resident who works in public relations. “I’d think about my karma. At first I would say, ‘They have a lot of money and what’s my little taking going to do?’ But then I’d think about what would happen if everybody did it.”
410 2008-08-14 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Ten American exchanges have agreed to give two market watchdogs more power to ferret out insider trading regardless of where it occurs in the United States, regulators said Wednesday.

Under the proposal, the exchanges will give NYSE Regulation, which oversees the New York Stock Exchange, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which is known as Finra and is responsible for Nasdaq, the responsibility for detecting illegal trading.

The move aims to improve the surveillance, investigation and enforcement of fraudulent trading in equities securities.

Each exchange is now responsible for monitoring trading on its market as well as any investigations and enforcement actions.

The exchanges included in the agreement, besides the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, are the American Stock Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange, CBOE Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse’s International Securities Exchange, National Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.

The deal between NYSE Regulation, Finra and the exchanges is subject to approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission, and has been submitted to the S.E.C.
411 2008-08-14 Here, for example, is Michael Phelps, the Baltimore merman, whose varied anatomical particulars (short legs, long torso, jug ears, size 14 feet, Olympic rings tattoo below right hipbone, on latitude with the pubic bone) have in recent days become more familiar in some ways than our own.

Here are the gnomish female gymnasts, seemingly more compact than ever, more muscularly developed and yet at the same time troublingly arrested, to judge from the lack of secondary sexual characteristics like breasts.

Here is Dara Torres, the 41-year-old swimmer with the blister-pack abs and the padded deltoids, her stupendous physique attained, she says, through Herculean training, and now unquestionably resembling that of a cover boy for Men’s Health.

Here are the sprinters, their muscular bodies so different from those of the whippet-lean athletes of yesteryear.

What is it that happened to the human body, one finds oneself asking. Is it diet or drugs or training or mysterious substances like human growth hormone that have turned so many sports stars into bendable action figures? Just as in baseball, when athletes overnight began looking more like Humvees than the reliable mid-size family Chevy, one’s eye registers a difference that defies any easy effort to comprehend.

It was the art historian Anne Hollander who noted that, even naked, the body is subject to fashion and that the body beautiful differs according to an era’s prevailing mores and tastes. Because the Greek word gymnasium translates as something more or less like “nuditorium,” it seems clear that few events offer a richer opportunity to see how physical beauty is currently constructed than the Beijing Games.

In a book “Made in Beijing,” put out by the German sportswear giant Adidas, there is a compelling group of archival pictures that date as far back as the 1920s. They show athletes like Emil Zatopek (the “Czech locomotive”), Bob Mathias and a surprisingly lean young boxer still known at the time as Cassius Clay. What is striking about these images is how lightly muscled the athletes’ bodies appear, how fine in proportion and aesthetically balanced, and how unlike so many of those on view in these Games, bodies that even in real time seem digitally enhanced.

It has been nearly two decades since I wrote a profile for Vanity Fair of the pioneering Australian body builder Bev Francis, and it is instructive to recall that Ms. Francis’s rippling physique drew stares on the street back then. Now that the eye has adapted to more muscular padding on women (Madonna’s shoulders, Dara Torres’s arms), Bev Francis would barely rate a second glance.

None of this is to infer that everyone in sports is juiced on steroids or ingests still-undetectable substances or requires DNA testing to determine his or her sex. And it is not to suggest that the Olympic ideals have been forever lost.

Even in the classical world, the range of forms at the Games was broad enough to encompass lean bodies suited to running, wiry wrestlers with bantam bodies, refrigerator-size hulks capable of feats like lifting a young ox (and then consuming it later: certain athletes at the ancient Games gained laurels, while others won all they could eat). A mosaic floor in a fourth-century villa at the Piazza Armerina in Sicily depicts three female athletes playing some sort of ball game and wearing bandeau bikinis. One of them looks distinctly like that Diana of beach volleyball, Kerri Walsh.

“The Olympics caters to all shapes and sizes,” as Rick Burton, the marketer-in-chief of Team USA at the Olympics, points out. “It always has.”

What the Games also frankly accommodate is a taste for the spectacle of straining young bodies, an appeal that was not lost on the ancients. The crowds at the early Games, according to the historian Nigel Spivey, were as excited by the “boys with slim waists, broad shoulders, neatly proud buttocks and springy thighs” as they were by the lofty ideal of the Games.

However distorted, the belief that to be fit is not merely to be brimming with sexual aliveness, but also to be prepared for hardship and battle, to be pure and good, remains deeply enmeshed in every Olympiad. Goony for athletic beauty, Socrates managed to find in all that young flesh not only a delight to the eyes, but also food for the soul.

In many ways, the marketers of the Summer Olympics are still mining Socratic ideals, even if purity in sports at this point is surely a fantasy. At least that is the impression one obsessive has taken away from the Games thus far, as the shape of human perfection continues to evolve.

There is a picture in the Adidas book of Nadia Comaneci at her Olympic apotheosis. If you happened to have been alive to watch those Montreal Games, you will probably recall how curious her superpowered child’s body looked at the time.

But hold that image of Comaneci against the current hypertrophied Pocket Pals, and the prepubescent Romanian gymnast of 1976 seems as willowy and womanly as Cyd Charisse.
412 2008-08-14 The i-Glass countertop created by 3Di, a Florida company, may not be perfectly level, but that’s the point, said Ken Marsak, the company’s owner.

The counter has a textured, undulating top and a molded edge, and the L.E.D.’s concealed in its stainless steel frame emphasize the asymmetry and the subtle gradations of the soft blue glass. Mr. Marsak said the glass can be made in a variety of colors and textures, including a black sandy surface, one with ripples like water and one that resembles cracked ice. The countertops are custom made, starting at $150 a square foot. (The 7-by-2 1/2-foot counter above, which is an inch thick, cost $3,600.) For information: (407) 436-8831.ELAINE LOUIE
413 2008-08-14 LONDON — Britain’s financial regulator fined the Credit Suisse Group £5.6 million, or $10.7 million, on Wednesday because of pricing errors in some asset-backed securities, an indication that the agency was tightening its oversight of investment banking.

Credit Suisse, the Swiss banking giant, agreed to pay the fine, imposed by the Financial Services Authority, as part of a settlement. The regulator ruled that the bank had failed to create adequate controls to avoid pricing errors, and that once they occurred, had failed to detect them in time.

The mispricings occurred in Credit Suisse’s structured credit group in London and led to a $2.65 billion write-down in February, a week after the bank reported its full-year results.

“It is imperative, particularly in more challenging financial conditions, that firms have in place appropriate systems and controls to manage their risks,” Margaret Cole, the agency’s director of enforcement, said in a statement.

The regulator is honing its enforcement powers after calls from some analysts to play a bigger role in ensuring financial stability. The Credit Suisse fine is the biggest since Deutsche Bank paid £6.4 million more than two years ago. The largest fine was £17 million, paid by the oil giant Shell for misstating its reserves. Credit Suisse, which fired the traders involved, was initially fined £8 million before reaching the settlement.
414 2008-08-14 When I arrived at the shop, Nancy, in the spirit of Madame Lamy, was already swaddled in a long, lean sable coat, moaning with pleasure.

“How much is it?” she asked Antino Angel Crowley, one of Mr. Owens’s willowy, tattooed, beautiful employees. “It’s an apartment, right?”

“Basically,” Mr. Crowley replied. “It’s $65,000. Which isn’t bad, if you think about it.”

I tried it, and agreed: not bad. Actually, it was a poem.

“You wouldn’t need an apartment,” I said, half-joking. “This coat is like youth and sex and butter all at the same time. You could sleep on the sidewalk and you would never feel a lack. You wouldn’t even need love.” This coat might have humanized Leona Helmsley.

In 2003, Mr. Owens became the designer for Revillon, a label that has been wrapping women in fur since 1723. Later I read an Owens quotation encapsulating his approach to Revillon:

“It’s about an elegance being tinged with a bit of the barbaric, the sloppiness of something dragging and the luxury of not caring. At Revillon, I felt it wasn’t about displaying one’s wealth, but rather giving the woman a selfish pleasure. It is about using sable as the lining under a very humble jacket, the luxury is all hers.”

A mink cave-girl stole ($22,344) and a sheared mink coat with amorously wrapping tentacles ($43,610) echoed this sentiment.

RICK OWENS designs are decidedly kinetic; the pieces are made to elongate lines of movement in three dimensions, whereas most clothing is spatially flat — conscious mainly in front and back, and best when standing still. The store employees, hanging around in these slouchy, body-conscious shapes, resemble a modern-dance company.

I tried on a smoky brown, flared coat with a cowl neck and wobbling zipper that Bea Arthur might wear in “The Matrix IV” ($4,214). It inspired fooling around in the mirror; the perfect swing-weight of the coat added an ideal billowing slo-mo effect to my bullet-dodging Keanu back bend.

Nancy tried a pair of bias-cut trousers ($995) — very sexy and sharp for something as comfy as lounge wear. The hemless hem was dragging around the unswept stone floor collecting dust, to the admiration of the staff boys, who approved of this Kate Hepburn-in-a-vacant-lot-like spectacle.

I tried a pleated Art Deco Egyptian goddess-skort. It took three tries to get both legs through the proper holes in the light-free dressing room, but once on, it was very tempting to refuse to take it off until the price ($1,136) came down.

Mr. Owens’s aesthetic sometimes requires more hippy élan than one might be capable of.

William Streng, another tattooed sales-beauty in unlaced combat boots, pulled the mohair sleeves of a $568 V-neck sweater down over my fingers.

Mr. Streng was wearing a sheer rayon tank top ($245), frayed into hanging clots at the hem. I’ve always thought it sound to buy good clothes and wear them until they rot. With Rick Owens, this is especially true, because entropy is built in as a plus factor: the tatters look better with age. Like a security blanket, the holes are proof of enduring love.

The mystique of Michele Lamy, a chanteuse with two gold front teeth, is evident all over, but especially in a shelf full of little vicious-looking rat monsters made from sable scraps.

THERE is something both exhilarating and exhausting about super-hipness — its demands can inspire both admiration and a slightly desolate feeling. Hanging out on certain couches can seem as arduous as a camping trip.

The Owens-Lamy Paris home, the former headquarters of the French Socialist Party, was described by Paper magazine as “gargantuan” and “bunker-like.”

But the clothes, for all their Gothic fury, are deliriously feminine.

Mr. Owens has said he is inspired by Lou Reed’s music. This makes sense: crudely simple melodies sung in an unpretty voice, but suspended in the excruciating tension of an almost unbearably delicate softness and sensitivity.

This mood can create anxiety, like sitting under a lead-glass chandelier that would crash down if not for the brilliant efforts of a single heroic spider. But unsettling settings also inspire relaxed inhibitions, creating the possibility for sudden intimacies to occur between strangers.

Are you cold? Here!

The sable, mes amis, is on the inside.
415 2008-08-14 RAISS--Robin . The Directors, Officers and Employees of Tanenbaum-Harber Co., Inc. regretfully acknowledge the passing of our esteemed officer and friend, Robin Raiss after a long, valiant battle with breast cancer. Robin was a devoted Officer of ...
416 2008-08-14 WEAK SALES The Dow Jones industrials fell after the government reported that retail sales declined in July to their weakest levels in five months.      RETOOLING A PLANT Chrysler will revamp a Detroit factory to build a car-based crossover vehicle...
417 2008-08-15 The acting buildings commissioner, Robert D. LiMandri, will be promoted permanently to the job. The City Council ended a requirement that said the commissioner needed an engineering or architecture license....
418 2008-08-15 Taking Questions: The third and final round of answers from Michael Hurwitz, the director of the city’s Greenmarket program, on farmers’ markets and community-supported agriculture....
419 2008-08-15 The results, reported on-line in Nature Genetics on August 17, are shown in the figure. The SNPs, shown as dots stretching across the human genome, are each ranked according to the statistical strength of their association with bipolar disorder (top line). Only two SNPs reach the required level of statistical significance (top dotted line) and a third comes close. (The genome is packaged into 23 separate chromosomes, shown in alternate red and blue for clarity).

The researchers then examined the genes in which the three SNPs occur (bottom line). The first SNP lies in a somewhat obscure gene called Ankyrin-G which helps to anchor proteins in the cell membrane, including those that serve as ion channels. The second SNP belongs to a gene that is part of the ion channel that lets calcium in and out of nerve cells. As before, the dots are the SNPs within each gene, the higher SNPs being the more significant statistically.)

These two genes probably have modest effects and each is involved in only a few cases of bipolar disorder, Dr. Craddock said. But they and other genes yet to be found may point to the underlying biology of the disease, which may affect a much larger number of patients.

This paper makes the point more clearly than ever before that there are no common genes that have a big effect, said Francis McMahon, a psychiatrist at the National Institute of Mental Health. Dr. McMahon said he was thrilled to see the ankyrin-G gene turn up because he had identified it earlier in a smaller survey.

David Goldstein, a geneticist at Duke University, expressed caution that after so much effort so few SNPs had come to light, none of them being of overwhelming statistical strength in terms of its link with the disease. A few SNPs are managing to just barely poke their heads above the parapet of genome-wide significance, after a good deal of encouragement, he said. So we may have a risk factor here left standing at the end of the day, or we may not, but they sure aren’t very impressive.

The parapet he refers to is the top dotted line of the upper figure.

Dr. Craddock said he was recruiting yet more patients to the study. With great numbers, more SNPs may scale the parapet. It may be that much of the burden of the disease is caused by large numbers of rare SNPs, which are hard to detect with the gene chips used at present to scan the human genome. Dr. Craddock said he hopes to find enough common genes to identify the major biological pathways leading to bipolar disorder, and that these will provide a new basis for treatments.
420 2008-08-15 Bangkok is a city that promotes itself as a shopper's paradise....
421 2008-08-15 Mrs. Fields Famous Brands, the private-equity-backed cookie retailer, said on Friday it plans to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection to help restructure its business, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing....
422 2008-08-15 Like 21st-century squeegee men, the men who hang out on Atlantic Avenue will pump your gas, fix your brakes and maybe tell you a story....
423 2008-08-15 With Netflix shipping DVDs again after a three-day outage and offering affected customers a 15 percent discount, here are three lessons from the ordeal....
424 2008-08-15 From Micheline Maynard, a DealBook colleague: Frederic F. Brace III, perhaps the best-known chief financial officer in the airline industry, is hanging up his wings - at least for now. UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, said Friday that M...
425 2008-08-15 Meanwhile, the Obama campaign said that Barack Obama will report his July totals shortly -- perhaps as early as tomorrow....
426 2008-08-15 Aired Thursday night on "The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson" on CBS: Sources say that Colin Powell is planning to endorse Barack Obama, which is bad news for John McCain. But at his age, he should expect some colon problems. Cindy McCain went ...
427 2008-08-15 Diners don't have to eat a full meal at a restaurant....
428 2008-08-15 Obama and Osama won't trip up the Word spellchecker any more, although some people will have to download an update....
429 2008-08-15 Reaffirming that cutbacks in ad spending by automakers are hurting media companies, the Television Bureau of Advertising said on Thursday that total broadcast TV revenues were down 4 percent in the second quarter of the year....
430 2008-08-15 The United States women's water polo team showed why it's ranked No. 1 in the world, throttling Russia, 12-7, and taking first place in group play....
431 2008-08-15 Until this week, Joseph Shereshevsky, a member of the B'nai Israel Congregation in Norfolk, Va., was known throughout the Orthodox Jewish community for his investment prowess and his philanthropy. But now Mr. Shereshevsky and his business partner,...
432 2008-08-15 A sense of deepened suspicions — and the more darkly drawn lines between countries in the region — were also apparent in the emotional reaction from Russia.

“It is this kind of agreement, not the split between Russia and United States over the problem of South Ossetia, that may have a greater impact on the growth in tensions in Russian-American relations,” Konstantin Kosachyov, chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the Russian Parliament, told the Interfax news agency on Thursday in Moscow.

South Ossetia is the pro-Russian enclave inside Georgia where Russia sent troops last week, following a military crackdown by the pro-Western government in Georgia.

The missile defense deal was announced by Polish officials and confirmed by the White House. Under it, Poland would host an American base with 10 interceptors designed to shoot down a limited number of ballistic missiles, in theory launched by a future adversary such as Iran. A tracking radar system would be based in the Czech Republic. The system is expected to be in place by 2012.

In exchange for providing the base, Poland would get what the two sides called “enhanced security cooperation,” notably a top-of-the-line Patriot air defense system that can shoot down shorter-range missiles or attacking fighters or bombers.

A senior Pentagon official described an unusual part of this quid pro quo: an American Patriot battery would be moved from Germany to Poland, where it would be operated by a crew of about 100 American military personnel members. The expenses would be shared by both nations. American troops would join the Polish military, at least temporarily, at the front lines — facing east toward Russia.

Russia has long opposed the deal, saying the United States was violating post-cold-war agreements not to base its troops in former Soviet bloc states and devising a Trojan Horse system designed to counter Russia’s nuclear arsenal, not an attack by Iran or another adversary.

Stop-and-start negotiations over the arrangement that was sealed Thursday had been under way for almost two years, with the Polish government reluctant to press the deal in the face of strong opposition — and retaliatory threats — from Moscow.

For its part, Washington had balked at some of Poland’s demands, in particular the sale of advanced air defense systems that were unrelated to shooting down ballistic missiles.

But in a sign of the widening repercussions of the conflict in Georgia, those concerns were cast aside, as the offensive by Russia’s military across its borders was viewed around the world as a sign of Moscow’s determination to reimpose its influence across the old Soviet bloc.

Polish officials, in announcing the agreement, said it would be presented to the National Legislature, although it remained unclear whether the American base would require a vote of approval.

The other half of the American missile defense system in Europe would be an advanced radar in the Czech Republic for tracking specific targets and then precisely guiding an interceptor to destroy a warhead. Likewise, that deal has been signed by the country’s leaders, and is awaiting debate in the Czech Parliament.

At the White House, the press secretary, Dana M. Perino, confirmed that senior officials had initialed the agreement. “In no way is the president’s plan for missile defense aimed at Russia,” she said. “In fact, it’s just not even logically possible for it to be aimed at Russia, given how Russia could overwhelm it. The purpose of missile defense is to protect our European allies from any rogue threats, such as a missile from Iran.”

The Bush administration, in an attempt to prove its sincerity and transparency, had invited Moscow to join as a partner in a continentwide missile defense system, sharing information and technology with NATO allies.

While Russian and American experts have discussed cooperation, senior officials in Moscow have kept up a nonstop stream of complaints about the system.

The agreement also poses potential political problems for Democratic critics of missile defense who would be fighting to cut financing for the program in the face of the specific request from Poland and in light of the Russian offensive into Georgia.

There is no such ambivalence on Russia’s periphery, where Moscow’s attack signaled danger, and offered logic for closer ties with Washington and NATO.

In Poland, the war in Georgia has dominated the front pages of newspapers, where it has been starkly characterized as Russian invaders attacking Georgia. For Poles, Russia’s actions also come as a vindication of Poland’s distrust of its former conqueror and was a warning about issues like energy security, one of the primary areas in which a resurgent Russia first began to exert itself.

“We are worried that we are facing, under the strong arm of Russia, a situation where some kind of understanding would be reached that Russia would be given a free hand in the region,” said Eugeniusz Smolar, director of the Center for International Relations, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group in Warsaw.
433 2008-08-15 Senator John McCain McCain gave a freewheeling performance at the Aspen Institute, where called the situation in the the Caucasus, "the first probably serious crisis internationally since the end of the Cold War."...
434 2008-08-15 Sometimes what appears to be best for every individual is bad for the group. Now is such a time in the banking business, The New York Times's Floyd Norris writes in his latest column....
435 2008-08-15 The new issue of T Magazine, starring cover girl Rachel McAdams, is the surreal deal. From an article on the warped director Luis Buñuel to Gloria Vanderbilt recalling her partying with the Dalís and Stephen Jones telling how he became a total h...
436 2008-08-15 The British oil giant BP suffered another setback Thursday with its troubled Russian joint venture after a Moscow court disqualified the venture's chief executive from holding corporate office in Russia for two years....
437 2008-08-15 The children representing China's diverse ethnicities in the opening ceremony were in fact actors, and not necessarily members of the ethnic groups they were supposed to represent....
438 2008-08-15 A pregnant New York City traffic agent was struck by a van as she crossed a Bronx intersection on Thursday, and her baby boy was delivered by Caesarean section shortly before she died hours later, the authorities said.

The agent, Donnette Sanz, 33, who was on duty, was hit by a 1986 Dodge van at the corner of 188th Street and Webster Avenue shortly before 2 p.m., the police said.

The van pushed Agent Sanz into the path of a school bus, which also struck her, the police said. Paramedics found Agent Sanz, who was seven months pregnant, under the bus.

She was taken to St. Barnabas Hospital at 2:18 p.m., where she underwent a Caesarean section, a hospital spokesman said, and she died about 4:30 p.m.

The baby, who was in critical condition on Thursday night, weighed 3 pounds, 6 ounces, according to the hospital.

The van driver, Walter Walker, 72, was arrested and charged with criminal negligent homicide and aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle. Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner, said in a statement that Agent Sanz “braved the elements” in her job every day.

“Traffic enforcement agents are among the most important and least appreciated public servants,” Commissioner Kelly said.
439 2008-08-15 Expectations were set so low by George Lucas’s lousy trilogy of “Star Wars” prequels that the latest from the Lucasfilm factory, a feature-length digital animation called “Star Wars: The Clone Wars,” comes as something of a surprise: it isn’t the most painful movie of the year!

Set between Episodes II and III, this new “Star Wars” saga (II.5?) completes the franchise’s divorce from photography-based cinema, as well as from any relationship to credible human feeling.

As a mechanical thrill ride, however, “The Clone Wars” has an uncluttered look and furious pace that make it more or less as satisfying as its wildly overdesigned predecessors, although it’s neither as agile nor as well made as the terrific series of short, traditionally animated “Clone Wars” installments shown on the Cartoon Network from 2003 to 2005.

The director, Dave Filoni, has cited “Thunderbirds,” the 1960s British animation series with marionettes, as an inspiration for the, uh, wooden style of his picture, but the stiff, self-important characterizations; corny space-war talk; and overheated militarism kept reminding me of “Team America: World Police.”

No more than a pretext for exploding robots and light-saber duels, the plot concerns the efforts of Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano, his neophyte sidekick, to secure a fragile alliance by retrieving Jabba the Hutt’s baby son from the double-crossing clutches of Count Dooku, blah, blah, blah. Exploding robots!

“Star Wars: The Clone Wars” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for bloodless sci-fi mayhem.

Directed by Dave Filoni; written by Henry Gilroy, Steven Melching and Scott Murphy; animation directors, Jesse Yeh and Kevin Jong; edited by Jason W. A. Tucker; music by Kevin Kiner, with original “Star Wars” themes and scores by John Williams; produced by Catherine Winder; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes.
440 2008-08-15 Martin and Lewis broke up, and so did the Beatles.

And on Thursday, WFAN’s “Mike and the Mad Dog” became just Mike, when Chris Russo left the station abruptly, ending a nearly 19-year partnership with Mike Francesa that had made them perhaps the most formidable duo in sports-talk radio.

Russo’s divorce from the station came in the early evening, leading WFAN to swiftly name Francesa the sole host of the popular afternoon drive-time show, starting immediately. For now, it will be called “Francesa on the FAN.”

Russo’s departure is the second time in little more than a year that one of the station’s stars has left: Don Imus’s long-running show was canceled by CBS, which owns WFAN, after he made racially insensitive remarks about the Rutgers women’s basketball team in April 2007.

Russo and Francesa have had an occasionally fractious personal relationship, but Russo insisted that his decision to leave had nothing to do with the friction.

“The idea that we hate each other and I had to get out, trust me, that’s not true,” Russo said. “I’m 48 years old. It’s time for a change, and I’m looking for a new challenge.”
441 2008-08-15 The new ruling junta in Mauritania named Moulaye Ould Muhammad Laghdaf, a former ambassador to Belgium, as prime minister on Thursday, the state news agency, A.M.I., said. A State Council led by Gen. Muhammad Ould Abdel Aziz, who ousted the democratically elected president, Sidi Mohamed Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, last week, has promised to hold elections as soon as possible.
442 2008-08-15 The new ruling junta in Mauritania named Moulaye Ould Muhammad Laghdaf, a former ambassador to Belgium, as prime minister on Thursday, the state news agency, A.M.I., said. A State Council led by Gen. Muhammad Ould Abdel Aziz, who ousted the democratically elected president, Sidi Mohamed Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, last week, has promised to hold elections as soon as possible.
443 2008-08-15 For his part, Mr. McCain has fielded questions daily, batting back criticism that his tough stance is reminiscent of the language of the cold war. On the other hand, the fluency with which Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, discusses Georgia, citing the history of the region and the number of times he has visited, lends an aura of commander in chief. And as if he already had a cabinet, Mr. McCain said he was dispatching his allies Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, to the region.

To conservatives, particularly the neoconservative set, Mr. McCain’s forceful responses have been welcomed. Conservatives have pointed out that Mr. Obama looks a bit out of touch this time. “I didn’t think that Obama had to do much during his week’s vacation — everyone deserves a break,” wrote Jim Geraghty of National Review Online. “But this week is starting to really turn into a week where you don’t want to be seen golfing.”

Mr. McCain, pressed by reporters, has resisted opportunities to criticize how Mr. Obama has addressed the situation in Georgia.

Mr. Obama’s week has been low-key, a sharp contrast to his high-voltage campaign events. On Thursday, he toured a nature preserve and went body surfing. Beyond that, Mr. Obama has played golf, taken walks on the beach with his daughters, eaten dinner at a few Honolulu restaurants with his wife and friends, and visited almost daily with his grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, whom Mr. Obama calls “tutu,” a Hawaiian term.

He has held only two campaign events, a fund-raiser and a welcoming rally that was quickly added to his schedule. “It would have been devastating to everyone here if he had not done that,” said Kallie Keith-Agaran, an Obama supporter who lives in Maui.

Minimizing public appearances may have provided less fodder for those detractors who have portrayed his vacation spot as elitist or exotic. Last weekend, Cokie Roberts, an ABC News analyst, said, “I know his grandmother lives in Hawaii, and I know Hawaii is a state, but it has the look of him going off to some sort of foreign, exotic place.” Ms. Roberts added, “He should be in Myrtle Beach if he’s going to take a vacation at this time.”

A few months ago, some campaign aides had reportedly discussed a splashier homecoming, including a major speech at the Punchbowl National Cemetery, where Mr. Obama’s maternal grandfather, Stanley Dunham, a World War II veteran, is buried. Instead, Mr. Obama stopped at the grave briefly on Wednesday, carrying a lei.

Bill Burton, an Obama spokesman, defended the trip, saying, “I don’t think anyone can credibly criticize Senator Obama for going back to the place where he was born to visit his grandmother where she happens to live.”

Still, some Hawaii residents and political observers acknowledged that exotic impressions of the islands have become mythology among Americans, making it one of the most unlikely places for a presidential candidate to call home.

Perhaps that is why Mr. Obama has played down his Hawaiian roots, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Obama’s biographical narrative has focused on his mother from Kansas and father from Kenya, and less on his time in Oahu.

“When you’re being accused of being an elitist,” Ms. Jamieson said, “and when people are using code words such as ‘exotic’ in order to describe you and your background, you would not want to locate your biography in Hawaii, if you had a choice.”
444 2008-08-15 A sense of deepened suspicions — and the more darkly drawn lines between countries in the region — were also apparent in the emotional reaction from Russia.

“It is this kind of agreement, not the split between Russia and United States over the problem of South Ossetia, that may have a greater impact on the growth in tensions in Russian-American relations,” Konstantin Kosachyov, chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the Russian Parliament, told the Interfax news agency on Thursday in Moscow.

South Ossetia is the pro-Russian enclave inside Georgia where Russia sent troops last week, following a military crackdown by the pro-Western government in Georgia.

The missile defense deal was announced by Polish officials and confirmed by the White House. Under it, Poland would host an American base with 10 interceptors designed to shoot down a limited number of ballistic missiles, in theory launched by a future adversary such as Iran. A tracking radar system would be based in the Czech Republic. The system is expected to be in place by 2012.

In exchange for providing the base, Poland would get what the two sides called “enhanced security cooperation,” notably a top-of-the-line Patriot air defense system that can shoot down shorter-range missiles or attacking fighters or bombers.

A senior Pentagon official described an unusual part of this quid pro quo: an American Patriot battery would be moved from Germany to Poland, where it would be operated by a crew of about 100 American military personnel members. The expenses would be shared by both nations. American troops would join the Polish military, at least temporarily, at the front lines — facing east toward Russia.

Russia has long opposed the deal, saying the United States was violating post-cold-war agreements not to base its troops in former Soviet bloc states and devising a Trojan Horse system designed to counter Russia’s nuclear arsenal, not an attack by Iran or another adversary.

Stop-and-start negotiations over the arrangement that was sealed Thursday had been under way for almost two years, with the Polish government reluctant to press the deal in the face of strong opposition — and retaliatory threats — from Moscow.

For its part, Washington had balked at some of Poland’s demands, in particular the sale of advanced air defense systems that were unrelated to shooting down ballistic missiles.

But in a sign of the widening repercussions of the conflict in Georgia, those concerns were cast aside, as the offensive by Russia’s military across its borders was viewed around the world as a sign of Moscow’s determination to reimpose its influence across the old Soviet bloc.

Polish officials, in announcing the agreement, said it would be presented to the National Legislature, although it remained unclear whether the American base would require a vote of approval.

The other half of the American missile defense system in Europe would be an advanced radar in the Czech Republic for tracking specific targets and then precisely guiding an interceptor to destroy a warhead. Likewise, that deal has been signed by the country’s leaders, and is awaiting debate in the Czech Parliament.

At the White House, the press secretary, Dana M. Perino, confirmed that senior officials had initialed the agreement. “In no way is the president’s plan for missile defense aimed at Russia,” she said. “In fact, it’s just not even logically possible for it to be aimed at Russia, given how Russia could overwhelm it. The purpose of missile defense is to protect our European allies from any rogue threats, such as a missile from Iran.”

The Bush administration, in an attempt to prove its sincerity and transparency, had invited Moscow to join as a partner in a continentwide missile defense system, sharing information and technology with NATO allies.

While Russian and American experts have discussed cooperation, senior officials in Moscow have kept up a nonstop stream of complaints about the system.

The agreement also poses potential political problems for Democratic critics of missile defense who would be fighting to cut financing for the program in the face of the specific request from Poland and in light of the Russian offensive into Georgia.

There is no such ambivalence on Russia’s periphery, where Moscow’s attack signaled danger, and offered logic for closer ties with Washington and NATO.

In Poland, the war in Georgia has dominated the front pages of newspapers, where it has been starkly characterized as Russian invaders attacking Georgia. For Poles, Russia’s actions also come as a vindication of Poland’s distrust of its former conqueror and was a warning about issues like energy security, one of the primary areas in which a resurgent Russia first began to exert itself.

“We are worried that we are facing, under the strong arm of Russia, a situation where some kind of understanding would be reached that Russia would be given a free hand in the region,” said Eugeniusz Smolar, director of the Center for International Relations, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group in Warsaw.
445 2008-08-15 Henry B. R. Brown, who was a struggling financial consultant in 1969 when he and a partner, Bruce R. Bent, came up with an idea — the money-market mutual fund — that spawned a $3.5 trillion industry, died on Monday in Leesburg, Va., where he lived on a farm that has been in his family for 200 years. He was 82.

The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, his son Peter said.

Money-market mutual funds let small investors open what amounted to high-yield savings accounts with mutual fund companies rather than banks.

Until the 1970s, because of a Depression-era law known as Regulation Q that served as a kind of life preserver for banks, the Federal Reserve limited the rates banks could pay on savings accounts; they could then lend out the money at higher rates.

Mr. Brown and Mr. Bent observed that it was possible for investors to get higher returns on certificates of deposit or commercial paper, but only if they could afford the six-figure sums it cost to buy into the higher-yielding instruments. Their solution was a mutual fund that essentially allowed many small investors to pool resources and share in the higher returns.

“I was sitting at my desk in August 1969, and I looked up at Brown and said, ‘Why not a mutual fund?’ ” Mr. Bent recalled for Fortune magazine in 1999. “He said he didn’t know anything about mutual funds. I said, ‘I don’t know anything about mutual funds either, but I think it would work.’ ”
446 2008-08-15 It should be noted that this concept of tiny, towable campers is not new. The Teardrop trailer, a 750-pound unit that stretched less then nine feet in length and featured a svelte, curving shape to match its name, has attracted a loyal following since its introduction back in the 1930s. Camp-Inn of Necedah, Wis.; Little Guy Worldwide of Canton, Ohio; and SoCal Teardrops of Ontario, Calif., still manufacture trailers based on the original designs today, as do a smattering of small custom builders. One of them, Jack Schonfeld of Pineville, La., also moderates a Web site called “Teardrops and Tiny Travel Trailers,” www.mikenchell.com/forums, on which aficionados share construction plans and advice.

In the first half of 2008, the site’s membership has nearly doubled, from 4,000 to 7,000 members, Mr. Schonfeld said in an e-mail message. “The growth has been phenomenal this year,” he wrote, “and I attribute that to rising gas prices and folks wanting to downsize their camping activities.” Two annual summer events for Teardrop enthusiasts — in Northern California’s redwood country and in Virginia — are both sold out this year, with about 300 attendees coming to each from all over North America. Mr. Schonfeld anticipates that his own event, held outside Shreveport, La., in late October, will also sell out for the second consecutive year.

A number of other firms are competing to build their own such ultralight brands. In 2006, Airstream introduced the BaseCamp, a lightweight tent-trailer hybrid feathery enough to be pulled by most any conventional vehicle. The trailer is at once throwback — its design pays homage to the company’s founder, Wally Byam — and futuristic. With its swooping profile and wraparound smoked windows, it looks like an iPod on wheels. Airstream specifically marketed it to the ecology-minded outdoors set, billing it a “toy trailer.”

Dutchman Manufacturing, an R.V. maker, unveiled the T@B, a teardrop-styled lightweight trailer in 2003. The Sidekick and Hyper Lite are among other competitors in the towable-camper arena. The single-celled organism of the mobile-camper concept is the Sportz tent, which wraps around the cargo area of minivans, pickups and sports-utility vehicles — transforming that space into a sleeping area or tent-accessible storage. The 10-by-10-foot tent can be fully converted into a stand-alone shelter outfitted with three mesh windows and two skylights. And because the vehicle is essentially an extension of the tent — or vice versa, depending on your perspective — campers can still plug in a DVD player on rainy nights.

THE new model, the Sportz SUV 83000, adds a fully detachable 7-foot-by-6-foot floorless room to the previous footprint. “It’s been a huge success so far,” said Katie Gordon, marketing coordinator for the manufacturer, Napier Enterprises of Ontario. “It’s been very hard for us to keep it in stock.”

The company has sold “a couple thousand” units since its February launch, for obvious reasons, she said. Because of fuel prices, “people aren’t going on airplanes, they aren’t going long distances, but they still want to take a vacation, so they’re doing more camping closer to home.” Ms. Gordon said even traditional R.V. owners have bought them for close-to-home weekend use.

A number of traditional R.V. manufacturers are taking notice of the trend, creating smaller, sleeker motor homes that cost less and travel lighter across the land. In 2006 Winnebago released the View, a 23-foot unit featuring a new lightweight chassis developed by Dodge that managed 16 to 19 miles per gallon. This year, Winnebago added the Era, which Mr. Kennison, the analyst, described as “almost a souped-up soccer-mom minivan.” Fleetwood followed suit this year with several smaller models, giving the movement a greater foothold. “I would think R.V. makers will continue to find ways to improve fuel economy,” said Kevin Broom, director of media relations for the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association.

But the View and its ilk still wouldn’t interest the likes of Mr. Endter, an outdoor-loving owner of the SylvanSport Go who would stay home rather than buy an R.V.

In transport mode, the low-profile, high-capacity Go can carry up to 800 pounds of gear. It features 24 feet of waterproof storage; Mr. Endter stores the family’s stuff in a half-dozen giant Rubbermaid bins. The Go accommodates his Thule rack, which carries their four bikes. And it features 13 inches of ground clearance and high-flotation tires, which enables off-road travel. (At home, the trailer can handle full sheets of plywood and other unwieldy home-improvement type supplies much like a full-size pickup.)

At the campground the Go shifts into camping mode, deploying a hard-roofed Kelty tent system that accommodates four. There are multiple sleeping configurations with custom self-inflating mattresses from Pacific Outdoor Equipment; the bed panels can be reconfigured as tables at mealtimes.

The set-up is intuitive, and nearly any four-cylinder car or hybrid outfitted with a bumper hitch can pull it — even Civics and Mini Coopers, said its creator, Thomas Dempsey of Cedar Mountain, N.C., president of SylvanSport.

The Go, with a suggested price of $7,995, offers a redemption of sorts for Mr. Dempsey, 44. Nearly 20 years ago, he designed a pop-up trailer for Coleman. But, he said, “I was not an R.V. person. I was lucky to have a sleeping bag when I was out in the woods, so I never understood that R.V. mentality.” It bothered Mr. Dempsey that the camper “sat in the yard for 11 and a half months of the year and couldn’t do anything but be a pop-up camper.”

He later began a career as an entrepreneur, founding Liquidlogic Kayaks and eventually SylvanSport, in 2004. “Making kayaks and being involved in the outdoor industry, I realized that outdoors people and R.V. people are different, and rarely did their paths cross,” Mr. Dempsey said. With the Go, he set out to create another piece of outdoor gear.

SylvanSport introduced the product at the 2007 Outdoor Retailer show and is marketing the trailer primarily at outdoors stores such as L. L. Bean. Mr. Dempsey is perhaps the first such manufacturer to reject any association with the motor home business. “The R.V. industry has not kept up with the times at all,” Mr. Dempsey said. “The traditional pop-up camper is similar to what it was when it was introduced 30 years ago. Today’s young, active families — the R.V. industry doesn’t appeal to them.”

Indeed, for others who have yet to innovate, times ahead could be tough. When Reticle Partners purchased Columbia Northwest last year, the new owners opted for only a light revision of the Aliner line of lightweight campers, created in the 1980s. The T.R.E. line (an acronym for Travel, Rumble, Explore), introduced in January, offered just a few cosmetic alterations to the Cabin A series. The smallest of the bunch, the Amelia, is one of the few ultralight campers with a bathroom, but it still weighs in at 1,850 pounds, more than twice the weight of the Go.

Melanie Spires, Columbia Northwest’s marketing and sales coordinator, essentially conceded that the T.R.E. has yet to catch fire with consumers. “A majority of people are waiting to see where the market’s headed,” she said. “They know the economy’s tough, and they’re protective of the dollars they do have.”
447 2008-08-15 Burress will also be focused on overcoming his new shoes. Apparently, they make his feet hurt.

After Burress put it off for months, his shoes were fitted with orthotics during the off-season to help correct what he called his “extremely flat feet.” Burress said that after he hurt his right ankle at the beginning of the summer — the injury was different from the one he carried through last season’s playoffs — he felt it was time to try the orthotics.

“My feet are not in the same position that they’ve been in for the first 30 years of my life,” Burress said of the shoes. “So it’s kind of putting them in a new position, and they’re not comfortable with it. They’re getting sore. But I think I’ll be all right.”

There were no obvious changes to his gait as he jogged through the first half of Thursday afternoon’s practice before joining the other walking wounded in the Giants’ receiving corps on the sideline. Along with Burress, Amani Toomer, Steve Smith and the third-round draft pick Mario Manningham have all missed significant time during training camp with injuries.

It had been speculated that there was more than a sore ankle keeping Burress off the field. He skipped the minicamp in June because he was unhappy with his contract — he signed a six-year, $25 million deal in 2005. But Burress has tried repeatedly to dispel the speculation.

“Those things are going to take care of itself,” he said, adding that if he were still displeased, “then I wouldn’t be out there.”

In addition to his light workouts, Burress’s ankle is treated two or three times a day to reduce soreness and swelling. Still, it will not be enough to enable him to play in any of the team’s three remaining exhibition games, beginning with one against the Cleveland Browns at Giants Stadium on Monday night.

“I don’t think going out and playing in one or two preseason games is going to be that much of a factor or if it’s going to hinder me from doing anything or performing on opening night,” Burress said. “For me it’s just all about being healthy. I’m not worried about me being in shape or running and catching a football — that’s just what I do.”

For at least three more games then, he will be wearing the visor instead of a helmet. Fashionably askew, of course.

Federal investigators have charged a Philadelphia man for mailing threatening letters in an attempt to blackmail Coach Tom Coughlin. Herbert Alex Simpson, 30, is accused of saying in two letters to Coughlin that he would expose a fictitious sexual tryst between Coughlin and two women and make Coughlin’s life “a living hell” unless he paid him $20,000 to $30,000, according to court documents filed Thursday. According to a sworn affidavit by Todd Berry, the F.B.I. special agent who investigated the case, Simpson confessed to sending the letters and making up the tryst because “he was seeking revenge” against a pair of female co-workers. ... Offensive tackle Shane Olivea, who was recovering from addiction to painkillers and signed a one-year deal with the Giants in the off-season, was placed on the injured reserve list. He injured his back Aug. 3 and has yet to make a full recovery.
448 2008-08-15 Armed with only anecdotes, diaries and an unexpected gift for mimicry, Malcolm McDowell is thoroughly engaging in “Never Apologize: A Personal Visit With Lindsay Anderson.”

Whether attacking British bureaucracy in “Britannia Hospital” or television evangelism in “Glory! Glory!,” Mr. Anderson was a director who rarely pulled punches. The success of his 1969 Palme d’Or winner “If ...” — which elevated the English school picture to apocalyptic levels of bleakness — boosted Mr. McDowell, as its rebellious star, to international acclaim, and the actor pays tribute here with gossipy fondness. He and Mr. Anderson (who died in 1994) made three subsequent films together, but none would resonate as widely as that first collaboration, a tale that, in the director’s words, “stuck a knife at the heart of the establishment” — arguably his favorite diversion.

Devised to commemorate the 10th anniversary of Mr. Anderson’s death (and originally performed onstage at the 2004 Edinburgh Festival), “Never Apologize” reveals its subject as a self-described dissident who valued risk and railed against the artistic timidity of his peers. Stamping his prickly personality and biting wit on film and correspondence alike, he could turn a sly apology letter to the actor Alan Bates into an eloquent rant against conformity, and weigh the respective virtues of Bette Davis and Lillian Gish with an insight few critics have matched.

As raconteur, Mr. McDowell breaks out an array of celebrity impressions, including a splendidly confused John Gielgud during the filming of “Caligula.” (“Please tell me: are they pubescent or shaved?”) But the documentary’s strongest moments are also its most touching, like Mr. Anderson’s poignant encounter with his idol John Ford and his powerful crush on Richard Harris, the star of his first feature, “This Sporting Life.”

Diary entries reveal startling insecurities, and Mr. McDowell reads them with emotion but without sentimentality. In other words, exactly as his friend would have wished.

Directed by Mike Kaplan; conceived by Malcolm McDowell; directors of photography, Matt Walla, Jesse Hagy, John Paul Meyer and Christoph Faubert; edited by Eric Foster and Kate Johnson; produced by Mr. Kaplan and Mr. McDowell; released by Double M Productions, Travis Productions and Circle Associates. At the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes. This film is not rated.
449 2008-08-15 That vow not to lend where the money is needed the most came a few days after Fannie Mae announced a strategy of selling foreclosed properties as rapidly as possible, and of trying to force banks to share some of its losses.

Daniel H. Mudd, Fannie’s chief executive, told investors that Fannie was “using a lot of innovative ways to get the property out the door.” This is not, he said, a good time to be holding on to foreclosed properties “and hoping for a better day.”

I’m not sure what those “innovative ways” were, but I suspect they involved price cutting. RadarLogic, a firm that monitors home sales, tries to separate out what it calls “motivated sales,” chiefly by looking at whether a bank or foreclosure service firm is the seller. It says that in hard-hit markets like Miami and Las Vegas, the motivated sale prices are about 25 percent lower than other sale prices.

Fannie and Freddie are trying to earn their way out of this mess by jacking up the fees they charge to banks for buying or guaranteeing loans. Their expected profit margin on new business is at the highest level in years, and borrowers who can get loans are paying higher rates as a result.

Fannie also vows to force banks to buy back defaulted loans if there is evidence of fraud or violations of procedures. Mr. Mudd said such recoveries were up fivefold, and he expected them to keep rising. Fannie also will stop buying so-called Alt-A loans, which are credit-score driven. Freddie says its portfolio of loans will not grow this year.

It is easy to understand why this is happening. A year ago, when Mr. Mudd had a similar conference call with investors, the mortgage crisis was just starting to mushroom, and he conceded Fannie would be hurt.

But he had no idea how much hurt there would be. “We fundamentally held our standards,” he said. Fannie lost market share in the wild days, but the loans it did make “remained Fannie Mae quality loans. So we feel pretty good about that.”

Those good feelings are gone. Fannie measures its credit losses in basis points — hundredths of a percentage point — of outstanding mortgages. A year ago, Mr. Mudd forecast an annual loss rate of 4 to 6 basis points, and scoffed when one questioner suggested the rate might rise to twice that level.

Fannie’s latest forecast for 2008, raised last week, is 23 to 26 basis points.

Foreclosures are soaring. In 2006, Fannie and Freddie between them acquired 52,967 properties, a figure that leaped 36 percent, to 71,961, in 2007. During the first half of this year, there were 66,420 foreclosures by Fannie and Freddie.

Not only are there more foreclosures, the losses are much larger. In 2005, Fannie lost an average of 7 percent of the unpaid principal when it sold a foreclosed property. So far this year, the figure is 26 percent, and in California it is up to 40 percent. In all of 2006, Fannie foreclosed on 93 California homes. The current rate is almost 1,000 a month.

In the year since Mr. Mudd claimed Fannie had held its standards high, both Fannie and Freddie shares have lost nearly 90 percent of their value. Freddie says it plans to raise $5.5 billion in new capital. With a current market capitalization of under $4 billion, that may not be easy.

Each bank is acting rationally. Financial institutions need to conserve capital, so they raise prices, tighten standards and sell foreclosed properties quickly. But when all do those reasonable things — which should have been done years ago — they deepen the crisis for homeowners, and for themselves.
450 2008-08-15 Pacman Jones, the suspended Dallas Cowboys cornerback, said Thursday he had sent a letter to N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell asking to be allowed to play this season.

“I think it should be successful, I did everything he asked me to do,” Jones said of the one-and-a-half page letter he typed on a laptop computer and sent Wednesday.

Though Jones was allowed to play in preseason games, the Cowboys did not know when and if he would be reinstated for the regular season. Goodell had said only that a decision would come before the regular season.

“As part of the reinstatement review, he was given an opportunity to submit any relevant information he would like to provide,” the N.F.L. spokesman Greg Aiello said in an e-mail message. “He was asked to do that by this Friday, if he chose to do so.”

The league also wanted an update from Jones on what he was doing to stay out of trouble.

Since his trade from the Tennessee Titans in the spring, Jones has participated in the Cowboys’ player development program and tried to surround himself with better people. He has also pledged to donate school uniforms to grade-schoolers in Dallas.
451 2008-08-15 WASHINGTON — The former top lawyer at Apple Inc. on Thursday agreed to pay $2.2 million to settle federal regulators’ charges that she altered company records to conceal improper backdating of stock options for senior managers, including the chief executive, Steven P. Jobs.

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced the settlement with the former Apple general counsel, Nancy Heinen, whose civil trial in the case had been scheduled for next year. Ms. Heinen neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing in settling the lawsuit, which was filed last year in federal court in San Jose, Calif.

She did agree to a five-year ban against serving as an officer or director of any public company, and to refrain from future violations of the securities laws. Under a separate administrative proceeding at the S.E.C., she also consented to a three-year suspension from practicing as a lawyer for a public company.

Ms. Heinen is paying nearly $1.6 million in restitution, plus $400,219 in interest and a civil fine of $200,000.

“I cherish the great people I worked with at Apple, and I am proud of my contributions to its historic turnaround and current success,” Ms. Heinen said, adding that with the lawsuit settled she will now move on to addressing “greater challenges.”

Hundreds of companies have been investigated by the S.E.C. and federal prosecutors over stock options backdating, but Apple was the most prominent one to be scrutinized for possible criminal violations. The criminal inquiry ended in July, after the specter of a possible indictment hung over the company for more than a year.
452 2008-08-15 PARIS — The British oil giant, BP, suffered another setback Thursday with its troubled Russian joint venture after a Moscow court disqualified the venture’s chief executive from holding corporate office in Russia for two years.

The chief executive, Robert Dudley, was denied a Russian work visa last month and has been for some weeks in an undisclosed location outside of Russia from which he continues to operate as chief executive. On Thursday, a Russian labor court ruled that he could not work in Russia for two years.

“We’re very disappointed with this decision; however, Robert Dudley remains chief executive pending completion of an appeal process,” a BP spokesman, Toby Odone, said. “Robert Dudley has BP’s full support. We believe this is clearly a further example of an administrative action orchestrated by the other shareholders of TNK-BP.”

BP has been locked in a struggle with its four Russian partners, all billionaires, who are seeking to obtain a majority stake in the venture, in which BP holds 50 percent. The Russian side of the venture is a consortium called AAR, which consists of Viktor Vekselberg; Mikhail Fridman; German Khan; and Leonid Blavatnik.

An AAR spokesman said: “AAR shareholders and senior Russian executives inside TNK-BP had repeatedly raised concerns with Robert Dudley and BP regarding the company’s failure to adhere to Russian laws, including labor regulations. But our warnings were not taken seriously. This court decision shows we were right to be worried.”
453 2008-08-15 Doctors have told her family it is unlikely she will ever walk again.

During an interview in her hospital room on Wednesday, Liu was teary-eyed and said she was in disbelief about the accident.

“I never imagined I could suffer such a tragedy,” she said.

The organizers of the opening ceremony initially asked witnesses and friends not to disclose the accident ahead of the Olympic Games on Aug. 8, according to people who have visited Liu in the hospital.

But earlier this week, after inquiries from several newspapers, members of the Beijing Olympic Committee visited Liu and announced that they would soon hold a news conference.

For the most part, the Chinese state-run news media have not reported the accident, although Peoples Daily, the Communist Party’s official organ, mentioned it in a small article on Tuesday.

Zhang Yimou, the show’s artistic director and one of the country’s leading film directors, expressed deep sadness following a visit with Liu’s on Monday.

“I feel sorry for Liu Yan, my heart is full of regrets,” he said in an interview. “I’m deeply sorry. Liu Yan is a heroine. She sacrificed a lot for the Olympics, for me, for the opening ceremony.”

In an earlier interview with the Chinese media, after his artistic direction of the opening ceremony won high praise from around the world, Zhang said he was pleased with the show but added that there were some serious problems in rehearsals for a show that involved more than 15,000 performers.

“I regret many things, many details of this performance, many things I could have done better,” he said. “For example, there are performers who were injured. I blame myself for that. It might well have been avoided if I had given more detailed instructions.”

Following the accident, Liu’s parents flew to Beijing from their home in northern China’s Inner Mongolia region. Her husband and friends were seeking a specialist to help determine whether she can regain her ability to walk.

Liu, a graduate of the prestigious Beijing Dance Academy, was widely considered one of the country’s leading classical dancers. Dance experts call her movements incredibly fluid, and say her beauty radiates on the stage. Over the years, some of her performances have also been popular on YouTube.

She has won most of the nation’s top dance and drama awards, including the Lotus Cup.

She also performed last year at the country’s New Year’s Eve Gala, which is televised nationally every year and draws some of the country’s most famous singers, dancers and actors.

Liu, who recently married, is the only child of a judge and a doctor and grew up in northern China. She entered the middle school of the Beijing Dance Academy at age 11.

Her planned performance in the opening ceremony, The Silk Road, was the only solo dance in a show that was rich in traditional imagery and synchronized performances. Another dancer took her place.

Liu said it was a dream that she could be chosen for such a role. But Wednesday, she said she was hoping for a miracle, so that she might some day walk again.

“I hope one day I can just stand up like a normal person,” she said wiping away tears.
454 2008-08-15 ENTICING SLOGANS The explosive growth in home equity loans has been a boon for banks, but many experts say the ad campaigns encouraged Americans to go deeper into debt.      INFLATION RISES Prices of consumer products were 5.6 percent higher last ...
455 2008-08-15 FISSELL--Frederica Kane, of Bedford, NY on August 9, 2008 at age 73. Rica was born in New York City to Frederick and Geraldine McGovern Kane, and was sister to Barbara Curran, Patricia FlachMittman, and Robert Kane. Rica was the loving wife of 48 ...
456 2008-08-15 This eclectic concert, on Friday at Lincoln Center, includes the vocal group Beata Viscera as well as an ensemble of 200 electric guitars. Manuel Göttsching, above, will close the show with the United States premiere of his 1981 electronic work '...
457 2008-08-16 The previous post, on stealing a company, brought a claim that is common, but incorrect: that a major company used to be a penny stock. In this case, the claim was made for Intel. Intel went public in 1971 at $23.50 per share. I don't have complet...
458 2008-08-16 The presidential candidates briefly shared a stage at a megachurch in California, and faced individual hourlong sessions with questions posed by the Rev. Rick Warren....
459 2008-08-16 This year, the Quail event celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Porsche 959....
460 2008-08-16 Perhaps no place can relate more to Georgia's disenchantment with their Western allies than the former Soviet republics in the Baltics.
461 2008-08-16 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
462 2008-08-16 Bangkok is a city that promotes itself as a shopper's paradise....
463 2008-08-16 The conventional wisdom is: ride with the ups and downs in the market and all will work out in the end. But retirement is the proverbial end.

Look at it this way. Since Nov. 28, 1980, there have been five bear markets, if we count the current downturn. Yet the market has managed to return an average of 8.62 percent to investors annually, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index as of Aug. 1. If you include dividends, the S.& P. 500 has yielded an 11.38 percent return on an annualized basis.

But financial markets do not travel in straight lines. If you happen to retire when those lines are pointing downward, you may have to make some sacrifices. And yes, that may involve working longer or spending less.

“It’s all about trade-offs,” said Christine Fahlund, senior financial planner at T. Rowe Price. “There is no perfect solution.”

Take a 65-year-old investor who retires with a $500,000 portfolio, with 55 percent invested in stocks and 45 percent in bonds. She withdraws 4 percent of her portfolio (or $20,000) in the first year and increases the amount she withdraws by 3 percent each year to keep pace with inflation ($20,600 in the second year, $21,218 in the third year, and so on).

If she follows this schedule, she has an 89 percent chance of having enough money to sustain her for 30 years, according to a T. Rowe Price analysis involving 10,000 simulated market situations.

But a bear market could throw everything off. The picture becomes rather grim if the portfolio earns 5 percent or less on an annualized basis in the first five years after retirement and the investor continues to make the same withdrawals. Suddenly, that 89 percent chance of having enough money shrinks to as low as 43 percent for the remaining 25 years of retirement, according to T. Rowe Price.

Fortunately, you can soften the blows of retiring in a slumping market. Here are some ways to help make sure your savings last as long as you do:

WORK LONGER AND SPEND LESS This may sound obvious, and somewhat depressing, but working just a few years longer can make a big difference.

Besides, it does not have to be entirely unpleasant. Maybe you could continue to work a bit longer but start taking the trips you planned for retirement: say, keep your job, but go to Maui. Or perhaps you could work part time and earn enough to cover the amount you would have drawn from your retirement portfolio. At least you are not dipping into your savings while they are down.

Thomas S. Rogers, a certified financial planner and co-owner of the Portland Financial Planning Group in Portland, Me., said he had one client who had planned to retire in July, just as the S.& P. 500 index entered bear territory. Mr. Rogers said he determined that his client, with $1.4 million in savings, could afford to retire. But the client was having trouble selling his condominium and decided to work a bit longer.

“Psychologically, people find it hard to retire when the market is down 20 percent,” Mr. Rogers said.

EASE UP ON WITHDRAWALS One of the most practical alternatives, planners say, is to skip the annual adjustments for inflation and keep the withdrawal amounts steady. “That’s a self-imposed discipline that retirees would be wise to adhere to,” said Ian Weinberg, a certified financial planner in Woodbury, N.Y.

To get a better idea of how much you can afford to withdraw, you can test different amounts with a retirement income calculator on the Web, like T. Rowe Price’s.

FIND YOUR RISK TOLERANCE If the latest market dive tempted you to make major changes to your portfolio, it is time for a gut check. This goes for everyone, whether you’re on the cusp of retirement or you already consider golf your full-time occupation.

“You want to figure out what is the right portfolio mix for you and to also understand, or have a realistic sense, of how bumpy the risk is likely to be,” said Hersh Shefrin, a professor of behavioral finance at Santa Clara University in California. It may make sense, for instance, to reduce the stock portion of your portfolio and possibly invest more in bonds or cash.

Just remember that you can also invest too conservatively. Putting all your money into bonds is not a good idea, either, as stock returns will help the portfolio keep pace with inflation. A reputable adviser can help strike the right balance.

DIVERSIFY At this stage in your life, you should already have a diversified portfolio. It is one of the most important factors in generating more consistent returns and cushioning against sharp declines.

It is hard to generalize what stock-bond-cash split new retirees should have because it depends on their age, tolerance for risk and other individual factors. But investors also need to diversify carefully within those major asset classes.

“It’s not sufficient to say that ‘I’m well diversified because I’m 60-30-10 in stocks, bonds and cash,’” said John Nersesian, managing director for wealth management services at Nuveen Investments. He said that within stock funds, for instance, that money should be divided among “large cap and small cap, growth and value, domestic and international.”

And naturally, as retirement approaches, your mix of investments should gradually become more conservative. You should review your long-term asset allocation plan every 12 to 24 months, mainly to see whether you misjudged your risk tolerance or whether you need money for unforeseen circumstances, said Holly Isdale, head of the wealth advisory group at Lehman Brothers.

Some investors would rather leave this to professionals, whether a financial planner or a target-date retirement fund, whose investment mix gradually becomes more conservative as the retirement date nears. The strategies and fees of target-date funds vary from company to company, so be sure to do a side-by-side comparison.

REBALANCE When markets are volatile, your original asset allocation may be thrown off kilter. Investors should rebalance their portfolios once a year. That means selling positions that have done well and putting that money into areas that have fallen out of favor.

“Rebalancing forces us to do what is emotionally uncomfortable, but financially productive,” Mr. Nersesian of Nuveen said. “The natural thing to do is to add to areas that are doing really well,” when we should be doing the opposite.

“That will ultimately lead to a more consistent return,” he said, “which is the key to a more successful retirement experience.”
464 2008-08-16 The anyone-can-make-a-documentary epidemic continues with “Roughing It: Mongolia,” a half-hour travelogue that would be better if it had more Mongols and less gee-whiz accompaniment.

The film, on Saturday on NYC TV, is the work of Keith Ochwat and Christopher Rufo, recent college graduates who find some fascinating material but make the mistake of thinking that they are as interesting as the people they are documenting.

The whole premise here is “Look at me, I’m in Mongolia!” — the “me” being Mr. Ochwat, the on-air half of the team. His chatter is more irksome than entertaining; there is something annoying, or even offensive, about Westerners who inject themselves into exotic places and cultures and then proceed to mug for their own camera.

“I’m at a Mongolian wedding,” Mr. Ochwat says in a typical scene, “and I’m having a great time.” Good for you; now shut up and put some Mongols on the screen.

It’s too bad that the filmmakers didn’t take a less self-involved approach, because they have a good eye for the unusual. A look at throat singers, with their distinctive musical sound, seems as if it is headed in an enlightening direction, but then Mr. Ochwat decides that what we viewers will really, really be interested in is his own grating attempts to master the technique. How did throat-singing develop? On what occasions is the art employed? We’ll never know.

Similarly with the main set piece, as it were: the filmmakers go to some lengths to track down a small group of nomadic reindeer herders, and once they do, they treat us to a funny shot of Mr. Ochwat (thanks, apparently, to some well-placed salt) being licked by the animals. But they don’t tell us how or why reindeer are herded in the first place.

So, boys, if “Roughing It” develops into a series, next time a little less you, please. And one other thing. About that title? Driving around in Mongolia, or anyplace else, in an S.U.V. isn’t “roughing it.”
465 2008-08-16 Less than 24 hours after the City Council approved a bill downgrading the qualification requirements for buildings commissioner, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Friday that he intended to appoint Robert D. LiMandri to the post.

The mayor said that Mr. LiMandri, a 19-year veteran of the real estate industry and the acting buildings commissioner since April, would modernize the department, oversee an expanded cadre of inspectors and crack down on safety violations plaguing the city’s construction sites.

“Bob LiMandri is innovative, tough, and without any doubt, the most qualified person to lead the New York City Department of Buildings into a new era,” Mr. Bloomberg said.

The mayor will formally appoint Mr. LiMandri after he signs the bill changing the requirements for the job. But professional societies of architects and engineers bitterly opposed the dilution of qualifications and may yet bring a suit to block the changes.

“We regret that an issue regarding public safety was treated in such a cavalier fashion,” said Fredric Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects.

Since 1968, city law has required that the buildings commissioner be a licensed architect or engineer. But Mayor Bloomberg insisted that he needed more flexibility to find someone who was both a talented manager and familiar with technical issues.

The new legislation requires that either the commissioner or first deputy commissioner be licensed. Mr. LiMandri has an engineering degree but no license.
466 2008-08-16 Mr. McCain, reflecting the Republican Party’s philosophical aversion to regulating business, would be more cautious about new regulation. But he would take a more aggressive approach to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants at the center of the current crisis, by proposing that they be nationalized, downsized and eventually sold.

Mr. Obama, the likely Democratic nominee, has outlined six “principles” suggesting a more comprehensive overhaul than a President McCain would seek. The Democrat has suggested that he would regulate investment banks, mortgage brokers and hedge funds much as commercial banks are. And he would streamline the overlapping regulatory agencies and create a commission to monitor threats to the financial system and report to the White House and Congress.

The Democratic candidate has said little about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two publicly traded but government-sponsored enterprises whose government lifeline had to be strengthened last month when the slide in their stock value threatened a financial contagion. Both are favorites with Democrats, given the firms’ charge not only to benefit shareholders but to underwrite more affordable housing for lower-income Americans.

Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican nominee, has long been a skeptic about Fannie and Freddie along with many Republicans, and seized on their recent rescue, after first lauding it, to call for drastic action. He would nationalize both firms, which together own or guarantee nearly half of the more than $10 trillion in mortgages, and break them into pieces to be sold off to the private sector, shorn of the implicit guarantees of government backing they have long enjoyed.

Whatever the candidates’ differences, the recent unprecedented interventions in the marketplace by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and by a Fed led by a former Bush economic adviser, Ben S. Bernanke, suggest that the imperative to act transcends party lines. Mr. Paulson, who engineered the forced fire-sale of Bear Stearns in March and then the Fannie-Freddie rescue in July, has proposed his own blueprint for redrawing the financial regulation system.

Translating the debate into policy will not be easy, given the trillions of dollars at stake globally. Mr. Goldschmid recalls walking through the Capitol in recent years for meetings on securities legislation, and seeing hallways crammed with lobbyists for “perhaps a football field in length in every direction,” all seeking to block changes in the status quo or increase deregulation. Now, he adds, “I just don’t think you’re going to be able to hold back healthy change.”

But there are prominent voices for caution in the months before a new administration. “It is unwise and probably unnecessary to set new regulatory standards before markets settle down,” Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, said in an interview. “There is no rush. Current lending is already more cautious than any regulatory proposal I have seen.”

He believes housing prices, which are a key to the health of financial institutions and the economy generally, are not likely to bottom out until well into 2009.

“The real danger here,” he added, “is that there is going to be efforts to put legislation through too soon.”

But Mr. Greenspan, an ardent free-marketer, does not carry the clout he long did, as many have come to blame him for helping create a housing bubble — by holding interest rates too low for too long — and for letting the Fed’s regulatory powers atrophy.

Mr. Greenspan defends the Fed’s record under his chairmanship and warns against proposals that would give it full authority over the financial system. He insists financial crises are inevitable parts of history’s “cycles of euphoria and abrupt fear.” He says the one area for government expansion, which could avert some future crises, is law enforcement’s antifraud efforts.

While neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. McCain has blamed Mr. Greenspan, they seem more willing than he is to accept government oversight as a solution.

Mr. McCain’s most expansive comments on the housing crisis date to a speech last March, and echo Mr. Obama’s own bottom line. Government assistance should be provided only to prevent “systemic risk” to the financial system and economy, Mr. McCain said. But “when we commit taxpayer dollars as assistance, it should be accompanied by reforms that ensure that we never face this problem again” — making financial firms more transparent and accountable.

The Republican says he would convene two meetings, one of accounting professionals to help banks and investors assess the battered values of their mortgages and other assets, and another of top mortgage lenders, to extract their pledges to help credit-worthy customers keep their homes or businesses.

More recently, Mr. McCain chose The St. Petersburg Times in Florida — a state hard-hit by home foreclosures and critical in the election — to criticize Fannie’s and Freddie’s excesses as “a tribute to crony capitalism that reflects the power of the Washington establishment.”

With July’s federal life preserver, both have access to an open-ended line of credit or equity investment from the Treasury. As housing prices continue to decline and the two companies’ losses mount, a growing number of experts think the Treasury will ultimately have to bail them out.

Mr. McCain, acknowledging they are too big to let fail, said that if either firm ends up getting a dime of taxpayer money, their management and board should be fired, big salaries slashed and lobbyists let go. And as president, he wrote, “I will get real regulation that limits their ability to borrow, shrinks their size until they are no longer a threat to our economy, and privatizes and eliminates their links to the government.”

That proposal to nationalize, downsize, then privatize parallels Mr. Greenspan’s views, though the former Fed chairman says he has not advised either candidate, and will not. But another prominent Republican economist, who asked to remain anonymous to avoid antagonizing the McCain campaign, said: “There isn’t a good way to break them up. They have big portfolios” of mortgages “and if you sold them off anytime soon you would further deflate prices in housing, with all kinds of bad consequences.”

Mr. McCain relies on his chief domestic policy adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former Congressional Budget Office director and Bush White House adviser. But associates say the senator still dials up former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who forfeited his title of campaign co-chairman after a controversy over his remarks that the United States is “a nation of whiners” and is merely in “a mental recession.”

Current and former advisers say they still consider Mr. Gramm, now UBS investment bank vice chairman, a top prospect for treasury secretary in a McCain administration. While Mr. Obama’s chief economic advisers are his policy director, Jason Furman, a Clinton White House veteran, and Austan D. Goolsbee, an economics professor at the University of Chicago, Mr. Obama’s touchstones for financial regulation issues include former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker and other Clinton Treasury veterans including former Secretaries Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, and Daniel K. Tarullo, an expert on international economic regulation.

Mr. Obama warned of a housing crisis in March 2007, five months before regulators stepped in. He then proposed that Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke convene a summit of lenders, borrowers and regulators.

In a March 2008 address at the Cooper Union in Manhattan, he outlined his six principles. They would subject any institution that borrows from the United States to government oversight. “The American economy does not stand still, and neither should the rules that govern it,” he said. “Old institutions cannot adequately oversee new practices.”

After the last address, three former chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission — William Donaldson and David Ruder, Republicans, and Arthur Levitt, a Democrat — endorsed him, joining Mr. Volcker in saying a President Obama would take a “reasoned approach” to “balanced regulatory reform.” Mr. Goldschmid, the former S.E.C. commissioner, has also endorsed Mr. Obama.
467 2008-08-16 Senator John McCain’s campaign had its best fund-raising month ever in July, taking in $27 million. It was the fifth straight month in which contributions have increased.

Rick Davis, the campaign manager, said Friday that the campaign had $21.4 million in cash on hand, slightly less than the $27.6 million that it had at the end of June. In June, the campaign raised $22.2 million.

Bill Burton, a campaign spokesman for Senator Barack Obama, said Mr. Obama would report his July totals soon, perhaps as early as Saturday. Mr. Burton would not comment on what that number might be.

In June, Mr. Obama raised $54.3 million, and his campaign ended the month with $71.6 million in cash. To date, he has raised $349 million, and he has been on a whirlwind schedule of fund-raisers the last month.

Mr. Obama faces greater fund-raising pressure because he is the first presidential candidate of a major party to opt out of the public financing system for the general election and will rely entirely on donated money. Mr. McCain has not opted out, and will get $84 million in public money after his party’s convention in early September.
468 2008-08-16 The defending champion Lorena Ochoa of Mexico shot a four-under-par 68 to take a two-stroke lead in the suspended second round of the Canadian Women’s Open in Ottawa. Ochoa, last year’s winner at Royal Mayfair in Edmonton, Alberta, is at 10-under 134.

Katherine Hull of Australia matched the course record of 65 to join Yani Tseng of Taiwan at eight-under. Tseng was six-under through 10 holes when play was suspended because of hail and rain. Michelle Wie shot a 70 to put herself in position to make the cut.
469 2008-08-16 The Coastal Community Foundation of South Carolina is one of the nonprofits that has been approached by Vision Media. Christine Beddia, the foundation’s director of marketing and communications, said she had spoken a couple of times with a producer at Vision Media named Tom Roach.

“He said they were doing a regional segment about organizations that make a difference that would be part of their National Business Series hosted by Hugh Downs,” Ms. Beddia said. “They might be interested in our story — at a price of $22,000 for a two-minute spot, which is a high price tag for a community foundation of our size.”

She said she had been wary and then began seeing other community foundations express concerns about similar calls on a Council of Foundations Web site.

Mark Miller, an executive producer at Vision Media, wrote in an e-mail message that the company distributed the series it produced to public television affiliates, which had the right to show them “at their discretion.”

“The average person commonly makes the mistake of assuming that PBS and public television are one and the same, because they view PBS programs on public television stations,” Mr. Miller wrote.

Ms. Sloan, however, said that “the significant number of persons and companies that have contacted us because they mistakenly believe that we are affiliated with Vision Media suggests to us that Vision Media is not making a sufficient distinction between ‘public television’ and PBS.”

Mr. Miller also said the organizations seemed to be confusing Vision Media’s educational and commercial offerings.

“Hugh Downs has never been part of any commercial product that we provide to our clients,” he wrote. “His participation with our company is strictly limited to the educational segments that we provide to public television. Furthermore, there is no inclusion of commercial and/or promotional content in the programs that we provide to the public television affiliates.”

But community foundation executives said the company’s representatives did not make that distinction clear.

C. Matthew McMahon, the vice president for programming for Vision Media, did not respond to a voice mail message and an e-mail message seeking an interview. In response to a request to speak to Mr. Downs, however, Dr. McMahon wrote, “Per Mr. Downs’s agent, Mr. Downs is not available for an interview.”

The California Community Foundation was first contacted by Vision Media representatives in May about participating in its National Business Series programs. “It seemed like they were trying to sell us an advertorial,” said Namju Cho, the foundation’s director of communications.

Two months later, another executive at the foundation was contacted by a Vision Media representative pitching what the company calls its “Giving Back” programs. This month, the foundation was again contacted by a Vision Media representative pitching the same programs, “hosted by Hugh Downs.”

When Ms. Cho returned that call, she was told the cost of the offer was $22,900. “I told him not to call or contact any of our staff again,” she said.

The New York Community Trust, the Arizona Community Foundation, the Greater Cincinnati Community Foundation, the Chicago Community Trust, the Community Foundation of Broward and the Norfolk Foundation in Virginia all reported receiving similar calls.

One nonprofit that did business with Vision Media is the Citadel, the military college in South Carolina. The college paid the company about $10,000 in 2001 and got an airing on the E! channel at about 6 a.m. and some scenes it used on its own for various purposes, said Jeff Perez, its vice president for external affairs.

“These are pay-to-play propositions where they say you give us $15,000 to $20,000 and we’ll include you in our programs,” Mr. Perez said. “What they’re offering is something you can produce in-house or far more cost effectively through other vendors.”
470 2008-08-16 She compared herself to a “plump caterpillar” waiting to break free of its cocoon. (Read her entire essay at nytimes.com/business.)

As she prepares to enter the seventh grade, Tiffany King’s weight has placed her at high risk of developing the Type 2 diabetes that runs in her family, which would make her part of an epidemic of overweight and Type 2 diabetes that is reaching into ever younger age groups.

Camp Pocono Trails is part of a chain of three New Image Camps whose other sites are in Florida and California. Pocono Trails received 173 entries to its essay contest this year — for 10 slots. (Tiffany is spending eight weeks at Pocono Trails, a session that normally costs nearly $8,000.)

Another chain of weight loss camps, Wellspring, received more than 200 applications for 35 subsidized or free stays at one of its nine camps.

Wellspring, which runs a total of two schools and nine camps in America, England and Australia, says it is seeking corporate sponsors to help provide more scholarships. Wellspring also recently helped start one of the advocacy groups pushing for insurance coverage of programs like weight loss camps, Childhood Obesity Treatment in Action.

As things now stand, depending on the insurance company, some medical and psychological components of weight loss treatments are covered, and parents can sometimes take tax deductions for fees to programs, depending on their tax situation.

At Wellspring, approximately one in three campers has received insurance reimbursement for about one-fourth of the cost — the portion that includes cognitive behavioral therapy, which is sometimes covered by mental health plans.

There are about two dozen around the country, most of them run as for-profit operations. They typically emphasize exercise and controlled meal portions while serving balanced diets. Camp directors report that children generally lose weight during their stays at camp.

The big challenge comes later, when children resume their normal routines and confront the smorgasbord that is America — food in their own kitchens and at friends’ homes, fast-food restaurants and school cafeterias.

Dr. Pories, who also heads the Metabolic Institute at East Carolina University, found that children lost an average of about 8 percent of their body weight in a program he studied over three years; but two-thirds regained all or part of their weight.

Even Dr. Pories, who has been involved in promoting weight loss camp scholarships for underprivileged children in eastern North Carolina, says, “A two-thirds failure rate is not acceptable.”

Critics of the camp contests worry that however well meaning, the essay competitions have drawbacks. The essays, in which children bare deeply embarrassing moments and personal problems, become the property of the camp or sponsors. Winners are sometimes encouraged to make themselves available for media interviews that generate publicity.

Tiffany King, for example, has already been featured in a television news segment broadcast by a station near Camp Pocono Trails in northeast Pennsylvania.

“There is an awful lot of exploitation, voyeurism that can go with this stuff,” said Dr. David Collier, director of a pediatric weight management center at East Carolina University, which is in Greenville, N.C.

Dr. Charles J. Homer, the chief executive of the National Initiative for Children’s Healthcare Quality, a nonprofit organization in Cambridge, Mass., said the country’s challenge was to make programs that were available to large numbers of children, continued year-round and involved their parents.

“Many of the more effective treatment programs involve the entire family,‘’ Dr. Homer said, “not just the kids.”

A few critics have said that publicity, including an MTV documentary called “Fat Camp” that featured Camp Pocono Trails, runs the risk of making a spectacle of obese children.

Tony Sparber, the owner and director of Camp Pocono Trails, said that he welcomed publicity because he had faith in his program, and that many of the children were eager to be interviewed by the media.

“Most of the kids we deal with these days are very excited about being on TV and the newspapers and representing the camp,” he said. “They are very proud of themselves for the weight they have lost and the strides they have made.”

The Camp Pocono Trails essay contest does not require that winners be financially needy — judging is based primarily on the quality of the essay — but Mr. Sparber acknowledged that many of the children could not otherwise afford to attend.

“I get a phone call every day from people in need,” he said. “It’s heartbreaking.”

As camp neared its close, Tiffany King said she worried about the challenges she would face when she returned to her normal environment. “I wish I could take the camp with me,” she said.
471 2008-08-16 To Judge Posner, that analysis was naïve.

“Competition in product and capital markets can’t be counted on to solve the problem because the same structure of incentives operates on all large corporations and similar entities, including mutual funds,” he said. “Mutual funds are a component of the financial services industry, where abuses have been rampant.”

Judge Posner issued his comments last week in a futile effort to get the entire Seventh Circuit to consider the case, rather than allow the decision by Judge Easterbrook and two colleagues to stand. One of the 11 judges recused himself, and the others split 5 to 5 on the question. Without a majority vote, the original opinion stood.

At issue is a section of the law passed by Congress in 1970, which provides that fund managers have a “fiduciary duty with respect to compensation for services,” and gives shareholders the right to go to court and argue that fees are excessive.

Until now, the dominant precedent on that issue was a 1982 ruling by the Second Circuit in a case known by the name of the plaintiff, Irving L. Gartenberg. That ruling stated that a fee could be deemed excessive if it was “so disproportionately large that it bears no reasonable relationship to the services rendered and could not have been the product of arm’s-length bargaining.”

Judge Posner complained that although the Easterbrook opinion did not precisely say it was rejecting the Gartenberg precedent, that was what it did, and that Judge Easterbrook had violated a Seventh Circuit rule requiring that such an opinion be sent to all circuit judges before its release.

The Easterbrook opinion relied in part on what it called a “a recent, careful study” study written by two academics, John C. Coates, a Harvard professor of law and economics, and R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School and a former chairman of President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers.

That study, which was financed in part by the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, concluded, Judge Easterbrook wrote, “that thousands of mutual funds are plenty, that investors can and do protect their interests by shopping, and that regulating advisory fees through litigation is unlikely to do more good than harm.”

Judge Posner, in his dissent, said that even the Coates and Hubbard study “explicitly approves Gartenberg.” But he also said there was more evidence of abusive behavior on Wall Street than there was when their article was written in August 2007. He pointed to a May 2008 study by Camelia M. Kuhnen, an assistant professor of finance at Northwestern, which found evidence that connections between fund directors and managers “foster favoritism, to the detriment of investors.”

Judge Posner added, “The panel bases its rejection of Gartenberg mainly on an economic analysis that is ripe for re-examination on the basis of growing indications that executive compensation in large publicly traded firms often is excessive because of the feeble incentives of boards of directors to police compensation.”

In the case decided by the appellate court, against Harris Associates, the managers of the Oakmark family of funds, the plaintiff, Jerry N. Jones, argued that the courts should consider evidence that Oakmont charges much more to the mutual funds than it charges to manage similar portfolios for institutional investors.

Judge Easterbrook rejected that comparison, saying that the courts should rely on competition to keep fees reasonable and that there were many possible reasons for the difference, like differing demands on managers’ time.

Judge Posner was unimpressed, quoting a study that concluded the difference existed because there was real competition in the institutional market but that mutual funds were captives of their managers, who normally start the funds and sell them to investors.

“The panel opinion throws out some suggestions on why this difference may be justified,” Judge Posner wrote, “but the suggestions are offered purely as speculation, rather than anything having an evidentiary or empirical basis. And there is no doubt that the captive funds are indeed captive.”

James C. Bradley, a lawyer in South Carolina who brought the suit, said he would ask the Supreme Court to review the case. The dissent by Judge Posner, with his emphasis that there is now a split between circuit courts, reads almost like an appellate brief, and could help to get this issue before the Supreme Court.
472 2008-08-16 The singer-songwriter Jackson Browne has filed suit against Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, over what he says is the unauthorized use of his 1977 hit “Running on Empty” in a McCain campaign commercial shown in Ohio, Mr. Browne’s lawyer said Thursday. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, seeks unspecified damages as well as an injunction against the use of the song in the commercial, which criticizes Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, for saying that Americans could conserve gasoline by keeping car tires at the proper pressure. A spokesman for Mr. McCain, Brian Rogers, said the commercial had been created independently by the Ohio Republican Party and had no connection to the national campaign. “This campaign has never run any ad using any portion of Mr. Browne’s song,” Mr. Rogers said in a statement. “If the complaint names the McCain campaign, Mr. Browne and his lawyers have picked the wrong target.” The complaint also names the Republican National Committee and the Ohio Republican Party. Mr. Browne’s lawyer, Lawrence Y. Iser, said in an interview on Friday that after he sent a cease-and-desist letter last week, the Ohio party stopped broadcasting the ad and removed it from the Internet. Calls to the offices of the Ohio Republican Party were not returned on Friday. Mr. Iser said that he would not drop the suit.
473 2008-08-16 SHARES of smaller companies often have the worst of it in a bear market. They are more susceptible to swings in the economy because they can be more financially fragile. They also derive a greater portion of their revenue from domestic customers, including larger businesses that may squeeze them to get out of difficulties of their own.

The current downturn should be particularly rough on corporate minnows because the American economy has been affected more than Europe and emerging markets, where larger companies are more likely to do business. Yet for the last six months, smaller-capitalization stocks have outperformed. The Russell 2000 benchmark index of small caps is up more than 7 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index of larger companies is down nearly 4 percent.

The resilience of small caps may be an artifact of the credit crisis, which has sent the shares of big banks into free fall while hurting those of smaller institutions much less. It also may be a remnant of the post-2002 bull market, when investors preferred large multinationals.

Portfolio managers who specialize in small caps say that the group tends to lead the way out of recessions and into new bull markets. If small caps are doing better, said Michael Balkin, manager of the William Blair Small Cap Growth fund, it could be that investors are starting to believe that “we’re moving toward the middle of the recession and see light at the end of the tunnel.”

That’s possible, but market action suggests that when investors peer down the tunnel, all they are seeing is more tunnel. Mr. Balkin then offered an alternative theory that earns the pessimist’s seal of approval.
474 2008-08-16 The candy maker Hershey said on Friday that it was raising prices in the United States by roughly 10 percent and warned that the higher cost of ingredients like cocoa, corn sweetener, sugar and peanuts would weigh on profits.

The company said its 2008 profit would be at the low end of its forecast range and cut sales and earnings growth projections for 2009, sending its shares down in after-hours trading.

Food makers have been raising prices as commodity costs climb. For the first seven months of this year, prices in American grocery stores have risen nearly 6 percent.

Hershey’s price increase is effective immediately and should help offset rising commodity costs, which the company expects will more than double from 2008 to 2009.

“The size of the price increase is the real surprise,” a Wachovia analyst, Jonathan Feeney, said in a client note.

The company lowered its 2009 net sales growth projection to 2 to 3 percent, versus its previous call for growth of 3 to 5 percent.
475 2008-08-16 A bill introduced last year by two members of Congress from New York, Peter T. King, a Republican, and Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat, would grant permanent resident visas to the survivors.

Several Republicans in the House who opposed the measure demanded more information about the immigrants to ensure that they were not terrorists or criminals. But the immigrants’ lawyers said they were reluctant to provide any information that might expose their clients to deportation.

“Congress wanted to know the facts before they provided relief, and the families wanted relief before they identified themselves,” Stewart Baker, assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security, said in an interview on Friday. “So we really had a kind of standoff.”

In April, immigration officials worked out an arrangement with the families’ lawyers that allowed the illegal immigrants to provide the authorities with biographical information and immigration history, though not their names, without fear of deportation.

Mr. Baker said that after reviewing the information, Homeland Security decided to grant the immigrants one-year temporary visas to remain in the United States, “with the expectation that Congress will take up this matter within the year.” He said that in the event the Congressional process was delayed, the relief might be extended.

The lawyers had petitioned Homeland Security on behalf of 16 clients, but the department granted relief to only 15. The 16th immigrant, despite having steady employment and income, failed to pay taxes from 1999 to 2006, Mr. Baker said.

“Our view was that if, indeed, we are granting the relief because these families ought to be part of the American story and American institutions, as we believe, part of that is taking on the responsibilities of people living in the United States lawfully,” he said.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. King said that he had been briefed by Mr. Baker on the department’s decision and that it seemed “equitable.” But he said that he was not able to predict how and when Congress would move forward on the pending legislation regarding the immigrants, and that he planned to confer with Ms. Maloney and others in Congress on the matter.

In order to finalize their new legal status, Mr. Baker said, the immigrants will now have to identify themselves by name to the government so investigators can double-check the personal information provided anonymously.

Ms. Steinberg said that her clients would identify themselves “in the near term,” and that her “hope and plan and dream” was for Congress to act quickly and give them green-card status.
476 2008-08-16 WASHINGTON (AP) — Despite safety concerns of parents, consumer groups and politicians, a chemical used in baby bottles, canned food and other items is not dangerous, federal regulators said Friday.

Scientists at the Food and Drug Administration said the trace amounts of bisphenol A that leach out of food containers were not a threat to infants or adults. The plastic-hardening chemical is used to seal canned food and make shatterproof bottles.

The agency’s draft report is the latest in a growing pile of assessments of bisphenol, which has been used to package food for decades.

The agency previously declared the chemical safe, but agreed to revisit that opinion after a report by the federal National Toxicology Program said that there was “some concern” about its risks in infants.

Based on a review of animal studies, the government working group said bisphenol could cause changes in behavior and the brain, and that it might reduce survival and birth weight in fetuses.
477 2008-08-16 Cablevision Systems, the cable operator based in Bethpage, N.Y., said Friday that it would pay a quarterly dividend of 10 cents starting in September.

The company said the move was part of its efforts to bolster its market value. It is Cablevision’s first dividend.

The chief executive, James L. Dolan, said Cablevision continued to explore “other options” to increase value. It has suggested in the past that could include selling parts of the business.
478 2008-08-16 FISSELL--Frederica Kane, of Bedford, NY on August 9, 2008 at age 73. Rica was born in New York City to Frederick and Geraldine McGovern Kane, and was sister to Barbara Curran, Patricia FlachMittman, and Robert Kane. Rica was the loving wife of 48 ...
479 2008-08-17 The candidates were interviewed by the Rev. Rick Warren, one of the most popular evangelical pastors in the country and the author of “The Purpose Driven Life.” The forum, which Mr. Warren arranged through calls to the candidates, whom he knows, reflected the importance of religion in American life and politics.

It also marked the coming of age of a broader brand of evangelicalism that is more socially minded and diverse than the orthodox religious movement of the Christian right. Mr. Warren embodies the changing of the guard of that movement, away from traditionalist figures like Pat Robertson, and the scope of his questions reflected those broader interests.

Mr. Warren asked Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, which of the sitting Supreme Court justices he would not have appointed. Mr. Obama quickly named Justice Clarence Thomas, saying he was not qualified for the top court at the time.

“I don’t think that he was a strong enough jurist or legal thinker at the time for that elevation, setting aside the fact that I profoundly disagree with his interpretations of the Constitution,” Mr. Obama said.

Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, named all the liberal judges on the court and noted that there might be several vacancies soon. “This nomination should be based on the criteria on a proven record of strictly adhering to the Constitution and not legislating from the bench,” he said.

Asked what was the most significant issue he had changed his mind on in the last 10 years, Mr. Obama cited the 1996 welfare reform bill signed by President Bill Clinton. He said that he initially opposed it because he believed it would have “disastrous results,” denying millions of women economic support, but that he now believed the law had been largely successful.

Mr. McCain pointed to offshore drilling. “We’ve got to drill now; we’ve got to drill here,” he said, and took a poke at Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Republican of California, who opposes it. “I know there are some here in Cal-eee-fornia that disagree with that position,” he said, mimicking the governor’s accent.

Mr. McCain received the more rousing response from the audience, made up largely of church members here in Orange County, one of the most conservative areas in the country. He told more anecdotes but also filibustered more. One of the few points when Mr. McCain left the audience silent was when he said he favored stem-cell research.

Mr. Obama skirted a question about when life begins, saying that determining such a thing was above his pay grade and sending murmurs throughout the audience. Mr. McCain said simply, “At the moment of conception.”

Asked to define marriage, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain gave the same answer: that it is the union between a man and a woman.

But Mr. Obama also said he opposed a constitutional amendment defining marriage that narrowly and said he supported same-sex civil unions. “For gay partners to visit each other in the hospital, I don’t think limits my core beliefs about what marriage is,” he said.

Mr. McCain said courts in California were wrong to approve same-sex marriages but also said somewhat vaguely that that “doesn’t mean people can’t enter into legal agreements.”

Mr. Warren, who has made millions of dollars on his books, asked Mr. Obama to define “rich.” In one of his lighter moments, Mr. Obama responded impishly, “Well, if you’ve got book sales of $25 million... .” Mr. Obama, too, has made millions from his books; Mr. Warren reached across the desk and gave Mr. Obama a high five. The Democrat then said that under his tax plans, all American families making less than $150,000 a year are considered middle class or poor and would receive a tax break.

Mr. McCain said that “rich” should mean people who are happy and avoided putting a precise price tag on the term, finally jokingly tossing out a figure of $5 million.

On abortion, Mr. Obama declared: “I am pro-choice, I believe in Roe vs. Wade, not because I’m pro-abortion but because ultimately I don’t think women make these decisions casually.” He also said, “I am in favor on limits on late-term abortion if there is an exception for the woman’s health.”

Mr. McCain said he was “pro-life” and would be a “pro-life president.”

Asked to name three people on whom they depended for sage advice, Mr. Obama named his wife, Michelle, and his maternal grandmother. For a third, he named lawmakers as varied as Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a liberal Democrat, and Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, a conservative Republican who opposes abortion rights.

Mr. McCain named Gen. David H. Petreaus, who led American troops in Iraq; John Lewis, the veteran civil-rights leader, and Meg Whitman, former chief executive of eBay who is also a top adviser to his campaign.
480 2008-08-17 That leaves the question of what the teams gave up to acquire the pitchers. Because of durability questions with Harden, the Athletics were forced to take a package that did not necessarily add up to his talent. For Harden and reliever Chad Gaudin, Oakland got Sean Gallagher, Matt Murton, Eric Patterson and Josh Donaldson. Gallagher is a promising 22-year-old starting pitcher, but there are questions about the other three.

Conversely, the Brewers paid a much larger sum for Sabathia, sending Matt LaPorta, one of the top hitting prospects in the minor leagues, to Cleveland along with three other prospects.

When all is said and done, Sabathia, like Alexander before him, has done exactly what he was acquired to do. He has shored up a rotation with brilliant pitching and has won whenever he was handed the ball. But if Chicago’s division lead holds, and should LaPorta achieve stardom in Cleveland, the winner of this pair of moves could be the Cubs.

In 10 years as the Devil Rays, Tampa Bay broke the 70-win barrier only once. With 74 wins through Friday, this season’s team, which was rechristened the Rays, is already the best in franchise history with 41 games to play.

But with injuries to the star players Carl Crawford and Evan Longoria, the Rays are looking to their past for a spark. While he looks considerably different, Rocco Baldelli, who last played in 136 games in the Devil Rays’ 70-win 2004 season, is back in action while trying to cope with a serious cell disorder.

So far the results have been mixed. Baldelli was 3 for 13, but the team won four of its first five since his return and held a three-and-a-half-game lead in the American League East going into Saturday’s games.

Baldelli, who was one of the few bright hopes at a difficult time in franchise history, should be on the cusp of his prime as a baseball player. He turns 27 in September, which can tend to be a magical age for a player’s development. But with injuries and illness taking away much of his considerable promise, it may be enough to ask that he simply serve as an example of determination to a team that is in unfamiliar territory as a front-runner.

When David Ortiz of the Red Sox batted against the Yankees on July 27, he had No. 45 written on his helmet. Two days earlier, his former teammate Pedro Martínez’s father, Paulino, died of brain cancer. By putting Martínez’s number on his helmet, Ortiz paid tribute to his family.

After offering Martínez my condolences recently, I asked him if he had seen Ortiz’s silent tribute. Martínez said he was unaware of what Ortiz had done but was not surprised by it. Martínez explained how loyal a friend Ortiz was to him.

Since Ortiz could not leave the Red Sox to attend Paulino’s funeral in the Dominican Republic, he told Martínez that he would send his father. Pedro said Ortiz’s father did not leave his side as he mourned the loss of his father.

“They call him the Rock,” Martínez said. “He’s as big as Big Papi, but he’s not as tall. He stayed with me the whole time. It meant a lot to me.”
481 2008-08-17 Owen Myrie, 45, has spent the last 13 years working nine hours a day, five days a week, behind a worn stand at the top of a marble staircase in the building that houses the Summons Part of New York City’s Criminal Court, on Broadway north of City Hall.

“I wouldn’t give this away for anything,” he said.

Mr. Myrie, who is from Jamaica, lost his vision to glaucoma when he was 14, and as he got older, he struggled to find work. “I could feel the stares of some of the people,” said Mr. Myrie, reflecting, behind dark glasses, on his experience during job interviews. After completing the state’s training course, which included food safety and math, Mr. Myrie received a grant to operate his business. (The program now provides loans, rather than grants.)

A self-described creature of habit, he organizes his store by memory, placing bananas, potato chips and mints in neat rows. Mr. Myrie does not pay rent, but he has to pay 20 percent of his earnings to the commission for health and life insurance and a pension. He said he earned $200 to $300 a week and collects Social Security disability payments.

The unemployment rate among blind people of working age is close to 70 percent, said Peter Crowley, assistant commissioner of the agency; some research studies put the figure closer to 55 percent.

But blindness does not have to mean an unproductive life, Mr. Crowley said, pointing to the recent accession of Gov. David A. Paterson, who is legally blind.

“What could be a better role model,” he said, “than a governor who is legally blind and who shows people with disabilities that they can do great things?”

Mr. Crowley himself has congenital optic atrophy and gets around with help from a trained black Labrador named Trinity.

Since 2006, the number of concession stands operated by blind vendors has grown to 98 from 86, and five more vendors are about to go into business, filling every concession stand that is set aside for blind vendors in the state. An advocacy group, the State Committee of Blind Vendors, is seeking to broaden the priority for the blind to include concessions in the State University system, the Department of Correctional Services and the Thruway Authority.

On a recent weekday, Patrick Piccirillo, 56, leaned on the counter of his dimly lighted, sparsely stocked newsstand, which he has operated for six years outside Brooklyn Criminal Court. Mr. Piccirillo’s sight failed after he developed diabetes in the 1980s; it cost him his job at a trucking firm.

His stand is near a prisoner holding cell. “I was scared to hell when I first got the place,” said Mr. Piccirillo. He said he had been cheated by customers who demanded change from larger bills than they had handed over. To make it easier for blind vendors, the commission provides equipment like talking cash registers and automated readers that identify a bill’s denomination. And, while Mr. Piccirillo has become comfortable with the environment, he still does not accept bills larger than $20.

Just before the lunch break, a steady stream of customers waited in line. A woman asked for aspirin and a bagel; a police officer ordered a microwavable chicken Parmesan sandwich for $4; a young man casually spit on the floor before buying a Snapple. Over the din of metal detectors going off, some of Mr. Piccirillo’s regulars greeted him by name. A court officer bragged about his winning lottery ticket and a woman with a shaved head asked about the mixed nuts.

“I love the people in this building; we’re like a family here,” Mr. Piccirillo said. “They watch out for me and I watch out for them.”
482 2008-08-17 Mr. Warren will first interview Mr. Obama for an hour (with commercial breaks). Afterward, Mr. McCain is to come on stage. The two candidates are to shake hands. Then Mr. Obama leaves while Mr. McCain has his own hour with Mr. Warren. During Mr. Obama’s session, Mr. McCain will not be able to hear the questions or answers and will be asked more or less the same ones.

The body language of the two candidates when they meet will be closely monitored. They have been lobbing insults at each other long distance for weeks now, but any encounter in person here that is less than cordial would come as a surprise. This is not a debate with partisans cheering from the sidelines; it is a sanctuary. Game face is not only not required, it is discouraged.

Mr. Warren, who personally arranged the meeting through cellphone calls to the candidates, both of whom he knows, said in a statement that his conversations would focus on how they make decisions and what kind of leaders they would be.

“Leadership involves far more than promoting programs and making speeches, and since no one can predict what crises will happen over the next four years, it is vital to know the decision capacity and process of each man,” he said. He also said he wanted to avoid “partisan ‘gotcha’ questions that typically produce heat instead of light.”

Reflecting the broad nature of his church beyond traditional religious issues, Mr. Warren said he plans to raise questions about poverty, HIV/AIDS, climate change and human rights.

Mr. Obama has demonstrated a comfort level in religious spheres, while Mr. McCain rarely expresses his religious views in public. Mr. Obama also has an extensive religious outreach program, and polls show that he leads Mr. McCain among most religious denominations, with the notable exception of evangelicals.

For them, abortion remains a crucial question, and Mr. Warren has indicated that he would raise it. Both candidates have some explaining to do to their political bases — Mr. Obama favors abortion rights but has made statements recently that have worried purists; Mr. McCain, who has long opposed abortion rights, indicated in an interview with the Weekly Standard that he would consider picking a vice president who favors abortion rights, reviving doubts about him among social conservatives.

Mr. Warren, who consulted with several others about the kinds of questions he might ask, has also received lots of unsolicited advice from the blogosphere, much of it about abortion. But Mr. Warren’s ministry has made a name for itself by broadening its concerns beyond such issues, to the displeasure of some traditional evangelicals who say he is diluting the movement. How much he dwells on abortion tonight could signal the degree to which the movement is changing.

The event is being produced by the church in part because the candidates did not want it to be sponsored by a television network or moderated by a journalist, according to Whitney Kelley, a spokeswoman for the church.

Their other criteria, she said, included that Mr. Warren be the sole questioner, without a panel and without questions from the audience.

The church, the fourth-largest in the country with a membership of 22,000, seats 3,000 people. But it had to remove 1,000 seats to accommodate the media and its production crew and to provide a security buffer between the audience and the stage, Ms. Kelley said.

The church polled its members to determine whether to charge for the remaining seats to help recoup its costs, expected to run into hundreds of thousands of dollars (just like a presidential debate). The members agreed, and the ticket price was set at $100 each. Ticket preferences were given to charter members of the church, which held its first service in 1980, and to its volunteers; each campaign will also have a block of seats.

But even the $200,000 from ticket sales will “fall short” of the final price tag, said Mark Affleck, executive director of Saddleback’s Peace Plan, a program to help position the Christian church as a leader in relief and developmental work around the world.

The church takes in about $27 million a year in tithes and offerings.

Mr. Affleck said that Saddleback’s goal in staging this event is “to restore the church’s primacy in society and not be off on the sidelines, to be a part of the world and all the issues.” He added: “It’s a way to use the platform that God has given Rick and the church to be a leader and bring everyone together, not have the church be over there and separate.”

Reflecting the mainstream quality of the event, there will be commercial breaks. Each candidate is to speak for three segments of 11 minutes each and one segment of 12 minutes.

One of those commercials will be from a Christian group, the Matthew 25 Network, which has endorsed Mr. Obama.

And in a taste of things to come, Bob Barr, who is running for president as a libertarian, has protested his exclusion from the event. A federal district court has ruled that the church did not have to let him participate. Mr. Barr is likely to raise the same issue with the commission on presidential debates.
483 2008-08-17 The price of oil fell during the week while inflation in July rose to a 5.6 percent annual rate, a 17-year high. There was no clear direction for the stock market.

General Motors shares gained 11.47 percent for the week, the best in the Dow industrials. American International Group lost 7.6 percent, the worst.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 74.42 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 11,659.90. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 1.88 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,289.20. The Nasdaq composite index rose 38.42 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 2,452.52.

Oil futures in New York settled at $113.77 a barrel, down from $115.20 the previous week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.84 percent from 3.93 percent a week earlier.
484 2008-08-17 BEIJING — Almost everything I was told about running in Beijing was wrong. My clothes would turn gray from pollution. I would be coughing and wheezing, hacking out black phlegm. I would never see any Chinese runners. I should just concentrate on getting some miles in — there was no way I would ever be able to maintain a reasonable pace. Or maybe I should just give up and spend my time on treadmills in the gym.

My goal, my coach Tom Fleming said, is just to run six or seven miles every day. I can worry about longer distances and pace when I get home.

So far, I have more than met that goal, and while these certainly are not good conditions for preparing to run a marathon — too hot and humid — they are not much worse than what I am used to on summer days in Princeton, N.J., where I live. If anything, it is easier to run fast here because it is so flat in Beijing. Pollution has not been an issue or, at least, if the air is polluted, it has not bothered me.

I arrived in Beijing last Sunday afternoon and went for a six-mile run Tuesday morning. One of my colleagues suggested running in loops around the Media Village where I am staying. It is a newly built complex with 14 buildings of 32 stories and 2 of 11 stories, and it holds 6,000 journalists. The young and ever-smiling staff greet us as we come and go from the buildings, hold open the doors, and say, “Have a nice day.” The elevator has a list of nine admonitions printed on its wall. And the place is guarded by young men who stand at attention night and day.

After a few loops, I got bored and decided to leave the complex. But when I went to the exit that I take to get on a news media bus to the Olympics, the guards and the cheerful staff who scan us and put our belongings through metal detectors told me I was not allowed to leave. I went back to running loops. Toward the end of the run, a guard, sitting on the back of a golf cart, pointed a video camera at me.
485 2008-08-17 “Just as Sept. 11 revolutionized our resolve to defeat our enemies, so has it brought into focus the opportunities we now have to secure and expand our freedom,” Mr. McCain told a NATO conference in Munich in early 2002, urging the Europeans to join what he portrayed as an all but certain assault on Saddam Hussein. “A better world is already emerging from the rubble.”

To his admirers, Mr. McCain’s tough response to Sept. 11 is at the heart of his appeal. They argue that he displayed the same decisiveness again last week in his swift calls to penalize Russia for its incursion into Georgia, in part by sending peacekeepers to police its border.

His critics charge that the emotion of Sept. 11 overwhelmed his former cool-eyed caution about deploying American troops without a clear national interest and a well-defined exit, turning him into a tool of the Bush administration in its push for a war to transform the region.

“He has the personality of a fighter pilot: when somebody stings you, you want to strike out,” said retired Gen. John H. Johns, a former friend and supporter of Mr. McCain who turned against him over the Iraq war. “Just like the American people, his reaction was: show me somebody to hit.”

Whether through ideology or instinct, though, Mr. McCain began making his case for invading Iraq to the public more than six months before the White House began to do the same. He drew on principles he learned growing up in a military family and on conclusions he formed as a prisoner in North Vietnam. He also returned to a conviction about “the common identity” of dangerous autocracies as far-flung as Serbia and North Korea that he had developed consulting with hawkish foreign policy thinkers to help sharpen the themes of his 2000 presidential campaign.

While pushing to take on Saddam Hussein, Mr. McCain also made arguments and statements that he may no longer wish to recall. He lauded the war planners he would later criticize, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Vice President Dick Cheney. (Mr. McCain even volunteered that he would have given the same job to Mr. Cheney.) He urged support for the later-discredited Iraqi exile Ahmad Chalabi’s opposition group, the Iraqi National Congress, and echoed some of its suspect accusations in the national media. And he advanced misleading assertions not only about Mr. Hussein’s supposed weapons programs but also about his possible ties to international terrorists, Al Qaeda and the Sept. 11 attacks.

Five years after the invasion of Iraq, Mr. McCain’s supporters note that he became an early critic of the administration’s execution of the occupation, and they credit him with pushing the troop “surge” that helped bring stability. Mr. McCain, though, stands by his support for the war and expresses no regrets about his advocacy.

In written answers to questions, he blamed “Iraq’s opacity under Saddam” for any misleading remarks he made about the peril it posed.

The Sept. 11 attacks “demonstrated the grave threat posed by a hostile regime, possessing weapons of mass destruction, and with reported ties to terrorists,” Mr. McCain wrote in an e-mail message on Friday. Given Mr. Hussein’s history of pursuing illegal weapons and his avowed hostility to the United States, “his regime posed a threat we had to take seriously.” The attacks were still a reminder, Mr. McCain added, of the importance of international action “to prevent outlaw states — like Iran today — from developing weapons of mass destruction.”

Mr. McCain has been debating questions about the use of military force far longer than most. He grew up in a family that had sent a son to every American war since 1776, and international relations were a staple of the McCain family dinner table. Mr. McCain grew up listening to his father, Adm. John S. McCain Jr., deliver lectures on “The Four Ocean Navy and the Soviet Threat,” closing with a slide of an image he considered the ultimate factor in the balance of power: a soldier marching through a rice paddy with a rifle at his shoulder.

“To quote Sherman, war is all hell and we need to fight it out and get it over with and that is when the killing stops,” recalled Joe McCain, Senator McCain’s younger brother.

Vietnam, for Senator McCain, reinforced those lessons. He has often said he blamed the Johnson administration’s pause in bombing for prolonging the war, and he credited President Richard M. Nixon’s renewed attacks with securing his release from a North Vietnamese prison. He has made the principle that the exercise of military power sets the bargaining table for international relations a consistent theme of his career ever since, and in his 2002 memoir he wrote that one of his lifelong convictions was “the imperative that American power never retreat in response to an inferior adversary’s provocation.”

But Mr. McCain also took away from Vietnam a second, restraining lesson: the necessity for broad domestic support for any military action. For years he opposed a string of interventions — in Lebanon, Haiti, Somalia, and, for a time, the Balkans — on the grounds that the public would balk at the loss of life without clear national interests. “The Vietnam thing,” he recently said.

In the late 1990s, however, while he was beginning to consider his 2000 presidential race, he started rebalancing his view of the needs to project American strength and to sustain public support. The 1995 massacre of 5,000 unarmed Bosnian Muslims at Srebrenica under NATO’s watch struck at his conscience, he has said, and in addition to America’s strategic national interests — in that case, the future and credibility of NATO — Mr. McCain began to speak more expansively about America’s moral obligations as the only remaining superpower.

His aides say he later described the American air strikes in Bosnia in 1996 and in Kosovo in 1999 as a parable of political leadership: Mr. McCain, Senator Bob Dole and others had rallied Congressional support for the strikes despite widespread public opposition, then watched approval soar after the intervention helped to bring peace.

“Americans elect their leaders to make these kinds of judgments,” Mr. McCain said in the e-mail message.

It was during the Balkan wars that Mr. McCain and his advisers read a 1997 article on the Wall Street Journal editorial page by William Kristol and David Brooks of The Weekly Standard — both now Op-Ed page columnists at The New York Times — promoting the idea of “national greatness” conservatism, defined by a more activist agenda at home and a more muscular role in the world.

“I wouldn’t call it a ‘eureka’ moment, but there was a sense that this is where we are headed and this is what we are trying to articulate and they have already done a lot of the work,” said John Weaver, a former McCain political adviser. “And, quite frankly, from a crass political point of view, we were in the making-friends business. The Weekly Standard represented a part of the primary electorate that we could get.”

Soon Mr. McCain and his aides were consulting regularly with the circle of hawkish foreign policy thinkers sometimes referred to as neoconservatives — including Mr. Kristol, Robert Kagan and Randy Scheunemann, a former aide to Mr. Dole who became a McCain campaign adviser — to develop the senator’s foreign policy ideas and instincts into the broad themes of a presidential campaign. (In his e-mail message, Mr. McCain noted that he had also consulted with friends like Henry A. Kissinger, known for a narrower view of American interests.)

One result was a series of speeches in which Mr. McCain called for “rogue state rollback.” He argued that disparate regional troublemakers, including Iraq, North Korea and Serbia, bore a common stamp: they were all autocracies. And as such, he contended, they were more likely to export terrorism, spread dangerous weapons, or start ethnic conflicts. In an early outline of what would become his initial response to the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. McCain argued that “swift and sure” retribution against any one of the rogue states was an essential deterrent to any of the others. But Mr. McCain’s advisers and aides say his “rogue state” speeches stopped short of the most sweeping international agenda put forth by Mr. Kristol, Mr. Kagan and their allies. Mr. McCain explicitly disavowed direct military action merely to advance American values, foreswearing any “global crusade” of interventions in favor of relying on covert and financial support for internal opposition groups.

As an example, he could point to his 1998 sponsorship of the Iraqi Liberation Act, which sought to direct nearly $100 million to Iraqis who hoped to overthrow Saddam Hussein. The bill, signed by President Bill Clinton, also endorsed the ouster of Mr. Hussein.

Mr. McCain said then that he doubted the United States could muster the political will to use ground troops to remove the Iraqi dictator any time soon. “It was much easier when Saddam Hussein was occupying Kuwait and threatening Saudi Arabia,” the senator told Fox News in November 1998. “We’d have to convince the American people that it’s worth again the sacrifice of American lives, because that would also be part of the price.”

Mr. McCain spent the afternoon of Sept. 11 in a young aide’s studio apartment near the Capitol. There was no cable television, nothing but water in the kitchen, and the hallway reminded him of an old boxing gym. Evacuated from his office but stranded by traffic, he could not resist imagining himself at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. “There are not enough Secret Service agents in the world to keep me away from Washington and New York at a time like this,” Mr. McCain told an adviser.

Over the next days and weeks, however, Mr. McCain became almost as visible as he would have been as president. Broadcasters rushed to him as a patriotic icon and reassuring voice, and for weeks he was ubiquitous on the morning news programs, Sunday talk shows, cable news networks, and even late-night comedy shows.

In the spotlight, he pushed rogue state rollback one step further, arguing that the United States should go on the offensive as a warning to any other country that might condone such an attack. “These networks are well-embedded in some of these countries,” Mr. McCain said on Sept. 12, listing Iraq, Iran and Syria as potential targets of United States pressure. “We’re going to have to prove to them that we are very serious, and the price that they will pay will not only be for punishment but also deterrence.”

Although he had campaigned for President Bush during the 2000 general election, he was still largely frozen out of the White House because of animosities left over from the Republican primary. But after Mr. Bush declared he would hold responsible any country condoning terrorism, Mr. McCain called his leadership “magnificent” and his national security team the strongest “that has ever been assembled.” A few weeks later, Larry King of CNN asked whether he would have named Mr. Rumsfeld and Colin L. Powell to a McCain cabinet. “Oh, yes, and Cheney,” Mr. McCain answered, saying he, too, would have offered Mr. Cheney the vice presidency.

Even during the heat of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. McCain kept an eye on Iraq. To Jay Leno in mid-September, Mr. McCain said he believed “some other countries” had assisted Osama bin Laden, going on to suggest Iraq, Syria and Iran as potential suspects. In October 2001, when an Op-Ed page column in The New York Times speculated that Iraq, Russia or some other country might bear responsibility for that month’s anthrax mailings, Mr. McCain interrupted a question about Afghanistan from David Letterman on that night’s “Late Show.” “The second phase is Iraq,” Mr. McCain said, adding, “Some of this anthrax may — and I emphasize may — have come from Iraq.” (The Federal Bureau of Investigation says it came from a federal government laboratory in Maryland.) By October, United States and foreign intelligence agencies had said publicly that they doubted any cooperation between Mr. Hussein and Al Qaeda, noting Al Qaeda’s opposition to such secular nationalists. American intelligence officials soon declared that Mr. Hussein had not supported international terrorism for nearly a decade.

But when the Czech government said that before the attacks, one of the 9/11 hijackers had met in Prague with an Iraqi intelligence official, Mr. McCain seized the report as something close to a smoking gun. “The evidence is very clear,” he said three days later, in an Oct. 29 television interview. (Intelligence agencies quickly cast doubt on the meeting.)

Frustrated by the dearth of American intelligence about Iraq, Mr. McCain’s aides say, he had long sought to learn as much as he could from Iraqi opposition figures in exile, including Mr. Chalabi of the Iraqi National Congress. Over the years, Mr. McCain often urged support for the group, saying it had “significant support, in my view, inside Iraq.”

After Sept. 11, Mr. Chalabi’s group said an Iraqi emissary had once met with Osama bin Laden, and brought forward two Iraqi defectors who described terrorist training camps and biological weapons efforts. At times, Mr. McCain seemed to echo their accusations, citing the “two defectors” in a television interview and attesting to “credible reports of involvement between Iraqi administration officials, Iraqi officials and the terrorists.”

But United States intelligence officials had doubts about Mr. Chalabi at the time and have since discredited his group. In 2006, Mr. McCain acknowledged to The New Republic that he had been “too enamored with the I.N.C.” In his e-mail message, though, he said he never relied on the group for information about Iraq’s weapons program.

At a European security conference in February 2002, when the Bush administration still publicly maintained that it had made no decision about moving against Iraq, Mr. McCain described an invasion as all but certain. “A terrorist resides in Baghdad,” he said, adding, “A day of reckoning is approaching.”

Regime change in Iraq in addition to Afghanistan, he argued, would compel other sponsors of terrorism to mend their ways, “accomplishing by example what we would otherwise have to pursue through force of arms.”

Finally, as American troops massed in the Persian Gulf in early 2003, Mr. McCain grew impatient, his aides say, concerned that the White House was failing to act as the hot desert summer neared. Waiting, he warned in a speech in Washington, risked squandering the public and international support aroused by Sept. 11. “Does anyone really believe that the world’s will to contain Saddam won’t eventually collapse as utterly as it did in the 1990s?” Mr. McCain asked.

In retrospect, some of Mr. McCain’s critics now accuse him of looking for a pretext to justify the war. “McCain was hell-bent for leather: ‘Saddam Hussein is a bad guy, we have got to teach him, let’s send a message to the other people in the Middle East,’ ” said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts.

But Mr. McCain, in his e-mail message, said the reason he had supported the war was the evolving threat from Mr. Hussein.

“I believe voters elect their leaders based on their experience and judgment — their ability to make hard calls, for instance, on matters of war and peace,” he wrote. “It’s important to get them right.”
486 2008-08-17 Federal regulators acknowledge that they were slow to recognize the dangers of newly widespread methadone prescribing and to confront physician ignorance about the drug. They blame “imperfect” systems for monitoring such problems.

In fact, a dangerously high dosage recommendation remained in the Food and Drug Administration-approved package insert until late 2006. The agency has adjusted the label and is now considering requiring doctors to take special classes on prescribing narcotics.

Between 1999 and 2005, deaths that had methadone listed as a contributor increased nearly fivefold, to 4,462, a number that federal statisticians say is understated since states do not always specify the drugs in overdoses. Florida alone, which keeps detailed data, listed methadone as a cause in 785 deaths in 2007, up from 367 in 2003. In most cases it was mixed with other drugs like sedatives that increased the risks.

The rise of methadone is in part because of a major change in medical attitudes in the 1990s, as doctors accepted that debilitating pain was often undertreated. Insurance plans embraced methadone as a generic, cheaper alternative to other long-lasting painkillers like OxyContin, and many doctors switched to prescribing it because it seemed less controversial and perhaps less prone to abuse than OxyContin.

From 1998 to 2006, the number of methadone prescriptions increased by 700 percent, according to Drug Enforcement Administration figures, flooding parts of the country where it had rarely been seen.

But too few doctors, experts say, understand how slowly methadone is metabolized and how greatly patients differ in their responses. Some prescribe too much too fast, allowing methadone to build to dangerous levels; some fail to warn patients of the potential dangers of mixing methadone with alcohol or sedatives, or do not keep in contact during the perilous initial week on the drug. And some patients do not follow the doctor’s orders.

“Those problems were not soon recognized,” said Dr. Bob Rappaport, a division director at the Food and Drug Administration. He added: “Methadone is an extremely difficult drug to use, even for specialists. People were using it rather blithely for several years.”

Dr. James Finch, an addiction specialist in Durham, N.C., said, “In the clinical and regulatory communities, everyone is trying to run and catch up with and deal with the causes of methadone overdoses.”

This year the federal government started sponsoring voluntary classes that teach doctors the elaborate precautions they should take with methadone, like inching upward from low starting doses and screening patients for addictive behavior. (While Robby Garvin’s doctor could argue that the dosage he was taking was reasonable — one to two 10-mg tablets, three times a day — and he was cleared by his state medical board, many specialists would have started him on a lower dose.)

In what critics call a stunning oversight, the F.D.A-approved package insert for methadone for decades recommended starting doses for pain at up to 80 mg per day. “This could unequivocally cause death in patients who have not recently been using narcotics,” said Dr. Robert G. Newman, former president of Beth Israel Medical Center in New York and an expert in addiction.

The F.D.A. says that in the absence of reports of problems by doctors or surveillance systems, “we would have no reason to suspect that the dosing regimen” might need to be adjusted.

In November 2006, after reports of overdoses and deaths among pain patients multiplied and The Charleston Gazette reported on the dangerous package instructions, the F.D.A. cut the recommended starting limit to no more than 30 mg per day. “As soon as we became aware of deaths due to misprescribing for pain patients, we began the process of instituting label changes,” Dr. Rappaport said.

Methadone, which is made by Roxane Laboratories Inc. of Columbus, Ohio, and Covidien-Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals of Hazelwood, Mo., creates dependency and is sometimes sought by abusers who say they experience a special buzz when mixing it with Xanax.

While the greatest numbers of methadone-related deaths have occurred among the middle-aged, the fastest growth — an elevenfold jump between 1999 and 2005, to 615 — occurred among those age 14 to 24, which experts say may be mainly a result of pill abuse.

Pain experts say the country is seeing a reprise of the abuse and tragedies that followed the introduction of OxyContin, a time-release form of oxycodone that was heavily marketed in the late 1990s. It became a factor in hundreds of deaths and a focus of law enforcement.

OxyContin is still widely prescribed, but a survey of Medicare plans in 2008, by the research firm Avalere Health LLC, found that many did not even include OxyContin on the list of reimbursable drugs. Critics like Dr. June Dahl, professor of pharmacology at the University of Wisconsin, fault the insurance companies for favoring methadone simply because of its monetary cost. “I don’t think a drug that requires such a level of sophistication to use is what I’d call cheap, because of the risks,” Dr. Dahl added.

Yet for the right patients, methadone can be a godsend. Alexandra Sherman, a patient of Dr. Heit’s at his Fairfax, Va., clinic, suffered for years from hip and shoulder pain that “felt like somebody stabbing me with a knife,” she said. Pain began to rule and ruin her days.

Dr. Heit gave her OxyContin and later, because it seemed to work better and because of the expense, switched her to methadone. Her insurance at one point covered only $500 in prescriptions, which paid for just one month’s worth of OxyContin, compared with methadone’s cost of $35 a month.

Methadone “has given me my life back,” Ms. Sherman said.

But Dr. Heit did not just throw drugs at her problem. He told her that she would also have to try physical therapy as well. They signed a contract listing mutual obligations — she would follow directions, he would be on call. He starts patients at low doses, makes them bring in their pill bottles so he can count how many are left, and may give urine tests to deter mixing drugs.

Some doctors, like Dr. Theodore Parran of Case Western Reserve University, also require methadone patients to give them the names of relatives or friends they can call from time to time.

But not all doctors have taken such precautions. Tony Davis, a contractor in Victorville, Calif., had just turned 38 in 2004 when, after years of migraines and back pain, he saw a new pain doctor in his Kaiser Foundation Health Plan. The doctor, who had already given him the sedative Xanax, prescribed methadone because of his continued pain.

The second day on the two medications, Mr. Davis said, “I’m feeling really weird,’ ” recalled his wife, Pebbles Davis. The two lay down for a nap and when she woke up, her husband was dead.

Ms. Davis recalled that the coroner had told her, “Given the medicines he was on, his brain forgot to tell his heart to beat and his lungs to pump.” The case went to an arbitrator, who ruled that although Mr. Davis had overused his drugs in the past, the doctor had failed to warn him about the new risks of starting methadone together with Xanax and that the care was substandard. Ms. Davis was awarded more than $500,000. “I never had any idea of the risk nor did my husband,” she said.

Another source of danger has been the conversion tables that doctors use when switching patients from one opioid to another — telling, for example, how many milligrams of methadone would be equivalent to the level of morphine a patient had been taking. These charts, until recently, indicated dangerously high doses for methadone. Newer ones suggest lower levels but many experts say these may be useless because methadone affects patients so variably.

Now, as the government is making new efforts to teach methadone’s challenges, some officials and doctors would go further, requiring prescribers to take a course before using methadone.

But many physicians and patient groups are wary of any steps that would slow access to pain treatments.

As early as 2003, alarmed by the rise in methadone-related deaths, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration made an urgent call for more systematic and detailed state and national reporting about opioid deaths — a call that still goes unanswered.

Misuse by abusers was first seen as the problem, but now, said Dr. H. Westley Clark, director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment of SAMHSA, “We know that a significant share of the methadone deaths involve doctors making well-intended prescriptions.”

A majority of victims also used large quantities of alcohol or benzodiazepine sedatives but few would have died without an opioid as the primary culprit. “You can take a lot of benzodiazepines without dying,” said Dr. Charles E. Inturrisi of Weill Cornell Medical Center, who said they strengthen the depressive effect of methadone.

Some doctors prescribe to patients who may be expected to court danger, like Anna Nicole Smith, who died from a drug cocktail including the sedative chloral hydrate and three benzodiazepines.

Last February, Margaret Moore, 54, who lived alone in South Pasadena, Fla., with a history of alcoholism, depression and chronic back pain from a car accident, was found dead at home. Her doctor had prescribed methadone and valium and, he told investigators, warned her to stop drinking.

Her body was surrounded by empty vodka bottles and a host of pills including bottles of methadone tablets and sedatives. Her death was declared an accident from methadone toxicity.

Since April, SAMHSA has sponsored nine voluntary training courses on the safe prescribing of opioids, and many more are planned, though they will only reach a fraction of prescribers. The agency is also contracting with the American Society on Addiction Medicine to set up a mentoring program, through which prescribing physicians can receive expert advice. The State of Utah has a plan to educate every doctor and pain patient in the state about safe use of methadone and other opioids.

Nancy Garvin, Robby’s mother, is one of many relatives of victims who, in the absence of a national registry, have started educational and pressure groups to fight bad prescribing and abuse of the drug.

Still, the death rate appears to be rising, raising the question of what more may be necessary, in law enforcement and in doctor training.

“Methadone can be important for patients when other drugs don’t work,” said Dr. Inturrisi, ”but unless the doctor has the training and resources to manage the patient properly, he’s going to get in trouble at a rate that’s unacceptable.”
487 2008-08-17 Rachel Vaughn McClain, a daughter of Deena P. McClain and Ronald R. McClain of Oakland, Calif., was married on Friday to Dr. William Peter Daines, a son of Linda S. Daines and Dr. Richard F. Daines of New York. The bride’s father, who as a sealer in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the authority to perform marriages, officiated at the Oakland California Temple.

Mrs. Daines, 24, is a registered nurse. Until May, she worked in the pediatric intensive care unit of NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital, where the bridegroom was until May a medical student in clinical rotations. Next month, she will begin working in the same-day surgery center at the Primary Children’s Medical Center in Salt Lake City. The bride graduated cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.

Her parents are lawyers in private practices in Oakland.

Dr. Daines, 28, is an internal medicine intern at the University of Utah Health Sciences Center in Salt Lake City. He graduated cum laude from Harvard and received his medical degree in May from Cornell.

The bridegroom’s mother is a managing director for private client services at Goldman Sachs in New York. The bridegroom’s father, an internist, is the New York State health commissioner. Until 2007, he was the chief executive and president of St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York.
488 2008-08-17 Emily Sara Buchman, a daughter of Susan and Arthur Buchman of Chappaqua, N.Y., was married on Saturday to Eric David Seltzer, a son of Karen and Robert Seltzer of Muttontown, N.Y. Rabbi Joshua M. Davidson officiated at Doral Arrowwood, a conference center and hotel in Rye Brook, N.Y.

Mrs. Seltzer, 28, is an associate in the New York office of Heidrick & Struggles, an executive recruiting firm that has its headquarters in Chicago. She graduated from the State University at Albany and received a master’s degree in industrial organizational psychology from Hofstra.

Her father is the principal of the career and technical education program of the Putnam/Northern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. Her mother is a guidance counselor at Byram Hills High School in Armonk, N.Y.

Mr. Seltzer, also 28, is an associate in the real estate department at the New York law firm Duval & Stachenfeld. He graduated summa cum laude from Syracuse University and received his law degree from Yeshiva.

His mother is a founder and a manager of First Steps Early Childhood Services in Muttontown, a provider of therapeutic services for developmentally delayed children. His father retired as the chairman and chief executive of Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide in New York.
489 2008-08-17 Dr. Elinor Ann Granzow, a daughter of Karen Granzow and Kent Granzow, both of Seattle, was joined in civil union on Saturday to Emily Beth Winston, a daughter of Ellen Winston and Marvin Winston of Old Bridge, N.J. Alison Cornwall, a friend of the couple who became a minister of the Rose Ministries for the occasion, officiated at LouCás restaurant in Edison, N.J.

Dr. Granzow (far left) and Ms. Winston met when both were members of the fencing team at Cornell, from which they graduated, Dr. Granzow magna cum laude and Ms. Winston cum laude. They both also received graduate degrees from the University of California, Davis; Dr. Granzow received a doctorate of veterinary medicine, and Ms. Winston a master’s in transportation technology and policy.

Dr. Granzow, 28, is a veterinarian at the Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls, N.J.

Her father is an electrical engineer at Boeing in Bellevue, Wash. Her mother works in Seattle as an editor of technical writing at URS Corporation, a San Francisco engineering company.

Until June last year, Ms. Winston, 30, was the manager of the Toyota fuel cell vehicle demonstration program in the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Davis.

Her father owns a consulting company in Old Bridge that specializes in food safety and regulatory affairs. Her mother is the company’s office manager.
490 2008-08-17 Whatever the hustle, as the road travels east and the neighborhoods along it get poorer, the number of self-styled entrepreneurs only grows. At three stops along the way, they can be seen making a living, or at least a few extra dollars, off the endless rumble of cars and trucks that pummel the avenue’s rutted surface.

Beneath the peeling roof of a Hess station at Ralph Avenue in Stuyvesant Heights, framed on the north by the Brevoort housing project and on the south by Kingsborough Houses, are eight self-service pumps — and often just as many hustlers who come and go as their economic needs dictate. The competition can be fierce; one hustler, called DMX by other gas pumpers, described it as a battle between lions and tigers.

“Coming in! White truck!” DMX yelled one afternoon as he sought to claim an S.U.V. even before it turned into the station.

DMX, who was a station regular earlier this summer, is tall and wears a white headband. On his cheek is a three-inch scar, which he said was carved into his face during a fight in a prison upstate.

Like several other people interviewed for this article, many of whom lead cryptic lives, he declined to give his full name. But like nearly all the hustlers in the neighborhood, he has a nickname; he earned his because he can make his voice sound as raspy as that of the rapper of the same name.

Street etiquette dictates that once a hustler claims a car, he has exclusive rights to approach it. But sometimes this arrangement breaks down, as it did recently.

“Yo, why you step in front of me like that?” a gas pumper yelled to another as passengers in a sedan that had pulled up to a pump looked out the windows with stunned expressions.

Amid such competition, the gas pumpers sometimes turn to intimidation.

“I’m going to get every car that gets in here,” DMX announced loudly at one point. “I got to eat.

“If they get in my way, I’m going to cut somebody.”

Such hostility is in sharp contrast to the fawning attentiveness that DMX showers on customers. Smiling broadly, he refers to them as “my sister” or “my dude.” For babies in the back seats, it’s “Hey, cutie!”

“Once you get them smiling,” he said, “you don’t know what may come out of their pockets.”

When a woman in a cream-colored PT Cruiser pulled up to Pump No. 2, DMX gazed into her eyes. “You all right?” he asked. “You look good.” After pumping her gas, he received a dollar.

In this respect, the gas pumpers are not like the squeegee men, who were ubiquitous in the city during the 1980s and were notorious for intimidating drivers stopped at red lights by demanding payment for unsolicited services like wiping dirty rags across windshields. The hustlers of Atlantic Avenue approach customers with careful hesitance and usually accept rejection politely, often with a guilt-inducing “God bless you.”

The station’s employees work in a little white hut equipped with bulletproof windows. They have become accustomed to the gas pumpers, and have even developed a rapport with the regulars. The station manager, who said his name was Tony, said that he had called 311 a few times to shoo the hustlers away, but that he no longer bothered.

Police officers come and hand out tickets. But once they leave, the hustlers return. “It’s unstoppable,” Tony said.

An eight-hour workday can land a gas pumper about $50, and for the more energetic ones, maybe more. DMX, who lives nearby, said he spent his earnings on food and clothing. Other gas pumpers, some of whom have sketchier housing situations, say that they spend much of their earnings on crack cocaine. Flip, a stocky 43-year-old who habitually toots a silver harmonica, says he sometimes sleeps on the A train, keeping company with a four-inch glass pipe.

As Flip talked about his past one recent morning over a cheeseburger at a McDonald’s next to the gas station, his eyes watered as he described what he called “all the positive things I was supposed to be.” As a child, he enjoyed acting, and he said he was an extra on “The Magnificent Major,” a 1977 children’s special on NBC about a little girl who didn’t like to read.

Mr. B, a skinny, 29-year-old regular at the station, also has a crack habit, though he says he is not addicted. “Psychology of the mind,” he says, keeps him from being dependent on the drug. His glassy eyes roll slightly upward, and he often looks as if he is trying to suppress a grin. He likes to mention his grandmother. “Today is my grandmother’s 90th birthday,” he told two customers, each on a different day. “I’m going to see her later.”

Both Flip and Mr. B take 30-minute breaks, drifting away from the station and returning dazed and sometimes a little paranoid. When Flip returned from one such break, he said, “I went to go see Oz.” In fact, he had made his way to Kingsborough Houses, where, he said, he took the elevator to the fifth floor of a building, puffed on his glass pipe and then rode back down.

The same afternoon, Mr. B left the station and began walking along Atlantic Avenue toward the sunset, passing the weeds that grow through the cracks in the sidewalk. “He won’t be back for a long time,” Flip said with a laugh.

But Mr. B returned about an hour later. He stood silently next to Pump No. 8, looking lost in a tangle of dismal thoughts. Asked where he had gone, Mr. B flashed his famous grin and replied, “Eat, eat, eat, eat.”

While the gas pumpers rely on a mixture of intimidation, charm and charity to make a living, other Atlantic Avenue hustlers sell their automotive skills.

Outside an AutoZone store near Washington Avenue in Clinton Hill, several street mechanics work under cars parked on the side of the road, installing parts purchased by the store’s customers.

On a hot spring day, a 36-year-old street mechanic named Matthew Joseph lay precariously on the baking asphalt of Atlantic Avenue, near three lanes of westbound traffic that whizzed by as he jacked up the left front side of a Hyundai sedan. Mr. Joseph wore a black do-rag and a white tank top that exposed his muscular arms. After a few years of working on the side of the road, he is used to the traffic being only a few feet away.

Pulling off the tire, Mr. Joseph released a cloud of dust that looked orange in the sunlight, and began replacing the car’s brake pads. Doing this sort of work, he usually earns about $150 a day, which helps him pay the $950 monthly rent for his one-bedroom apartment nearby. For this job, he charged the car’s owner $40, about half what a garage would charge, he said.

Mr. Joseph is enthusiastic about fixing cars, and he likes to explain automotive problems to his customers, though his explanations are sometimes dizzying in their complexity.

“You have to see if your injector has an injector control module,” he told a driver in a red minivan that afternoon. “If your injector has an injector control module, then you check to see if the control module for the injector maybe isn’t firing.”

“I feel you,” the driver replied, though he looked confused.

Later that day, Mr. Joseph sat in the passenger seat of a blue Jeep, the brakes of which he had just replaced. The driver sped up and down Atlantic Avenue, testing the work.

Mr. Joseph offered his cellphone number to the car owner in case there were any problems. “You could call me, too, all right,” he said. “You’d be driving, even at nighttime, call me. I’m official.”

Walter Malone also works near the AutoZone. He is in the auto body repair business, which he conducts on the sidewalk outside an old muffler garage. In addition, he lives in the garage, sleeping on a makeshift bed of mats and cushions protected from leaks in the roof by tarps. Mr. Malone, who often wears a red hard hat and silver chains around his neck, is deaf and speaks only in grunts.

One afternoon, a man who identified himself as Broadway pulled up to the garage in a rusty green pickup. Mr. Malone examined the truck carefully.

He pointed to the dented hood, making a hammering motion with his large hands, indicating that he would pound the dent out. He walked around the truck, making a “bah” sound when he found a problem and pantomiming how he would fix it. After the inspection, Mr. Malone rubbed together his thumb and index finger to indicate that this job would be costly. Using pen and paper, the two men eventually agreed to a price of $300. Broadway promised to bring back the pickup the next morning.

As it turned out, Broadway did not return. But before driving off, he explained that he had bought the truck for $200, and he planned to use it for, among other things, picking up mattresses left on the street and delivering them to a refurbishing business that would pay him $15 for each one.

“Everybody’s got a hustle,” Broadway said. “You can make a dollar in this here New York City.”

The gas pumping hustle at a Mobil station at Bedford Avenue, near the Bedford-Atlantic Armory and its homeless shelter, is a lot less cutthroat than the one at the Hess station a mile and half to the east. One day not long ago, a student from the nearby Science Skills Center High School named John Greene could be seen wandering among the station’s 16 pumps after school. John, who was wearing a Bob Marley T-shirt, was craving a snack of nachos, but first he needed to raise the money.

“Can I pump your gas for you?” he asked over and over.

A large man who calls himself Big Earl pulled up to Pump No. 13 in a minivan that blared R & B music. “It’s cool,” Big Earl said in response to the boy’s offer. John filled the tank with regular, and Big Earl handed him a fistful of change, nearly $2.

“Children are our resources,” Big Earl said. “If we don’t take care of our resources, we don’t take care of our future.”

Once John had collected $4, enough for two servings of nachos, he headed for the nachos machine in the station’s convenience store. “It’s my favorite,” he said as he pressed the buttons that released chili and cheese from the plastic tubes of the dispenser. Two days later, he said, he would be back for more.

A more familiar face at the Mobil station belongs to a skinny and mysterious man with a graying beard who has been pumping gas and acting as the convenience store’s de facto doorman for five years. Vishal Khosla, the station’s manager, calls the man “Green” — no relation to the student John Greene — and says he likes having him around because he keeps an eye out for thieves and troublemakers.

Most days, Green arrives at the station at 7 a.m. He earns more than enough to pay his $10 daily rent for a room nearby, he said. When the weather gets too hot, he quits early, and is happy to be able to come and go as he pleases.

“I be good here,” he said one afternoon, his linen polka-dot shirt rippling in the warm breeze. “I don’t try to get over on anybody. Everybody gets to like me because I do good.”

As he spoke, he opened the door for customers, receiving a dollar from one.

“If you do good,” he said, “you shall prosper.”
491 2008-08-17 On her new album, “How to Walk Away” (Ye Olde), Juliana Hatfield makes a casual study of heartbreak, playing the masochist and the sadist in equal turns. Produced by Andy Chase of the indie-pop band Ivy, the record pairs Ms. Hatfield’s compact songs with an unabashedly commercial sound, a strategy that works about half the time. Songs like “Remember November” and “Such a Beautiful Girl” end up sounding overworked, undeserving of the special treatment. But when Ms. Hatfield presents herself as a wronged partner (“The Fact Remains”), or simply the wrong partner (“Just Lust”), she can be gripping. Though capable of pure callousness — “It was you and me/So I left/Now I’m gone,” as one perfectly frank chorus goes — she never seems heartless. “Reason has no chance in this selfish world,” she declares on “Law of Nature,” the album’s closing track. She’s implicating herself there, and insulating herself too.

The trumpeter Mathias Eick has worked in some combustible musical settings: he maintains an active role in Jaga Jazzist, a popular electro-jazz group based in Norway, his home country. But in planning his first solo effort, “The Door,” Mr. Eick set out to make a proper ECM album, with all the hush and focus that implies. The result is an expertly poised recording awash in somber harmony, though it’s also far from listless. Consisting of eight weightlessly lyrical compositions, all originals, “The Door” features Mr. Eick with a rhythm section spearheaded by the superb pianist Jon Balke. At the center of the album’s sound is Mr. Eick’s trumpet, with its pristine yet penetrating tone. He’s a commanding improviser, capable of serious drama and conscious of what goes unsaid.

Psychedelic rock serves variously as a baseline and a horizon for this Massachusetts band, which absorbs the weirder 1960s pop conventions into an earnest mannerism. “Shall Noise Upon” (Headless Heroes), Apollo Sunshine’s third album, revels in the trappings of a time-stamped delirium: echo-trippy vocals, analog keyboards, British accents, fuzz-tone guitars. There are lyrics about vibrations, love, reincarnation and currency. One song is called “Green Green Lawns of Outer Space.” What keeps the whole enterprise from slipping into camp (most of the time, anyway) is the care exhibited by the musicians, especially Apollo Sunshine’s core members, Jeremy Black, Sam Cohen and Jesse Gallagher. Playing many different instruments, sometimes switching off to one another, they forge a slippery continuity out of messy glory. Sometimes they also manage beauty.

Just over a year ago this neo-bluegrass band from Winnipeg made a big adjustment to its lineup, bringing aboard a new lead singer, Sarah Dugas. She’s a powerhouse, and she has made herself at home, judging by “Fast Paced World” (Sugar Hill), the group’s fourth studio album, which was recorded in Nashville. Among the dozen tracks are four by Ms. Dugas and one jointly composed by Ms. Dugas and the band’s fiddler-mandolinist-keyboardist, Tania Elizabeth. The material roams freely and excitably: one original Scotch-Irish reel, by the banjoist Leonard Podolak, leads right into “Magalenha,” by the Brazilian pop eclectic Carlinhos Brown. Maybe it wasn’t necessary to rant about “supermarkets and box malls,” as Ms. Dugas does on the title track. If these musicians really do feel out of place in the express lane, their music begs to differ.

During the summer of 1959, the folklorist Alan Lomax stopped in Como, Miss., and made the first known recordings of the bluesman Mississippi Fred McDowell. That encounter lurks as a silent ideal throughout “Como Now: The Voices of Panola Co., Mississippi,” an album of a cappella gospel songs recorded by Michael Reilly at the Mount Mariah Church on July 22, 2006. Among the singers gathered that day were Brother and Sister Walker, a husband-and-wife team; their son the Rev. Robert Walker; and the sisters Della Daniels and Angela Taylor, whose grandfather was taped by Mr. Lomax during that summer visit almost 50 years ago. The premise here should stir a bit of skepticism — though essentially a field recording, “Como Now” is being released on Daptone Records, the indie beacon of retro-soul — but the album itself exudes austerity, uplift and release.
492 2008-08-17 Your reviewer’s response to “The Story of Edgar Sawtelle” (Aug. 3) made me wonder whether he’d ever taken care of a dog or — in this era of literary short takes like the cellphone novel — if he’d ever fallen in love with a wonderful long narrative like this one. The “Hamlet” template is the least of it.
493 2008-08-17 Your review of Ammon Shea’s traipse through the Oxford English Dictionary (“Reading the OED,” Aug. 3) mentions no misspellings. I may be responsible for correcting one error. In the Supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary, Vol. 3 (1982), p. 347, the word “pelagic” was misspelled “pelogic.” I called the error to the attention of the editors of the O.E.D. The reply was short and brusque: anyone could see that it was a mistake because the word as misspelled was not in alphabetical order!

More to the point, the editors said that the error would be corrected in the next edition of the dictionary. I checked and it was.The letter is still hanging on my wall for all to see and appraise.
494 2008-08-17 The former owner of the unit had been foreclosed upon, and its shares had returned to the co-op board. Because the unit had sat empty for so long, the board wanted to unload it quickly. So, $16,000 later, Ms. Folk had made her first real estate purchase.

She spent another $1,000 on legal fees and moved in, having work done on the floors and walls for a total of $5,000.

“My sister came back eight months after her first visit and said, ‘Is this the same place?’ ” she recalled with a laugh.

And now, with her recent sale of the place, the deal has paid off in spades — but not before a rocky eight months of twists and turns while it was on the market.

In 2005 Ms. Folk, a lifelong New Yorker who is an employee recruiter for accounting and secretarial positions, decided she wanted to try out a new city. She found a renter to sublet her apartment while she relocated to a rental in the Washington area. And after two years, she decided she wanted to stay there indefinitely.

She put her place on the market a year ago with DeAnna Lenhart, a broker with Brooklyn Hearth Realty who lives in the building.

Ms. Lenhart strongly suggested repainting the unit, as the renter had gone over Ms. Folk’s antique-white paint job with jarring, uneven coats of bright blue, neon green and red, and chocolate-brown moldings. But Ms. Folk wanted to make a go of selling it as-is, so they left it alone, deciding on a list price of $259,000.

It started out promisingly enough, with a full-price offer coming in the first week. But the prospective buyer got cold feet quickly. After about two more months and no real bites, they lowered the asking price to $249,000, and Ms. Lenhart made another pitch for painting the place to improve its marketability. “I felt so certain it was purely a lack of people’s imagination and not the apartment itself,” Ms. Lenhart said.

In exchange for raising the broker’s fee to 6 percent from 5 percent, Ms. Lenhart offered to have the place painted back to antique white, change the dated switch plates, regrout the bathroom tiling and undergo a professional cleaning. Ms. Folk agreed to the work, and a subsequent open house in October brought in two offers in one week. A couple won the bidding war with an offer of $250,500. But then, after a delay of more than four months, the co-op board rejected the application.

The apartment was vacant, so to raise the ante, in February, Ms. Lenhart had it staged and rephotographed. “At this point we wanted to do everything we possibly could,” Ms. Lenhart said. She also raised the list price to $255,000, explaining that “some time went by, and values in the neighborhood were going up.”

Some lookers came and went, including Steven Morales, who was drawn by the price and proximity to Prospect Park. But the place just wasn’t quite right for him. “It needed more work than we wanted to invest in, such as new finishes and fixtures,” recalled Mr. Morales, 40, an architect who found another apartment nearby. “We were also looking for a place that had the potential for creating a second bedroom.”

Still, in March, three offers did come in — for $260,000, $255,000 and $245,000 — and Ms. Lenhart was cautious, in light of the recent board rejection. One bidder had a weak credit score, and another had an income lower than that of the rejected couple; she advised Ms. Folk to go with the lowest offer from a buyer with solid financials — which she did, countering with $250,000. The buyer agreed, and the sale closed in May.

“At this point I didn’t want her to be taking any chances,” Ms. Lenhart said. “He was such a slam dunk that I felt there was no way the board would reject him.”

Her instincts were right about that winning buyer, Jonathan Fox, a 28-year-old lawyer with the New York City Commission on Human Rights whose parents had agreed to help him substantially with the down payment. When he put in his bid, he was living in a Prospect Heights rental with two roommates.

“I knew I wanted to stay in Brooklyn for the long term, and that rents would keep going up,” Mr. Fox said. “The market had stabilized and opened up an opportunity.”

Mr. Fox was limited to certain neighborhoods because of his budget — under $300,000 — and began his three-month search in Prospect Lefferts Gardens, finding places mainly through Craigslist and in the newspaper. “Nothing felt perfect,” he said. Eventually, he shifted to the area south of Prospect Park, and was drawn to see the place on Albemarle Road.

“It’s very large — I liked that it had a separate kitchen — and it’s also laid out in a way that really maximizes the space,” he said, adding that he loved the wood floors and the built-ins, and the fact that it overlooks the tennis court.

He does plan to renovate the kitchen and fix up the bathroom. But the unit, Mr. Fox added, “has very good bones and a lot of potential.”

And Ms. Folk could not have been happier with the outcome of her long sale.

First, she netted $200,000, which allowed her to purchase both a car and a $265,000 condominium in Arlington, Va.

Second, she was pleased to know that her labor of love was going to Mr. Fox. “The buyer is a sweet young man,” she said, adding that he seemed to understand what she had long believed: “There’s just something special about that place.”
495 2008-08-17 The opposition squad, Country Clubbers, wore golf-course/pool-side pinks and greens, some topping fishnets with argyle socks.

“You can be kitschy, campy; you put on a show, but you’re also athletic,” said Megan Moss Freeman, 33, of Port Chester, who co-founded the league in June 2007 after tiring of the three-times-a-week drive she made for more than a year to skate with a team based in Waterbury, Conn.

The Westchester teams began having bouts late last year and now play within the league and against other teams. The league’s more than 30 skaters practice for two hours on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays, with league bouts on periodic Saturday nights. They play on a flat rink, not the banked tracks of the old televised professional game. The competition is physical but without the pro version’s hair-pulling antics.

Mrs. Freeman, who is training to be a yoga instructor and holds several jobs, including as a graphic artist, credits roller derby with making her mentally tougher. “I never really thought I could do this,” she said. “It’s changed my life. I feel like I can speak up for myself now.”

Yvette Scardera of Mahopac, who is Westchester County’s payroll manager, is, at 48, the league’s oldest player. But she is fast and one of its best, Mrs. Freeman said.

Friends remind Ms. Scardera that she would not try soccer because she feared injury. But Ms. Scardera, who said she loves the exercise and can eat what she wants, joked, “This is my midlife crisis.”

While not every skater has a long athletic résumé (Mrs. Freeman, for instance, never played organized sports), Ms. O’Leary swims, hikes, runs and has played volleyball.

But Ms. O’Leary said, “It was definitely an adjustment to trade running shoes for a mouth guard and be ready to take physical abuse and to give it.”

“I never thought I’d be able to give a full-contact hit to someone and not be sorry,” she said.

Jane McManus, 37, of Ossining, who is a Siren, called roller derby “a fun, satirical outlet.” She is a mother of two, a full-time sports reporter for The Journal News and an adjunct professor of sports journalism at Columbia. She said roller derby gave her “something totally crazy in life.”

“It takes me out of the mommy/career mode,” she said. “It’s the antithesis to suburban living.”

During a scrimmage with the Hudson Valley Horrors, from Hyde Park, Ms. McManus’s 5-year-old daughter, Jean, jumped up and down, screaming, “Go, Mommy, go,” as her mother, playing jammer, tried to pass Horror skaters to score.

“It was hard for me to keep going,” Ms. McManus said. “It was the best moment.”

Sixty friends came to one of Ms. Scardera’s bouts, and her son, Frank, 22, would be interested in joining a men’s team if there were one in Westchester. She would like her daughter, Chrissy, 18, to get involved, but she works Saturday nights and has yet to see her mother compete.

“I’m like, ‘Please give them notice,’ ” Ms. Scardera said.
496 2008-08-17 If you need a little downtime while passing through the United Airlines terminals in three airports — Kennedy International in New York, Los Angeles International or San Francisco International — try one of the recently opened “renewal” lounges there. Westin Hotels & Resorts has joined with United to design and install the lounges, right, which opened on Aug. 4 and are inside the airline’s Red Carpet Clubs.

They feature walls with LED candles, plush furniture, a white tea scent throughout the area, floral arrangements in bento boxes, healthy snacks and video montages of nature scenes. The San Francisco lounge has a blue-light phototherapy lamp. The new Westin-United partnership will also give 1,000 United Airlines miles to guests who stay at select Westin properties, and will provide first- and business-class passengers aboard United flights with Westin linens and amenities (www.westin.com/united).
497 2008-08-17 1. Chris Benz blouse, $845. Go to neimanmarcus.com. Lacoste pants, $150, lacoste.com. Jenni Kayne scarf. BCBG Max Azria shoes. Carolina Amato gloves (worn throughout). 2. French Connection sweater. Club Monaco shirt. Tim Hamilton pants. Burberry bow tie. Paul Smith socks. Cole Haan shoes. 3. 3.1 Phillip Lim cardigan. Patrik Ervell shirt. United Bamboo jeans. Rogan tie. Stacy Adams socks. Cole Haan shoes. 4. Vince shirt, $195, vinceusa.com. Philosophy jacket, $695, albertaferretti.com. Chris Benz skirt, $725, chris-benz.com. D&G shoes. Furla bag. 5. Daughters shirt, $250, obedientsons.com. Converse by John Varvatos top (underneath), $145, converse.com. Max Azria skirt, $498, maxazria.com. Rachel Comey shoes. 6. Marc by Marc Jacobs jacket. Shipley & Halmos shirt. Gant pants. Buckler tie. Brooks Brothers boots. 7. Jenni Kayne jacket, $1,095, jennikayne.com. Alexander Wang sweater, $430, shopbop.com. Tory Burch shirt, $125, nordstrom.com. Manolo Blahnik for Thakoon shoes. Wolford stockings.

1. A.P.C. jacket, $900, apc.fr. 3.1 Phillip Lim blouse, $350, 31philliplim.com. Daughters pants, $390. Kate Spade clutch. Rachel Comey shoes. 2. Theory jacket, $1,975, theory.com. Ports 1961 by Tia Cibani dress, $795, saks.com. Band of Outsiders shirt, about $210, bandofoutsiders.com. Max Azria belt. Manolo Blahnik for Thakoon shoes. 3. 3.1 Phillip Lim jacket. McQ-Alexander McQueen shirt. Levi’s jeans. Tripp NYC tie. The Sockman socks. Thom Browne shoes. 4. Nicole Miller dress, $430, saks.com. Réyes belt. Chanel bag. Christian Louboutin shoes. 5. Réyes dress, $1,080, reyescollection.com. Vince cardigans, $345 (outer) and $265. Thakoon belt. Manolo Blahnik for Thakoon shoes. 6. Patrik Ervell tuxedo. Burberry shirt. J. Crew sweater. Tripp NYC tie. Stacy Adams socks. Cole Haan shoes.

7. Hogan by Thakoon jacket, $2,195, hoganworld.com. Brooks Brothers shirt, $50, brooksbrothers.com. Tory Burch skirt, $350, toryburch.com. Alexis Bittar rings. 8. Calvin Klein dress, $128, macys.com. Peter Som belt. Tom Binns necklace. 9. Jean Paul Gaultier cardigan, $880, and top, $495, macys.com. McQ-Alexander McQueen skirt, $350, shopjake.com. J. Crew and M.C.L. bracelets. 10. Just Cavalli blouse, $635, bloomingdales.com. Jason Wu skirt, $770, ultimo.com. 11. Obedient Sons jacket. Spurr shirt. Nom de Guerre jeans. Tripp NYC tie. Stacy Adams socks. Cole Haan shoes. 12. Robert Geller jacket. Lucky Brand Jeans pants. Brooks Brothers boots. 13. Adam Kimmel jacket. Levi’s shirt. Comme des Garçons Shirt pants. Tripp NYC tie. The Sockman socks.

1. Schott jacket. Marc by Marc Jacobs shirt. Patrik Ervell pants. D&G bow tie. Oliver Spencer belt. 2. DKNY blouse, $160, dkny.com. Elie Tahari jacket, $498, elietahari.com. 3.1 Phillip Lim skirt, $425, bergdorfgoodman.com. Banana Republic belt. 3. 3.1 Phillip Lim sweater, $375. Daughters shorts, $300. Kate Spade bag. M.C.L. ring. 4. Boy by Band of Outsiders coat, about $3,280, barneys.com. Max Azria dress, $478. Peter Som belt. Stuart Weitzman bag. 5. Adam Kimmel jacket. Club Monaco shirt. Levi’s jeans.

6. Gap coat, $128, and sweater, $38, gap.com. Peter Som skirt, $850, saks.com. Manolo Blahnik for Thakoon shoes. 7. DKNY jacket, $475. Thread Social shirt, $437, threadsocial.com. Lela Rose skirt, $675, lelarose.com. Kate Spade boots. Botkier bag. 8. 3.1 Phillip Lim jacket, $625. Thakoon blouse, $985, ikram.com. Diesel Black Gold jeans, $180, diesel.com. Christian Louboutin shoes. 9. Opening Ceremony jacket. Levi’s jacket (underneath). Lacoste turtleneck. McQ-Alexander McQueen pants. Thom Browne shoes. 10. Adam jacket. Band of Outsiders shirt. Conference of Birds jeans. Rogan tie. The Sockman socks. Cole Haan shoes. 11. Ralph Lauren Black Label jacket. Comme des Garçons Shirt shirt. McQ-Alexander McQueen jeans. Tripp NYC tie. The Sockman socks. Cole Haan shoes. 12. Guess by Marciano jacket, $158, guess.com. Tse turtleneck, $450, tsecashmere.com 3.1 Phillip Lim skirt, $275, bergdorfgoodman.com. Rachel Comey shoes.

1. Diane von Furstenberg jacket, $525, dvf.com. Tommy Hilfiger skirt, about $325, tommy.com. Vince turtleneck, $85. Yves Saint Laurent bag. D&G shoes. 2. Marc by Marc Jacobs sweater. Band of Outsiders shirt. Michael Bastian pants. Tripp NYC tie. Richard James socks. Cole Haan shoes. 3. Banana Republic jacket, $150, bananarepublic.com. Gryphon New York cardigan, $595, bergdorfgoodman.com. Brooks Brothers T-shirt, $50. Thakoon skirt, $2,295. Karen Walker belt. Rachel Comey shoes. 4. Nom de Guerre cardigan. Michael Bastian jacket (underneath). Burberry pants. Pierre Hardy for Gap boots. 5. BR Monogram cardigan, $195, bananarepublic.com. United Bamboo skirt, about $350, lagarconne.com. Manolo Blahnik for Thakoon shoes. 6. JF & Son blouse, $404, jfandson.com. Lela Rose skirt, $595, bloomingdales.com. D&G shoes. Stuart Weitzman clutch. From top: M.C.L. bracelets; J. Crew bracelet.
498 2008-08-17 Great style is eternal, which is why designers are re-editing their tried-and-true hits. Ann Demeulemeester’s new Collection Blanche cherry-picks key items from her 20-year career, including her 1998 asymmetrical “Holy” tank top (left), a deceivingly simple little black dress and a leather blazer that morphs into a three-quarter coat. At Balenciaga, Nicolas Ghesquière has been quietly reinterpreting classics from Cristóbal Balenciaga’s archives for the past couple of years; 15 originals are selected each season based on their craftsmanship and timeless appeal. Zero + Maria Cornejo is celebrating its 10th anniversary by making 10 of its greatest hits available once again; five screen prints by Cornejo’s husband, the photographer Mark Borthwick, have also been reissued for limited-edition T-shirts. And in what marks a new chapter in fashion re-editing, the designer Sophie Albou of Paris’s Paul & Joe has joined forces with Pierre Cardin. Albou bought a large stash of Cardin couture at auction and fell in love with the futuristic disco style of the clothes. She contacted the reclusive designer and struck a three-year deal to reproduce 10 of his styles per season under the Pierre Cardin for Paul & Joe label. The more fashion changes. ... [?][?][?]REBECCA VOIGHT
499 2008-08-17 The Spanish director Luis Buñuel joked in his autobiography that after his death he would like to rise from the grave and read what’s in the news. Were he to do so this fall, Buñuel, who died in 1983, would discover that he is suddenly everyone’s furry cup of tea.

In further proof that subversion never goes out of style, Buñuel’s brilliant brand of cinematic mischief — devilish commentaries on sex, death, religion and the perversions that lie beneath the self-loathing surface of respectability — was carted onto the runways like the piano-addled donkeys dragged across the screen in “Un Chien Andalou,” the seminal 1929 film he made with Salvador Dalí.

His perverse glamour and arch Catholicism were there for all to see at Givenchy, Roberto Cavalli and Prada, where lace played as much of a starring role as it did in “Viridiana,” Buñuel’s 1961 film about a novitiate’s fall from grace. His influence was also on display at Comme des Garçons: its lip-shaped peekaboo cutouts brought to mind not only a familiar Surrealist motif but also the dualities of female identity and desire that fascinated the auteur, most notably in later films like “The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie” (1972).

It’s no surprise that designers are suddenly enamored of Buñuel, who by all accounts took great pride in dressing up (sometimes as a nun). In half a century of moviemaking, he shared many of the same obsessions that mesmerize the fashion world: legs, breasts, shoes, people born with wildly unnatural bodies, self-referential visual puns, calculated provocation and the pairing of older men with young women.

Buñuel was also fascinated with troilism, the act of two people having sex while a third watches, which is a familiar trope in high fashion advertising today. And what are reality shows like “Big Brother” and “Survivor” if not modern analogues of “The Exterminating Angel,” his 1962 classic in which guests at a chic cocktail party grow to hate one another while trapped in a room that becomes the desert island of their own making?

Recent Surrealist exhibitions in London, Los Angeles and at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, where “Dalí: Painting and Film” runs through Sept. 15, have exposed Buñuel to a new generation of bourgeoisie-bashing fans. The lovefest is likely to continue with next year’s Surrealist exhibition, featuring the Italian artist Francesco Vezzoli, at the Moderna Museet in Stockholm. Vezzoli attributes Surrealism’s current hold over the culture to its ability to interact with other disciplines: “Ever since Schiaparelli designed the lobster dress for Salvador Dalí, and Buñuel and Dalí collaborated in films, Surrealism has successfully played with the vocabulary of fashion and cinema.”
500 2008-08-17 WEISS--Arthur E., 88, Oxnard, CA, August 14, 2008. Predeceased by brother Donald and wife Helene. Survived by wife Barbara, brother Sheldon, children Jane, Donald, Andrew; grandchildren Laura, Amanda, Joshua, Helene, Lila, Joseph, Elena; also by R...
501 2008-08-18 A self-described antifeminist and lawyer, Roy Den Hollander, asserts that Columbia University’s women’s studies program is unconstitutional....
502 2008-08-18 The last, lazy, hot days of summer, with a canine theme....
503 2008-08-18 The U.S.S. Oriskany was sunk in 2006 as an artificial reef. Despite environmental issues, it is now a popular diving spot.
504 2008-08-18 Nastia Liukin's "family business" is winning gold medals, and Visa features her in ads aimed at female viewers.
505 2008-08-18 Canine ways in the waning days of summer.
506 2008-08-18 A glimpse into teenage perceptions of their own driving abilities....
507 2008-08-18 No matter what part of the country you live in, tables at farmers’ markets are likely to be piled high with summer squash: round or long, in hues from yellow to light green to dark. If you get vegetables straight from the field, via a food coop or delivery service, you may already be tired of tossing squash into the inevitable ratatouille. Fortunately, you have many other choices. This is a vegetable at home in a wide range of dishes, and just about every cuisine in the world knows how to show it off.

Raw squash contains just 19 calories per cup, in part because water comprises about 95 percent of its weight. For this reason, squash is not loaded with nutrients in the way that, say, broccoli is. Still, squash is a very good source of manganese and vitamin C, and it contains respectable amounts of folacin, vitamin A, dietary fiber, potassium and copper. Although different types vary in density, which can affect cooking time, you can use all varieties of squash interchangeably in most recipes.

This makes a great side dish, or you can toss it with pasta, serve it with rice or other grains, or use it to fill tacos. The recipe also is a first step for my summer squash gratin, coming later this week. The succotash variation makes a more substantial dish.

1. Heat the olive oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add the onion. Stir often and cook until tender, five to eight minutes, then add the garlic, summer squash, red pepper and about 3/4 teaspoon of salt. Turn the heat to medium-high and cook, stirring, until the squash is translucent and the red pepper tender, about 10 minutes. Add freshly ground pepper, taste and adjust salt. Stir in the parsley, and remove from the heat. Serve as a side dish, or use it as a filling for a vegetable tart, gratin or frittata.
508 2008-08-18 American gymnast Nastia Liukin captured silver in the uneven bars Monday. Liukin and China's He Kexin each scored 16.725s in the uneven bars, but He claimed the victory because her execution marks were closer to a perfect 10. (Aug. 18)
509 2008-08-18 China’s He Kexin won a tiebreaker over Nastia Liukin, the all-around champion from the United States, in the uneven parallel bars....
510 2008-08-18 Brave new films and two major labor organizations joined together to produce a video that juxtaposes McCain comments on defaulting homeowners, his own homes, the economy and a woman's tale of losing her home....
511 2008-08-18 CNBC talks with Jeffrey Immelt, General Electric's chief, about the markets and what the conglomerate has in store for NBC.
512 2008-08-18 The Republican presidential candidate opened up a sharp line of attack against his rival before a veterans' group in Orlando today....
513 2008-08-18 To the deal-making world, the big question hanging over the Olympics has been this: Will NBC, the General Electric-owned network that is broadcasting the games from Beijing, land on the auction block after the lights in the Bird's Nest go dark? In...
514 2008-08-18 Bart Conner (www.intlgymnast.com) is listed sizes up Monday's gymnastics competition in Beijing. (Aug. 18)
515 2008-08-18 Bloggers discuss whether John McCain was too prepared for questions asked of him in an interview on Saturday....
516 2008-08-18 Linens 'n Things, which filed for bankruptcy in May, is working on a plan to emerge from bankruptcy early next year, according to The New York Post....
517 2008-08-18 Citigroup unveiled a reorganization of its Asia-Pacific business on Monday that gives regional heads increased authority across the bank's sprawling product lines....
518 2008-08-18 Vishay Intertechnology, a maker of semiconductors and other electronic components, said Friday that it had tabled an $1.6 billion unsolicited bid for rival International Rectifier....
519 2008-08-18 As Cablevision announces a 10-cent dividend, some industry observers wonder: Has Harbinger Capital Management lit fire under the Dolans?...
520 2008-08-18 Liu Xiang's failure to compete in the 110-meter hurdles denied China the defining sports moment that has lifted so many other countries....
521 2008-08-18 Chelsea gained an early advantage over Manchester United in the English Premier League title race, routing Portsmouth, 4-0. Manchester United tied visiting Newcastle, 1-1, on the opening weekend of the season. Chelsea, which finished second last season to Manchester United in England and in the Champions League, won easily at home in Manager Luiz Felipe Scolari’s first game. Joe Cole, Nicolas Anelka, Frank Lampard and Deco scored.

Manchester United will play the opening weeks of this season with a weakened squad. Cristiano Ronaldo, last season’s top scorer, is sidelined until October, and Michael Carrick (ankle) and Ryan Giggs (hamstring) will be out for at least two weeks.

In Sunday’s other game, the American goalkeeper Brad Friedel made his league debut for Aston Villa in a 4-2 win over Manchester City.
522 2008-08-18 BEIJING — At the beginning of every quarter of each water polo match at the Yingdong Natatorium, the ball is placed in a ring in the middle of the pool. The players all line up at the end line and madly sprint toward it.

While they swim, the “Jaws” theme song plays hauntingly through the arena. The chilling soundtrack provided a fitting metaphor for what was at stake for the United States men’s water polo team Monday.

It was sink or swim for the Americans, who needed a victory against Germany to advance. And with an 8-7 victory, the United States staved off elimination and completed its stunning run here by winning its group. With a 4-1 record, the Americans clinched a bye in the medal round and secured a spot in the tournament semifinals.

The United States is expected to play the winner of Spain’s quarterfinal matchup with Serbia on Wednesday. The Americans won the group after Serbia stunningly lost to Italy earlier Monday, prompting talk that Serbia lost on purpose for a more favorable quarterfinal matchup.

Adam Wright seemed to clinch the game with a one-time goal on the doorstep of the left post to make the score 8-6 with 2 minutes 47 seconds remaining. But there were still some late dramatics.
523 2008-08-18 Ed McMahon, Johnny Carson’s former sidekick and the onetime host of “Star Search,” continues to be dogged by money trouble. In the latest development Westmoore Lending of Huntington Beach, Calif., has sued Mr. McMahon, right, to recover more than $250,000 he apparently borrowed, secured with his Beverly Hills home, The Chicago Tribune reported. The house, which has been on the market for about two years, was listed at $6.5 million two months ago and is now being offered for $4.6 million. Better times could be on the horizon, though: The Los Angeles Times reported that Donald Trump is planning to buy Mr. McMahon’s house, though details of the deal have not been finalized. As previously reported, Mr. McMahon faces possible foreclosure on that home after he defaulted on $4.8 million in mortgage loans from Countrywide Financial. He is also being sued by Citibank, which claims it is owed nearly $200,000, and by his former lawyers, who say he owes more than $275,000 in legal bills.
524 2008-08-18 Whatever gnarled or fissured noises emanated from Central Park SummerStage on Saturday afternoon — courtesy of Battles, Black Dice and Gang Gang Dance, groups known for making a racket — the music kept squaring itself against the blunt comfort of rhythm. Distorted drones yielded to pneumatic drumbeats; static settled into a throb. This was a reasonable strategy for a free outdoor show, but it worked only some of the time.

Perhaps the setting was partly to blame. When the sun is shining, and a gentle breeze is stirring, the appeal of industrial dissonance can diminish fast. The three bands on the bill, armed with different protocols, all faced the same challenge: how to hold the focus of a restless crowd without the benefit of beach balls, shout-outs or much in the way of melody. By the looks of it, this audience was well attuned to stylized clatter. But still.

Gang Gang Dance, which opened the show, made its set a series of wavelike crests, fading one groove into the next. The band’s lead singer, Lizzi Bougatsos, moaned and sighed wordlessly (or just unintelligibly) over a blend of synthesizers, percussion and guitars. There were a few intriguingly open-ended moments — involving, for instance, the pitch-bending keyboard riff on “Vacuum,” one of the hazier tracks from a forthcoming album — but the general impact of the performance was numbingly slight.

Black Dice was numbing in another sense, by purposeful design. With three members bent over mixing boards and consoles, in front of a wall of amplifiers, the group made no pretense of organic energies. Even when a guitar or microphone entered the equation, its output got filtered through the digital murk. (One vocal part was sampled, chopped up and played backward.) Among the sonic reference points were some that felt cozily smug: laser blasts, arcade-game blips, the rev and blurt of an engine.

The beats meanwhile — some set off by drumsticks on a pad, others tweaked with knobs and dials — were glaringly rudimentary. Every pulse proposed a variation of techno, thumping four beats to a bar. For a group that earned its following by creating enveloping experiences out of abstract noise, this felt regressive and uninspired.

By contrast, every groove pounded out by Battles came equipped with intricate cross-patterns and stubborn syncopations. John Stanier kick-started the band’s headlining set from his place at the drums, nailing down the beat for a tune called “Leyendecker.” Then he bashed a whiplash of snare and high-hat accents to set up the next song, “Tij.” Strenuous, impressive and increasingly red faced, Mr. Stanier was the obvious focal point onstage.
525 2008-08-18 ORLANDO, Fla. — Senator John McCain was not in a “cone of silence” on Saturday night while his rival, Senator Barack Obama, was being interviewed at the Saddleback Church in California.

Members of the McCain campaign staff, who flew here Sunday from California, said Mr. McCain was in his motorcade on the way to the church as Mr. Obama was being interviewed by the Rev. Rick Warren, the author of the best-selling book “The Purpose Driven Life.”

The matter is of interest because Mr. McCain, who followed Mr. Obama’s hourlong appearance in the forum, was asked virtually the same questions as Mr. Obama. Mr. McCain’s performance was well received, raising speculation among some viewers, especially supporters of Mr. Obama, that he was not as isolated during the Obama interview as Mr. Warren implied.

Nicolle Wallace, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain, said on Sunday night that Mr. McCain had not heard the broadcast of the event while in his motorcade and heard none of the questions.

“The insinuation from the Obama campaign that John McCain, a former prisoner of war, cheated is outrageous,” Ms. Wallace said.

Before an audience of more than 2,000 people at the church, the candidates answered questions about policy and social issues.
526 2008-08-18 Ms. Butler said that she was captivated by the idea of how a small-agency bureaucrat like Mr. Stryker, who kept a tight rein on his photographers and constantly wrangled more money for his work, managed to remain idealistic. Her team began working on the film in 2000, she said, and scored a coup along the way by interviewing Mr. Parks, one of the country’s most celebrated photographers, who died in 2006 at 93.

“I feel like some of the issues we were facing then continue to be issues we as a society face,” Ms. Butler said. “There are still racial and class differences that can inspire a whole new generation of filmmakers, artists and photographers to look and begin to capture. But it’ll never be a big government project again.”

F. Jack Hurley, professor emeritus of history at the University of Memphis and author of a book on Mr. Stryker, who died in 1975, said in an interview that “Documenting the Face of America” helped put a few dozen widely reproduced Depression-era photographs into a broader context. Mr. Hurley, who appears throughout the documentary, said it also showed that the photographs, now celebrated, were once denounced in some quarters as the Roosevelt administration’s political propaganda, meant to win favor for some of his New Deal initiatives.

“What we think of as social documentary, it starts here,” Mr. Hurley said in an interview. “Stryker started out showing rural poverty to well-off urban people but broadened the file to include the middle-class and even farmers faring well.” Mr. Stryker gave questions to the photographers to serve as guidelines for their work, Mr. Hurley said: What do people in small-town Texas do on a Saturday afternoon? How do people in Mississippi use their porches?

“You wind up with a nicely balanced portrait of America in the ’30s,” he said.

Mr. Stryker, heard on screen in a 1975 audio interview with Mr. Hurley, says he quickly realized that farmers in every area of the country were suffering. “The picture began to be the thing of my life,” he says. “The photograph was the way to reach the people. Somehow, some way, I wanted life in the pictures.”

“Documenting the Face of America” includes excerpts from Mr. Stryker’s letters and interview transcripts, and excerpts from the diaries and shooting scripts belonging to him and the photographers. It is chock-full of the most famous photographs of Ms. Lange and Mr. Rothstein, as well as Mr. Parks and Mr. Evans, Jack Delano, Russell Lee, Marion Post Wolcott, Ben Shahn and others.

Mr. Stryker, a World War I veteran and assistant professor of economics at Columbia University, went to work for the federal government in the summer of 1935, when the country was in the grip of the Great Depression. He directed the historical unit of the Resettlement Administration (later the Farm Security Administration). In the ’40s his photography unit was assigned to the Office of War Information, or O.W.I.

The initial assignment of the historical unit was to use photographs to try to persuade Congress that thousands of dispossessed farm families were in desperate need of government assistance.

Mr. Stryker had grown up on small dirt farm outside Montrose, Colo., and his father was “a prairie populist,” Mr. Hurley says in the film.

“Roy’s patriotism included the right to question the way things were done,” Mr. Hurley says in an on-camera interview. “And certainly by the 1930s he was very angry about the situation that poor farmers found themselves in and he really wanted to do something about it.”

Mr. Parks — whose work for Mr. Stryker produced “American Gothic,” the image of a black government cleaning woman standing in front of an American flag, a broom in one hand and a mop by her other side — talks about his first meeting with his boss soon after he arrived.

Mr. Stryker gave Mr. Parks an unusual assignment: leave the Farm Security Administration office at 14th Street and Independence Avenue and get lunch across the street. Then go across the street to a theater. There, in the heart of the capital, Mr. Parks found the “Whites Only” signs that barred his admission.

Mr. Parks, in an on-screen interview, recalls reporting his experiences to Mr. Stryker on his return to the office. “I said, ‘I think you know how it went.’ He says: ‘Yeah, I know how it went. Well, what are you going to do about it?’ I said: ‘I don’t know. What do I do about it?’ He said, ‘Well, what did you bring that camera down here for?’ ”

Although Mr. Stryker kept his photographers together through various political challenges, World War II changed everything, the film shows. His unit was moved to the Office of War Information, and he lost control of it. His photographers were asked to produce propaganda, like photographs that showed the supposedly fair treatment of the Japanese-Americans interned in wartime camps. But before resigning in 1943 Mr. Stryker appealed directly to the White House to keep the thousands of photographs together at the Library of Congress, where most remain.
527 2008-08-18 Each Business Exchange topic page links to articles and blog posts from myriad other sources, including BusinessWeek’s competitors, with the contents updated automatically by a Web crawler. Nearly all traditional news organizations offer only their own material, spurning the role of aggregator as an invitation to readers to leave their sites.

On Business Exchange, a user can post new material to a topic page, or even create a new page, choosing the subject and the title, and write a brief introductory description. This is hardly a revolutionary idea in the wiki era, but for a mainstream publication, it represents a significant loosening of control. (But not too loose — new topics require editorial approval, promised within 24 hours, and objectionable posts will be taken down.)

“As journalists, we’re good at finding great sources of information and distinguishing what’s important, but we also want to harness the very significant capabilities of our community,” said Stephen J. Adler, editor in chief of BusinessWeek, which is published by the McGraw-Hill Companies. “It only takes a very small percentage of people being active in a topic for it to be really vibrant and valuable for everybody else.”

The site also works as a kind of social network, letting friends, colleagues and rivals track one another’s interests — or, say, Warren Buffett’s interests, if he chooses to play along.

Each user has a profile (photo optional) that contains a personal description and tracks the user’s reading and posting habits. It allows the reader to create a network among other readers, and to import information from a LinkedIn account.

The user can also choose to make the profile public, with all of that information visible to anyone on the site.

Through the topic pages and profiles, BusinessWeek hopes to be able to deliver narrowly focused audiences to narrowly focused advertisers, and even let the advertisers know who those readers are.

“Advertisers want you to prove engagement,” said Keith Fox, president of BusinessWeek. “Ordinary social media are too broad to draw ads, but we can sell display ads reaching a specific audience on electronics or cars or medical devices.”

BusinessWeek wants to stand out in a crowded lineup of news sources on businesses, financial markets, the economy, and personal finance and investing.

In print, BusinessWeek has a circulation of about 900,000, similar to Forbes and Fortune, which publish half as often. (The other top-selling financial magazines, like Money, Kiplinger’s Personal Finance, Smart Money, Fast Company and Inc., do not compete as directly. They are all monthlies, some focus primarily on personal finance, and they tend to have fewer ads or online readers.)

In both print ad sales and online traffic, BusinessWeek ranks far ahead of most other financial magazines, but lags behind its closest competitors. Its Web site draws more than three million unique visitors monthly, according to Nielsen Online, a healthy figure, but Forbes.com gets more than eight million. No directly comparable figure is available for Fortune, whose online presence is contained within Time Warner’s CNNMoney site, with more than nine million monthly users.

In the first six months of 2008, BusinessWeek had more than 900 ad pages, according to the Magazine Publishers Association, while Fortune had more than 1,100 and Forbes more than 1,300. Though print sales have held steady, financial magazines have lost more than 20 percent of their print ad volume in the last four years, and BusinessWeek’s advertising has fallen even faster.

Roger W. Neal, senior vice president and general manager of BusinessWeek Digital, said that as Business Exchange pages work their way up through search engine results, the site should double BusinessWeek’s traffic on the Web within two years, allowing it to sell more ads.

“Increasingly the ad buy in our sector is going to that top tranche of players,” he said, “so we want to get dramatically bigger.”
528 2008-08-18 The creative types whose minds give birth to television shows and movies typically disdain the overt blending of advertising messages with their work. But Burger King found one who doesn’t seem to mind. In fact, he even agreed to create the ads.

Next month, Seth MacFarlane, creator of the “Family Guy” TV series, will unveil a high-profile new project called “Seth MacFarlane’s Cavalcade of Cartoon Comedy,” an animated variety show that will be distributed solely through Google.

The Internet giant will syndicate the new program using its AdSense advertising system to thousands of Web sites that are predetermined to be gathering spots for Mr. MacFarlane’s target audience, typically young men. Instead of placing a static ad on a Web page, Google will place a “Cavalcade” video clip. YouTube will also devote a channel to the material.

Marketing messages will be incorporated into the clips largely through “preroll” ads, but Burger King took its involvement a step further. In a rare example of one of Hollywood’s top creative powers working hand-in-glove with a marketer, Mr. MacFarlane created and animated Burger King ads to play ahead of “Cavalcade” clips.

In one, blue velvet curtains withdraw to reveal an ornate movie screen. The fast-food company’s King mascot, a mute character with a creepy smile, bursts through the center of the screen and runs away. Following him through the ripped screen are menacing-looking Mayans who hurl poison darts in the mascot’s direction. It ends with the Burger King logo.
529 2008-08-18 OLYMPIC PAYOFFNBC's big gamble on the Olympic Games from Beijing has become a huge success with numbers that so far have been certifiably big -- far beyond the network's expectations.       A NEW SITE FOR SPORTS FANS David Katz, below, who helped ...
530 2008-08-18 DONNY MCCASLIN TRIO     ''Recommended Tools''...
531 2008-08-18 Lessons After Netflix Faltered     Netflix, the DVD-by-mail service, largely ceased shipping movies to its 8.4 million subscribers for three days last week. The company vaguely blames a technology glitch....
532 2008-08-19 The completion of Phase IV, from 59th to 63rd Streets along the Hudson River, connects Riverside Park South to Hudson River Park, to the south. The cost was $10 million....
533 2008-08-19 A federal court in Philadelphia has ordered the former president and founder of hedge fund to pay nearly $300 million for defrauding clients....
534 2008-08-19 "Samantha Who?" star Christina Applegate, 36, is free of cancer after having both breasts removed to combat the disease....
535 2008-08-19 The 2008 Pebble Beach Concours d'Élégance Best of Show winner: a 1938 Alfa Romeo 8C 2900B Touring Berlinetta owned by Jon and Mary Shirley from Medina, Wash....
536 2008-08-19 The kit includes an oil barrel-shaped stress ball for scribes theoretically stressed out by their lack of access to a candidate who no longer engages in back-of-the-bus media talk-a-thons....
537 2008-08-19 BEIJING (AP) -- Usain Bolt played to the cameras before his 200-meter semifinal and slowed down before it was over -- the usual drill for a sprinter who doesn't look like he can be beaten at these Olympics.

Bolt won his semifinal in 20.09 seconds Tuesday night, keeping alive his chances for the first 100-200 Olympic double since Carl Lewis in 1984.

The Jamaican sprinter, who set the world record in the 100 at 9.69 seconds Saturday, beat defending 200 champion Shawn Crawford of the United States by 0.03 second. The noticeable difference, though, was that Bolt appeared to be loping to the line, while Crawford was busting across at full speed.

"I wouldn't say jogging," Bolt said. "I'm just trying to get through to the next round."

American Wallace Spearmon used a late burst to finish third and will join a third American, Walter Dix, in the final Wednesday night.

Bolt had fun during his short stay on the track, pretending to smooth his closely shaven hair before the start and pointing toward the camera before he climbed into the starting block.

Starting in Lane 6, it took him about 10 steps to make up the lag against Spearmon in Lane 7. Crawford was in Lane 5 and actually looked like he might win the heat, but Bolt passed him for the win -- and possibly to send a message to one of his prime contenders for the gold.

The big question, however, is are there any real challengers?

Bolt's win by 0.2 second in the 100 was impressive not just because of the world record, but because he was hamming it up -- pounding his chest and holding out his hands -- with about 20 meters to go. His left shoelace was even untied.
538 2008-08-19 The McCain campaign was hoping that the pictures of the presumptive Republican nominee on the rig would be worth, if not 1,000 words, then at least two - "drill now,'' John McCain's mantra in recent weeks....
539 2008-08-19 Karen Crouse tackles a tough assignment: getting a message in Beijing....
540 2008-08-19 NBA Commissioner David Stern weighs in on the Dream Team of '92 versus the Redeem Team of '08. And he tells the AP that India may be the next place for basketball to take hold. (Aug. 19)
541 2008-08-19 The Democrat takes his turn before the VFW, and attacks his opponent for questioning his patriotism....
542 2008-08-19 To listen to Craig Moffett, a top-ranked analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, Verizon's $23 billion plan to build a fiber optic network for video, voice and data is going to destroy $6 billion of its shareholders' capital....
543 2008-08-19 Live game-tracking and commentary as Argentina plays Brazil in men's soccer....
544 2008-08-19 Today's unsettled financial markets may not make for the most hospitable climate for an initial public offering - especially when the stock is a state-run company that has been a political football. But that is not stopping Deutsche Bahn, the gian...
545 2008-08-19 SageCrest has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after the hedge fund's assets fell sharply and it suspended redemptions....
546 2008-08-19 The failure of former CNBC anchor Ronald G. Insana to make a go of his fund of hedge funds is a cautionary tale for those who may be considering hanging their shingle, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his latest DealBook column....
547 2008-08-19 The Nikkei average slid 2.7 percent to hit a one-month low on Tuesday as exporters such as Canon and bank shares were battered after jitters about the health of the financial system in the United States re-emerged....
548 2008-08-19 The Association of International Property Professionals has announced the finalists for its first-ever awards recognizing different aspects of customer service. The non-profit AIPP is an industry group for international estate agents, who voluntar...
549 2008-08-19 McCain started out with the same sort of kibitzing campaign style that he used to woo the press back in 2000. It didn’t work. This time there were too many cameras around and too many 25-year-old reporters and producers seizing on every odd comment to set off little blog scandals.

McCain started out with the same sort of improvised campaign events he’d used his entire career, in which he’d begin by riffing off of whatever stories were in the paper that day. It didn’t work. The campaign lacked focus. No message was consistent enough to penetrate through the national clutter.

McCain started his general-election campaign in poverty-stricken areas of the South and Midwest. He went through towns where most Republicans fear to tread and said things most wouldn’t say. It didn’t work. The poverty tour got very little coverage on the network news. McCain and his advisers realized the only way they could get TV attention was by talking about the subject that interested reporters most: Barack Obama.

McCain started with grand ideas about breaking the mold of modern politics. He and Obama would tour the country together doing joint town meetings. He would pick a postpartisan running mate, like Joe Lieberman. He would make a dramatic promise, like vowing to serve for only one totally nonpolitical term. So far it hasn’t worked. Obama vetoed the town meeting idea. The issue is not closed, but G.O.P. leaders are resisting a cross-party pick like Lieberman.

McCain and his advisers have been compelled to adjust to the hostile environment around them. They have been compelled, at least in their telling, to abandon the campaign they had hoped to run. Now they are running a much more conventional race, the kind McCain himself used to ridicule.

The man who lampooned the Message of the Week is now relentlessly on message (as observers of his fine performance at Saddleback Church can attest). The man who hopes to inspire a new generation of Americans now attacks Obama daily. It is the only way he can get the networks to pay attention.

Some old McCain hands are dismayed. John Weaver, the former staff member who helped run the old McCain operation, argues that this campaign does not do justice to the man. The current advisers say they have no choice. They didn’t choose the circumstances of this race. Their job is to cope with them.

And the inescapable fact is: It is working. Everyone said McCain would be down by double digits at this point. He’s nearly even. Everyone said he’d be vastly outspent. That hasn’t happened. A long-shot candidacy now seems entirely plausible.

As the McCain’s campaign has become more conventional, his political prospects have soared. Both he and Obama had visions of upending the system. Maybe in office, one of them will still be able to do that. But at least on the campaign trail, the system is winning.
550 2008-08-19 There is an all-girls elementary school where everyone will study Spanish as well as English, a school with a particular interest in children in the child welfare system and a school whose students will learn to play at least two musical instruments. There is a high school for architecture, engineering and construction, and three schools founded by Eva S. Moskowitz, former chairwoman of the City Council’s Education Committee.

These are among 18 new charter schools scheduled to start classes in New York City this fall, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Monday. The new schools — the largest number to open in the city in a single year — will bring the number of charter schools in the city to 78, serving 24,000 students, up from 17 schools with 3,200 students when Mr. Bloomberg took office in 2002.

Charter schools, which receive public money but are run by independent organizations, fit neatly into Mr. Bloomberg’s private-sector sensibility, and have been a key element of his effort to overhaul the city school system. Largely freed from the bureaucratic and union regulations that apply to traditional public schools, charters can be closed if their students perform poorly. On Monday, the mayor called them “the right idea for the time.”

“You give me competition, I’ll show you progress,” he said at a news conference outside the Bronx Community Charter School, a new venture that promises two teachers in every classroom and a longer school day and year.

“It is the charter schools that will get the public to demand that the rest of them come up,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “It’s the charter schools that let parents vote with their feet and tell us what the parents think about the quality of the education, of the schools. And I can tell you, one of the reasons that the public schools in the city have gotten better is because the charter schools exist and give parents an alternative and let parents see that you can do something better.”
551 2008-08-19 Mr. Mehdorn, a former executive of Daimler’s aerospace division, spent much of the past decade remaking the once-stodgy company into a modern logistics giant and arguing for a stock market listing.

His star appeared to wane when his prime backer, the former German chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, a Social Democrat, left office in 2005. But intensive lobbying persuaded the current government, led by Angela Merkel, a conservative, to take the plunge after nearly three years of debate over whether putting Deutsche Bahn on the stock market would lead to inferior passenger service. Parliament approved the sale in late May.

Mr. Mehdorn managed to get the deed done before the inevitable posturing and deadlock of national elections in late 2009.

Despite his political sensibilities, Mr. Mehdorn is determined to run Deutsche Bahn as a money-making business. On Monday, he announced plans to raise fares by mid-December. He said it was necessary to offset the cost of a wage settlement reached with locomotive drivers, but promised there would be no “price explosion.”

Stephan Bauer, the director of Duende Management Consulting and co-author of a study on railroad privatization in Germany, said the previous sales of government airlines, banks and telecommunications systems were easy compared to sales of railroads.

“The privatization of telecommunications never generated the kind of emotions that the railroads have,” he said.

Deutsche Bahn is different because every German town of any size enjoys fast and frequent rail connections that politicians of many stripes feared would be lost under a privatized company. The German Constitution even requires — uniquely in the world, according to Mr. Bauer — that the state keep full control of the rail infrastructure, including tracks, stations and power lines.

That may have turned out to be a blessing in disguise. Mr. Mehdorn had to give up his dream of an “integrated model” of privatization in which Deutsche Bahn would administer and profit from the railroad’s infrastructure, without actually owning it. But in doing so he may have avoided the pitfalls that other countries, notably Britain, have fallen into after privatizing rail lines and stations.

Deutsche Bahn will go on the market as a transport services company, moving freight around the world and passengers around Europe, while the German state will keep the bricks and mortar.

“The best thing about this partial privatization is that we have taken out the part that other countries have had to reverse,” said Ingo Kühl, a transport consultant with Berlin-based KCW, which published a report critical of privatization this year.

Deutsche Bahn’s record is nursing hopes in Germany that it will become a Europewide champion as neighboring countries open up to more competition on the rails.

Deutsche Bahn had sales of 16.2 billion euros in the first six months of the year — 6.8 percent more than in the same period last year — and earned 1.9 billion euros in profit. About two-thirds of its turnover is in Germany. But last year it purchased rail companies with operations in Spain, France and Britain.

Most important, beginning in 2002, it began building up the business of organizing complex shipments for corporate customers, known as contract logistics, first by purchasing the Schenker Group of Germany and then, in 2005, Bax Global, an American competitor.

Deutsche Bahn’s entry into the lucrative logistics field has fed German fears that it would lose interest in the passenger business, especially the prized ICE or InterCityExpress stops served by high-speed trains.

Indeed, German legislators wrote a kind of contract into the privatization legislation, a consulting mechanism through which elected officials can examine whether Deutsche Bahn is providing good passenger service.

Mr. Mehdorn, who is set to remain chief executive through 2011, scoffs at the idea that Deutsche Bahn would abandon long-distance lines. The company earned 1.7 billion euros from long-distance passenger trains, he said, and could earn more if it could buy more trains.

“This has been argued for years,” Mr. Mehdorn said. “If it were really true, we would not have any more trains.”
552 2008-08-19 The Goldman Sachs Group completed an investment in the First Marblehead Corporation, a student-loan finance company, and the lender’s chief executive resigned, setting off a 71 percent gain in its stock price on Monday.

Affiliates of Goldman’s private equity arm, GS Capital Partners, invested $132.7 million in First Marblehead, the company said. That brought all financing in an arrangement announced on Dec. 21 to $192.5 million.

Daniel M. Meyers, 45, who helped found First Marblehead in 1991, will succeed Jack L. Kopnisky as chief executive on Sept. 1, the company also said. Mr. Kopnisky, 52, replaced Mr. Meyers as chief executive in September 2005.

The investment from Goldman Sachs “provides First Marblehead with liquidity and financial flexibility in an environment where other institutions are stepping away from their willingness to help students achieve their aspirations,” Mr. Meyers said in a statement.

First Marblehead, based in Boston, arranges securities backed by student loans.

Its stock rose by $2.14, to close at $5.14 a share.
553 2008-08-19 Genuine Risk, one of only three fillies to win the Kentucky Derby, died Monday morning at the Virginia farm of her owners, Bert and Diana Firestone. She was 31. The oldest living Kentucky Derby winner at the time of her death, Genuine Risk seemed to be in good health through the early morning hours Monday. An autopsy was not ordered.

Ridden by Jacinto Vasquez, she won the 1980 Kentucky Derby by a length to become the sweetheart of American horse racing. The champion 3-year-old filly of 1980, she raced 15 times, winning 10 races. She retired after an allowance victory at Saratoga in 1981 with career earnings of $646,587. In 1986, she was enshrined in the Racing Hall of Fame. More coverage at nytimes.com.
554 2008-08-19 TOKYO (Reuters) — The Nikkei average slid 2.7 percent to hit a one-month low on Tuesday as exporters such as Canon and bank shares were battered after jitters about the health of the financial system in the United States re-emerged.

Shares fell across the boardl, with insurers such as T&D Holdings taking the brunt of the beating.

“Investors who bought stocks yesterday after coming back from summer holidays are dumping them on the disappointing notion that U.S. financial fears are continuing,” said Kenichi Hirano, operating officer at Tachibana Securities.

United States stocks sank on Monday on financial worries, pushing all three major indexes down about 1.5 percent. Shares in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac tumbled after Barron’s reported the United States Treasury may need to bail out the home finance giants.

The benchmark Nikkei shed 349.02 points to 12,816.43 by the end of the morning trade, its lowest level since July 18.

“Japanese financial shares had already been weak on poor earnings, and they were further bruised by a fall in their U.S. peers and after a recent rebound. Exporters fell after gains in the last few days,” said Yoshinori Nagano, chief strategist at Daiwa Asset Management.

The lender Mitsubishi UFJ shed 2.7 percent to 822 yen, in line with the market. The bank raised its bid for full control of a California bank, UnionBanCal Corporation, by 17 percent to $3.5 billion. The Mizuho Financial Group fell 2.3 percent to 466,000 yen and the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group declined 3 percent to 680,000 yen.
555 2008-08-19 “I have yet to see a market where penetration has stopped growing,” said Robert J. Barish, Verizon’s senior vice president and the chief financial officer of its wired communications division. The cost to run the fiber through neighborhoods is also falling below $760 per home passed, Verizon’s initial estimate. (The company spends an extra $650 in equipment and labor to hook up each house ordering the service.)

Still, it might be a decade before anyone really knows whether Verizon’s bet on FiOS is a smart investment in the future or a multibillion-dollar black hole.

The company has had to spend more than it would like on advertising and expensive giveaways, like flat-screen TVs, to get new customers. Comcast and other cable companies are preparing to bolster their own Internet speeds and digital offerings.

In many ways, the long-term success of FiOS will depend on what new services are developed that will take advantage of the vast bandwidth of the fiber and how much customers will pay for them.

Mr. Barish argues that by spending now on the fiber network, Verizon will save a lot of money moving forward. And unlike its competitors, Verizon will not need further upgrades to offer faster data speeds or more HDTV channels.

“The network we are putting in is pretty future-proof,” he said. Also, “if we weren’t doing FiOS, we would have invested a lot more money in our core network. We haven’t needed to do that.”

Verizon’s logic is starting to convince investors, especially when compared with the cheaper approach taken by AT&T, the nation’s other large phone company. AT&T is relying on pumping more data through copper wires, but the company’s technology has taken longer than expected to develop and appears to have far less capacity to deliver HDTV than FiOS.

“There was a raging debate a couple of years ago about who got it right, AT&T or Verizon,” said Blair Levin, an analyst with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company. “Initially the investment community thought it was AT&T, but increasingly Verizon got their begrudging respect.”

Verizon’s stock, which lagged AT&T’s after FiOS was first announced, is now performing better. From 2005 to the end of 2006, Verizon’s shares fell by 4.6 percent, while AT&T’s shares rose by 38.7 percent in the same period. From the beginning of 2007 to now, Verizon has outperformed, with its shares falling 6.3 percent, better than the 12.2 percent decline of AT&T.

As of the end of the second quarter, there were 1.4 million FiOS television customers, up from 515,000 a year ago. Verizon also had two million FiOS Internet customers, up from 1.1 million last year.

Despite that customer growth, some critics say the revenue structure of FiOS does not justify its high capital costs.

“If I were an auto dealer and I wanted to give people a Maserati for the price of a Volkswagen, I’d have some seriously happy customers,” said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. “My problem would be whether I could earn a decent return doing it.”

In a recent report, Mr. Moffett, one of Verizon’s most persistent critics, walked his clients through detailed projections of how much Verizon would earn from FiOS and how much it would save because the fiber network is cheaper to maintain than the old copper wires. He concluded that Verizon would be $6 billion in the hole when all was said and done.

Other analysts have reached different conclusions from the available data. Christopher Larsen of Credit Suisse calculates that if Verizon can get at least 20 percent of the potential customers to sign up for FiOS video, it will earn an acceptable profit.

And David Barden of Banc of America Securities argues that, for new Verizon investors, the return on Verizon’s original investment does not matter.

“If you are an investor today thinking about what the prospects of FiOS are tomorrow, you don’t look at what has been spent. You look at what needs to be spent,” Mr. Barden said. “The 2008 investors owe the 2003 investors a debt of gratitude because the 2008 Verizon is in a vastly better competitive position than it otherwise would be.”

Even if Mr. Moffett is right and Verizon comes out $6 billion behind on FiOS, that amount is almost lost in a company that has annual revenue of nearly $100 billion and spends $17 billion a year on capital improvements. Indeed, Verizon is dominated by wireless and business services. Service over wires to people’s homes makes up only 15 percent of its revenue.

One option that Verizon did not find palatable was just sitting still. Voice telephone lines are headed toward extinction, dropping 8.5 percent in the last year alone. And the speed of the digital subscriber line, or D.S.L., technology used to offer Internet service over copper wires has topped out at three megabits a second for many customers.

Meanwhile, cable companies like Comcast and Time Warner have been very successful in bundling Internet-based phone service with lots of TV channels and high-speed Internet service of 6 to 12 megabits a second. As consumers have demanded more video in their living rooms and on their computers, the cable companies have gained market share.

With FiOS offering current top Internet speeds of 50 megabits a second and a large menu of video offerings, Verizon is betting its packages will allow it to leapfrog over its cable rivals. Moreover, Verizon’s fiber network has the capacity to add more data speed, video channels and other services without rewiring.

The service has been particularly popular among the more sophisticated customers attracted by higher Internet speeds, said Karl Bode, the editor of BroadbandReports.com.

“Deliver quality technology and cutting-edge speed, and customers respond,” he said. “I’m preparing to move into a new home, and FiOS availability actually played a part in where I was willing to move. And I’ve probably been one of Verizon’s most outspoken critics over the years.”

The cable systems, in turn, are responding by cutting prices on voice service and developing new technology that can match the data speeds of FiOS and cram in more TV channels.

AT&T’s less radical approach essentially seeks to match, rather than surpass, the speed of cable’s Internet service. And while AT&T’s Internet-based video service has some fancy features, it can transmit only one, eventually two, HDTV signals to each home at once.

Because it is using less mature technology than FiOS, AT&T’s upgrade has gotten off to a slow start. At the end of the second quarter, AT&T’s video service, called U-Verse, had 549,000 customers, up from only 51,000 a year earlier. That is just a bit more than 10 percent of the homes that could buy the service.

John Donovan, AT&T’s chief technology officer, said the company might string fiber optic cables to its customers’ homes in the future. But he argues that it was a smarter choice to try to get as much life out of the copper wire as possible, betting the cost of fiber will drop over time.

“The last thing we want to do is overdeploy fixed capacity into the ground where there is no recovery for being wrong by putting in too much,” he said. “The ideal way to deploy technology is on the last day as fast as possible, because it gets more capable and cheaper every day.”
556 2008-08-19 Aurora Mendoza was just closing up the pizzeria where she works on Port Richmond Avenue on Staten Island when she heard the sounds of destruction late Sunday night or early Monday. She peered outside and saw a man, visibly agitated, swinging a hammer at the storefront next to hers.

“We were nervous,” she said on Monday. “Before we knew it, he got into a red truck and started driving into the front of the store,” a hair salon and gift shop.

Other witnesses said that they saw the man ramming his pickup truck into two other storefronts, a grocery store and a restaurant, a couple of blocks away. Because all three businesses cater to a Mexican clientele and have different owners, some community leaders feared that the rampage was motivated by ethnic hatred.

However, a spokesman for the New York City Police Department, Paul J. Browne, said that by Monday evening, the case had not been classified as a hate crime. The destruction occurred along a stretch of Port Richmond Avenue, on the north shore of the island, where Mexican-oriented businesses have appeared in recent years, rejuvenating a once-ghostly retail corridor.

While there have been assaults on individual immigrants, including three beating deaths in three years, this was the first attack on a business in recent memory, said the Rev. Terry Troia, executive director of Project Hospitality, a nonprofit group whose activities include running a gang-intervention program in the Port Richmond neighborhood.

“This commercial strip had a 40 percent vacancy rate 10 to 15 years ago, and today it’s filled,” she said. “This has been a huge economic boon in this community. People welcome that businesses are opening here. For them to be intimidated after doing so much to help the economy here is wrong.”
557 2008-08-19 But most hedge fund managers aren’t like Eric Mindich. They don’t start off with $3 billion and they don’t put out their shingle with a guarantee of riches. Instead, they’re like, well, Ron Insana.

If there was one thing Mr. Insana had built up over the course of his career in journalism, it was great contacts. He knew everybody in the hedge fund business, which is why, when he started Insana Capital Partners, he chose to create a fund of funds.

In his role as manager of Insana Capital Partners, he would act as a kind of hedge fund middleman, directing money to various hedge funds. The fund itself was grandiosely called Legends, which, while perhaps pretentious, made sense given the funds he could access. His clients would be invested in SAC Capital, managed by Steven A. Cohen; Icahn Partners, managed by Carl C. Icahn; or the Renaissance Technologies Corporation, run by James H. Simons, perhaps the most successful hedge fund manager on the planet. These funds are typically closed to the public.

In exchange for getting his investors behind the velvet rope, he charged a 1.5 percent management fee and took 20 percent of all profits. That may not sound like a bad deal — but consider that those fees come on top of the fees charged by the hedge funds themselves. (In the case of Mr. Simons, in particular, the fees are astronomical: a 5 percent management fee and more than 40 percent of the profits.)

Over the course of more than a year, Mr. Insana raised about $116 million. It was a respectable number, to be sure, but it wasn’t $3 billion. And here is where Mr. Insana ran into trouble.

As an investor, Mr. Insana didn’t exactly have the wind at his back. During the 14 months his fund of funds was up and running, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell more than 15 percent. While some hedge funds managed to eke out gains, many did not. Ultimately, Mr. Insana’s fund lost 5 percent.

In the mutual fund business, beating the S.& P. would be more than enough to survive, and even prosper. Mr. Insana would have been a hero. But the hedge fund business is far more cut-throat. For a small fund like Mr. Insana’s, it is imperative to make money regardless of whether the S.& P. is up or down — and because he didn’t, the 20 percent portion of his fee structure was worth nothing.

That left his management fee, which amounted to $1.74 million. (That’s 1.5 percent of $116 million.) On paper, that may seem like a lot of money. But it’s not. Like many first-time fund managers, Mr. Insana was forced to give up about half of the general partnership to his first investor — in this case, Deutsche Bank — in exchange for backing him. After paying Deutsche Bank, Insana Capital Partners was left with only about $870,000.

That would have been enough if it was just Mr. Insana, a secretary and a dog. But Mr. Insana was hoping to attract more than $1 billion from investors. And most big institutions won’t even consider investing in a fund that doesn’t have a proper infrastructure: a compliance officer, an accountant, analysts and so on. Mr. Insana had seven employees, and was paying for office space in the former CNBC studios in Fort Lee, N.J., and Bloomberg terminals — at more than $1,500 a pop a month — while traveling the globe in search of investors. Under the circumstances, $870,000 just wasn’t going to last very long.

Finally, most hedge funds have something called a high water mark. It requires hedge fund managers to make investors whole before they can start collecting their 20 percent of the profits — regardless of how long that takes. Hedge fund managers don’t get to start from scratch every Jan. 1 the way their mutual fund brethren do.

In the end, the rock was simply too heavy for Mr. Insana to keep pushing uphill. On Aug. 8, he sent a letter to investors explaining why he was closing shop. “Our current level of assets under management, coupled with the extraordinarily difficult capital-raising environment, make it imprudent for Insana Capital Partners to continue business operations,” he wrote. He said he planned to take a job with his pal Mr. Cohen at SAC. Mr. Insana declined to comment for this column.

In truth, there are thousands of Mr. Insanas desperately trying to raise money from nondescript little offices across the country. Some of them raised $10 million, some raised $100 million or more. And, as money has gotten tighter, and the bloom has come off the hedge fund rose, some have raised none at all.

Such was the case of Dow Kim, the co-president of global markets and investment banking at Merrill Lynch, who left the firm in May of last year to strike out on his own. With expectations of raising several billion dollars, he hired more than 30 people. Last week, he shuttered the business before he had even begun. In the coming months, Wall Street is going to be littered with such flameouts.

Although the big boys get most of the ink, Mr. Insana’s is a far more common story — and far more representative of what is happening in the land of hedge funds today.

Mr. Insana probably should have seen it coming. In 2002, he wrote a book called, “Trendwatching: Don’t be Fooled by the Next Investment Fad, Mania, or Bubble.” Oops.
558 2008-08-19 Mr. Obama, campaigning at a town-hall-style meeting in Albuquerque, did not directly counter Mr. McCain’s remarks, but criticized his opponent as supporting a “war of choice” that had cost a trillion dollars and thousands of lives but had not made the nation safer.

“Our troops have performed magnificently, and violence is genuinely down,” Mr. Obama told a crowd of about 1,500 at Rio Grande High School. “But listen, if you drive a bus into a ditch and then after five years and a trillion dollars and 4,000 lives lost, you are getting the bus halfway out of the ditch, it doesn’t mean you made a good decision driving the bus off the road in the first place.”

The exchange between the two candidates was a foretaste of a major theme of the general election campaign, when Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, is certain to continue pummeling Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, as a naïf who does not have the experience or judgment to be commander in chief.

Mr. McCain was greeted warmly by the crowd at the veterans’ convention, an important political stop for presidents, would-be presidents and at least one vice president, Dick Cheney, who used the gathering in the summer of 2002 to effectively threaten war with Iraq. Mr. Obama is to address the group, barring a hurricane, on Tuesday, and President Bush is to speak to the veterans on Wednesday.

In his remarks in Albuquerque, Mr. Obama said he was prepared for what he predicted would be an aggressive, maybe even dirty, campaign against him.

“I know Democrats have not been that successful in presidential elections over the last few cycles,” Mr. Obama said. “And so everywhere I go people tell me: ‘Oh, I’m getting nervous. Republicans are so mean; they’re going to Swift Boat you. They’re going to be doing things to you. What are we going to do?’

“And I have to just remind people that it is true that just as John McCain has embraced George Bush’s policies, he’s embraced his politics. The same guys who brought you George Bush are now trying to package John McCain. They can’t win an argument on ideas, so what they’re going to do is try to attack me.”

At the veterans’ convention, Mr. McCain also used the Russian advance into Georgia to raise questions about Mr. Obama’s ability to handle the crisis. “Behind all of these claims and positions by Senator Obama lies the ambition to be president,” he said. “What’s less apparent is the judgment to be commander in chief. And in matters of national security, good judgment will be at a premium in the term of the next president — as we were all reminded 10 days ago by events in the nation of Georgia.”

Mr. McCain renewed his threat to consider throwing Russia out of the G-8 group of leading industrialized democracies and bar it from membership in the World Trade Organization.
559 2008-08-19 PENSACOLA, Fla. — For Thom Dietmeyer, a retired naval officer, standing again on the bridge of his old ship was a dream come true, even if he was 70 feet below the surface of the ocean.

“I knew exactly where I was going as soon as I got down there,” he said, recalling the dive, which took place a year ago last May on the wreck of an aircraft carrier called the Oriskany. The U.S.S. Oriskany, known as the Mighty-O, was commissioned in 1950 and served in Korea and Vietnam. The ship was sunk by the Navy in May 2006 under a pilot program to convert decommissioned vessels into artificial reefs. At 44,000 tons, it is by far the largest vessel ever sunk to make a reef.

The Navy currently holds 59 ships in inactive status, a number it hopes to reduce by as many as 20 over the next decade. Most will be dismantled and turned into scrap, but several will most likely become artificial reefs along the nation’s coastline, and the response to the Oriskany, the Navy says, has been encouraging.

“There’s definitely an enthusiasm for this,” said Glen Clark of the Navy’s Inactive Ships Program. “There’s actually more interest than we have ships.”

The potential economic benefits of sinking ships for reefs are significant. A report from the University of West Florida says that the sinking of the Oriskany generated nearly $4 million for Pensacola and Escambia County in 2007.
560 2008-08-19 When Sean Casey called the police on Sunday to report that a nameless two-headed turtle had been kidnapped, the officer had him repeat the complaint two or three times.

“It comes off that I am a prankster,” said Mr. Casey, who runs the Hamilton Dog House, an animal shelter and pet supply store on East Third Street in Brooklyn. “Most people have never heard of a two-headed turtle,” he explained, much less a missing one.

But the turtle was indeed two-headed, and it was missing. The police finally took Mr. Casey seriously: “They said, ‘We’ll send somebody.’ And they did.”

The police arrived several hours later and took a stolen property report. The turtle, popular among the neighborhood children, had been kept by the window. Sometime on Sunday, between 11 a.m., when the store opened, and noon, when a child asked Mr. Casey where the turtle had gone, it disappeared.

“It looks like they searched the entire store and they could not find the turtle,” said a police spokesman. “I guess this qualifies as a missing turtle report, but I don’t think we’re out there looking for it.” There were no suspects in the case.

Two-headed turtles are rare, but they do have a chance of surviving in captivity, Mr. Casey said. “In the wild, they would have zero chance. In captivity, most die within a few days of birth.”
561 2008-08-19 Old wives’ tales about predicting a baby’s sex — relying on clues like the way the woman carries and the fetal heart rate — are usually more fantasy than fact.

But the notion that morning sickness can sometimes indicate that a girl is on the way may be an exception. A number of large studies in various countries have examined the claim, and almost all have found it to be true, with caveats. Specifically, studies have found that it applies to women with morning sickness in the first trimester, and with symptoms so severe that it leads to hospitalization, a condition known as hyperemesis gravidarum.

One of the most recent studies was conducted by epidemiologists at the University of Washington. The scientists compared 2,110 pregnant women who were hospitalized with morning sickness in their first trimester and a control group of 9,783 women who did not get severely ill. They found that the women in the first group were more likely to deliver a girl, and that those who were the sickest — hospitalized for three days or more — had the greatest odds: an increase of 80 percent compared with the control women.

Other studies in The Lancet and the journal Epidemiology, among others, have repeated the findings. It is thought that certain hormones produced by female fetuses may be the culprit.

Severe morning sickness may indicate a higher likelihood that the baby will be a girl.
562 2008-08-19 In his incisive 2004 best seller, “What’s the Matter With Kansas?,” Thomas Frank argued that red-state America is made up of two groups — business and blue-collar interests, which “should be at each other’s throats” — but that conservative leaders, dedicated to their own big-business agenda, consistently persuade “citizens who would once have been reliable partisans of the New Deal” to vote against their economic interests by rallying them around explosive values issues like abortion, flag burning and affirmative action. This, he contended, is “how conservatives won the heart of America.”

In his new book, “The Wrecking Crew,” Mr. Frank turns to the question of “How Conservatives Rule” once they’ve gotten into office. Less humorous and far more hectoring than “Kansas,” this volume quickly devolves into a highly partisan, Manichaean-minded screed against conservatives and private-sector economics. Instead of using the Jack Abramoff scandal to examine the problems of a political system that empowers lobbyists, special-interest groups and big money players, Mr. Frank tries to turn the scandal into a case study in what he sees as the evils of free-market principles. Instead of carefully dissecting the many failures and missteps of the Bush administration (from its handling of the Iraq war to Hurricane Katrina) and its penchant for favoring political loyalty over expertise, Mr. Frank tries to extrapolate its many stumbles into an object lesson about the wickedness of conservative governments in general.

In the course of the book, Mr. Frank defines conservatism in his own terms as “an expression of American business” and “the perfect entrepreneurial weapon,” while asserting that “the conservatism that speaks to us through its actions in Washington is institutionally opposed to those baseline good intentions we learned about in elementary school.” Its leaders, he contends, “laugh off the idea of the public interest as airy-fairy nonsense; they caution against bringing top-notch talent into government service; they declare war on public workers. They have made a cult of outsourcing and privatizing, they have wrecked established federal operations because they disagree with them, and they have deliberately piled up an Everest of debt in order to force the government into crisis.”

Anything that stands in the way of Mr. Frank’s generalizations is ignored or shrugged off. He gives no credence to conservatives like the economist Bruce Bartlett, a veteran of the Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations, who have criticized the current Bush administration for racking up huge deficits, circumventing the traditional policy-making process and disdaining the advice of experts. He ignores the success of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City in using a business-based approach to managing the city and rebuilding it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attack. And he chastises former President Bill Clinton for having tried to reduce federal bureaucracy and red tape, characterizing these efforts as an attack on the civil service.

As a result, Mr. Frank comes across in these pages as a sort of parody of the liberal right-wingers love to hate — as someone in love with big government for the sake of big government and opposed to all manner of capitalism and entrepreneurial initiative. At the same time, his strident, impatient tone undermines the possibility of a sober, nonpartisan discussion about matters like the Bush administration’s awarding of no-bid Iraq reconstruction contracts, its bungled handling of Hurricane Katrina, its politicization of the Justice Department and its adherence to tax cuts in wartime that have led to huge deficits.
563 2008-08-19 LOS ANGELES — The dark and damaged superheroes of Warner Brothers’ “Watchmen,” set for release next March, have a new problem on their hands: a federal judge here ruled last week that they may belong to 20th Century Fox.

The judge, Gary A. Feess of United States District Court for the Central District of California, denied a request by Warner last Wednesday to dismiss Fox’s infringement claims.

In the suit, Fox said Warner had infringed its copyrights and interfered with contracts by filming the movie in spite of earlier agreements under which Fox acquired rights to the graphic novel on which it is based.

Fox lawyers have said they plan to seek an injunction blocking release of the film — one of next year’s most anticipated — pending a trial over its rights. In a statement, Scott Rowe, a Warner spokesman, said the judge’s ruling, while allowing the litigation to proceed, did not reflect on the merits of the case. “We respectfully disagree with Fox’s position,” Mr. Rowe’s statement said.

Written by Alan Moore and illustrated by David Gibbons, “Watchmen” tells the story of superheroes who have fallen into a netherworld of disgrace and personal torment. Long considered too difficult for a Hollywood film, it became a hot property after Zack Snyder, the director of Warner’s hit “300,” took it as his next project, with a budget that published reports have put at about $120 million.

According to Fox’s lawsuit, however, Warner, in acquiring rights through the producer Lawrence Gordon, failed to acquire certain rights already owned by Fox, including the right to distribute any picture made by Mr. Gordon’s company.

The case, originally filed in February, echoes an earlier court fight that was resolved in 2005 when Warner agreed to pay the producer Robert B. Clark at least $17.5 million to settle claims that it had infringed his rights by making the “The Dukes of Hazzard” film with Johnny Knoxville.
564 2008-08-19 As Senator John McCain was acidly questioning Senator Barack Obama's judgment on matters of war and peace on Monday at a veterans' convention in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Obama was speaking soothingly to a couple of dozen women in a public library in Alb...
565 2008-08-19 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Service Employees International Union have feuded plenty in recent years, but they have banded together to help distribute and publicize a new online video that characterizes Senator John McCain as elitist and out of touc...
566 2008-08-19 A LOSS OF INFLUENCE Oil production by the major Western oil companies is declining as they lose their influence and along with it, their ability to increase supplies.      TIME'S UP Electronic Arts has withdrawn its $2 billion offer to buy rival T...
567 2008-08-20 The State Education Department issues its annual list of schools in the state deemed “persistently dangerous” under the federal No Child Left Behind law....
568 2008-08-20 The U.S. Open blog will provide updates, insights, links, analysis and scenes from Flushing Meadows through the close of the tournament on Sept. 7....
569 2008-08-20 A price drop on Samsung sets may be on the way, the blogger HDGuru says....
570 2008-08-20 Senator John McCain headed to his home near Sedona for three days off the trail....
571 2008-08-20 Fidelity Investments - a company that manages some mutual funds I own - sent me (and I assume a lot of others) an e-mail message today, encouraging us not to panic because "U.S. stocks have proven to be resilient over the long term." What I wanted...
572 2008-08-20 The initiative would let people to do things like check their stock prices or peruse their photos all while watching TV....
573 2008-08-20 Back-to-back conference calls highlight the antipathy between surrogates of the two campaigns....
574 2008-08-20 Intel and Yahoo announced a partnership Wednesday to use widget technology to bring interactive Internet applications to televisions....
575 2008-08-20 The Saddleback forum pointed up the importance of the expectations game, and may have re-jiggered it for the debates....
576 2008-08-20 Some college presidents say that by driving student drinking underground, the 21-and-older rule does more harm than good....
577 2008-08-20 “Obama’s answers were thoughtful and considered but a little meandering and not to the point,” Mr. Lanoue said. “A lot of winning a debate is winning the sound-bite war, and McCain definitely won there.”

Of course, the Saddleback audience was far more sympathetic to Mr. McCain than to Mr. Obama. Most were evangelicals, living in one of the most conservative and wealthy counties in the country.

Still, Saddleback pointed up the importance of the expectations game, and may have re-jiggered it for the debates.

Coming into the forum, the expectations for Mr. McCain were lower. Like Hillary Clinton before him, Mr. McCain has struggled to offset the atmospherics surrounding the Obama phenomenon — the oratory, the youth, the glamour — and the oxygen that they take up in the media.

“Hillary Clinton got the best of him quite a few times, and yet he still has this well-deserved reputation for eloquence that will follow him into the debates,” Mr. Lanoue said. “People still confuse Obama the public speaker with Obama the debater.”

That will work against Mr. Obama but at the same time, Mr. McCain, who has made several gaffes on camera, has now raised the bar for himself.

“He put to rest this notion that he’s the underdog in the debates,” said Alan Schroeder, a professor at Northeastern University who specializes in media and the presidency. “That’s a mixed blessing for him, now that he no longer has the advantage of being thought the lesser performer.”

The Obama campaign agreed that the expectations for Mr. McCain were low.

“John McCain has been a highly under-rated performer because of one bad speech he gave in front of the infamous green backdrop the night we secured the nomination,” Bill Burton, Mr. Obama’s spokesman, said.

“The truth is, he’s been honing his skills in Washington for the past three decades, won all of the Republican debates and has the experience of another presidential run under his belt,” he added. “We fully expect that McCain will surprise folks with both his speech at the Republican convention and his commanding performances at the coming debates.”

At the same time, Mr. Burton said, “I don’t concede that Obama didn’t do well at Saddleback. His ability to connect with both Rick Warren and voters of faith is testament to his ability to reach across traditional political divides to attract voters from all walks of life.”

Putting aside the natural advantages that Mr. McCain had in the setting, Mr. Schroeder said that Mr. McCain used his body language to connect with the audience in the church and at home on a gut level. He used self-revelation and personal persuasion while Mr. Obama relied on thoughtful rumination, surely an admirable trait in a president but one that may not necessarily connect with voters who have not been paying attention so far.

One of Mr. McCain’s first answers was so startling that he instantly commanded attention. He was asked to name his biggest moral failing, and he cited the failure of his first marriage. This was a question that both candidates had been given in advance, so he obviously had planned his answer.

It’s a subject he rarely touches publicly, but one that has been hovering over the campaign. His response may have been an attempt to inoculate himself against further questioning on the topic, but because it seemed candid, it also seemed to buy Mr. McCain some good will on subsequent questions and he seemed to relax after getting it out of the way.

He gave several other short, direct answers at the outset, all of them in striking contrast to Mr. Obama’s lengthier explications. McCain aides said that their BlackBerries began buzzing shortly after Mr. McCain’s session began, with electronic high fives all around about how well their boss was doing. There were no similar reports from the Obama front.

“McCain signaled what his debate strategy will be pretty clearly,” Mr. Schroeder said. “There will be a lot of definite language, sloganeering and waving the flag.”

He said that Mr. Obama was “harder to read,” but he said he expected Mr. Obama learned that “a certain razzle-dazzle, a certain showmanship, is a good thing to bring to an event like this.”

Mr. Lanoue said that Mr. Obama’s chief task before the debates will be to “work on honing his message and making his case for himself; he needs to be able to get those phrases out that will translate on television the next day.”

Several questions highlighted Mr. Obama’s tendency to grapple with an idea, while Mr. McCain delivered a shorter answer. Here are three examples:

* Does evil exist, and if it does, should we ignore it, negotiate with it, contain it or defeat it?

“Evil does exist,” Mr. Obama said, pointing to Darfur, city streets and parents who abuse their children. He said it had to be confronted but advised humility and caution, because “a lot of evil has been perpetrated based on the claim that we are trying to confront evil.”

Mr. McCain: “Defeat it.” And pursue Osama bin Laden, he said, to “the gates of hell.”

* Should we pay good teachers more money? (This is admittedly a trickier question for a Democrat who relies on teachers unions that oppose merit pay.)

Mr. Obama: “I think that we should, and I’ve said this publicly, that we should set up a system of performance pay for teachers negotiated with teachers, work with the teachers to figure out the assessment so they feel like they are being judged fairly, that it is not the whim of the principal, that it is not based on a single test but the basic notion that teaching is a profession, that teachers are underpaid. So we need to pay them all more and create a higher base line but then we should also reward excellence.”

Mr. McCain: “Yes. And find bad teachers another line of work.”

* Perhaps most striking was their answers on why they wanted to be president.

Mr. Obama: “You know, I remember what my mother used to tell me. I was talking to somebody a while back and I said the one time that she would get really angry with me is if she ever thought that I was being mean to somebody, or unfair to somebody. She said, imagine standing in their shoes. Imagine looking through their eyes. That basic idea of empathy, and that, I think, is what’s made America special is that notion that everybody has got a shot. If we see somebody down and out, if we see a kid who can’t afford college, that we care for them, too. And I want to be president because that’s the America I believe in and I feel like that American dream is slipping away.”

Mr. McCain: “I want to inspire a generation of Americans to serve a cause greater than their self-interest. I believe that America’s best days are ahead of us, but I also believe that we face enormous challenges, both national security and domestic, as we have found out in the last few days in the case of Georgia.”

Mr. McCain did stumble a few times. He lapsed into his stump speech often. His description of his view on same-sex civil unions was a muddle.

And he was at a loss to set a price tag on the term “rich.” Mr. Obama handled that question with humor, turning it back on Mr. Warren, who has made millions with his best-selling book, “The Purpose Driven Life.”

Another big lesson from the forum, Mr. Lanoue said, is that the Obama campaign needs to take Mr. McCain seriously as a debater, even though he did not distinguish himself in the debates during the primaries. “He is a formidable presence when he’s on his game,” Mr. Lanoue said, “and he was definitely on his game in California.”

Part of that was controlling his interview and frequently fleshing out his answers with vivid personal anecdotes. He also spoke with his eye on the audience at home, and he may have been engaged in a little strategery: by asserting so emphatically that he would be a pro-life president with pro-life policies, he might have been preparing his listeners for a running mate who supports abortion rights.

But overall, the differences that emerged went a long way toward explaining why Mr. McCain has been pleading for sessions in which he and Mr. Obama appear together: he seemed confident in the one-on-one comparison.

At Saddleback, Mr. McCain showed himself to be a purpose-driven candidate.
578 2008-08-20 The D.N.C. continues its battle against McCain's primary decision to opt out of public financing....
579 2008-08-20 While stressing his opposition to abortion, the Republican candidate said he was far from choosing his running mate....
580 2008-08-20 This refreshing soup is unbelievably easy to make. To chill it quickly, place the soup bowl inside a larger bowl, then fill the larger bowl with ice and water. For best texture, be sure to strain the soup before serving.

1 garlic clove, pressed or mashed to a paste in a mortar and pestle (optional)

1. Pour the water into a saucepan fitted with a steamer and bring to a boil. Place the zucchini in the steamer, set over the boiling water, cover and steam for 15 minutes. Remove from the heat, and allow to cool for about five minutes. Do not drain the steaming water.

2. Place half the zucchini in a food processor fitted with the steel blade, add 3/4 teaspoon salt, and puree until smooth. Add half the steaming water, then pulse until smooth. Scrape into a bowl, and repeat with the remaining zucchini and steaming water and another 3/4 teaspoon salt. Scrape into the bowl with the first batch. Whisk in the yogurt, the chopped mint, pepper, lemon juice and (optional) garlic. Taste and adjust salt. Chill in the refrigerator or in an ice bath.

3. Pour the cold soup through a medium strainer into a bowl. In order to extract maximum flavor, use a rubber spatula to press the soup against the strainer and to scrape soup from the outside.

4. Toss the thinly sliced zucchini garnish with a generous pinch of salt, and place in a strainer set over a bowl or in the sink. Let sit for 15 minutes. The zucchini will soften. Rinse and pat dry. Ladle the soup into bowls and garnish with several slices of zucchini and a sprinkle of slivered mint leaves.
581 2008-08-20 Fast reaction on news web sites to the crash in Madrid, though the specifics of the disaster are still a moving target....
582 2008-08-20 Wary of making ratings commitments it couldn't keep for the Summer Olympics, NBC Universal withheld some commercial inventory for use as make-good ads -- free commercials to compensate advertisers when audience levels aren't as high as anticipated...
583 2008-08-20 It was medal-round (and dinner) time in China which meant that the Redeem Team was providing some breakfast theater in New York this morning as they took on Australia in the quarter-final. Our near-live commentary and analysis of the game....
584 2008-08-20 Harley is commemorating its 105th anniversary with an open-ended party that kicks off this week at 105 locations around the country and ends Aug. 30 in Milwaukee, where the company is based....
585 2008-08-20 Financial conditions are continuing to worsen at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, leading some investors to prepare for a government bailout of the housing giants even as the Treasury Department and the companies say such government intervention will n...
586 2008-08-20 Taiwan is investigating mergers and acquisitions by financial firms carried out under the island's former president Chen Shui-bian, who is the subject of a corruption probe....
587 2008-08-20 New York City's Department of Transportation has contracted with the Office for Visual Interaction, a lighting design group, to install and test L.E.D. street lighting. If the tests are successful, the city's entire stock of 300,000 street lamps c...
588 2008-08-20 I.B.M. is spending $300 million to build 13 data centers around the world, dedicated to helping corporate customers keep their businesses up and running despite power outages, natural disasters or political turmoil....
589 2008-08-20 John Donahoe, eBay’s chief executive, has vowed to make eBay a better place for buyers and return the company to more solid growth. Last month eBay said that gross merchandise volume, the sum of all transactions on the eBay marketplace, grew only 8 percent in its most recent quarter, a sharp reduction from the double-digit growth of previous quarters. While revenue was up 20 percent to $2.2 billion, the rise was fueled mostly by growth in advertising, global classifieds and PayPal.

The company’s auctions business generated 57 percent of the company’s revenue in the most recent quarter, but growth has slowed.

“Clearly there’s a strong buyer preference for fixed price,” said Lorrie Norrington, president of eBay Marketplace, which includes the eBay site.

Rhonda Shrader, who sells women’s clothing on eBay from her home in South San Francisco, said she had already moved most of her sales to a fixed-price format. She was pleased that eBay was reducing the fees sellers pay to list items. That way, she said, she could offer a bigger selection. Most of her customers are professional women who know exactly what they need and are looking for a reliable, convenient source, she said.

These days, Ms. Shrader says, only about 10 percent of her sales are from auctions. “I think the auction was a novelty at the beginning, but now people want what they want, when they want it,” she said.

The new approach is likely to win praise from many sellers who prefer the lower upfront costs, but will certainly anger many of eBay’s longtime customers, most of them small-time collectors who depend on auction pricing to move one-of-a-kind inventory. Others simply think that many of the changes Mr. Donahoe has pushed through unfairly favor larger sellers.

“The previous management tried to fight it,” Mr. Wingo said, referring to the growing preference for fixed pricing. “This management is more willing to ride along with it.”

Last month, the company announced a deal with the e-commerce site Buy.com that allowed it to sell its items on eBay without paying the same fees charged to smaller sellers. That deal provoked accusations of betrayal from many of eBay’s loyal independent sellers. Some sellers who are frustrated with the changes have organized boycotts, and some even tried to disrupt eBay Live, a company event for top sellers that was held in June.

Yet even as it shifts away from the model that made it unique in the first place, the company insists the auction model is still viable, and that it intends to offer sellers and buyers a choice of formats. Auctions are often a better approach for sellers when items are in high demand, the company says, or when the seller is uncertain of an item’s value.

“We love the auction model,” Ms. Norrington said. “It’s still a great model for certain types of sales.”
590 2008-08-20 What you call a “uniquely American paradox” is actually one of the simplest, most demonstrable principles of economics: the more government reduces incentives, the more businesses will seek and find them elsewhere.

What the United States cannot afford is another decade of current corporate tax rates that handicap our companies and negate the American advantage.

Who really ends up paying these taxes? According to many leading economists, they are simply passed along to consumers at the retail level.

I fail to see the paradox. To me, it is because “this country’s corporate tax rates are among the highest in the industrial world” that “the taxes that corporations pay are among the lowest.”

With much more at risk, why not hire the best lawyers and accountants to tilt the tables in your favor?

In this competitive world, perhaps the best approach is to simplify and significantly lower corporate taxes — encourage companies to be here and have their jobs here.

People should pay taxes, and taxes should cover government expenses. These basic economic rules seem far beyond our power of understanding.

The tone of your editorial appears to be about fairness in paying taxes — for both corporations and individuals.

Why is it, then, that you write, “The first place to look for money to close the budget deficit should be among the high-income individuals who have been treated so generously by the Bush administration”?

According to the I.R.S., based on 2006 returns, the top 10 percent in income paid a staggering 71 percent of all income taxes, while the bottom 50 percent collectively paid only 3 percent.

Please explain to us again how the 10 percent who paid 71 percent of the nation’s income tax were treated “generously.” John Heiman

I certainly agree that many corporations are not paying the taxes they should.

You mention some methods of evasion. In addition, I think the public should be aware that when a corporation pays a fine for some wrongdoing, the public actually picks up one-third of the tab, since the amount of the fine can be treated as a tax-deductible item by the wrongdoer.

Something is clearly wrong with this.
591 2008-08-20 It’s hard to imagine an ecosystem better protected by nature — and man — than the Galápagos Islands. They lie some 600 miles off the coast of Ecuador. Most of the land is included in a national park, and the waters surrounding the islands form one of the largest marine protected areas in the world. The Galápagos Islands have often been portrayed as an evolutionary laboratory, which is how Darwin came to understand them after stopping there in 1835. But in recent years, the islands have become a laboratory for conservation — an ongoing experiment in how to preserve a nearly intact ecosystem while still making it available to tourists.

Nothing has changed more in the Galápagos since Darwin’s day than the number of humans who come there. In 2006, 140,000 people visited the archipelago hoping to witness both the starkness of the landscape and their biological richness. Those visitors help support a resident population that has grown to roughly 30,000 people — a nearly fourfold increase in less than 20 years — most of them from mainland Ecuador.

Unfortunately, wherever humans go, unwelcome pests also go. Scientists have just discovered a parasite in Galápagos penguins that researchers fear might lead to avian malaria, which had a devastating effect on endemic bird species in Hawaii. It is likely that the parasite was introduced by what one scientist has called an exponential increase in invasive insects caused by the influx of humans.

Getting the balance right between access and protection is always difficult. In the past, the assumption has been that the best way to protect a natural resource was to create interest in it and a use for it. What’s at risk in the Galápagos, though, requires both scientists and politicians to think deeply about how to protect the islands and ensure that humans can still visit, learn from and glory in such an extraordinary place.

This is one of the last nearly complete ecosystems on the planet, which means more weight will have to be given to protection. New rules require incoming passenger planes and cruise ships to be fumigated in quarantine. That quarantine may have to be extended to all vessels reaching the island — by land and sea. Much will depend on how quickly scientists can discover the source of the parasite, and its danger, and whether they can eliminate it easily. These islands are a biological resource too precious to waste.
592 2008-08-20 Rafael Nadal was seeded No. 1 for the United States Open on Tuesday, making it the first time since January 2004 that a man other than Roger Federer will hold the top spot at a Grand Slam tournament. Ana Ivanovic was the No. 1 seed on the women’s side. The tournament begins Aug. 25. Lleyton Hewitt, the 2001 champion, withdrew because he underwent hip surgery.
593 2008-08-20 The lawsuit is the most recent chapter in a longstanding dispute between landlords and tenants of rent-regulated apartments, which has intensified in recent years as real estate prices have risen even in previously undesirable neighborhoods.

During a rally on Tuesday on the steps of City Hall, the Council’s speaker, Christine C. Quinn, vowed to fight the litigation “every step of the way,” saying that the law was needed to “keep tenants protected.”

Ms. Quinn, who lives in a rent-stabilized apartment in Chelsea, is supporting a bill proposed in the State Legislature that would, among other things, deny rent increases for one year for apartments that have serious violations and require the Rent Guidelines Board to consult a landlord’s income and expense information to figure out whether a rent increase is needed.

“Right now, given all the real estate pressures in our city, we need this law to stay on the books,” said Ms. Quinn, who championed the bill as it made its way through the Council this year. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed it into law March 13.

The law imposes civil penalties from $1,000 to $5,000 on landlords who are found to have harassed tenants to force them out of their homes. In the past, tenants could sue their landlords in Housing Court only over problems with services or the physical condition of their apartments, like a broken lock or a leaky ceiling.

The legislation received overwhelming support from housing activists, tenants and city legislators. At the same time, it endured what one supporter described as a “relentless assault” by landlord groups as it navigated the approval process, even though it offers protections to the landlords as well, like reimbursement of attorney fees when a tenant’s claim is deemed to be frivolous.

Since the law took effect, some cases of harassment have been brought by tenants, Mr. Posilkin said, adding that he did not know what their outcomes had been.

On the day that it became law, dozens of its supporters joined City Council members on the steps of City Hall for a celebration. Many of them were there again on Tuesday, vowing to fight for the law’s survival.

Irene Baldwin, executive director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, a coalition of 95 neighborhood housing groups, called on the Rent Stabilization Association to drop the lawsuit, saying, “You’re not going to win.”

Ramona Santana, a member of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, a social justice organization, said that “there are thousands of tenants facing harassment, and this law helps to protect us.”
594 2008-08-20 He lobbied for access to government information that he believed people had a right to know, and then fought efforts to curb that access. He led the successful campaign to stop President Richard M. Nixon from taking 40 million White House documents and tapes out of the public domain.

The thousands of cases his organization has handled have included help for a small Louisiana paper defending itself against charges of invasion of privacy for publishing a 25-year-old report about men convicted of cattle rustling and a major lawsuit against AT&T.

Mr. Landau created a hot line to help reporters in legal trouble and created Press Censorship Newsletter, which is now the quarterly magazine The News Media & The Law.

Opponents and some neutral observers see the committee’s efforts as special pleading for journalists. By definition, many of the committee’s activities were efforts to tip the balance between the Constitution’s guarantee of free speech and its equally strong guarantee of a fair trial.

At other times, the committee’s interpretation of First Amendment rights conflicted with what the government said were national security concerns.

Mr. Landau’s views were fiercely absolutist. Fred Friendly, who became an advocate for compromise on difficult societal issues after his retirement as president of CBS News, once said that Mr. Landau’s committee “had a big chip on its shoulder.”

In 1979, Michael Kinsley, as managing editor of The New Republic, criticized Mr. Landau’s stridency as self-defeating.

“Despite what you read in the papers, the biggest threat to the First Amendment roaming loose in Washington these days is not Justice Byron White of the United States Supreme Court,” Mr. Kinsley wrote. “It is Jack Landau, the monomaniacal head of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press.”

Jacob Charles Landau was born in Englewood, N.J., on April 10, 1934. He graduated from Harvard in 1956 and earned a law degree from New York University in 1961. He worked for The Bergen Evening Record, The Associated Press, The Washington Post and Newhouse Newspapers. He earned notice by using his legal expertise to write articles on the military justice system.

In 1969, Mr. Landau became press secretary to Attorney General John Mitchell in the Nixon administration. Describing himself as a liberal Democrat, he said he hoped to be a force for moderation; indeed, he helped make it more cumbersome for the government to issue subpoenas to the news media.

The Reporters Committee was formed by reporters concerned about a demand by federal prosecutors that Earl Caldwell, a New York Times reporter, hand over his notes from interviews with members of the Black Panthers.

The committee’s initial leaders, who coined its name, were J. Anthony Lukas and Fred Graham of The Times and Jack Nelson of The Los Angeles Times.

It was a time of challenge for journalism, which Nixon called “the enemy.” Besides the Caldwell case, federal subpoenas were issued for the files of Time, Newsweek and Life magazines, and the government challenged the publication of the Pentagon Papers in 1971.

“Basically, the idea was to fight back, and if you couldn’t do it nicely, you did it through warfare,” said Mr. Landau, who became the group’s principal leader after Mr. Graham moved to CBS in 1972. In 1975, Mr. Landau became a paid executive director while writing a law column for Newhouse.

His confrontational style was increasingly questioned, particularly when he wanted to sue the military for limiting media access during the Grenada invasion of 1983. Publishers, through their own association, opposed this aggressive approach.

In April 1985, Mr. Landau began a six-month sabbatical, then resigned. He later said he had suffered a nervous breakdown, according to Mr. McKay’s monograph.

Mr. Landau’s marriage to Brooksley E. Born ended in divorce. He is survived by a daughter, Ariel, and a son, Nicholas.

Over the years, the group came up with novel ways to raise money. Its 1980 fair featured the columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak in a pie-throwing booth and Dan Rather selling kisses.
595 2008-08-20 Aaron Heilman pitched out of a first-and-second jam in the top of the eighth before the Mets pounded the Braves’ bullpen, which failed to hold a 3-2 lead. Manuel found Atlanta’s predicament painfully familiar.

“I could feel that,” he said.

The Mets maintained their game-and-a-half lead in the National League East as Philadelphia rallied past Washington, 5-4.

Delgado’s bases-loaded, two-run double came off the left-hander Will Ohman, who was brought in to face him. Until Delgado’s hit, the Mets had gone 3 for their last 42 with the bases loaded. Damion Easley followed with a two-run single and Ramón Castro added a run-scoring double to complete the Mets’ five-run eighth.

“Carlos is a great player, and that’s what great players do,” Easley said. “He came through in the clutch and took pressure off all of us.”

And that pleased Manuel, whose hitters haven’t always delivered with the bases loaded. “When we do that and hit in that situation, it gives everyone a big sigh of relief,” Manuel said. “The pitchers coming in don’t have to pitch perfectly. They can allow a base runner here and there.”

Manuel said that Ayala’s two-batter appearance changed the game. The Mets had given Pérez a 2-0 lead in the first, but the Braves struck back with three runs in the third. It was still a 3-2 game in the seventh when Yunel Escobar tripled with one out and Pérez intentionally walked Chipper Jones with the last of his 114 pitches.

Manuel jogged out of the dugout and pointed emphatically with his right arm toward the bullpen to summon Ayala, who had pitched dreadfully for the Washington Nationals (1-8, 5.77 earned run average) before the Mets acquired him Saturday. Ayala’s first pitch put Infante on his back. Ayala said it was accidental, that he was trying to throw a sinker.

“I needed to get my confidence back,” Ayala said. “It’s my first game with this organization. I feel very happy.”

Heilman followed Ayala in the eighth and worked out of his own jam, retiring Gregor Blanco on a twisting foul pop to third baseman David Wright. Manuel said Heilman would not have gone back out for the ninth, and Argenis Reyes pinch-hit for him as the Mets batted around in the eighth. Schoeneweis completed the bullpen’s two and two-thirds scoreless innings.

“The guys we put out there are very capable of doing the job,” Easley said. “Losing Billy hurts, no doubt. But those guys have great arms. They expect to do the job, and we expect them to do the job.”

A magnetic resonance imaging test revealed increased swelling in BILLY WAGNER’s left elbow. General Manager OMAR MINAYA said Wagner can play light catch, but won’t throw off the mound until the swelling subsides. The Mets had hoped to activate Wagner from the disabled list this week. Wagner said he felt pain after his rehabilitation assignment appearance for Class AA Binghamton last Thursday, and after throwing in a simulated game in Pittsburgh over the weekend. “A lot of this was, coming off the time off, getting back on the mound, and me trying to do too much too quick, trying to force the issue,” Wagner said. Minaya said he doubted he could acquire a replacement. “I feel the guys we have in the clubhouse, in the bullpen, will be able to get the job done,” he said. ... LUIS CASTILLO (strained left hip flexor) went 2 for 4 while playing into the eighth inning for Binghamton on Monday night. But his rehabilitation assignment is ending, and it cannot be extended. Minaya said that if Castillo isn’t healthy enough to rejoin the Mets, he will play simulated games in Port St. Lucie until he is ready.
596 2008-08-20 On the Democratic side, Senator Barack Obama will in all likelihood appear with his newly named running mate on Saturday in Springfield, Ill., where he formally began his quest for the presidency in February 2007. They will then begin a tour of battleground states leading up to their arrival at the convention in Denver next Wednesday.

Mr. Obama, whose campaign is seeking to maximize the attention drawn to his vice-presidential selection, plans to announce his choice in a text message to supporters, which some aides said could be sent Friday or even sooner.

Mr. Obama will accept his party’s nomination on Thursday night before a large audience at Invesco Field, where he will follow an appearance by former Vice President Al Gore.

Mr. Ridge, meanwhile, was the focus of intense speculation on the Internet on Tuesday as associates of Mr. McCain said campaign aides had been calling party and conservative leaders across the country to gauge their reaction to various candidates, as well as to the idea of Mr. McCain nominating a supporter of abortion rights — presumably Mr. Ridge.

Nonetheless, four Republican Party chairmen in important states said Tuesday that they had not been contacted about their views on a running mate.

“Nobody has called me regarding the vice presidency from the McCain campaign,” said Robert T. Bennett, the chairman of the Republican Party of Ohio, a crucial swing state, echoing comments from the chairmen of the Michigan, New Hampshire and Virginia Republican parties.

Still, Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is a close friend and traveling companion of Mr. McCain, raised the idea of a running mate who supports abortion rights last week when Mr. McCain met with social conservatives in Birmingham, Mich. Mr. Graham asked if the group would rather have a running mate who opposed abortion but caused the Republicans to lose or a running mate who supported abortion rights and caused the party to win, recalled James Muffett, a social conservative who attended the meeting. Quite a few people, said Mr. Muffett, said they preferred to lose.

Some Republicans said that Mr. McCain could still choose Mr. Ridge and get around the problem with social conservatives by assuring them that the vice-presidential candidate would support the position of the presidential candidate and the party, no matter his personal views.

Such a formulation would be unlikely to satisfy Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio talk show host and longtime McCain nemesis, who on Tuesday sounded a siren for his listeners. “If he picks a pro-choice running mate, it’s not going to be pretty,” Mr. Limbaugh warned, adding that Mr. McCain would have “effectively destroyed the Republican Party and pushed the conservative movement into the bleachers.”

Republicans said Mr. Romney remained a contender, although the two were bitter rivals in the primary campaign and do not have strong chemistry. In addition, Mr. Romney, a Mormon, could be a difficult sell to Christian conservatives. A person associated with Mr. Romney said Tuesday that he had detected no strong interest from the McCain campaign in recent weeks.

Republicans said Mr. Pawlenty, an evangelical Christian, was also a strong possibility. His main drawback is that he has little name recognition outside of Minnesota.
597 2008-08-20 The ruling by the court, which has jurisdiction over most federal agency rules, was another judicial rebuke to the E.P.A.’s recent policies, leaving few of its major initiatives on air pollution intact.

The suit, brought by the Sierra Club, was opposed by the environmental agency and several industry groups, including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers and the American Petroleum Institute.

“I think it is fair to say that the D.C. Circuit has repudiated the vast bulk of the Bush administration’s clean-air regulatory reforms, which were the administration’s most notable and significant (if not always wise) environmental policy initiatives,” Jonathan Adler, a law professor at Case Western Reserve University, commented on the case on a legal affairs blog, The Volokh Conspiracy. In an interview, Professor Adler said the agency “was giving business a bit of a break; was saying to states: You can’t do more.”

But he added, “One of the ways states experiment is not only being more protective but being more protective more cheaply. They win if they figure out a way to make environmental controls less costly.”

Keri N. Powell, a lawyer with Earthjustice who argued the case for the environmental groups, said the 1990 law was designed to give states power to fill any gaps left by the federal government and provide the public with data about industrial emissions.

“The idea was to make this information accessible to public and to state governments,” Ms. Powell said. “States are the front lines. They issue the permits.”

She added that, with the 2006 rule, “what they did was ban monitoring.”

“They did it,” she said, “even though the E.P.A. admitted that existing monitoring wasn’t good enough.”

Ms. Powell concluded, “That was just outrageous and defied the plain language” of the law.

Representatives of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers and the American Petroleum Institute did not immediately return calls seeking comment.

In his dissent, Judge Brett A. Kavanagh, like his colleagues, made reference to a famous dictum from Justice Felix Frankfurter. “I strongly align myself with the majority’s quotation from Justice Frankfurter about the best tool of statutory interpretation: 1) Read the statute. 2) Read the statute. 3) Read the statute!” Judge Kavanagh wrote.

And, he added, the relevant parts of the Clean Air Act support the E.P.A.
598 2008-08-20 Treasury officials have repeatedly emphasized that they do not plan to use the authority, recently granted by Congress, to pump billions of dollars into the firms. Company insiders have begun arguing that the recent stock declines are the work of duplicitous critics conspiring to undermine the firms. Executives at both firms say they are confident they can raise additional money from investors and that the companies are adequately capitalized, with capital in excess of what they are required to hold by their regulator. Government officials note that both companies continue to buy mortgages and that they are borrowing at rates far below what other banks and companies pay.

But as the companies’ fortunes decline, their options are narrowing. Fannie and Freddie are a critical part of the nation’s housing finance system, owning or guaranteeing nearly half of all home mortgages. They have lost more than $14 billion in the last year, however, and are expected to announce further losses later this year. Government officials, company insiders and investors all agree the companies will need to raise more money. But as their stock prices fall, raising that money is becoming increasingly expensive.

If investors and lenders are unwilling to supply fresh capital, the companies will eventually have to ask the federal government for money. Legislation passed last month gives the Treasury secretary the authority to pump billions into Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to stabilize financial markets, prevent disruption in the mortgage industry or protect taxpayers. The legislation gives officials flexibility in deciding how and when to intervene.

“Paulson can play this game for as long as he wants, but the end is becoming visible,” said William H. Gross, the chief investment officer of Pimco, one of the nation’s largest money management firms, referring to the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. “At some point, investors are going to say these companies are too big a risk to buy their debt, and that precipitates a self-fulfilling prophecy that ends up with the government having to step in.”

On Tuesday, Freddie Mac had to pay a steep premium on a $3 billion issuance of five-year debt. The company will pay an interest rate of 1.13 percentage points higher than the rate the federal government pays for comparable borrowing. Earlier this year, the premium was as low as 0.6 points, according to Bloomberg.

Even with Freddie Mac’s debt promising investors a rich return, overseas demand for the issuance was weaker than in the past. Asian investors bought about 30 percent of the debt, while Europeans took 10 percent, according to a person familiar with the offering. By comparison, for the 12 months leading up to July, Asian investors accounted for 36 percent of the company’s debt and Europeans held 15 percent, according to data released by Freddie Mac.

The Russian finance minister, Alexei Kudrin, told reporters in Moscow on Tuesday that Russia was still buying debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but on a smaller scale.

Analysts and investors say the results of the debt sale on Tuesday are troubling. As the companies’ cost of borrowing rises, so do mortgage rates for homeowners, putting more pressure on the troubled housing market.

If borrowing costs remain elevated or rise further, policy makers could be forced to activate contingency plans for investing in or lending to the companies.

As a result, some investors are beginning to speculate about how those plans will materialize and who will benefit and suffer from government intervention.

One possibility, said Mr. Egan and Mr. Gross, is that a bailout will be prompted by further declines in the companies’ shares or when debt investors begin charging so much that the firms cannot make a profit.

“It won’t be a black and white event,” said Mr. Egan. “But what happened today indicates that things are getting much darker.”

Mr. Egan speculated that the government might guarantee a new issuance of company debt or preferred stock. Such a guarantee would entice investors and allow the companies to raise money for less.

Others, including Bert Ely, a financial consultant and long-time critic of the companies, say the best option is for policy makers to buy debt issued by the companies directly. Guaranteeing or buying shares in the companies, by contrast, could expose the government to big losses if more mortgages default.

“In the short term they want to avoid an equity investment, and if they can avoid doing that they will,” Mr. Ely said.

Investors said regardless of how the government acts, many stockholders will probably suffer in a bailout, and most will never recover from the steep declines of recent months. Bondholders, however, may benefit as the government vows to stand behind the companies’ obligations and the returns on bonds increase.
599 2008-08-20 Mr. McCain used his appearance on the rig, 150 miles south of New Orleans and 200 feet above the water, to sound his call for more offshore drilling as a way to fight this summer’s record high gas prices, even though it will take an estimated five to seven years for new drilling to affect American consumers.

“Americans across our country are hurting because of the cost of energy,” Mr. McCain said on the rig, after an hour-and-15-minute helicopter flight from Kenner, La., a suburb of New Orleans. “Gas prices are through the roof. Energy costs have seeped into our grocery bills, making it more expensive to feed our families. And now, as people prepare for the winter, they are going to be hit with higher costs for home heating oil.”

Mr. McCain also took a swipe at Mr. Obama over offshore drilling.

“He has said it will not ‘solve our problem’ and that ‘it’s not real,’ ” Mr. McCain said. “He’s wrong, and the American people know it.” Mr. McCain added that the oil rig sat above a field of 160 million barrels of oil and was capable of producing 55,000 barrels of oil daily.

Despite the urgency that Mr. McCain attached to the problem, Democrats noted that he had missed every vote on a 2007 energy bill that increased fuel economy standards for the first time in three decades. Mr. McCain also missed all eight votes on a renewable energy bill that was defeated last month.

In Orlando, Mr. Obama appeared before the veterans a day after Mr. McCain, who had described him as advocating a policy of defeat in Iraq and had suggested that he had put personal ambition before the interests of the country.

“If we think that we can use the same partisan politics where we just challenge our opponent’s patriotism to win an election, then the American people will lose,” Mr. Obama said, in tough remarks delivered largely without passion. “The times are too serious for this kind of politics. The calamity left behind by the last eight years is too great.”

Mr. Obama received a polite but not enthusiastic response from the estimated 3,000 veterans assembled in a cavernous convention hall. Many seats were empty because a number of veterans left Orlando ahead of the advancing tropical storm, Fay.

Mr. Obama said that he and Mr. McCain had genuine differences about the course of the war in Iraq and the place of the United States in the world, but he said those were legitimate subjects for debate rather than personal vitriol.

“Let me be clear,” Mr. Obama said. “I will let no one question my love of this country. I love America, so do you, and so does John McCain. When I look out at this audience, I see people of different political views. You are Democrats and Republicans and independents. But you all served together and fought together and bled together under the same proud flag. You did not serve a red America or a blue America, you served the United States of America.”

That passage received the warmest applause of his 30-minute address.

Mr. Obama also dropped into his speech the name of one of the purported front-runners to be his vice-presidential running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., who returned Monday from a weekend trip to the Georgian capital, Tbilisi. Mr. Obama endorsed Mr. Biden’s call to provide $1 billion in reconstruction aide for the people of Georgia.
600 2008-08-20 ESPN is interested in acquiring the television rights to the 2014 and 2016 Olympics and would carry more of them live, regardless of the time zone, than NBC traditionally has done.

“Our DNA is different than theirs,” John Skipper, ESPN’s executive vice president for content said by telephone on Tuesday. “We serve sports fans. It’s hard in our culture to fathom tape-delaying in the same way they have. I’m not suggesting it wasn’t the smart thing for them to do, but it’s not our culture. We did Euro 2008 in the afternoon. We’ve done the World Cup in the middle of the morning. We have different audiences.”

If ESPN follows its Euro 2008/World Cup model, the live feeds would be carried to all time zones; when NBC shows events live in prime-time, they are seen in real-time in the Eastern and Central time zones, not in the Mountain and Pacific zones.

“It’s a beautiful property and NBC’s done great with it,” Skipper said.

The International Olympic Committee has not set a date for selling the TV rights to the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and the 2016 Summer Games, whose host city will be chosen in October 2009 from Chicago, Rio de Janeiro, Madrid and Tokyo.

Skipper, who returned earlier this week from Beijing after attending the Summer Games, said NBC’s enormous success over the first 11 nights of the Games “probably forces us to change some of our calculations.”
601 2008-08-20 De Beers, the world’s largest producer of rough diamonds, said prices had increased an average of 16 percent since the beginning of the year. The company’s Diamond Trading Company arm, which handles about 40 percent of the world’s supply of diamonds by value, said that the strongest cumulative price increases had been in rough stones that produce diamonds greater than one carat when polished. The company provides price adjustment information three times a year, ahead of its annual results and in advance of trade shows in Las Vegas and Hong Kong.
602 2008-08-20 This 30-second advertisement for Senator Barack Obama, the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, is being broadcast in Indiana. It is called “Fix the Economy.”

THE SCRIPT Senator John McCain (Jan. 10, 2008): “I don’t believe we’re headed into a recession.” Ed Rutherford, Morrow, Ohio: “I think we’re absolutely in a recession.” Lauren Ahlersmeyer, Lafayette, Ind.: “I sometimes struggle just to get essentials, you know, the milk, the bread, the eggs.” Mr. McCain (April 17, 2008): “There’s been great progress economically.” Stuart Morrison, Park Hills, Ky.: “The economy is in a rut.” Mr. McCain (Jan. 30, 2008): “We have had a pretty good, prosperous time with low unemployment.” Kelly Robertson, Elkhart, Ind.: “The way the economy is, it is the bleakest of times.” Chris Fisher, Wilmington, Ohio: “I’m worried, I’m really worried.”

THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with a clip of Mr. McCain at a debate in January, followed by the first of several cameos by residents of Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky expressing concern about the economy. Mr. McCain appears twice more, couched between voters, before the screen fades to black and the following message appears: “How can John McCain fix the economy, when he doesn’t think it’s broken?”

ACCURACY The Obama campaign uses three short quotes by Mr. McCain from several months ago, before the economy greatly soured, and leaves out the context of his remarks, which in each case indicates that he has a more nuanced view of the economy. For example, while Mr. McCain said at a debate in January that he did not believe a recession was imminent, he also noted that the country was in “a rough patch.” In two other cases, the advertisement uses only a slice of Mr. McCain’s comments while omitting full quotes in which he offers a more gloomy assessment. And as the economy has since worsened, Mr. McCain has increasingly acknowledged the economic hardships many Americans face.

SCORECARD This advertisement, which came out in Indiana last week, tries to portray Mr. McCain as bullish about the economy while ordinary Americans are living through “the bleakest of times,” as one Indiana resident put it in the spot. But by using old quotes and providing little context, the Obama campaign does not fully represent the presumptive Republican nominee’s public statements on the issue. Nevertheless, the advertisement’s effectiveness may rest with who is delivering the contrast with Mr. McCain: not an anonymous announcer or even Mr. Obama, but real Americans who share their struggles on camera. If this is all that viewers in Indiana, a crucial battleground state, know of Mr. McCain’s comments on the economy, it may convince some voters that he is out of touch.
603 2008-08-20 “It is going to be easier to make our case on Capitol Hill now,” said Representative Trent Franks, Republican of Arizona, a proponent of the program, “as this has reminded Poland and some of the other nations formerly dominated by the Soviet Union that the coercive Russia mind-set of militarily threatening your neighbors has not completely disappeared.”

The two presidential candidates have also taken sides, with Senator John McCain supporting quick construction while Senator Barack Obama is urging caution, saying the system is unproven.

As designed, the European system would be the latest version of a long-range missile system that is already partially installed in Alaska and California.

It would be essentially useless against a Russian attack because the interceptor missiles that are based in California and Alaska, or that would be based in Europe, are so few that they could easily be overwhelmed by the immense Russian missile arsenal.

But if North Korea sent one or two missiles toward the United States, or Iran sent a couple toward Europe, the American system is meant to knock them down.

During the development of the system installed in the United States, which is now considered operational, the missiles went through a series of tests, and the Defense Department claimed successful intercepts in six of the nine tests conducted since 2001.

A promotional video released by the main contractor, the Boeing Corporation, shows military personnel celebrating with high-fives after destroying a missile sent by a fictional enemy.

But the Pentagon’s own test and evaluation office says the technology, particularly in the version planned for Europe, remains unproven.

The Europe-based interceptors would have less time to knock out the approaching threat, given the shorter distance between Iran and Europe than between North Korea and the United States.

The system in Europe would also rely on an untested two-stage rocket, instead of the three-stage rockets now used on the 24 interceptor missiles in California and Alaska.

Pulling it all together in Europe, the Pentagon’s testing office reported last year, “will be a significant challenge.”

More engineering work was needed before tests could prove the system’s effectiveness, the office said.

Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering III, director of the Missile Defense Agency, said that the system, called the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense System, has proved through a series of continuing tests to be reliable, and that the changes being proposed were not radical.

“Is this a perfect system? Absolutely not,” he said. “Is it embryonic? No, we are well beyond that.”

This spring, the House Armed Services Committee voted to withhold authorization for most of the requested funds for the initial construction in Poland, and proposed language that would bar spending to build the system, until the secretary of defense certified that it was reliable.

General Obering said he agreed that the missiles should not be deployed in Europe until the testing was complete, which he said was likely to be in 2010. But construction should proceed, he said.

“We can’t wait until the Iranians launch a long-range missile and then start worrying about building out the site,” he said. “If you do that, you are way behind the curve.”

The conflict between Georgia and Russia has helped turn public opinion in Poland in favor of the agreement with the United States, according to a poll released this week by Rzeczpospolita, a leading newspaper there.

The Bush administration, as part of the package, agreed to place a battery of Patriot missiles — shorter-range defensive interceptors that could, at least in theory, be used against a limited Russian conventional attack.
604 2008-08-20 Zimbabwe’s government said Tuesday that it planned to convene Parliament next week despite a deadlock in talks to end a postelection political crisis. The main opposition Movement for Democratic Change said that it did not object to the opening of Parliament but that it would reject any moves by President Robert Mugabe to appoint a cabinet before a power-sharing agreement was reached.
605 2008-08-20 A week ago, Chris Russo was Mike Francesa’s partner on WFAN, a month short of their 19th anniversary as sports-talk radio’s most powerful team.

On Tuesday, Russo became the star, director and executive producer of Mad Dog Radio, a 24-hour sports-talk channel on Sirius XM, the recently merged subscription satellite radio service with 18.5 million subscribers and Howard Stern as its king.

Starting Sept. 15, Russo will return to afternoon drive time, from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m., putting him in competition with Francesa, now also a solo act, who is on from 1 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.

Perhaps more important, as Sirius XM tries to build Russo into a megastar, he will be the boss of a crew of hosts who will fill out the rest of the schedule on his channel beginning in October.

“I can do anything I want with it,” Russo said at a news conference.

If he wants to take his show to Wrigley Field during the postseason, he says he will. If he wants to travel to Wimbledon, he will. He could do his show from a Nascar event but said he would not, which may not sit well with listeners unfamiliar with him outside New York.
606 2008-08-20 Christina Applegate, star of the ABC television series “Samantha Who?,” had both breasts removed after a diagnosis of breast cancer, The Associated Press reported. In an interview with ABC’s “Good Morning America,” Ms. Applegate, 36, said she was cancer free, “100 percent clear and clean.” She said she had the procedure three weeks ago and would undergo reconstructive surgery during the next eight months. She also said that she opted for a double mastectomy, even though only one breast was affected. Her mother also had breast cancer.
607 2008-08-20 He said he expected Hewlett-Packard to ramp up soon, though he noted that the company declined to delve deeply into the issue during its quarterly conference call. And Mr. Wu said that although he expected printer sales to rebound, “it’s easier said than done.”

The decline in printing was among a handful of weak spots, analysts said, in yet another quarter in which H.P. exceeded Wall Street projections.

In the third quarter, the company reported revenue of $28 billion, up 10 percent from the same period a year earlier. Wall Street was expecting $27.4 billion.

H.P. reported net income of $2 billion, up 14 percent from a year ago. Excluding one-time charges, the company earned 86 cents a share, bettering by 2 cents the projections of Wall Street analysts.

“This is very good, given the prevailing economic environment,” an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., said.

As has been the case in recent quarters, H.P. — which does about 68 percent of its sales overseas — had much stronger growth internationally than it did in the United States. In its third quarter, H.P.’s sales increased 16 percent, to $11.2 billion, in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and 14 percent, to $5.2 billion, in Asia.

But, in one of the other relatively weak spots in its quarter, Hewlett-Packard’s sales rose only 4 percent, to $11.6 billion, in the American region.

The brightest spot for the company was its personal computer division. Notebook computer revenue rose 26 percent from the period a year ago, while desktops grew 6 percent. That lower desktop growth is consistent with a broader slowdown in the sales of desktop computers, which are giving way to notebooks. Over all, PC revenue grew 15 percent, to $10.3 billion.

Hewlett-Packard is the world’s largest vendor of PCs. But in the United States, H.P.’s rival, Dell, has been making an aggressive push into the retail market, and its market share is growing. Mr. Hurd sidestepped a question about whether H.P. was feeling pressure from Dell’s entrance into the retail market.

“There’s a ton of folks out there trying to compete on multiple dimensions,” Mr. Hurd said, referring to other PC makers. “We’re doing the best to compete.”

The other standout was the company’s small — for H.P. — but fast-growing software division. Revenue was up 29 percent, to $781 million. Revenue for its Technology Solutions Group, which sells products and services to large companies and includes software, grew 10.6 percent, to $10.3 billion.

The challenges could grow steeper. Later this month, H.P. plans to close its $14 billion acquisition of Electronic Data Services, a provider of technology services.

The integration of the companies will be a potential bump in what has been a consistent series of strong quarterly financial performances, technology industry analysts said.

“There are certainly risks and people are going to pay close attention,” an analyst with Edward Jones, Bill Kreher, said. He added that he believed the combination of the companies would be a success.

For his part, Mr. Hurd said H.P. and E.D.S. collectively had 500 people working on the integration.

“The plan is going well, and we are confident in the benefits this business combination will bring,” he said. Mr. Hurd said that he planned to address the opportunities brought by the deal at a meeting with investors scheduled for Sept. 15.

Excluding the financial impact of the E.D.S. acquisition, H.P. projected earnings for the fourth quarter — its current one — would be $1.01 to $1.03 a share. That is up from previous guidance of $1 a share, according to Mr. Sacconaghi.
608 2008-08-20 It is never a good thing, however temporary, to lose the biggest draw in golf, the most recognizable single figure in sports and arguably the best golfer in history. But as Woods often says, it is what it is. And competitive natures being what they are, Tour players know an opening when they see one.

“You know what,” Perry said, “with Tiger out, you know, it’s just a great opportunity for an old guy here to actually steal some money in that FedEx Cup. So that’s what we’re after now.”

They do not award a green jacket to the FedEx Cup champion, but a massive amount of green is on the line, starting with a $7 million purse at each of the four tournaments — the Barclays; the Deutsche Bank Championship Aug. 29 to Sept. 1 at the T.P.C. Boston, in Norton, Mass.; the BMW Championship Sept. 4 to 7 at Bellerive Country Club in St. Louis; and the Tour Championship Sept. 25 to 28 at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta. The fields competing for all that cash shrink each week, from 144 at the Barclays — though eight of those eligible are not competing, leaving a field of 136 — to 120 at the Deutsche Bank, to 70 at the BMW, to 30 at the Tour Championship.

Because this is a year of the Ryder Cup year, the Tour designated Sept. 8 to 14 as a week off before it. This break will give players a chance to recharge before the Ryder Cup and also to stay sharp for the FedEx Cup final. Mickelson, among those last year who believed that the schedule needed these adjustments, is fired up. “All these events are just huge finishing the year, and I’m excited,” he said. “It comes at a perfect time, the Ryder Cup does, now that it’s in the middle of the FedEx Cup season, because everybody is at their sharpest. Everybody is playing hard to finish the year strong, playing their best.”

If everything falls into place, this could be the type of excitement the PGA Tour envisioned when it created the FedEx Cup. The emergence of Harrington, with his wins at the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship, certainly has not hurt the international appeal. And he has jumped right into the promotional fray.

“It provides new life, really, this playoff system,” Harrington said. “Once everybody gets readjusted with points at the start of the Barclays, if you’re up near 20th, 30th, you’ve got a legitimate chance of winning this thing. So that provides a lot of excitement and gives renewed life when you come to a tournament at the start of the playoffs.

“You know there is a lot riding on the line, and depending where you are on the point list, that could vary from one player to the next.”

That is not an overstatement. There are situations, some quite plausible, whereby certain less-known golfers who emerged during the year as compelling crowd favorites could actually wind up in the hunt for the $10 million cash bonus — $9 million of which will go directly to the winner with $1 million deferred.

Mediate, currently No. 60, can draw some hope from what happened at the Wyndham Championship last Sunday. Carl Pettersson moved up 45 positions in the standings to No. 13, from No. 58, with his victory. Five players used their performance at the Wyndham to gain entry into the Barclays field: Rich Beem (No. 114, from No. 166), Martin Laird (No. 128, from No. 164), J. J. Henry (No. 135, from No. 177), Justin Bolli (No. 141, from No. 153) and Lee Janzen (No. 144, from No. 154).

To get into the field, Janzen one-putted the final three holes at the Wyndham for a 2-3-4 finish and a closing-round 67. A two-time United States Open winner, who has yet to secure his Tour card for 2009, Janzen now has a good chance to earn his way into the top 125 from his current position of 151st on the money list.

And No. 72-ranked Paul Goydos, who gave Sergio García a run at the Players Championship to become what he called “that week’s favorite runner-up,” could come from off the pace to provide some excitement in the next six weeks. Certainly it would take some great play from them, and top-echelon players would have to perform somewhat below their standards, but Mediate or Goydos could actually wind up with the cup and the cash.

It would be no accident if this gets a little like some of the convoluted playoff scenarios that start popping up around the end of the N.F.L. season, but the PGA Tour stats guru Steve Dennis, who is the organization’s director for communications strategy, concluded the following: If either Mediate or Goydos finished 2-5-1-3 in the playoffs (assuming no ties and they were alone in placing second, fifth and third) it would be worth 28,400 points. If Goydos starts 70th, the 28,400 he earned would give him a total of 123,350. As long as nobody won twice, he would probably be a lock to win.

“In net,” Dennis wrote in an e-mail message, “going 2-5-1-3 would almost certainly have the 60th or 70th seed kissing the cup. The top seeds wouldn’t even have to tank — they’d just have to not have a ‘Tiger-like’ playoffs.”

As far-fetched as these possibilities might seem, they are at least being contemplated. If a second-tier player were to have a “Tiger-like” playoff, he could carry off some Tiger-like cash. Perry had a six-week span from June 1 to July 13 during which he won three PGA Tour events. That represents 33 percent of his career total of nine before he went on that winning streak — one-third the number of wins he had compiled in 18 years in just six weeks.

Wide open. Anthony Kim? Vijay Singh? Stuart Cink? Justin Leonard? Ryuji Imada? Geoff Ogilvy? With Perry, Mickelson and Harrington, that rounds out the top 10, and the field goes much deeper than that.

Stricker changed his entire year and a big part of his career with the win at the Barclays last year. “Hopefully, it can be me again,” he said. “But I look forward to someone else providing a challenge to, you know, the greats of the game.”
609 2008-08-20 The resulting company, DineEquity, runs more than 3,300 Applebee’s and IHOP restaurants. Nobody else owns as many “casual dining units,” known to the rest of us as inexpensive restaurants where you get a menu and talk to a waiter.

The food that Ms. Stewart supervises is consumed by nearly two million people a day. Spending time with her is like having a direct view of what America wants to eat.

In her business, people use phrases like “drink equity” and “healthy indulgence rebranding.” Everyone is on the hunt for the next “craveable,” an item like a whole deep-fried onion, a potato skin stuffed with bacon or, in Applebee’s case, the riblet.

At $18.99 for a couple of side dishes and a cut that might otherwise have ended up in the scrap heap, riblets are a sweet profit center.

But Applebee’s can no longer stand on the riblet alone, nor on the dusty stained glass and vintage sports equipment motif that seemed so awesome in the 1980s, when the chain began plopping itself down in small towns and suburban parking lots.

Ms. Stewart acknowledges that Applebee’s has not aged well, and that it has become indistinguishable from the other “apostrophe-s” restaurants like Chili’s or T.G.I. Friday’s.

Above all, she and industry analysts agree, the menu has grown stagnant. Ms. Stewart is trying to steer Applebee’s into more adventurous waters.

It would be hard to imagine a more challenging time to do that. Food and fuel costs are up while the amount of money customers are willing to spend is down.

In recent months, Bennigan’s and its sister restaurant, Steak & Ale, filed for bankruptcy. Almost half of the people who own chain restaurants think things are going to get worse in next six months, according to a recent survey by the National Restaurant Association.

“It’s been a disaster,” said Sharon Zackfia, a restaurant analyst with William Blair & Company, an investment firm. “There’s been nowhere to hide.”

But Ms. Stewart loves a challenge, and she believes that small but important menu changes that will be introduced in the coming months will lead her to victory.

It worked at IHOP, where she replaced the watery orange juice with juice not made from concentrate, putting it in smaller, prettier glasses and charging more for it. She improved the coffee and abandoned blue plastic carafes in favor of pots with copper jackets. The cream-cheese stuffed French toast? Hers.

These may seem like baby steps, but nothing goes onto the menu at Applebee’s or IHOP without research based on thousands of customers.

This common denominator effect is one thing that makes the chains so popular. Nothing is too challenging and no matter where you go, the menu looks the same. When a franchise owner in Vermont wanted to offer maple syrup instead of flavored pancake topping, the company had to grant special permission. The problem was taste, not cost. “Most people would find it way over the top,” Ms. Stewart said.

At Applebee’s, she has to tread as carefully. Tweaking the sweet, artificial hickory taste of the riblets is one thing, but losing the mozzarella stick? Dream on. “Don’t get me started on the mozzarella stick,” she said. “Can we get rid of them entirely? Probably not. All I know is we can do better in appetizers. Maybe it’s a panko breaded calamari. Maybe a baked wing.”

The trick is to give food that little twist. “Everybody has a quesadilla, but no one has a bruschetta quesadilla,” she said. That idea is still under development, but Applebee’s does have a quesadilla burger.

You don’t come up with a quesadilla burger by catering to dieters. Applebee’s flags some menu items that have been approved by Weight Watchers, but the company is not exactly cutting a path through the calorie jungle.

That’s because what people say they want and what they eat are often different, she said as she sat in a booth at the IHOP. Nearby, a family of four was pouring different flavors of syrup over stacks of pancakes. “That’s what people want,” she said.

Among the dozen dishes on her table that day was the Georgia praline peach streusel pancake, a dish so sweet it made a Butterfinger bar seem like a refreshing palate cleanser. It’s an item in IHOP’s Discover America pancake series, designed to mark the company’s 50th birthday. The program features a changing cast of pancakes including New York cheesecake and Kansas City carrot cake.

“We can’t seem to make things sweet enough for people,” said Patrick Lenow, the director of public relations for the company.

Earlier in the day, Ms. Stewart rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange to mark the chain’s anniversary. She spent the rest of her trip talking to some franchisees and doing culinary homework, as she does when she travels to other cities from her Southern California home, which she shares with her two daughters and her husband.

Whenever she eats at fancy restaurants, she looks for ideas that her chains can reinterpret. It’s a longstanding tradition. Without Nobu’s miso black cod, the Cheesecake Factory would never have its miso glazed salmon. During her time in New York last month, she sampled the food at Gramercy Tavern and Porter House.

On an earlier visit she enjoyed dinner at Park Avenue in Manhattan, which changes its name and décor to match the season. Mrs. Stewart thinks sous vide techniques might have some applications in her restaurants, and she is quite taken with the idea of seasonal side dishes or soups. From Porter House, she’s gleaned the idea of creating individually baked side dishes. And there is the sour frozen yogurt trend to consider.

When pushed for other possible shake-ups in the Applebee’s repertory, the Velvet Hammer leans in and offers this: “Think about bread baked fresh in the restaurant,” she said.

Does she mean artisan breads? “Do you really think my Applebee’s menu is going to say artisan bread?” she asked. “No. But the bread will be better.”
610 2008-08-20 A federal court in Philadelphia has ordered the former president and founder of a hedge fund to pay nearly $300 million for defrauding clients.

Federal prosecutors indicted Paul Eustace, president and founder of the Philadelphia Alternative Asset Management Company, in November on two criminal counts of commodities fraud.

The government said Mr. Eustace stole $200 million from clients from 2001 through 2005. The government accused Mr. Eustace, of Ontario, Canada, of creating false account statements, raising management fees based on false profits and transferring clients’ money to himself.

On Tuesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said Mr. Eustace was ordered to pay $279 million in restitution and a $12 million civil penalty.

The Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania also banned Mr. Eustace from trading indefinitely.
611 2008-08-20 That trade-off makes tens of millions of Americans vulnerable to an unpalatable pair of alternatives: Either inflation will continue swiftly and impose austerity by shrinking the purchasing power of wages, or rising prices will be canceled out by weakness in the economy as the downturn hurts businesses and eliminates some paychecks altogether.

“There’s nothing in here to feel good about,” said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. “The consumer is either going to get smacked around by inflation or a sagging economy. If you’re someone who depends on a paycheck, neither one helps you very much.”

Since last fall, when the economy offered its first clear signs of slowing, the Federal Reserve has operated at the cusp of these two alternatives, initially lowering interest rates to spur economic activity, and more recently holding steady out of concern that more easing would exacerbate inflation.

As inflation fears have taken hold, a minority chorus of economists has intoned that the Fed must lift rates or risk runaway prices. The data on Tuesday seemed to lend credence to such talk.

So-called producer prices — those charged to businesses for wholesale goods — increased by 1.2 percent in July, or roughly twice as fast as most economists had forecast. Core producer prices — which do not include food and energy — rose by 3.5 percent between July of this year and July 2007, the largest annual increase since 1991.

That data followed reports released last week showing that consumer prices also expanded at the fastest pace in 17 years.

But most economists assume the Fed will again hold the line on rates when it convenes next month. They say the Fed is likely to lean toward the view that the economic deterioration in Japan and Europe — combined with weak growth in the United States — will crimp inflation. The price of oil has plunged from a high of more than $145 a barrel in July to $114.53 on Tuesday.

Economists, meanwhile, construed another batch of data released on Tuesday as a sign that a weakening economy remained a greater risk than rising prices. Housing starts — the beginnings of new home construction — were running at an annual rate of 965,000 in July, the lowest level since 1991.

Worries about the health of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored mortgage finance giants that together guarantee more than 40 percent of all home loans, continued to weigh on the economy.

“There’s some reason to think this could have been inflation’s last hurrah,” said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh.

Much of that analysis rests on the fact that, this time, accelerating inflation has not created a so-called wage-price spiral, in which workers respond to higher prices by extracting higher wages from employers, further raising costs. That dynamic was a major culprit in the stagflation of the 1970s, when inflation and stagnation combined to choke the economy.

“Wages are still well behaved, which is good from an inflation point of view,” Mr. Hoffman said.

From a pocketbook point of view, however, that amounts to a pay cut for many workers. In July, rank-and-file employees — roughly 80 percent of the American work force — earned 3.1 percent less than they had a year earlier after accounting for the rising cost of living. The economy has shed 429,000 jobs this year, according to the Labor Department.

In the suburbs of Columbus, Ohio, Andrea White must now explain to her two girls, 17 and 12, why they will not have new outfits to begin this school year, why they cannot go out to eat and why their living room is now devoid of furniture. It was sold to raise money when Ms. White lost her job as an advertising sales assistant at a local television station in January.

They now live exclusively on her husband’s earnings from his job at a plastics factory. Rising prices have worsened their predicament.

“We don’t buy clothing anymore,” Ms. White said. “We’re now down to buying generic brands of food, and even that has risen in price.”

Businesses, already grappling with weak sales, have more recently struggled to manage their operations as costs have risen wildly.

“It’s come on in a rush, just in the last three months or so,” said David Guernsey, president of an office supply distributor called Guernsey Office Products in Chantilly, Va. The price of paper clips alone has jumped by 40 percent, he said.

“It’s frightening. I have been in this business 37 years. Generally, when there was a downturn, prices have stabilized or dropped. This is the antithesis of that.”

Mr. Guernsey has been passing on higher costs to his customers, raising his prices by about 10 percent. But he has been bearing increased fuel costs himself, diminishing his profits.

Not everyone, however, can pass along the higher costs. In Allentown, Pa., Iris Konia shut down her restaurant, the Federal Grill and Cigar Bar, last month, frustrated by the price squeeze. Her costs for bread, flour, sugar and beef were all rising at once, yet raising menu prices just sent her customers to cheaper options. Serving smaller portion sizes and eliminating extras seemed to only deepen her problem.

“Many people who came to the restaurant would be like, ‘Oh, isn’t salad included?’ ” Ms. Konia said.

In Wichita, Central Plains Steel has been contending with an almost 90 percent increase in the cost of its raw material.

“In the 36 years I’ve been in this business, this is the most unusual steel market I’ve ever been in,” said Mr. O’Neal, the division manager.

Rising energy costs have increased the price of rail freight and gas for the company’s delivery trucks. The wood it uses for packaging has become more expensive.

At first, customers balked when the company raised prices. Since then, the reality of inflation has embedded itself in the industry. Customers just pay or postpone orders.

“They’ve just become numb to it,” Mr. O’Neal said. “You’ve got to have the steel, and that’s the price.”
612 2008-08-20 SHARP RISE IN PRICES The Labor Department reported that wholesale prices shot up 1.2 percent in July, pushed higher by rising costs for energy, food and other products.      NEW DESIGN Palm will announce the debut of the Treo Pro, a smartphone int...
613 2008-08-21 A man attending a town hall meeting here with Senator Barack Obama was yakking on his phone while Mr. Obama was speaking Thursday. Mr. Obama noticed him and called him out on it, so to speak....
614 2008-08-21 Senator John McCain's Denver campaign office received an envelope with white powder on Thursday and has been evacuated....
615 2008-08-21 Senator Barack Obama seems to be warming to the task of "contrasting" himself with Senator John McCain....
616 2008-08-21 Yahoo's shares closed Thursday at their lowest point since Microsoft made its offer to buy the company, signaling ongoing investor pessimism....
617 2008-08-21 The F.E.C. rules that Mr. McCain did not violate campaign finance rules when he withdrew from public financing during the primary season....
618 2008-08-21 Harbinger Capital Partners, one of two activist hedge funds that has sought to shake up The New York Times Company, may be calling a bottom to the newspaper company's stock plunge....
619 2008-08-21 On a day when house ownership dominates the news, the G.O.P. releases yet another version of a heavenly video about Obama....
620 2008-08-21 The presidential contest remains, most centrally, a contest to define the Iraq narrative, both in content and meaning....
621 2008-08-21 Senator John McCain does know about national security ... circa 1970....
622 2008-08-21 After having the best season in program history in 2007, what can the Tigers do as an encore?...
623 2008-08-21 Wholesale prices for the L.C.D. panels have been dropping and excess inventory is forcing HDTV prices down as companies try to get rid of their finished products so they can move in new models....
624 2008-08-21 Here's the presidential campaign soundbite of the moment: When asked by the Politico Web site on Wednesday how many houses he and his wife own, John McCain responded: "I think - I'll have my staff get to you." It did not take Sen. Barack Obama's c...
625 2008-08-21 National City is protesting to Bloomberg News that it has one undervalued asset, albeit one that it technically can't assign a value because of accounting reasons: its Class B shares in Visa....
626 2008-08-21 The Democratic candidate takes stock of the McCain property holdings as part....
627 2008-08-21 Tim Conway as John McCain and other casting calls:...
628 2008-08-21 We are going to Charleston, S.C., and Savannah, Ga. What would be the one thing we should do in each city? Barry Lepler, Huntington Woods, Mich. A carriage in downtown Charleston. (Kate Cosby for the New York Times) I posed your question to Chris ...
629 2008-08-21 But the Obama campaign appears to be off the fund-raising pace it had set as a target several months ago when it opted to bypass public financing for the general election....
630 2008-08-21 Denver residents are taking up a long established New York tradition - subletting. And the profit potential is as high as the Mile High City itself....
631 2008-08-21 Maybe it's the lapse of the Securities and Exchange Commission's emergency order banning naked short-selling with respect to 19 chosen financial institutions. Maybe it's leaks, rumors - substantiated and otherwise - and the Barron's article. Or ma...
632 2008-08-21 A slump in the lucrative structured-finance business and regulators' demands for bigger capital reserves mean that stratospheric profitability at banks is gone, possibly forever....
633 2008-08-21 NBC Universal said on Wednesday that it had signed an agreement to acquire Carnival Film and Television, an independent production agency in Britain, giving it a base of operations for international expansion....
634 2008-08-21 A series of financial scandals at major Dubai companies threatens to derail the Gulf Arab emirate's ambitions to become an international business hub unless the government tackles corruption head on, analysts say....
635 2008-08-21 Prompted by a sliding share price and less-than-spectacular forecasts, analysts and investors are speculating that Sun Microsystems may be the subject of a potential takeover....
636 2008-08-21 Like most sports radio fans, I have spent the last few days reeling over the breakup of “Mike and the Mad Dog,” Mike Francesa and Chris Russo, WFAN’s longtime drive-time duo. I grew up on the show in New York, but after leaving the city years ago I could catch up with it only when I returned. But then the YES Network began simulcasting the show to fill its afternoons, and the three of us were reunited.

Televising radio shows is an odd byproduct of the modern 500-channel universe. It began, as most questionable forays into good taste do, with Howard Stern, who showed off his guest list of porn stars and Wack Packers in the early 90s. Don Imus soon followed, and now sports shows from ESPN Radio’s “Mike and Mike In The Morning” to XM Radio’s “NHL Live” can be seen, when they are truly meant only to be heard. Next week, another ESPNer, Colin Cowherd, will begin to show his face, one meant for radio, on ESPNU.

“Mike and the Mad Dog” was that rare radio show that was actually more entertaining on television. The main reason was the visible contempt of the hosts for each other. They even positioned themselves on their chairs in a way that allowed them to avoid making eye contact. Francesa, tankard of Diet Coke at the ready, flipped through a series of newspapers, using his microphone as a shield to keep him from looking at his partner; as soon as the show went to break, he was out the door. No idle chatter between segments for these two. And as one last power play, Francesa would often come back thirty seconds or so after the break was over, sometimes forcing Dog to cover phone calls that were directly addressed to Mike.

Always the eager pup, Russo played along, and there was a clear sense that he would forgive and forget at the slightest nod from Master Mike. But détente was not in the offing. Whatever dollars are available on satellite radio, there’s no way Russo would leave the best job in sports radio unless the relationship was irretrievably broken and the station backed Francesa.

So that leaves “Francesa on the Fan,” and whatever the radio product sounds like, the television show will doubtlessly suffer. He promises to bring in other voices to offer other viewpoints and liven up the show, but his ego will be the real co-host. Sports radio may be the most disposable of media, with a sell-by date that expires as soon as the next game starts, but I for one hope YES airs reruns of old “Mike and the Mad Dog” shows. I fear “Francesa on the Fan” will be the TV equivalent of “After M*A*S*H*.”
637 2008-08-21 The detained Myanmar opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi failed to attend a scheduled meeting with a United Nations special envoy on Wednesday. The ruling generals in Myanmar, formerly Burma, had thrown a tight security cordon around the state guest house where the envoy, Ibrahim Gambari, and the 63-year-old Nobel laureate have held previous meetings as part of a United Nations "shuttle diplomacy" push to encourage political reform. Mr. Gambari turned up in the morning, but Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been under house arrest for the past five years, failed to arrive. Nyan Win, a spokesman for her National League for Democracy, said he did not know why she did not go, but added, "So far as I heard, she is not satisfied with the present condition during this visit of Mr. Gambari." The National League for Democracy won an election landslide in 1990 only to be denied power by the military.
638 2008-08-21 “When it gets a little boring, I might pull it out,” acknowledged Naomi J. Pugh, a first-year student at Freed-Hardeman University in Henderson, Tenn., referring to her new Touch, which can connect to the Internet over a campus wireless network. She speculated that professors might try harder to make classes interesting if they were competing with the devices.

Experts see a movement toward the use of mobile technology in education, though they say it is in its infancy as professors try to concoct useful applications. Providing powerful hand-held devices is sure to fuel debates over the role of technology in higher education.

“We think this is the way the future is going to work,” said Kyle Dickson, co-director of research and the mobile learning initiative at Abilene Christian University in , which has bought more than 600 iPhones and 300 iPods for students entering this fall.

Although plenty of students take their laptops to class, they don’t take them everywhere and would prefer something lighter. Abilene Christian settled on the devices after surveying students and finding that they did not like hauling around laptops, but that most always carried a cellular phone, Dr. Dickson said.

It is not clear how many colleges plan to give out iPhones and iPods this fall; officials at Apple were coy about the subject and said they would not leak any institution’s plans.

“We can’t announce other people’s news,” said Greg Joswiak, vice president of iPod and iPhone marketing at Apple. He also said that he could not discuss discounts to universities for bulk purchases.

At least four institutions — the , Oklahoma Christian University, Abilene Christian and Freed-Hardeman — have announced that they will give the devices to some or all of their students this fall.

Other universities are exploring their options. has hired a student-run company to design applications like a campus map and directory for the iPhone. It is considering whether to issue iPhones but not sure it’s necessary, noting that more than 700 iPhones were registered on the university’s network last year.

At the , iPhones might already have been everywhere, if , the wireless carrier offering the iPhone in the , had a more reliable network, said Andrew J. Yu, mobile devices platform project manager at M.I.T.

“We would have probably gone ahead of this, maybe just getting a thousand iPhones and giving them out,” Mr. Yu said.

The University of Maryland, College Park is proceeding cautiously, giving the iPhone or iPod Touch to 150 students, said Jeffrey C. Huskamp, vice president and chief information officer at the university. “We don’t think we have all the answers,” Mr. Huskamp said. By observing how students use the gadgets, he said, “We’re trying to get answers from students.”

At each college, the students who choose to get an iPhone must pay for mobile phone service. Those service contracts include unlimited data use. Both the iPhones and the iPod Touch devices can connect to the Internet through campus wireless networks. With the iPhone, those networks may provide faster connections and longer battery life than AT&T’s data network. Many cellphones allow users to surf the Web, but only some newer ones have Wi-Fi capability.

University officials say they have no plans to track their students (and Apple said it would not be possible unless students give their permission). They say they are drawn to the prospect of learning applications outside the classroom, though such lesson plans have yet to surface.

“My colleagues and I are studying something called augmented reality,” said Christopher J. Dede, professor in learning technologies at . “Alien Contact,” for example, is an exercise developed for middle-school students who use hand-held devices that can determine their location. As they walk around a playground or other area, text, video or audio pops up at various points to help them try to figure out why aliens were in the schoolyard.

“You can imagine similar kinds of interactive activities along historical lines,” like following the Freedom Trail in , Professor Dede said. “It’s important that we do research so that we know how well something like this works.”

The rush to distribute the devices worries some professors, who say that students are less likely to participate in class if they are multitasking. “I’m not someone who’s anti-technology, but I’m always worried that technology becomes an end in and of itself, and it replaces teaching or it replaces analysis,” said Ellen G. Millender, associate professor of classics at Reed College in , Ore. (She added that she hoped to buy an iPhone for herself once prices fall.)

Robert S. Summers, who has taught at Law School for about 40 years, announced this week — in a detailed, footnoted memorandum — that he would ban laptop computers from his class on contract law.

“I would ban that too if I knew the students were using it in class,” Professor Summers said of the iPhone, after the device and its capabilities were explained to him. “What we want to encourage in these students is active intellectual experience, in which they develop the wide range of complex reasoning abilities required of the good lawyers.”

The experience at may ease some concerns. A few years ago, Duke began giving iPods to students with the idea that they might use them to record lectures (these older models could not access the Internet).

“We had assumed that the biggest focus of these devices would be consuming the content,” said Tracy Futhey, vice president for information technology and chief information officer at Duke.

But that is not all that the students did. They began using the iPods to create their own “content,” making audio recordings of themselves and presenting them. The students turned what could have been a passive interaction into an active one, Ms. Futhey said.
639 2008-08-21 The research project, which is being led by Joshua R. Smith, an Intel researcher at a company laboratory in Seattle, builds on the work of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist Marin Soljacic, who pioneered the idea of wirelessly transmitting power using resonant magnetic fields. The MIT group refers to the idea as WiTricity, a play on wireless and electricity. Both the M.I.T. group and the Intel researchers are exploring a phenomenon known as “resonant induction,” making it possible to transmit power several feet without wires.

Induction is already used to recharge electric toothbrushes, but that approach is limited by the need for the toothbrush to be placed in the base station.

The M.I.T. group has demonstrated efficiencies of 50 percent at ranges of several meters.

Intel is in the midst of an internal debate over whether the technology may also permit the shift to supercapacitors, which can be recharged far more quickly than today’s batteries. “In the future, your kitchen counters might do it,” Mr. Rattner said. “You’d just drop your espresso maker down on them and you would never have to plug it in.”

The Intel team describes its system as a “wireless resonant energy link,” and is experimenting with antennas less than two feet in diameter to remotely light a 60-watt light bulb.

In 2006, the M.I.T. researchers demonstrated that by sending electromagnetic waves around a waveguide it was possible to produce “evanescent” waves that could permit electricity to wirelessly tunnel to another waveguide “tuned” to the transmitting loop.

Several start-up firms , including WildCharge, based in Boulder, Colo., and WiPower, based in Altamonte Springs, Fla., have already announced related wireless charging technologies. But these demonstrations have required that the consumer gadgets touch the charging station.

The Intel researchers said they were thinking about designing a system that would make it possible to recharge a laptop computer without wires.

“From Intel’s position that seems like the thing to shoot for right now,” Mr. Smith said. The receiving antenna is about the size of something that could easily fit against the bottom of a conventional laptop computer. “It could be that cellphones and P.D.A.’s are even more compelling, but I think we are going to start with the laptop. It’s easy to dial down from laptops,” he said.

The researchers said that Intel could produce a prototype design and that it might contribute to products by developing chip sets for manufacturers. At Thursday’s research presentation, Mr. Smith plans to demonstrate an application using an electric field sensor — a natural capability of some fish — to give added dexterity to robotic arms and hands. He has designed a sensor system that makes it possible for a robot hand to gauge the size of an apple and then grasp it. The hand then carries the apple to an outstretched human hand. When it senses the hand, it drops the apple.
640 2008-08-21 NBC Universal said on Wednesday that it had signed an agreement to acquire Carnival Film and Television, an independent production agency in Britain, giving it a base of operations for international expansion.

Carnival will be merged with a new NBC division dedicated to international television production.

“The mandate is to expand outside of the U.S.,” said Angela Bromstad, the president of the division, which was set up last summer. Ms. Bromstad said the company was considering acquisitions and partnerships in India, Russia, France and Spain.

NBC Universal is increasingly looking overseas to develop television and film concepts, produce programming and license rights.

NBC declined to disclose the value of the deal, but British publications reported that it was paying the equivalent of $55 million for Carnival. The deal is expected to support the company’s goal to double its international revenue, to 30 percent of the company’s business, by 2010.

“International growth is one of our key strategic priorities, and that includes boosting our ability to create programming for specific local audiences around the world,” Jeffrey Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, said in a statement.

Carnival is well known in Britain for producing “Hotel Babylon” for the BBC, and “Midnight Man” and “Harley Street” for ITV. “Hotel Babylon,” a drama set in a luxury hotel, is broadcast in the United States on BBC America.

Ms. Bromstad said the content created for international markets could also make its way to the schedules of NBC and its other networks in the United States.
641 2008-08-21 Oil gained for a second consecutive day, settling up 45 cents at $114.98 as concerns swirled about Russia’s possible reaction to the erection of a missile shield in Poland. Also, Goldman Sachs reiterated its year-end forecast of $149 a barrel for crude oil in the United States.

“Going into the day, some reasonably good earnings gave us a positive bias, and also it seems to me that the commodity stocks, which have been pretty beaten up, are having a very strong rebound,” said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer at North Star Investment Management in Chicago.

“But this may be just bargain hunting, as I haven’t seen any economic numbers that would be driving this,” he added.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 68.88 points, or 0.61 percent, at 11,417.43. The S.& P. rose 7.85 points, or 0.62 percent, to 1,274.54. The Nasdaq composite index increased 4.72 points, or 0.20 percent, to 2,389.08.

The S.& P. financial index gained 1.67 percent. Wells Fargo shares rose $1.13, to $28.92, while Bank of America, also a leading mortgage lender, gained 4.3 percent, to $29.29.

On the downside, shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac lost more than 22 percent each. Shares of Fannie, the nation’s biggest provider of housing finance, plunged 26.8 percent to $4.40, while Freddie shares fell 22.1 percent to $3.25.

Shares of Hewlett-Packard rose 5.7 percent, to $46.16, their best one-day gain in six months.

Shares of Research in Motion, the BlackBerry maker, gained 3.4 percent, to $130.28, after Citigroup reiterated its buy rating on the stock.

Hess climbed $5.55, to $104, while ConocoPhillips rose $1.60, to $80.85.

Investors “are finally recognizing the strong fundamentals that those stocks have, despite what the price of oil is on a weekly basis,” said Michael B. Koskuba, portfolio manager and analyst with Victory Capital Management.

Material shares also had a strong day, with the S.& P. materials index up 2.1 percent. Shares of Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold rose 7.5 percent after Morgan Stanley noted a declining spread between the London Metal Exchange and Shanghai copper prices, suggesting that a replenishing of Chinese inventories is near and bodes well for the company.

But concerns about consumer weakness sent shares of big manufacturers down. Textron lost 3.6 percent, to $38.59.

Bonds edged higher. The 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 101 20/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.8 percent, down from 3.83 percent late Tuesday.
642 2008-08-21 Kellogg is reintroducing the brand at an event to be held in New York on Thursday. Scheduled to be present are three consumers who won a contest to be declared America’s most ardent Hydrox fans; the winners are featured on a Web site (hydroxcookies.com) along with content like a history of Hydrox, first sold by Sunshine in 1908.

In battling Oreo, Hydrox was “up against very tough competition, and to be honest with you the brand had gotten a little bit old and a little bit tired,” said Brad Davidson, senior vice president of the Kellogg Company in Battle Creek, Mich., and president for North America.

Still, Kellogg had been hearing from the “very loyal consumer base” since Hydrox disappeared, Mr. Davidson said, and so had its sales force, which had been receiving requests for the brand to be brought back.

The brand’s centennial provided a peg to revive Hydrox in what is being called a “100th anniversary limited edition,” he added. This will help Kellogg gauge whether the brand should be brought back permanently.

Although Mr. Davidson declined to be specific about production, he said the number of packages to be shipped for sale later this month had “far exceeded our original forecast.”

Hydrox and Eagle are among scores of products that marketers abandoned because of declining sales, stronger competitors or a desire to focus on newer brands deemed more contemporary.

For example, there was an outcry online last winter when Kraft Foods discontinued Postum, a caffeine-free coffee substitute that was introduced in 1895 as the first product of the Postum Cereal Company, later the General Foods Corporation.

Marketers are also taking another look at products that are still in production but have been forgotten or neglected, known as ghost brands or orphan brands.

Makers of such products usually cut advertising budgets in the face of declining sales. That slows sales further, which leads to more budget cuts — creating a downward spiral, difficult to avoid, that can land a ghost or orphan in the netherworld of once-popular, now-deceased trademarks along with the likes of Postum, Ipana toothpaste, Plymouth cars, Duz detergent and Hit Parade cigarettes.

“Marketing can be a beautiful art form when it’s done well, but it’s not a perfect science,” said Jay Kolpon, vice president for marketing at the Bayer HealthCare division of Bayer in Morristown, N.J.

To keep some of its venerable brands fresh — brands like Aleve, Alka-Seltzer, Bayer, Flintstones and One A Day vitamins, and Phillips’ Milk of Magnesia — Bayer HealthCare is pursuing a strategy that Mr. Kolpon described as focused on “marketing innovation, product innovation and technology innovation.”

For instance, new advertising campaigns for Alka-Seltzer draw on its heritage while at the same time updating brand catch phrases like “I can’t believe I ate the whole thing” and “Try it; you’ll like it.”

There are also new products being brought out under the umbrella of the well-known brands, among them Alka-Seltzer Wake-Up Call, a hangover treatment, and Phillips’ Colon Health, a probiotic supplement in caplet form.

Not every familiar brand can “share this kind of success,” Mr. Kolpon acknowledged. For example, while the Flintstones vitamin line is still doing well, vitamins sold under the Bugs Bunny name are lagging.

“At one point, we felt very good about Bugs Bunny,” Mr. Kolpon said, “but in terms of prioritizing our spending and investments, we’ve focused on other brands.”

That risk was underscored on Aug. 5, when Ascendia Brands filed for bankruptcy protection after efforts to revive the Healing Garden brand of toiletries fell short when marketing costs exceeded estimates and sales underperformed expectations.

“You need the marriage of a great brand and product innovation,” said Mr. Lazar of Reserve Brands, adding that his plans to reintroduce Eagle include new snacks under names like Bursts and Poppers, to “modernize the brand and contemporize it.”

“The other thing that’s important is that the category of snacks is different from other categories,” Mr. Lazar said, because snacks are “an expandable consumable.”

“The more snacks you stock up on, the more you eat,” he added. “You can stock up on all the shampoo you want, but you’re only going to wash your hair once a day.”

That may augur well for the potential revival of Hydrox, which could also be fueled by the loyalty of brand advocates like Kim Burton of Wichita, Kan., whose online posts supporting the cookies, dating to 1999, caught the attention of Kellogg executives.

“It speaks volumes about what the Internet can do,” Ms. Burton said in a telephone interview before a trip to New York to join the three winners of the fan contest at the Hydrox event.

“More and more products are going to have these networks of customer bases,” she added. Some of Ms. Burton’s posts can be read at spacefem.com/hydrox.

Mr. Davidson of Kellogg suggested that other older brands may be ripe for revival because “as the population ages, there are certain brands that really resonate with consumers.”

Does that mean a comeback for Sunshine Golden Raisin Biscuits? Sunshine Lemon Coolers cookies? Kellogg’s Pep cereal? Kellogg’s OKs cereal? Only time — and the plaintive requests of determined bloggers — will tell.
643 2008-08-21 That vastly different conclusions can be drawn from the same set of numbers illustrates the difficulties of monitoring Iraqi fiscal policy, and helps explain why American and Iraqi officials in Baghdad have sharply disagreed with the American auditors on the rate of spending.

Whether critics of Iraq’s reconstruction efforts are assuaged or incensed depends on how one interprets figures that, in some cases, contain errors and do not even add up.

The figures, which apply through June and do not include the $22 billion supplementary budget passed by the Iraqi Parliament this month, report how much agencies have spent of their allocated budgets.

But spending can be defined in numerous ways. Iraqi officials, for example, define money they intend to spend as money already spent, an approach rejected by the American federal oversight agency that issued its own report on the issue two weeks ago.

While American Embassy officials in Baghdad acknowledge that Iraq is still spending a small fraction of its reserves on reconstruction, they argue that the government at least deserves credit for spending more money than in the same period last year.

“I think that the proper measure is how much they’re spending, not how much they’re spending relative to the budget,” said Charles Ries, the chief economic official in the embassy.

For reconstruction efforts, he said, “they have enough money to keep going for two years-plus without any new budget.

“So the question is: ‘How do we help them, or how do they help themselves spend more money in the current year and in the next six months?’ ”

But in an interview at his office in Baghdad’s Green Zone, Iraq’s minister of finance, Bayan Jabr Solagh, was more critical of the accountability office report, saying it did not accurately reflect Iraq’s significant progress. He argued that the 2008 preliminary budget figures proved that Iraq spent 57 percent of its reconstruction budget through June.

That figure, however, is not cut and dried. In the first place, the Iraqi math appears to be incorrect, since the calculation from which it is derived actually yields a spending rate of 59.9 percent.

Moreover, the percentage the ministry cites takes into account both categories of money: what is actually spent, and money promised in what the Iraqi government calls “advances,” which, in most cases, mean letters of credit. These advances may not become real expenditures for years to come, and the amounts may end up changing.

“In this report, we added them together just to say actual expenditure as such,” said Aziz Jaafar, an adviser to Mr. Solagh.

For some ministries, particularly those with major infrastructural needs, advances represent a huge proportion of their spending. Seventy-five percent of the Oil Ministry’s expenditures are reported as advances. Similarly, while $231 million in reconstruction money has officially been spent by the Electricity Ministry, none of it has actually gone out the door.

Mr. Solagh said that the advances would be an enormous part of Iraq’s spending in these transitional years, and that the sheer scale of them makes Iraq’s current $29 billion surplus look inadequate, not bloated.

“Already we have a contract with Boeing, $5 billion,” he said. “We have a contract with G.E. to import new generators for electricity, around $2 billion. We are planning to build a refinery in Nasiriya and the other in Karbala; each one needs at least $4 billion.

“We have a shortage in housing, at least two million units,” he continued. “What is $20 billion? It’s nothing.”

In its report, the Government Accountability Office rejected these advances, calling them too ambiguous, and removed them from its calculations.

With advances taken out of the equation, the Iraqi government has so far spent 18 percent of its 2008 budget.

But the more authentic figure may be even less than that. Both estimates — from the Iraqis and the accountability office — included expenditures from the semiautonomous Kurdistan Regional Government in their math. But Mr. Ries, the American Embassy official, said that the Ministry of Finance marked almost all of the money transferred to Kurdistan as spent, whether it actually was or not.

If the budget for Kurdistan is considered apart from the rest, the percentage of reconstruction money actually spent by the Iraqi government drops to 8.7 percent.

Mr. Solagh acknowledged that Iraq’ ability to spend effectively, crippled by years of war, economic sanctions and sectarian violence, was improving slowly and that reconstruction would take years, if not decades.

Frederick D. Barton, a reconstruction expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, highlighted the challenge. “The government of Iraq,” he said, “essentially a rather newly formed government, is trying to spend more money than it ever had before when it was relatively established and a much simpler government to run, basically at one man’s whim.”

But, Mr. Barton added, the government was running a risk as oil fortunes piled up unless they were benefiting the average Iraqi.

“Is there any evidence that they’re actually providing public goods?” Mr. Barton said. “Because expenditures by themselves, or the stated financial tables, don’t tell you that.”
644 2008-08-21 Voters are more negative about the condition of the nation’s economy this election year than they have been at any time since 1992, when Bill Clinton unseated an incumbent president by running an “it’s the economy, stupid” campaign.

But there were indications that both candidates have a way to go to assure voters on their potential stewardship of the economy. A majority of those who called the economy their most important concern said that neither candidate had made it enough of a priority.

“Both of them seem to be more focused elsewhere, Iraq for one thing,” Truman Roe, 72, a retired Democratic construction worker from Pontiac, Ill., said in a follow-up interview to the poll.

The poll suggested that victory remains very much within the grasp of both men as the marathon presidential race enters its most decisive period, from the selection of running mates to the national conventions to the debates. The race has tightened, and a head-to-head matchup nationally — which is not predictive this early — shows the contest within the margin of sampling error, with 45 percent of those surveyed saying that they would vote for Mr. Obama, and 42 percent saying that they would vote for Mr. McCain.

Still, the poll showed troubling signs for Mr. McCain, who continues to suffer from a wide gap in enthusiasm. Mr. Obama’s supporters were twice as likely to describe themselves as enthusiastic as Mr. McCain’s were. Only 24 percent of Mr. McCain’s supporters called themselves enthusiastic; 28 percent said that they were supporting him only because he was the Republican Party’s probable nominee, or because they disliked Mr. Obama.

But voters were far more likely to see Mr. McCain as prepared to be president: 68 percent said that he had prepared himself well for the job, compared with 44 percent who said that Mr. Obama had. And 80 percent said they thought Mr. McCain would probably be an effective commander in chief; 58 percent said that Mr. Obama would.

The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Aug. 15-19 with 1,012 adults, including 869 registered voters. It had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

There were indications that the more negative tone Mr. McCain adopted this summer could prove risky. Efforts by Republicans and Mr. McCain’s campaign to cast his opponent as elitist or out of touch do not seem to have moved popular opinion much against Mr. Obama, but they appear to have led more voters to view Mr. McCain as a negative campaigner.

In fact, Mr. Obama’s favorability ratings remain slightly higher than Mr. McCain’s. Voters were somewhat more likely to say that Mr. Obama cares about the needs and problems of people like them than Mr. McCain does. Fifty-five percent of those surveyed said that Mr. Obama was someone they could relate to, while only 41 percent described Mr. McCain that way. And 63 percent said that Mr. Obama shares the values most Americans live by — the same number who said that Mr. McCain does.

But several weeks of tough advertisements from the McCain campaign, including widely broadcast spots that dismissed Mr. Obama as a celebrity in the mold of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears, have changed some impressions — of Mr. McCain.

Fifty-two percent of those surveyed said that Mr. McCain was spending more time attacking Mr. Obama than explaining what he would do as president, double the percentage that said so a month ago. By contrast, 61 percent said that Mr. Obama was spending more time explaining what he would do as president than attacking Mr. McCain. The poll was conducted as Mr. Obama began running a series of his own advertisements attacking Mr. McCain in potential swing states.

The survey suggested strengths and weaknesses for both candidates, including the danger that Mr. McCain is viewed as too close to President Bush. Nearly half of those surveyed said they expected Mr. McCain to continue Mr. Bush’s policies, but only 9 percent said they believed he should continue them.

Mr. Obama, who took a much-discussed trip overseas last month, was seen as more than twice as likely as Mr. McCain to improve the United States’ image in the world.

And after weeks of running advertisements and trading barbs on energy policy, with Mr. McCain hammering his plan to expand offshore drilling, the two candidates are still viewed similarly: 35 percent said that Mr. Obama’s policies would bring down gas prices, while 32 percent said Mr. McCain’s policies would.

As gas prices soared, both candidates changed their positions on offshore oil drilling in recent months. Mr. McCain did so in June, dropping his opposition and becoming an avid proponent of more offshore drilling; Mr. Obama did so this month, opening the door to more offshore drilling in limited circumstances.

The survey gave a hint of the politics behind their decisions. Those polled favored offshore oil drilling by more than two to one: 62 percent said that they were in favor of it, while only 28 percent said the risks were too great.
645 2008-08-21 I’m not sure what a hostile takeover of the South Street Seaport’s Pier 17 mall might look like. But the picture that springs to mind features swarms of men in black, tossing aside little kids’ ice cream cones and confiscating their parents’ fanny packs.

Richard Move has other ideas, judging by “Hesperornis Regalis (Seabird),” the first installment of his weeklong “Hostile Takeover” installation. Seen Monday evening on the mall’s third-floor outside balcony, the dance was presented by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council’s Sitelines series as part of the River to River Festival.

The program explained that Mr. Move, a performance artist most known for his Martha Graham impersonations, is putting “feminine beauty upon a pedestal (literally) in the midst of the male-dominated world of high finance.” Well, I didn’t notice any denizens of high-finance land skulking about the boardwalk. But seagulls, eat your hearts out; you’ll never have feathers to match Celeste Hastings’s costume.

Designed by Teatro del Odio and Gia Grosso, Ms. Hastings’s getup, black with iridescent highlights, featured a deliciously frothy, layered skirt — short of course — and a barely there top binding her chest. And then there were the feathers: peacock and ostrich, sprouting from her back, tucked under an anklet strap, radiating from her breasts and fanning out from a headdress that would make any diva proud. Even Martha.

But Ms. Hastings, a New York choreographer and performer deeply influenced by the Japanese dance form Butoh, wasn’t there to vamp, gorgeous fake eyelashes or no. Instead she offered a deeply internalized, 50-minute solo that began with her clinging to one of the viewing posts and soon gravitated to a small black pedestal adorned with a pair of large eggs and a mad-looking, handmade mechanical bird. (More on that later.)

Ms. Hastings has marvelous muscular control and a soulful mien, and it was fascinating, for a while, to watch her arch, stretch and contort her body into poses that morphed from heroic to voluptuous to abject. Disparate performance worlds came to mind, including Butoh’s storied drag-queen tradition and “Swan Lake.” What would Odile make of this wild creature with her fluttering eyes and mouth?
646 2008-08-21 Last week in an interview at the store, Ms. Lucas recalled that she had immediately liked the scent itself, a quaint floral heavy on lily of the valley. But the buyer also had a hunch that her clients would respond to the brand story: an authentically sweet tale of a young woman who dreamed of creating a fragrance based on her olfactory memories of perfumes worn by her grandmother.

“A brand is always a story well told,” Ms. Lucas, the vice president and general merchandise manager for beauty at Bendel, said as she gave a reporter a tour of the boutique’s perfume bar. In the company of more-established niche fragrances like Annick Goutal and L’Artisan Parfumeur, the slim glass flagon containing Ellie stood out like a modestly dressed ingénue at a black tie gala.

Indeed, even among such rarefied fragrances, the advent of a one-woman do-it-yourself fragrance house that has already sold several hundred $180 bottles of perfume is an unlikely success story. Ms. Dunne’s trajectory from Villanova to the shelves of one of America’s most discerning perfume counters is a tale of pluck, luck, word of mouth and exquisite timing.

Fortuitously for Ellie, it plays into two recent beauty trends: consumers looking for niche products their friends don’t have; and scent nostalgia, the fragrance equivalent of comfort food.

“Women are gravitating toward fragrances that have a nostalgic feel, that have a bit more comfort,” said Karen Grant, the senior beauty analyst at the NPD Group, a market research firm that tracks cosmetics sales. “In unstable times, people go back to things that are more familiar.”

Ms. Dunne, a slim blonde with ballerina-like bearing, met a reporter last week to recount the story of Ellie. Sitting on a white tufted-leather banquette in the Chocolate Bar on Bendel’s third floor, she said her interest in fragrance originated in her childhood.

When the other neighborhood children set up a lemonade stand, Ms. Dunne sold homemade perfume made out of mashed-up honeysuckle, berries and other flowers, she said. And while others collected dolls, Ms. Dunne amassed a modest collection of vintage perfume bottles.

From her monogrammed Goyard tote, Ms. Dunne extracted some of the tiny bottles of her collection, carefully unwound them from bubble wrap and arranged them on a cafe table: a quartet of vintage Avon scents including one with the name Cotillion; a set of tiny handblown Venetian glass beakers collected on a college tour of Europe.

“My earliest memories were of sitting on a bed watching my mother get dressed,” Ms. Dunne said. She especially liked how her mother used the perfume stopper to dot perfume behind her ears and on her wrists.

Ms. Dunne had a peripatetic early career: working as a sales assistant on a trading desk at Credit Suisse First Boston, doing graduate work in art history and managing an art gallery in Manhattan that had been in the same family for four generations. That kind of independent family ownership inspired her to start thinking about her own project.

She resolved to create a perfume, a soft ladylike scent that would remind her of her grandmother’s dressing table, laden with bottles of Joy, Shalimar, and Chanel No. 5.

First, Ms. Dunne schooled herself in fragrance by sniffing every perfume in department stores.

Then, she tracked down www.art-et-parfum.com, the Web site of Mr. Roudnitska, a perfumer who runs a fragrance laboratory in the vertiginous hills of Cabris, a French village near Grasse, the world’s perfume capital. This is the same lab in which Mr. Roudnitska’s father, the master perfumer Edmond Roudnitska, produced some of the grand Dior classics of the 20th century, including Diorissimo and Eau Savage. His son designed a scent for Frédéric Malle, the French perfume impresario.

Ms. Dunne sent an e-mail message to Mr. Roudnitska.

“I wrote: ‘Hello, I am a young woman in New York. I don’t have a background in fragrance, but I have an idea,’ ” she said.

Mr. Roudnitska, who receives dozens of such requests annually, usually tries to dissuade amateurs with Dior dreams. He discourages them by explaining the time commitment required of such a collaboration, as well as the cost, he said.

“But she accepted all of the conditions which discourage 99 percent of the others,” Mr. Roudnitska said last week in a phone interview. “She was determined.”

In August 2005, Ms. Dunne traveled to Cabris, where Mr. Roudnitska presented dozens of vials, each containing a single note, and had her smell them, as well as some partly finished fragrances on which he had already worked. The perfumer, who prefers spicier juices in his own creations, said it was a challenge for him to incarnate Ms. Dunne’s paradoxical vision: a scent at once intense and demure, clean yet floral.

Throughout the next year, Mr. Roudnitska sent Ms. Dunne about 40 variations of the scent, she said. Some were too cloying, others too heady.

By the end of 2006, after a stranger on a crowded subway train told Ms. Dunne she smelled great, she and Mr. Roudnitska finalized the recipe for Ellie.

Then Ms. Dunne turned to the packaging. She eschewed an atomizer in favor of an old-fashioned glass bottle with a stopper. She trawled fabric stores in search of grosgrain ribbon narrow enough to slip around the bottleneck. She chose simple graphics for the bottle and gift box, adding tiny French dots for feminine detail.

The result is a modernist rendition of old-school perfumes with a vintage ladylike properness to it. If Ellie were a Broadway musical, it could be called “Thoroughly Modern Grannie.”

Ellie went on sale at Henri Bendel in early 2007, one of 1,160 prestige fragrances available at beauty counters last year, according to NPD.

Blogs like aromascope.com and nowsmellthis.blogharbor.com gave it favorable reviews; a handful of stores like the Studio at Fred Segal in Santa Monica started selling it.

Two months ago, Ms. Dunne introduced her second scent, Ellie Nuit, also designed by Mr. Roudnitska. More contemporary than the original, it is more velvet and less lace doily.

Although her initial production run of 2,000 bottles of each of the two fragrances has yet to sell out, Ellie has become Ms. Dunne’s full-time job. She spends her days pursuing additional retail outlets and personally answering every e-mail message sent to www.elliedperfume.com.

“I had made it as a personal project, and now it is out there in the world,” Ms. Dunne said, as she repackaged her vintage perfume miniatures and popped them into her handbag. “It is like entering a child in a beauty contest, putting it out there for other people to like or dislike.”
647 2008-08-21 Design Within Reach, the store that brought Eames lounge chairs, Nelson bubble lamps and Noguchi tables to mainstream America, is moving into the housewares market, with DWR: Tools for Living, a SoHo store opening next month. It will carry modernist versions of 700 domestic staples, including hand-enameled stoneware, shelves made of reclaimed lumber, stainless steel flatware and organic cotton bedding. (The water-filtering pitcher, left, is $85). Ray Brunner, the company’s chief executive officer, said that the products were chosen for their functionality and economical use of materials. “We wanted objects that did what they were intended to do and were beautiful in their simplicity,” he said, rather than “things that were merely decorative.” At the company’s furniture studios, items must be ordered for delivery at a later date, but the 3,500-square-foot store will be cash and carry. Opening Sept. 19 at 142 Wooster Street (Houston Street). A second branch will open on Oct. 2 in Santa Monica, Calif. Information: (800) 944-2233.
648 2008-08-21 John Derian’s decoupage paperweights, vases and serving dishes — one-of-a-kind pieces covered with layered images of flowers, animals and antique script sealed under handblown glass — may be coveted both uptown and downtown, but they come at a price: the paperweights start at $30 and larger items can cost several thousand dollars.

Starting Sept. 7 Mr. Derian’s Old World aesthetic will be available to a much wider audience, when Target introduces a lower-price line of John Derian stationery and home décor. The coasters, photo albums, plates and wrapping paper, which are digitally printed to resemble decoupage, lack the visual depth and delicacy of Mr. Derian’s studio work; then again, the most expensive item in the collection is about the same price as a small paperweight in his original line. (The melamine bird tray, left, is about $17.) Information: (800) 440-0680.
649 2008-08-21 Another participant, Chihung Szeto, 31, said he led a company of 140 soldiers as an Army captain in Baquba, Iraq, was wounded and was awarded the Bronze Star. Mr. Szeto has a bachelor’s degree in economics from the United States Military Academy at West Point but said he wanted to learn the techniques of business management.

“Business is simply knowing people,” he said. “I learned leadership at West Point and with men in combat. I’ll keep in touch with those people all my life. But I need to learn business management; that’s what this program gives me.”

Mr. Szeto manages sales of dental supplies in the Los Angeles area and, with a cousin in China, shares in a business that makes souvenirs and marketing novelties for the Los Angeles Dodgers and Angels as well as other businesses. He says he wants to expand “by having personalized promotional items, pens and other gifts, designed here and manufactured in China.”

Alfred E. Osborne Jr., senior associate dean of U.C.L.A.’s Anderson School of Management, said: “These guys are smart. They understand that running a business is like being on a battlefield. You have to do everything you can to survive and achieve an objective.”

Mr. Osborne is running the university’s boot camp program with Elaine Hagan, who directs the Anderson school’s center for entrepreneurship. The program is more than a quick study. Participants take three weeks of online courses at the start, then come to the university for an intense week of lectures, culminating with presentations of their business plans. After that, university faculty members counsel the students for a year to help them with raising capital and general business issues.

The boot camps have enrolled 60 veterans so far at the four universities, which pay for the program. At U.C.L.A., that is about $250,000, which Mr. Osborne said he raised from private donors.

“We’re going to have a small capital fund, almost a grant program funded by donors, to help guys get over the hump and drive home the message that folks really care about you,” said Mr. Osborne, who was among the first to develop entrepreneurship programs for groups running health clinics and schools as well as minority groups that had difficulty attracting capital in the past.

Indeed, developing their own business may be ideal for veterans with disabilities, Mr. Osborne said. “Many of these guys have medical problems that make it almost impossible for them to work at a traditional business. But if you own a business, we reward that as does no other country on earth.”

Jeffrey Hopson, 39, is an example of a veteran trying to turn his disabilities into a service business for other veterans. A machine gunner in the Marines, Mr. Hopson served in Iraq and Afghanistan, was injured and has to go to Veterans Affairs hospitals frequently for examinations and treatments.

“But I have to wait hours sometimes even though I have appointments. It takes my whole day,” he said. So Mr. Hopson, a developer of Web sites before he joined the Marines, is devising an online service that can link veterans more conveniently to V.A. hospitals and to general hospitals where they can arrange treatments, easing the burdens on veterans and the hospitals.

At a Saturday session of the boot camp on Aug. 9, other veterans cheered Mr. Hopson’s business idea. But they and Mr. Osborne said his challenge would be to create a Web site that could bring so much information about veterans and medical services together. “You have a great idea, but a big job to implement it,” Mr. Osborne told him.

Other veterans presented plans both ambitious and down to earth. Greg Murray, 24, a former Marine sergeant, said he wanted to raise $3 million to build a factory in Central America to turn banana leaves into paper, using an ecologically responsible process invented by an Australian. Shawn James, 33, also a former Marine sergeant who grew up around the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, wants to improve the technology of hybrid engines.

Alejandro Galicia, 40, an Army veteran, wants to expand BPI Plumbing, a business started by his uncle, to serve the military in the San Diego area. Rico Edillor, 47, a Navy veteran, wants to start a health-focused Asian foods business catering from vans. Christopher Mahoney, a former Marine sergeant, wants to open a Buffalo Wild Wings franchise near Camp Pendleton, in Orange County, Calif.

U.C.L.A., says Mr. Osborne, will offer another boot camp program next year.
650 2008-08-21 BEIJING — In a five-set match played to alternate choruses of boos and cheers from the raucous Serbian fans in the stands, the United States men’s volleyball team earned a berth in the Olympic semifinals on Wednesday by beating Serbia, three sets to two.

The Americans came back from a two-sets-to-one deficit before winning their sixth straight match at the Beijing Games. The outside hitter Riley Salmon seemed to float over the net as he sent the winning return rocketing into Serbia’s side of the court. No opposing player could even get a pinkie on it.

The United States won, 20-25, 25-23, 21-25, 25-18, 15-12, moving the team another step closer to its first appearance in an Olympic final in 20 years. The Americans will play Russia in the semifinals Friday.

“I’d be lying if I said we weren’t anxious,” the outside hitter Reid Priddy said. “It’s almost like there’s more pressure in a game like this because if you lose, you go home. We want the gold. It’s definitely on everyone’s mind.”

With each point on Wednesday, the Americans became more animated, shouting after each small victory and high-fiving as if the gold medal were on the line. In a sense, it was.
651 2008-08-21 “And that was all I needed to say to myself to get the motivation to train hard.”

Symmonds did not race between the trials and the Olympics, one of the harder choices runners had to make this summer. The trials are so difficult for most competitors that the immediate aftermath can be tricky to handle; many say the trials are even more emotionally draining than the Olympics. Some keep racing and try to keep their form through the Games. Others, like Symmonds, take a break, then build up their training.

“I haven’t raced in seven weeks, so there’s always a question: Am I going to feel good or will I feel flat?” Symmonds said. “I felt great. But it was awesome. I took a little down time after the trials, which is exactly what I needed.”

Smith, 24, traveled to Europe for some races after the trials, then returned to Oregon for a rest. He said he felt he had bounced back in training the last few weeks, but he found himself simply outraced by more experienced runners.

“The stadium is awesome and it’s so full, I can’t even compare it to any football games I’ve been to,” Smith said. “It was awesome. I wanted so badly to get to the next round.”

Wheating, 20, trained for the Games with Symmonds in Oregon. He said he needed a break after jumping into the Olympic cycle straight off his sophomore season at Oregon.

HEPTATHLETE TESTS POSITIVE The International Association of Athletics Federations, the sport’s world governing body, confirmed Wednesday that Lyudmila Blonska of Ukraine, the silver medalist in the heptathlon, had a positive drug test on her A sample.

Lamine Diack, president of the I.A.A.F., said Blonska’s B sample would be tested Thursday and if positive, she would be stripped of her medal. In that case, Hyleas Fountain of the United States would move up to the silver medal and Tatiana Chernova of Russia would receive the bronze. Nataliya Dobrynska of Ukraine won the gold.

The I.A.A.F. did not say what substance was found in Blonska’s test. She served a two-year suspension that ended in July 2005 after testing positive for the anabolic steroid stanozolol.

JAMAICAN WINS 400 HURDLES Melaine Walker of Jamaica won the gold medal in the women’s 400-meter hurdles in an Olympic-record 52.64 seconds. Sheena Tosta of the United States took silver (53.70) and Tasha Danvers of Britain bronze (53.84).

The 2004 Olympic champion Fani Halkia of Greece was expelled just before the heats Sunday after she tested positive for a steroid. (AP)
652 2008-08-21 A separate tracking radar system is to be based in the Czech Republic. The system is expected to be in place by 2012.

Last week, Russian officials reacted angrily to the announced deal with Poland, saying that the move would worsen relations with the United States. A senior Russian defense official, Col. Gen. Anatoly Nogovitsyn, suggested that Poland was making itself a target by agreeing to host the antimissile system. Such an action “cannot go unpunished,” he said.

American officials have tried to frame the discussion in terms of defending against Iran, saying that the limited system could not possibly deter a nuclear arsenal as large as Russia’s. For Poland, meanwhile, the goal has been to anchor an American military presence in the country at a time of growing concern in former Communist countries about a newly rich and powerful Russia’s intentions in its former cold war sphere of power.

“Freedom can be denied for a while but it cannot be denied forever,” Ms. Rice said, after signing the agreement. “Poland has always been a strong defender of freedom, even in dark days when it was not able to fully express its desire for freedom.”

Ms. Rice also spoke of the “deepening” friendship between the United States and Poland. “In troubled times, the most important thing is to have friends,” she said. “But it is even more important to have friends who share your hopes and aspirations and dreams. And Poland and the United States are those kinds of friends.”

The signing ceremony took place at the prime minister’s chancellery in Warsaw’s city center. Several dozen protesters stood opposite the chancellery, holding signs with slogans in Polish and English like “We’ve had Moscow. We don’t want Washington” and “We don’t want to be a human shield.”

“The shield is in fact a sword, of the White House and the Polish government,” said Andrzej Zebrowski, a Polish peace activist.

But Polish officials have insisted that the deal was struck in Poland’s own interests. “Poland made this decision as a sovereign state,” President Lech Kaczynski said late Tuesday, according to Bloomberg News. “Nobody has the right to tell Poland what to do; times have passed.”

Lena Kolarska-Bobinska, director of the Institute of Public Affairs, a leading independent think tank in Warsaw, said Moscow perceived Poland “as one of the major players against Russia.”

“They feel that Poland is one of their territories and Poland is entering their field,” she said.

Zbigniew Lewicki, a professor of political science at Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski University in Warsaw, argued that Poland had acted wisely in signing the deal. “It’s in Poland’s interest to stay on the American radar, to be seen from Washington, and if we are ever in trouble, to hope at least for American support,” Professor Lewicki said.

He said Poland was also sending a message to Russia. “We had to do it, if only to retain our sovereignty. If we had rejected, the Russians would have interpreted it as a success,” Mr. Lewicki said.

The agreements with Poland and the Czech Republic, both members of NATO, must still be ratified by their Parliaments.

The fears about a resurgent Russia were codified to some degree in what Polish and American officials characterized as unusual aspects of the final deal, including an obligation on the United States to defend Poland in case of an attack with greater speed than required under NATO.

Russia has long opposed the deal, saying the United States was violating post-cold-war agreements not to base its troops in former Soviet bloc states and devising a Trojan horse system designed to counter Russia’s nuclear arsenal, not an attack by Iran or another adversary.
653 2008-08-21 BEIJING — The race for the first women’s Olympic open-water swimming medals began, as always, with a bottleneck of bobbing caps, the 25 participants all jostling for open water.

Cassandra Patten, a 21-year-old from Britain, sprinted ahead of the field and, with her fellow Briton Keri-Anne Payne joining her after 23 minutes, stayed there for almost the entire race, setting the pace for almost two hours after the start. Patten later said she had no particular strategy in mind, but her decision to swim with the lead delivered her squarely into the trap set by the overwhelming prerace favorite, Larisa Ilchenko.

No matter the distance — 5 kilometers or 10 kilometers — the 19-year-old Ilchenko swims the same. She stays back and drags off the pacesetters, then outkicks them at the end. The strategy had served Ilchenko well. She came here having won five consecutive 5K world championships and three major pre-Olympic 10K race titles.

Ilchenko, from Russia, added the final gem, an Olympic gold, to her collection Wednesday.

She overtook Patten and Payne in the final 300 meters of the 10K, or 6.2-mile, race at the Shunyi Olympic Rowing-Canoeing Park.

Ilchenko was timed in 1 hour 59 minutes 27.7 seconds, 1.5 seconds ahead of Payne and 3.3 in front of Patten.

“I’m very happy,” Ilchenko said. “It was a hard race.”

Swimming in the manufactured lagoon was a breeze when compared with the 2007 world championship in Melbourne, Australia, where the competitors had to contend with 10-foot swells and stinging jellyfish, on top of the usual stray elbows and other physical contact that make open-water swimming a blood kin of water polo.
654 2008-08-21 Senator John McCain was dogged by questions Wednesday about whether he would select a running mate who favors abortion rights, but he refused to show even a little dark-suited leg on the issue.     In response to Laura Ingraham, the conservative r...
655 2008-08-21 MEDICARE QUESTIONS A confidential draft of a federal inspector general's report on Medicare fraud says the agency's claims that it has reduced improper payments are misleading.      CALL FOR CHANGE As a consensus in Congress begins to emerge that ...
656 2008-08-21 In the Bairro Alto (Upper District), a vibrant nightlife quarter in Lisbon, numerous past and recent ''works'' by graffiti artists from Portugal and elsewhere are numbered and on display on the walls of old buildings. The project, called the Ephem...
657 2008-08-22 Blogtalk: New York politicos ponder presidential politics, the Chelsea Hotel gets a new manager, Columbia University ranks eighth on annual list of best colleges and more New York links....
658 2008-08-22 larry bowa was a positive influence on robinson cano...
659 2008-08-22 PC maker Acer saidit is cutting the price of its Aspire "netbook" to $349 from $399. It's cutting the price of another netbook, the Linpus Linux Lite, to $329 from $379. The entire category of so-called netbooks - personal computers designed prima...
660 2008-08-22 With the gentrification of the past two decades, McCarren Park has garnered more attention....
661 2008-08-22 Internet users in China have been complaining this week that they cannot access Apple's iTunes Store. The start of the problems coincided with an announcement from a pro-Tibet group which said that around 40 Olympic athletes had downloaded a benef...
662 2008-08-22 Most New Yorkers want a better, fairer, more open State Legislature instead of the embarrassment they now endure. For the primary on Sept. 9, there are two Democratic races in New York City that offer a chance to make a change in Albany or, at least make a strong statement about how badly change is needed.

The most important of these races is in Lower Manhattan, where Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, one of the most powerful people in the state, is facing his first real challenge in decades. It is still an uphill fight for any opponent, but the race has already made one difference. It has brought the ever-secretive Mr. Silver out to meet voters and campaign for his job.

Of the two challengers, Paul Newell, a community activist with deep roots in the Lower East Side, has the stronger credentials. Luke Henry, an attorney who moved into the district more recently, is working hard. Mr. Newell has done a better job of identifying Mr. Silver’s weaknesses: mainly, his devotion to closed-door politics, including his refusal to disclose details about his outside income. Mr. Newell is also pledging to support congestion pricing and to press for a nonpartisan redistricting commission, which is essential for real change. In the 64th Assembly District, we endorse Paul Newell.

In the 25th State Senate District in Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn, another challenger deserves support. He is Daniel Squadron, an energetic former aide to United States Senator Charles Schumer who is running against Senator Martin Connor. Mr. Connor has been in this seat for three decades and accomplished far too little. He has also made a good living as an attorney bumping potential candidates off of New York ballots. Mr. Squadron says he is committed to cleaning up Albany and that serving in the Senate would be his only job. If Mr. Squadron wants to prove his commitment to reform then he still needs to be more forthcoming about his financial holdings. That said, we endorse Mr. Squadron as an enthusiastic new outsider.

As eager as we are to see change in Albany, there are a few incumbents that deserve re-election. One is Democratic Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, who is defending his seat in Northern Manhattan’s 72nd Assembly District against City Councilman Miguel Martinez. Mr. Espaillat has united blacks and Hispanics in Albany, and he has spoken out for thousands who were being evicted as developers sought higher rents.

Mr. Martinez’s challenge has forced Mr. Espaillat to focus even more on the neighborhood’s housing crisis and to defend his overly generous use of state mailings during the campaign. But Mr. Martinez falls short because his sloppy record-keeping in a previous campaign has drawn one of the city’s highest fines. Voters should stick with Mr. Espaillat.
663 2008-08-22 The fleet of financial professionals that turned out to compete in last week's fifth annual Hedge Fund Regatta in New York was a bit thinner than last year, perhaps owing to the choppy waters of today's credit markets....
664 2008-08-22 Maisto, manufacturer of diecast toy cars, has a blog. Since April it has been documenting its process of developing a 1:24 scale diecast model Nissan GT-R from start to finish....
665 2008-08-22 The U.S.-Argentina men's basketball semifinal, as it happened, minute by minute....
666 2008-08-22 Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the credit boom that preceded the current bust was the belief of professional investors that they had found a way to increase their profits without taking on risk, The New York Times' Floyd Norris writes in la...
667 2008-08-22 The underwriters of Bradford & Bingley's rights issue have agreed to buy the 72 percent of shares that remained after only 28 percent of the British bank's rights issue was subscribed. Citigroup and UBS are on the hook for the lion's share of the ...
668 2008-08-22 Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire co-founder of a top private equity firm and a prominent voice for U.S. fiscal responsibility all called on the United States and its elected officials to combat the nation's fast-growing, multi-trillion dollar de...
669 2008-08-22 The U.S. vs. Cuba for the right to play for the gold medal....
670 2008-08-22 After four months on the market, 16 of the 28 villas have sold in the Four Seasons Private Residences in Seychelles, one of several new luxury developments on the islands of the Indian Ocean country. Located on a bay on the southwest side of the i...
671 2008-08-22 A San Marcos police officer who delayed a couple racing their dying dog to a clinic while he wrote them a ticket has received death threats. Mayor Susan Narvaiz said in a statement that the officer, Paul Stephens, had been disciplined. Ms. Narvaiz called Officer Stephens insensitive but said the threats against him and his family were “extremely unfortunate.” The statement did not elaborate on the threats. The couple, Michael Gonzalez and Krystal Hernandez, pleaded with the officer to let them get their dog, a teacup poodle, to the clinic. The dog was choking. The patrol car’s dashboard camera showed Officer Stephens telling Mr. Gonzalez: “It’s just a dog. You can buy another one. Relax.” Police Chief Howard Williams reprimanded Officer Stephens and wrote a letter of apology to Mr. Gonzalez.
672 2008-08-22 David Brooks is correct in his observation that John McCain has abandoned his maverick persona and adjusted to the circumstances of presidential politics.

Although the system may be winning on the campaign trail, effective leadership is not simply practicing accommodation and seeking approbation. The leadership we need will not only adjust, but will also orchestrate and alter events, attitudes and positions.

Let’s hope that both candidates and all pundits will keep this in mind.

“The Education of McCain” could just as well have been about Barack Obama. The education of any pol running in today’s atmosphere of gotcha and blogs and handlers turns him into a robot. Indeed, each candidate must feel forced into playing the role that he perceives to be what the voters want, and in so doing he is no longer who he wants to be. What a gold mine for a shrink!

David Brooks is too honest to deny that John McCain’s campaign has devolved into little more than a series of daily attacks on Barack Obama. But his absurd assertion that Mr. McCain has been “compelled” by the media to adopt this strategy doesn’t pass the laugh test. The devil didn’t make him do it. His own ambition has.
673 2008-08-22 Mr. Golisano is attempting to create a political force in Albany, using his money to take on what he sees as entrenched interests that contribute to gridlock in state government. His moves are being watched with some uneasiness by political power brokers and candidates. If he follows through on his promise to spend $5 million, he will rival what state party organizations spend.

“We’re doing our own research, using our own knowledge, our own polls, like any other group would do,” said Steve Pigeon, a co-chairman of Responsible New York. Mr. Pigeon, a former Democratic Party chairman of Erie County, added that Mr. Golisano was intent on shaking up the dynamics in Albany.

“We probably have a bias towards a challenger, and we like the idea of empowering some back-benchers,” he added.

Because Responsible New York is registered as a type of political committee that cannot directly contribute to campaigns, it can spend unlimited amounts to support candidates in other ways. Mr. Pigeon said the committee would spend its money on mailers, radio and television spots and telephone banks.

The five Senate Republican candidates on the list included three incumbents: James L. Seward of Otsego County; Catharine M. Young, whose district encompasses several counties along the Pennsylvania border; and George D. Maziarz, whose district is in the northwestern tip of the state.

The group also endorsed Assemblyman Roy McDonald, who is running for the seat left vacant by Joseph L. Bruno, the former Senate majority leader. And it endorsed Barbara Donno, the mayor of Plandome Manor on Long Island, who is challenging Senator Craig M. Johnson, the only Democrat among the nine senators from Long Island.

The five Democratic candidates for Senate on the list included the incumbents Martin Connor of Brooklyn, a former Senate minority leader, and William T. Stachowski, whose district is in the Buffalo area.

The group also endorsed Kathy Konst, an Erie County legislator who is challenging longtime Senator Dale Volker, a Republican, and Richard Dollinger, a former senator who is seeking to topple Senator Joseph E. Robach, a Rochester Republican.

It also backed Joseph Mesi, a heavyweight boxer who is seeking to fill the Buffalo-area seat of Senator Mary Lou Rath, a Republican who is retiring.

The organization said it would devote particular energy to helping four candidates in key races: Mr. Connor, who once did legal work for one of Mr. Golisano’s campaigns; Mr. Dollinger; Mr. Mesi; and Barbra Kavanaugh, a former member of the Buffalo City Council who is running in the Democratic primary against Assemblyman Sam Hoyt.

Other endorsed candidates included Jane Corwin, a Republican running in a primary against Assemblyman Mike Cole of Erie County, and Paula Banks-Dahlke, a Republican seeking to oust Assemblywoman Francine DelMonte, a Niagara County Democrat.
674 2008-08-22 The Boeing Company, seeking to win the reopened $35 billion Air Force tanker competition, said it was considering dropping out of the competition unless the Pentagon allowed the company up to six months to prepare its proposal.

The Air Force’s draft proposal, announced Aug. 6, gives priority to “fuel capacity and offload, and our 767-200 doesn’t fill that bill,” said Daniel Beck, a spokesman for Boeing. “We have to go off and do a lot of trade studies, cost-price data to come up with a proposal that meets this requirement.”

Pentagon officials have said they may allow Boeing and the Northrop Grumman Corporation, which won the competition in February, 45 days to respond to the new bid request, expected to be announced next week.
675 2008-08-22 SEDONA, Ariz. — Senator John McCain has narrowed his list of potential running mates to a handful of candidates and appears unlikely to select anyone who supports abortion rights, several advisers close to his campaign said on Thursday.

Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota are the top candidates as Mr. McCain and his advisers gather over the next several days at Mr. McCain’s cabin near Sedona, they said.

McCain associates recently put forth two other candidates, former Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, as possibilities. Both men support abortion rights.

People close to the campaign also floated a wild-card choice, Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq. They said it was not beyond the realm of possibility that Mr. McCain would ask him to join the ticket, although General Petraeus has no experience in elective government and has said repeatedly that he is not interested in the vice presidency.

One adviser characterized General Petraeus, who presided over a recent reduction of violence in Iraq, as more of a wish-list candidate for Mr. McCain, who, like the general, long supported sending additional troops to quell the insurgency. The adviser said the campaign was putting forth his name in part in a bid for attention at a time when Senator Barack Obama’s choice of running mate, which is to be announced in the next few days, was dominating the media.

Advisers cautioned that Mr. McCain had not yet made up his mind about a running mate and that he would listen to their opinions but ultimately do what he wanted. Mr. McCain has shared his thoughts on the matter with only a small group of top aides.
676 2008-08-22 “It’s now clear that the economy will be the tipping point in this election,” said Jack F. Kemp, the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 1996 and a former housing secretary, “and the candidate who has the best answer to getting America growing again without inflation is going to tap the winning segment of this electorate.

“I like John’s ideas, but he has more to do in terms of making his case and connecting with voters on the economy.”

For all the candidates’ detailed position papers, many undecided taxpayers and homeowners appear to be looking at the candidates themselves, as well as their speeches, body language and stagecraft, in hopes of making a visceral identification.

Part of the challenge for both men is that they have campaigned largely on character traits: Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, as a war hero who stuck with the troop surge in Iraq in spite of criticism, and Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, as a change agent who would unite voters with a hopeful message.

“Obama has the better set of policies,” said Robert E. Rubin, a former secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton. “But has he effectively conveyed those policies in a way that votes will understand? That’s the challenge for his campaign.”

And one way for each to connect with voters is to suggest his opponent’s own lack of understanding of the economic struggles facing Americans, which was underscored by the exchanges on Thursday.

Mr. Obama became a millionaire by writing books, and he lost primaries this spring in Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania to a rival who appealed to voters with a can-do political platform on pocketbook issues, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. Mr. McCain, meanwhile, overcame a primary challenge from former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a wealthy executive who also focused on the economy.

“Neither Obama nor McCain owns the economy as an issue because they’ve never focused on it, really, in ways that working-class families would identify with,” said Jimmy Siegel, who helped create political advertisements for Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign. “Obama has always been about hope and change, in a broad sense, while McCain has always been about foreign policy and experience.”

Perhaps taking his cue from the Clinton campaign’s successes, Mr. Obama is encouraging voters to start to share with him their stories of personal hardship. And he is taking more opportunities to emphasize his own understanding of hardship with them, although it does not always come easy.

At a town-hall-style meeting on Thursday in Chester, Va., Mr. Obama was asked what he would do for poor people. He began with a lengthy explication about how poor people do not hate the rich, they simply want to join the middle class. He described parts of his economic plan, which he said would put more money in their pockets. He described the life of Deval Patrick, the governor of Massachusetts, who grew up poor on the South Side of Chicago. It was only then, several minutes into his answer, that Mr. Obama might have connected more by referring to his own life.

“My mother was on food stamps for a while,” he said. “It wasn’t because she was lazy. It’s because she was a single mom who was working and going to school at the same time, trying to raise two kids, trying to make a better life for herself and her family.”

The point, he told his listeners, was this: “Don’t be fooled by all this talk about class warfare. We just want to make the economy fair so that everybody’s got a chance, not just some people.”

Mr. McCain has focused on offshore oil drilling and broad tax relief as steps to directly assist the greatest number of working Americans, by lowering taxes and, his campaign hopes, both gas prices and home foreclosures. McCain aides say the candidate will strongly push his economic program in the weeks to come, including during the Democratic National Convention next week.

The exact number of McCain family homes was difficult to pin down on Thursday, as the issue would not go away after it was raised in an interview with Politico the day before.

McCain aides said the family had four residences: a ranch in Sedona, Ariz.; a condo in Phoenix; a condo in Northern Virginia; and a condo in San Diego that is made up of two adjoining properties. The family trust of Mr. McCain’s wife, Cindy, controls other properties that relatives use as homes. The Obama campaign said that it based its figure of eight on the number of properties it says Mrs. McCain, and in some cases Mr. McCain, appear to own.

The Obama home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago, meanwhile, does have four fireplaces and a wine cellar.
677 2008-08-22 “This nominee and the administration know that I am vehemently opposed to them moving forward with the unconstitutional women’s procurement rule that makes it harder for women to access federal contracts,” Mr. Kerry said.

Lawmakers were further irked because the Small Business Administration sent a final draft of the women’s contracting rule to the Office of Budget and Management. Its contents will not be officially released until October.

Opponents fear that despite having received some 1,600 comments since the rule was published in the Federal Register earlier this year, the agency has retained the narrow definition that elicited the protests in the first place. Critics say they believe that would flout Congress’s 2000 mandate that female-owned businesses receive at least 5 percent of the $435 billion in annual government contracts.

Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who is the ranking minority member on the committee, tried to extract a pledge from Mr. Baruah on the issue at a meeting last month. Ms. Snowe said she “demanded Mr. Baruah make a commitment to either withdraw this proposed rule or defer action on this issue until the next administration.”

Mr. Baruah, who was assistant secretary for economic development at the Commerce Department, did not make a commitment. Even so, Ms. Snowe this week issued a statement welcoming his designation but urging him to “rectify the administration’s recent failure to implement a meaningful women’s contracting rule.”

Although little known in the small-business community, Mr. Baruah spent more than two years at the Economic Development Administration, which gives development grants to communities that have suffered job losses for reasons like the movement of manufacturing overseas. Before joining the Bush administration, he worked for seven years as a senior consultant at the Performance Consulting Group in Portland, Ore., which had some big-name clients like Walt Disney and Intel. The firm closed in 2000.

Mr. Baruah, 43, also served in the administration of George H. W. Bush, working as a legislative affairs officer in the Labor Department and as a confidential assistant for the Interior secretary.

Several small-business groups said it was beneficial to have an administration-selected agency head because the hurricane season was beginning, and a firm hand was needed to oversee the agency’s disaster loan program. The program was overwhelmed after Hurricane Katrina, and the former administrator, Steven C. Preston, made overhauling the program a top priority.

Karen A. Kerrigan, president and chief executive of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, a small-business association, said Mr. Baruah’s appointment would put the agency on solid footing.

Ms. Kerrigan also said Mr. Baruah’s economic development service gave him experience “working with local communities and local businesses so he understands government interaction with communities.”

The American Small Business League, which has locked horns with the Small Business Administration over the awards of small-business contracts to large corporations, has been critical. Its president, Lloyd Chapman, has publicly worried that Mr. Baruah’s goal is to either eliminate the Small Business Administration or fold it into the Commerce Department.

Mr. Chapman also said Mr. Baruah’s lack of small-business experience meant he was not qualified for the job.

When he took up the post last week, Mr. Baruah said in a statement that he planned to “help S.B.A. carry on its mission as it navigates the height of hurricane season and deals with the current economic challenges and tightening credit opportunities for small business.”

He said, through a spokeswoman, that he was too busy learning his new job for an interview, but the S.B.A.’s announcement emphasized that he “has worked for small businesses, helped small businesses grow, and was raised by a mother who ran her own small business.”

That would be Ranee Baruah, who owned Ranee’s Imported and Domestic Foods, a coffee, tea and spices store in Salem, Ore. It closed in the early 1990s, Mr. Baruah said.
678 2008-08-22 Its success or failure may matter to people who do not have pensions, but do pay taxes. Under the law, the government is not obligated to cover a shortfall at the P.B.G.C., just as it had no obligation to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

In reality, it is hard to imagine Congress refusing to come up with money if the alternative were to see pictures of elderly people whose pensions were being cut or terminated because the government would not stand by the agency it created.

“What we’re doing here is literally less risky,” Charles E. F. Millard, the director of the guaranty corporation, told me this week. Or as he put it in an article for Pensions and Benefit Daily, a trade publication, “The two most important facts about the new investment policy are that it significantly improves the probability the P.B.G.C. will be able to meet its obligations, and that it does so while taking less short-term and long-term risk.”

The risk reduction came from greater diversification, he said.

“If sixth-graders in America took finance, I could say to you that, ‘As every sixth-grader knows, diversification mitigates risk, and this policy is substantially more diversified, and that is why it has a lower standard deviation.’ ”

More return. Less risk. Who could object?

A lot of people, it turns out. I asked Peter L. Bernstein, the author of some of the best books on finance I have ever read, among them, “Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk,” about the change in investment strategy. He agreed that it was likely to improve returns, but the part about risk left him shaking his head.

“Diversification does reduce volatility, but the risk of a wipeout in the economy can only be hedged by owning Treasury bonds,” Mr. Bernstein said. “So the big downside risk that really matters is not reduced by the greater diversification in the new portfolio. Smaller downdrafts, yes; lower volatility in normal times, yes; and much greater upsides, yes. No argument about the upsides. It is the downsides where I do not see where they can say what they say.”

The new policy differs greatly from the old one, which was adopted in 2004 — after the agency’s paper surplus was wiped out as share prices slid from 2000 to 2002. The 2004 policy called for only 25 percent in stocks, although in practice the agency never got it down to that level. The argument then was that the P.B.G.C. should act like an insurance company and seek to match the maturity of its assets to its liabilities.

“If we didn’t match our liabilities, but just sort of shot for the moon, if you will, the taxpayer would be providing portfolio insurance for our bets in the market,” said Steven A. Kandarian, who was then the agency’s executive director.

Zvi Bodie, a finance professor at Boston University who served as a consultant to the P.B.G.C. and helped write the old policy, says the fundamental flaw in a heavy reliance on stocks is that it is precisely a fall in the value of the American stock market that the agency is insuring against. Not only do pension funds own a lot of stocks — and become more likely to fail if share prices plunge — but the backup guarantee of a pension fund is the value of the equity of the company that established the pension plan.

Mr. Bodie, never one for understatement, compares the P.B.G.C. relying on stocks with an insurance company investing the proceeds from hurricane insurance premiums in Florida real estate.

The Congressional Budget Office, in a review of the policy, put it more gently. “The new strategy is likely to produce higher returns, on average, over the long run. But the strategy also increases the risk that P.B.G.C. will not have sufficient assets to cover retirees’ benefit payments when the economy and financial markets are weak.”

“By investing a greater share of its assets in risky securities,” the report said, “P.B.G.C. is more likely to experience a decline in the value of its portfolio during an economic downturn — the point at which it is most likely to have to assume responsibility for a larger number of underfunded pension plans.”

Mr. Millard, a presidential appointee who is both a former investment banker and a former Republican member of the New York City Council, says all that was taken into account, and that the reality he had to deal with was that the corporation has about $68 billion in assets and $82 billion in obligations. “The point of this policy is to substantially increase the likelihood that we will be able to pay our bills,” he said.

Told of Mr. Bernstein’s comments, he replied, “That person must believe we should be 100 percent invested in Treasuries, and leave Congress to write the check. That is moral hazard.”

“It is important,” Mr. Millard added, “not to get seduced by the lore of the high-math, high-logic guys.”

Part of the argument concerns the nature of risk. Mr. Millard points out that the corporation’s consultant, Rocaton Investment Advisors, calculated that over a 20-year period, the new policy would produce much better returns under the worst circumstances than would be produced under the old policy, which relied more heavily on Treasuries and high-quality corporate bonds.

How can that be? The stock market may not be likely to collapse, but it might. It is hard to imagine the government not paying its bills, given that it can print dollars.

When I asked that question of Joe Nankof, a Rocaton partner, he said the “worst case” term “is just used for labeling purposes. It is not meant to suggest it is the worst possible case.”

Instead, it is the worst case that, under Rocaton’s assumptions, has a 1 percent chance of occurring if the new policy is followed for 20 years. Anything worse, Mr. Millard told me, should be viewed as “statistically insignificant.”

Some of Rocaton’s assumptions were challenged this week by the Government Accountability Office, which argued that the new policy posed more risk than the guaranty corporation acknowledged, and more risk than the old policy posed. But it agreed that the policy would probably produce better returns.

Rocaton’s analysis is based significantly on the use of standard deviation, a measure of how far from the average something is likely to be. The smaller the standard deviation, the smaller the expected difference between the return you get and the one you expected.

One catch is that if something has not happened before, the model may assume it has little if any chance of ever happening. The rating agencies that determined mortgage securities were safe had models that assumed home prices would not fall more than 5 percent. No doubt they viewed the chances of what actually happened as being statistically insignificant.

The other problem is that it is foolish to view standard deviation as the only measure of risk. The market value of a long-term Treasury bond will fluctuate over the years as interest rates rise and fall. But it will eventually pay off at par.

Rocaton’s report includes its estimates of standard deviation for various asset classes. If you think that is the same as risk, then you think that real estate investing has relatively little risk. Under Rocaton’s numbers, a portfolio of hedge funds would have less risk than a portfolio of junk bonds, and either would have less risk than long-term Treasuries. How would you react if your broker suggested you reduce the risk of your investment portfolio by selling Treasuries and buying junk bonds and hedge funds?

The guaranty corporation’s new investment policy is not a wildly aggressive one. Despite their perceived low risk, the corporation will not invest in hedge funds. Investment profits probably — but not certainly — will be higher. What is certain is that this has provided a way for the Bush administration and Congress to put off any hard decisions about financing the $14 billion deficit at the P.B.G.C.

The real risk is that the deficit will grow, and that instead of writing a $14 billion check now, Congress may have to write a much larger one later. That may be a risk worth taking, but it is a real risk nonetheless.
679 2008-08-22 The United States Open men’s draw ended in confusion Thursday morning. As the last name went into the bracket at the Times Center in Midtown, the tournament officials realized that it had already been called. So they went around the room to every guest picker who had pulled a numbered chip out of a cup, piecing together the original order with help from the tiny screen on a photographer’s camera.

The momentary mixup was quickly rectified, although no matter how the first round shaped up, it seemed a foregone conclusion that the top three seeds would be duking it out come the semifinals. Indeed, the biggest question was which of the top two seeds, Rafael Nadal or Roger Federer, might have Novak Djokovic on his hands.

Djokovic wound up in Federer’s half of the bracket but could have a difficult time reaching the last four. The unseeded Marat Safin has the experience to create some havoc in Djokovic’s quarter of the draw, and he could face eighth-seeded Andy Roddick, who will start his tournament against Fabrice Santoro of France, in the quarterfinals. That leaves Nadal virtually free of elite competition for the first week of the tournament, which begins Monday.

“It’s hard to really think that Nadal is going to have any kind of bumps,” said Jim Courier, who won two Australian Open titles and two at the French Open. “He’s had a longer season this year than he’s ever had, yet he seems completely energized.”

On the women’s side, the Williams sisters could have a rematch of their Wimbledon final as early as the quarterfinals. That Venus and Serena Williams wound up in the same quarter of the bracket made the prospect of an all-Serbian women’s final between top-seeded Ana Ivanovic and No. 2 Jelena Jankovic a distinct probability.
680 2008-08-22 REAL ESTATE WOES The possibility of a default by an apartment complex in Harlem is fanning worries that a decline of the commercial property market could result in more losses.       Mortgage woes have been widespread on Wall Street, but Lehman Br...
681 2008-08-22 With the Democratic National Convention rolling into town this weekend, Denver residents are taking up a long-established New York tradition:  subletting. And the profit potential is as high as the Mile High City itself.     Convention organizers ...
682 2008-08-23 Today's rollout of Senator Barack Obama's choice for vice president featured glowing praise but little in the way of personal connection between the candidates....
683 2008-08-23 Biden's primary campaign becomes fodder for a new McCain commercial....
684 2008-08-23 Gasoline prices seem to drop by about a dollar a gallon as soon as you cross from California into Arizona. At least they did today as we motorcycled our way from Needles, Calif., to Kingman, Ariz....
685 2008-08-23 The question of how many homes John McCain owns is more complicated than it might seem. Do you count the rental properties? The ones owned in a partnership with another couple? The guest houses? Or just the ones where Mr. McCain and his wife, Cindy, have actually overnighted?

Records show that the McCains have a total of 10 distinct residential properties.

1. CONDO IN ARLINGTON, VA.

 Description: 3-bedroom, 2.5-bath, 2,089-square-foot condominium in one of Crystal Citys most sought-after high-rises.

 Price Paid: $375,000

 When Bought: Feb. 19, 1993, from Senator William S. Cohen (who was best man at wedding of John and Cindy McCain)

 Owner of Record: Cindy Hensley McCain Family Trust



2. PRIMARY RESIDENCE IN PHOENIX, ARIZ., HIGH-RISE

 Description: Two-unit, 6,586-square-foot, 5-1/3 bath condo in 12-story tower near the Biltmore resort, built in 2006; other tenants include race-car driver Arie Luyendyk, singer Glen Campbell.

 Price Paid: $4,666,814

 When Bought: Oct. 18, 2006, from the developer, Anchor Centre Residential LLC

 Owner of Record: Cindy Hensley McCain Family Trust



3. SECOND UNIT IN PHOENIX, ARIZ., HIGH-RISE

 Description: 2,074-square-foot condo with 2-1/3 baths.

 Price Paid: $830,000

 When Bought: Aug. 17, 2007, from Drayton Group LLC

 Owner of Record: Wild River Rental LLC



4. DUPLEX IN PHOENIX TOWNHOUSE COMPLEX,

 Description: 1,904-square-foot duplex in The Biltmore Lofts with 2-car garage in upscale condo complex

 Price Paid: $700,000

 When Bought: May 24, 2007, from Verl and Judy Werre

 Owner of Record: Wild River Rental LLC



5. CONDO IN LA JOLLA, CALIF.

 Description: 1,429-square-foot, 2-bedroom, 2-bath condo in oceanfront complex with pool, built 1972, where Jim Hensley died in 2000.

 Price Paid: $83,500

 When Bought: June 2, 1972, from the developer, La Jolla Shores Clubdominium

 Owner of Record: Marguerite Hensley Survivors Trust



6. FIRST CONDO IN CORONADO, CALIF.

 Description: 3-bedroom, 3-bath, 1,749-square-foot condo in gated high-rise beachfront complex

 Price Paid: $2.6 million

 When Bought: July 22, 2004, from John and Cheryl Lindholtz

 Owner of Record: Dream Catcher Family LLC



7. SECOND CONDO IN CORONADO, CALIF.

 Description: 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,302-square-foot condo in same Coronado Shores tower

 Price Paid: $2.1 million

 When Bought: Feb. 27, 2008, from Stephen F. Kasbeer

 Owner of Record: Dream Catcher Family LLC



8. FIRST HOME NEAR SEDONA, ARIZ. 

 Description: 3.47-acre property at bend in Oak Creek, with 2,482-square-foot dwelling and 868-square-foot guest house, bought by Western Leasing Co. LP, a Jim Hensley partnership

 Price Paid: $237,000

 When Bought: Sept. 4, 1985, from Ivan F. Finley

 Owner of Record: Cindy Hensley McCain Family Trust



9. SECOND HOME NEAR SEDONA, ARIZ. 

 Description: 2.67-acre property with 2,251-square-foot dwelling along Oak Creek immediately upstream from former Finley property

 Price Paid: $750,000

 When Bought: May 2, 1996, from Robert V. Groat

 OWNER OF RECORD Cindy Hensley McCain Family Trust



10. VACANT PROPERTY NEAR SEDONA, ARIZ. 

 Description: 6 acres of vacant land on opposite bank of Oak Creek from the McCain homes, reachable by wading, fording or cable ferry; bought by McCains and Sharon and Oliver Harper through a partnership; turned into a private bird sanctuary with Audubon Societys help in 2003-2004

 Price Paid: $120,000

 When Bought: Nov. 24, 1992, from Ted and Betty Nakagawa

 Owner of Record: Sedona Hidden Valley LP



11. THIRD HOME NEAR SEDONA, ARIZ. 

 Description: 2.39-acre property with 1,374-square-foot and 960-square-foot dwellings built in 1960s, bought by McCains and Harpers

 Price Paid: $838,750

 When Bought: Aug. 31, 2000, from Kathleen Cashman

 Owner of Record: Sedona Hidden Valley LP



Sources: Recorders and assessors offices in Arlington (Va.), Maricopa and Yavapai (Ariz.), and San Diego counties; Lexis-Nexis.
686 2008-08-23 The University of Georgia teammates Adam Mitchell and Patrick Reed advanced to the United States Amateur semifinals. Mitchell rallied to defeat Charlie Holland, 2 and 1, in one quarterfinal, and Reed defeated Graham Hill, 4 and 3.

¶Mark Wiebe birdied four of his first five holes, then added two more on the back nine to shoot 67, giving him a share of the first-round lead with Scott Simpson at the Boeing Classic in Snoqualmie, Wash.

¶Angela Park, winless on the L.P.G.A. Tour, shot a six-under par 66 to take a one-stroke lead after the first round of the Safeway Classic at tree-lined Columbia Edgewater Country Club in Portland, Ore.
687 2008-08-23 You’ve allowed John McCain to use the energy issue to steal your momentum and erase your lead in the polls. McCain told America that we needed to explore all our options to solve the energy crisis, including drilling offshore. He said that you disagreed. He summed up his argument in a powerful little phrase: “Drill here and drill now.” Brilliant!

Yes, I know. It’s a gimmick. The relatively small amount of oil that we may find by punching more holes in the floor of the Gulf wouldn’t be seen for years.

Furthermore, we have to come to terms with the fact that we are running out of oil anyway. We may be able to push back our day of reckoning, but it’s coming. According to the Energy Information Administration, our domestic production has fallen 40 percent since 1985, and not for lack of drilling. Since 2000, the number of exploratory and developmental wells has nearly doubled, while crude production has continued to slip.

We have to slake our thirst for crude and invest immediately and aggressively in alternative energy sources.

In spite of all this, people still took the drilling bait. Why? Because it was concise, catchy and positive. That’s the formula. I thought that you understood this, you of the “Yes We Can!” slogan and all. But, apparently not.

Lately, you’ve demonstrated an unsettling penchant for overly nuanced statements that meander into the cerebral. Earth to Barack: to Main Street America, nuance equals confusion. You don’t have to dumb it down, but you do have to sum it up.
688 2008-08-23 WASHINGTON — The conservative group running advertisements that highlight Senator Barack Obama’s association with the 1960s radical William Ayers is being financed by a Texas billionaire who has raised money for Senator John McCain and who also helped finance the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth campaign against Senator John Kerry in 2004.

The billionaire, Harold Simmons, donated nearly $2.9 million on Aug. 12 to the American Issues Project, the group running the advertisements, papers it has filed with the Federal Election Commission show.

In 2004, Mr. Simmons donated $2 million to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, whose advertisements against Mr. Kerry included one that, with allegations since discredited, impugned his military service as a Swift boat captain during the Vietnam War.

Mr. Simmons is also listed as a major fund-raiser for Mr. McCain, who repudiated the Swift boat advertisement questioning Mr. Kerry’s service. Efforts to reach Mr. Simmons after office hours Friday evening were unsuccessful.

A founder of the American Issues Project, Ed Failor Jr., previously worked for Mr. McCain’s campaign, which paid his firm $50,000 in 2007, records filed with the election commission show.
689 2008-08-23 “The market psychology has shifted dramatically,” said James Crandell, an energy analyst at Lehman Brothers. “It now clings to the bearish news that was shrugged off early in the year in the pursuit of higher prices.”

Energy specialists are split on where the market is headed. One camp argues that today’s slowdown is temporary and that global oil supplies will remain constrained for years. When growth picks up again, in this view, so will prices.

Another camp contends that the current slowdown heralds a lasting shift in consumption patterns as consumers trade their gas guzzlers for smaller cars and businesses find ways to use less energy.

Perhaps the biggest question is whether oil prices will drop enough to give consumers some relief, while at the same time remain high enough to call forth new supplies, spur investment in alternative fuels and encourage consumers to use energy more efficiently.

Oil prices have typically tended to stabilize for long periods — when adjusted for inflation, prices look like flat lines for years on end. In the 1990s, a period when supplies were plentiful, prices hovered around $20 to $25 a barrel. But it is unclear where today’s market will find stability, with forecasts of the near-term price ranging from $90 to $150 a barrel.

“The market is still trying to find an equilibrium,” said Michael Wittner, the global head of oil research at Société Générale, in London. He predicts oil will bottom at $105 a barrel in September, before rebounding next year to $120 as supplies remain tight. “Prices need to remain, quote-unquote, high, to continue to limit growth in demand.”

Oil consumption has been falling in all major industrialized countries, including the United States, Japan, Germany and Britain. Sales of big cars and trucks have plummeted, airlines have trouble filling their seats and drivers are making fewer trips.

Gasoline prices, which rose to a nationwide average of $4.11 a gallon last month, now average $3.69 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile group. The prices have forced many consumers to cut their spending on other items.

Americans drove 12.2 billion fewer miles in June than in June 2007, a drop of 4.7 percent, according to the Department of Transportation. Between November and June, total miles driven dropped by 53.2 billion, the steepest decline registered in a century of data collection, said Doug Hecox, a spokesman for the department.

Gasoline demand is declining as a result. Consumption has fallen for 27 consecutive weeks and is down 2.5 percent since the beginning of the year, said Michael McNamara, the vice president of MasterCard Spending Pulse, who tracks retail gasoline sales nationwide.

“It’s really when prices surpassed the $3- to $3.15-a-gallon threshold that we began to see a steady erosion in demand and consumers changing their behavior,” Mr. McNamara said.

Now that gasoline is falling from its high, however, analysts are wondering whether that trend will turn around. The oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s led to surging prices and sharp cutbacks in consumption. But they were followed by a long period of low energy prices, and as a result, consumption rose again.

“We’ve been there before, in the late 1970s, and the question is will we be there again if the price crashes,” said Lee Schipper, a transportation expert and visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley.

Because many developing countries subsidize their energy costs, preventing them from rising too much, falling demand in the industrial world will be more than offset by growth in emerging markets like China and the Middle East. Global oil consumption is still expected to grow by about 1 percent this year, or 790,000 barrels a day, according to the latest forecasts by the International Energy Agency. That is half of the rate of growth in demand during the 1990s.

“We still have not seen clear signs of slowing demand in the emerging-market economies; however, we believe these signs are still to come,” said Mr. Crandell, of Lehman. “It won’t be negative demand, but these countries will slow to a more restrained pace.”
690 2008-08-23 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A federal appeals court has upheld the validity of the national board overseeing the auditing industry, rejecting a challenge by a conservative activist group.

The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled Friday that the law creating the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board “does not encroach upon” the Constitution nor does it violate the separation of powers clause.

The Free Enterprise Fund and a small audit firm filed a lawsuit in 2006 seeking to shut down the board on constitutional grounds, claiming it did not allow adequate control by the president.

It contended the board violated the principles of separation of powers as a semi-government agency lacking proper checks and balances.

The board polices the auditing industry, including the big four firms that review the books of major corporations: Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte & Touche.
691 2008-08-23 But the Hensley family wealth, from its rough-and-tumble origins to prominence in Arizona’s corporate world, is also the fortune that propelled John McCain into national politics. A clearer picture of that fortune emerges from a review of public records and interviews with employees, business associates, friends and relatives.

Hensley & Company has grown from a tiny operation in the 1950s to the dominant beer wholesaler in Arizona and the third-largest Budweiser distributor in the country, with more than $300 million in annual sales. It plays a leading role in corporate Phoenix — Andy McCain, the senator’s stepson from his first marriage and a top executive of the beer company, is now president of the city’s Chamber of Commerce — and is a forceful presence in state politics on the issues that matter to it.

But by all accounts, Mrs. McCain is far from a forceful presence at the company, where she is chairwoman.

She crisscrosses the country on the company jet, keeps an accountant on the company payroll to mind her personal finances, drives a company Lexus with “MS BUD” plates and says she oversees the company’s “strategic planning and corporate vision.” Yet she almost never shows up in the office, is deemed an absentee owner by Anheuser-Busch and has left scarcely a mark on the company, present and former executives say.

Mrs. McCain has spent far more time as a volunteer on behalf of needy children. She is a board member of CARE and Operation Smile, which provides cleft-palate surgery for impoverished children; when she visited Mother Teresa’s orphanage in Bangladesh 17 years ago, she brought a baby girl back for the surgery and then adopted her.

Her business, however, recently found itself at odds with advocates for pediatric hospital beds in Arizona’s neediest communities and for a statewide childhood education program. When the advocates proposed initiatives that would raise liquor taxes, Hensley opposed them.

Mrs. McCain has not said how she would handle her business if her husband were elected president. The federal government has domain over issues important to the alcohol industry, like excise taxes, marketing to under-age drinkers and beverage labeling.

Anheuser-Busch documents suggest that Mrs. McCain’s ownership of Hensley & Company could also create an unusual circumstance. The brewer’s contracts with wholesalers require that absentee owners supervise their managers, attend meetings and make timely decisions, meaning that the business would be overseen by the first lady. And if she chose to withdraw from ownership, Anheuser-Busch would have the right to approve whoever bought her shares, or to make an offer to buy them.

He was a young husband and father before he went off to war. Wounded in combat, he returned home a hero, but stunned his wife by divorcing her to marry another woman. The warrior in this case was not Cindy McCain’s husband, but her father, James W. Hensley.

Jim Hensley’s first marriage was to his Phoenix high school sweetheart, Mary Jeanne Parks. Family lore says he was treading water in the English Channel, after his B-17 was shot down, when his daughter, Kathleen Anne Hensley, was born in February 1943.

The marriage ended there, according to that daughter, now Kathleen Portalski. Recuperating far from home, he fell in love with Marguerite Smith, a woman from Tennessee with a 10-year-old daughter. By March 1945, he was divorced, and they married.

Back in Phoenix, he and his brother, Eugene, went into the liquor business with Kemper Marley, a businessman who had cornered much of the market in Arizona after Prohibition ended.

In March 1948, a federal jury convicted both Hensleys of concealing sales of black-market liquor. Jim Hensley’s six month sentence was suspended. A second indictment, in 1953 for falsifying records to evade taxes, was dismissed.

The Hensleys bought a New Mexico horse track in 1952. Eugene Hensley’s role at the track led to lawsuits, tax-evasion charges and prison. In 1969, he sold out to a mob-connected company with close ties to Mr. Marley, according to published reports. (The Phoenix police named Mr. Marley as the man they believed ordered the 1976 assassination of Don Bolles, an investigative reporter for The Arizona Republic. Mr. Marley, who died in 1990, was never charged.)

Jim Hensley sold his stake in the track in 1955, and took a job at a beer wholesaler. After buying the business, in 1959 he got a federal wholesaler’s permit as Hensley & Company.

Selling Bud in steel cans and Michelob draft, Hensley & Company started with a 6 percent market share. But Mr. Hensley, bent on building the “Cadillac of beer companies,” lured workers with generous pay and benefits.

Few big cities have only one Budweiser wholesaler, but Phoenix had just 107,000 residents in 1950. A decade later, its population had quadrupled. Hensley’s market share shot to 50 percent in 1987, from 20 percent in 1970; it now has nearly two-thirds of the market.

Those who knew Mr. Hensley, who died at 80 in June 2000, invariably sing his praises. If he had one flaw, they add, it was being unable to say no to his wife or their daughter, Cindy Lou, who was born in 1954.

At her father’s funeral, Cindy McCain told of his gentle reaction when she wrecked the car he had bought her after she graduated from the University of Southern California, according to people who were there. She did not mention, as a former employee recalled, that it was a Porsche and that he replaced it with a Mercedes-Benz. When the young Cindy Hensley began teaching high school and was criticized for driving a fancy car, the ex-employee said, her father bought her a Volkswagen to drive to school.

Mr. Hensley also quietly subsidized his first daughter, Mrs. Portalski, and her family. He paid for her children’s schooling, gave them credit cards and wrote company checks of $40,000 a year to Mrs. Portalski and her husband, the couple said in an interview.

But in his will, Mr. Hensley left Mrs. Portalski just $10,000 and her offspring nothing. “It’s so disappointing, just being pushed aside,” she said. Mrs. Portalski said Mrs. McCain added insult to that injury by referring to herself, in her eulogy for her father, as his only child — while her half-sister sat in a front pew.

Shortly after Jim Hensley’s death, Mrs. Portalski’s daughter said, she tried charging a meal and had her company credit card rejected. Her son says he learned that Mr. Hensley’s promise to pay his graduate-school tuition was no longer operative.

A McCain campaign spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, said Mr. Hensley’s will did not provide for continuing his periodic gifts to relatives.

Her father’s death left Mrs. McCain with full control over his company, though she has seldom intervened, executives say. “She’s never been a day-to-day manager in this business,” said Mr. Delgado, the chief executive.

In the late 1980s, she set up a charitable organization out of Hensley headquarters, distributing medical supplies in developing countries. But she disbanded the group in the early 1990s after she became addicted to painkillers and was caught stealing from its supply of drugs.

Since then, her parking space has seldom been occupied. In fact, Anheuser-Busch treats her as an absentee owner, requiring Mr. Delgado to have total control over business operations and capital investments.

Mr. Delgado confirmed that after Jim Hensley died, Anheuser-Busch approached Mrs. McCain about buying the distributorship, because the brewer prefers hands-on owners. But he said Mrs. McCain decided she wanted to be the steward of her father’s legacy.

But others who have seen the company’s books gave another reason: The company is handsomely profitable. She owns a controlling 34 percent share of a company with net profits estimated at more than $5 million a year.

In addition, Meghan, Jack and James, the biological children of Mr. and Mrs. McCain, each have 7.73 percent of Hensley & Company. Andy McCain, 45, the senator’s stepson, has 6.8 percent. Bridget McCain, the McCain’s adopted daughter, has shares worth 3.4 percent. (Ms. Hazelbaker of the McCain campaign said Bridget’s stake would eventually equal her siblings’.)

Mr. Delgado declined to discuss equity stakes or distribution of profits and said Mrs. McCain spoke to him a few times a week, often about personal financial issues. He said she took an interest in Hensley’s charitable giving and in “things that could affect the company’s existence.” For example, when he proposed taking on debt to build a large warehouse in Tempe, he said Mrs. McCain’s input was “advice and consent.” He praised her for otherwise letting management run the business.

Another person knowledgeable about the company’s finances said Mrs. McCain’s involvement in Hensley was more limited. “Delgado will tell her how much money they made, so she can tell him how much she’ll take out,” this person said. As controlling owner, Mrs. McCain is entitled to distribute profits to shareholders whenever she sees fit.

How much she receives in profits is not a matter of public record. Distributions to other shareholders, who discussed them only anonymously, suggest she receives hundreds of thousands of dollars several times a year. Mrs. McCain has released only a two-page Form 1040 from her 2006 return. It listed $4.5 million in income from S corporations (like Hensley), partnerships, rental real estate and other categories; capital gains of $743,000, and dividends of $283,000. Mr. McCain’s tax returns show that his wife received a salary from Hensley of more than $430,000 each of the last two years. (Mr. McCain listed $361,373 of his own income in 2007.)

Senate rules do not require spouses to specify the values of assets or income sources exceeding $1 million, and Mrs. McCain has many of them, including shares in Anheuser-Busch, which at a minimum are worth $2.7 million.

Mrs. McCain has also invested in banks, including one founded by Valley National Bank, where her father got his first business loan. Valley National, now part of JPMorgan Chase, holds a promissory note of $500,000 to $1 million that Mrs. McCain has been rolling over annually since 2003. And Hensley’s entire debt of $30 million is held by JPMorgan Chase, Mr. Delgado said.

Far more of Mrs. McCain’s money is invested in real estate. With Sharon Harper, a close friend, Mrs. McCain has stakes in three office complexes. At the Brophy College Preparatory School, where the McCains’ two sons went to high school, the Harper Balcony sits just over the McCain Colonnade.

There are the condominium in the Crystal City section of Arlington; two in an oceanfront tower in Coronado; her father’s condo in the La Jolla section of San Diego; a $4.7 million condo atop one of Phoenix’s newest luxury towers; another unit on its fourth floor; and a $700,000 townhouse nearby.

Then there are Mrs. McCain’s vacation homes outside Sedona. In 1985, a Hensley entity bought the first, along Oak Creek. In 1996, Mrs. McCain bought an adjacent home for $750,000.

In 1992, the McCains and the Harpers formed a partnership to buy six acres of vacant land across the creek, and in 2000 they bought another neighbor’s spread. The Audubon Society turned the vacant land into a private bird sanctuary with help from the McCains.

While all of the family’s real estate is held by Mrs. McCain, the John and Cindy McCain Family Foundation is funded by Mr. McCain. From 2001 to 2006, its donations averaged about $260,000 a year. In addition to big donations to children’s causes, mine clearing and Parkinson’s research, the United States Naval Academy received $420,000 to run an ethics conference in the senator’s name; the Brophy school has received more than $250,000; Christ Lutheran, which Bridget and Jim attended, more than $100,000.

The booming Hensley business financed John McCain’s entry into politics: after marrying Cindy, he retired from the Navy in 1981 and planned a run for Congress the next year. To that end, he took a public-relations job at Hensley and set about introducing himself to voters. His father-in-law’s wealth — Mrs. McCain was given $639,000 by a Hensley affiliate in 1982 — also enabled Mr. McCain to lend his campaign $167,000.

Today, Hensley & Company is a major donor to Arizona politicians, and has fought increases in the state excise tax, now about 1.5 cents a beer. The tax has risen only three times since the repeal of Prohibition, last in 1984, and remains 16 percent below the national median.

Its contributions have occasionally drawn bad publicity. In 1991, an Anheuser-Busch lobbyist accused Jim Hensley of passing him cash to give to lawmakers. But the lobbyist recanted, and no charges were filed. Hensley workers also told a local columnist in 1989 that they had been pressured to donate to specific political committees and to canvass for Mr. McCain’s first Congressional race in 1982. The company denied it. But workers say Doug Yonko, an executive and nephew of Jim Hensley, still buttonholes colleagues for donations. Mr. Yonko said all gifts were voluntary.

At the national level, the company’s priorities, fought for by the National Beer Wholesalers’ Association, include rolling back the national excise tax of about 5 cents a beer, last raised in 1991, and fighting efforts by hard-liquor distillers to require labels showing the amount of alcohol in a standard serving. The beer lobby also successfully opposed a bill to pay for television advertisements combating under-age drinking.

Still, industry critics acknowledge that Mr. McCain has consistently recused himself from alcohol-specific issues. Yet he has received more contributions from the industry than nearly any other senator.

The reason, beer executives say, is that Mr. McCain is sympathetic to business owners and shares their views on taxes and other economic issues.

But George A. Hacker, director of the Alcohol Policies Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a group that is a frequent opponent of the alcohol lobby, said the industry would benefit if a McCain administration steered clear of alcohol policy to avoid conflicts of interest. Inaction, Mr. Hacker said, is almost always better than action in the industry’s view.

Nothing better sums up the low-key but formidable political power of Hensley & Company than its response to two recent ballot initiatives.

Nadine Mathis Basha, the wife of a supermarket mogul, envisioned an early-childhood education program for toddlers statewide. To pay for it, Ms. Basha said, she approached Hensley in 2006 with a proposal to raise taxes on alcohol and tobacco. Mr. Delgado told her that while he supported such a program, a beer tax would “open the floodgates” nationwide and he would fight it, Ms. Basha recalled. Daunted, she went ahead with a tobacco-only tax increase, and her initiative passed.

This year, Phoenix Children’s Hospital proposed an initiative to raise money for pediatric hospital beds. Polling showed a liquor-tax increase would be an easy sell, but the hospital still offered a 30-year moratorium on any further liquor-tax increases. But Mr. Delgado said he learned that the moratorium was not ironclad and vowed to fight. The hospitals, lacking money for a costly advertisement campaign, folded, according to people involved.

But Hensley & Company is taking no chances. It is supporting another initiative that would require that any ballot measure imposing a tax increase be approved by a majority of all registered voters in the state, not just of those who turn out at the polls.
692 2008-08-23 The California Supreme Court has declined to take up a case involving the three surviving members of the Doors over the band’s name and image, The Associated Press reported Friday. At issue is more than $5 million that the keyboardist Ray Manzarek and the guitarist Robby Krieger are said to owe the drummer John Densmore and others, after Mr. Manzarek and Mr. Krieger were found by lower courts to have improperly used the band’s image and name during a 2003 concert tour. On Aug. 13 the high court declined to hear their appeal, which means that the two men will have to pay the amount to Mr. Densmore as well as to the parents of the group’s lead singer, Jim Morrison, who died in 1971, and the parents of Morrison’s wife, Pamela Courson, who died in 1974. The case goes back to 2002, when Mr. Densmore gave permission to Mr. Manzarek and Mr. Krieger to perform the Doors’ songs but prohibited them from calling themselves the Doors and from using the group’s logo or any other Morrison imagery. The dispute began after Mr. Manzarek and Mr. Krieger began to tour under the name the Doors of the 21st Century. In 2005 a judge ordered them to stop using the Doors name in any form. Mr. Manzarek and Mr. Krieger now call their group Riders on the Storm, the title of a Doors song.
693 2008-08-23 The trade brought in $2.4 billion in western currency, badly wanted in East Berlin; Mr. Vogel also got annual payments of more than $200,000 from the West Germans.

It was to Mr. Vogel that ordinary East German citizens would turn for permission to emigrate, obtainable, he told them, if they had private property to sell to buyers whom he would find, for a fee.

And in 1986, it was to Mr. Vogel that the United States turned to negotiate freedom for the imprisoned Soviet dissident Anatoly Shcharansky (later, as Natan Sharansky, a political leader in Israel). Included in an elaborately choreographed exchange of spies at the Glienicke Bridge because the Soviet authorities insisted that he was one, Mr. Sharansky exuberantly jumped into West Berlin over the border line painted on the deck.

Mr. Vogel was waiting in the dark at the border at Herleshausen in 1981 for the secret release of Günter Guillaume, the East German spy whose unmasking in 1974 had brought down Chancellor Willy Brandt.

“I’d figured on seeing you a lot sooner,” Mr. Guillaume told him.

Mr. Vogel saw himself as a humanitarian, and his last negotiations were to help thousands of East Germans who had fled to the West German embassies in Prague and Warsaw make their way to freedom as their own regime was collapsing. But all his influence in Communist countries came from his connections with the East German Staatssicherheit, the Stasi security service, and his usefulness came to an end when the Stasi did.

After reunification, his Stasi links left him open to accusations of extortion, profiteering and tax evasion that culminated in his arrest and later conviction in a state court in Berlin in 1996 on five counts of blackmail. He appealed; Germany’s highest court found in his favor in 1998 on two of the cases, and prosecutors agreed to drop the others. But he and his lawyers agreed not to contest a separate conviction for perjury and falsely swearing to an affidavit, and his legal career was over.

Wolfgang Vogel was born on Oct. 30, 1925, in Lower Silesia and grew up there in the village of Wilhelmsthal. After the Vogel family fled to the Soviet zone of occupation when their homeland became Polish territory in 1945, he studied law at Jena University.

Later, after marrying Eva Anlauf, a kindergarten teacher from Leipzig, he finished his studies in the city, at what under communism had been renamed Karl Marx University. They had their first child, Manfred, in August 1947. (Wolfgang and Eva Vogel divorced in 1967, after she moved with his help to West Berlin with their son and their daughter, Lilo. His second wife, Helga, came from West Germany and worked as his assistant; they later married.)

When he passed the equivalent of the bar exam in 1949, Mr. Vogel was apprenticed to a senior judge and followed him to the East German Justice Ministry in Berlin in 1952. But when the judge fled to West Berlin after the anti-communist uprisings of 1953 and sent Mr. Vogel a message asking him to join him, the Stasi intercepted the message and ensnared the young lawyer in its coils.

He went along as a collaborator, but soon his ambitious Stasi controller, Heinz Volpert, saw that this ingratiating young man could serve larger state interests if he was allowed to set up as an independent lawyer who could work in both East and West Berlin. Captain (later Colonel) Volpert closed Mr. Vogel’s “secret collaborator” file in 1957, but the personal and professional relationship remained close until Colonel Volpert’s death in 1986.

Mr. Vogel’s Stasi connections continued after 1957, though he always maintained that he never again was a secret informer.

“My paths were not white and not black; they had to be gray,” he told the court during his appeal.
694 2008-08-23 The next week, he and his merry band of drummers braced for a showdown — “I was willing to get arrested for my cause,” he said — but the crowd was thinner, perhaps 500, and the police were prepared with what Mr. Siegler described as “a velvet-rope kind of setup for parking.”

Again this Monday, once the beach parking lot filled, officers directed cars in an orderly procession to the side of Sagg Main Road, and hundreds of revelers poured up a hillock, past the bushes and onto the oceanfront, spreading across the sand as the setting sun glowed orange behind the dunes.

There were young families, surf rats, and groups of couples with picnic blankets. Golden retrievers, glow sticks, Belgian casuals and patch madras.

Mr. Siegler, with a snare drum strapped to his waist and a whistle in his mouth, orchestrated about 40 musicians (nearly half of whom, he said, he’d never seen before) in a series of extended jams that mostly began slowly, worked their way to a frenzied groove, then gradually slowed back down to a primitive and glacial tattoo.

They played big drums, small drums, ganzas, tambourines, and maracas. A belly dancer wearing a bikini, armature, feathers and a live snake coiled around her shoulders attracted a great deal of attention.

Vanessa von Bismarck, a public-relations executive in Manhattan and the daughter of Prince and Princess von Bismarck of Germany, said she’d been drawn this week by “word of mouth.”

“This is kind of amazing,” Ms. Bismarck said. “I have no idea who these people are.”

“It’s like a rich people’s Woodstock,” said her husband, Maximilian Weiner.

Ms. Bismarck recognized a friend, Countess LuAnn de Lesseps, the self-described “television personality” who plays herself on the reality show “The Real Housewives of New York City.” Mr. Weiner pointed toward the centermost scrum of dancers and said, ‘I’ll bet you anything there’s a wet dog in there. Somebody’s definitely got a wet dog around.”

“It’s a very peculiar smell they have,” his wife agreed.

Mr. Siegler, who has lived on Shelter Island for 25 years, said he grew up in a musical family in Greenwich Village and started the drumming school in 2002. He said the Monday night sessions, held at the Hayground School in Bridgehampton during the off season, are open to the public.

“We teach people for free,” he said. “Occasionally we get a call to perform at some A-list party, and then we sock it to them.”

Mr. Siegler ventured that the circle’s sudden popularity might have something to do with the recession. “It’s just about the only free thing out here,” he said.

Giuliana Torre, who owns the Juicy Naam, a juice bar in East Hampton, said: “You know what I think? It’s a movement toward group consciousness. It’s in response to all the division and divisiveness in the world.”

A friend of hers, who said he goes by the name Sao and is a shamanic astrologer in Sedona, Ariz., agreed. “Right now, in 2008, we’re at the end of the age of fear, greed, and selfishness,” he said. “In the next 16-year window we’re about to see a total flipping of the ages — from greed to enlightenment. So, basically, that’s what this is part of.”

When it got dark and Mr. Siegler left, a handful of musicians began an impromptu, after-hours session. They were joined by the belly dancer, Heather Tankersley, who was described by her manager, Amanda Belloni, as “the only serpent-charmer-slash-belly-dancer in the Hamptons.”

“It’s building her brand,” Ms. Belloni said. “You know what this is for her? Rehearsal. It’s rehearsal for all the other events she performs at: parties, fashion shows.”

Ms. Belloni, a longtime drum circle attendee, had her own explanation for its sudden spike in popularity.

“Very simple,” she explained. “Two weeks ago was my birthday, so I sent an e-mail blast to everybody I know to come out here. I called the radio station and told them to give it a shout-out. I wanted a big crowd to celebrate with me. Instant party.”
695 2008-08-23 The article continued: “Mr. Syron was also warned that the firm needed to expand its capital cushion, but instead its safety net shrank. Mr. Syron was told to slow the firm’s mortgage purchases. Instead, they accelerated.”

And what was Mr. Syron’s response the next day in The Globe? You guessed it: “If you’re going to take aid to low-income families seriously, then you’re going to make riskier loans,” he said. “We have goals to meet.”

As for the claims made by Mr. Andrukonis to The Times, Mr. Syron said that Mr. Andrukonis had “disagreed” with the chief executive’s decision to reorient Freddie Mac “towards the housing mission.” The major source of friction between the two men, he strongly implied, was that Mr. Andrukonis just didn’t care enough about affordable housing.

And if you believe that one ...

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac occupy a complicated place in the nation’s financial system, but the more you understand what they did, the angrier it should make you — especially since it’s likely that you, the taxpayer, will wind up having to pay for their sins. As the two companies continue to post mammoth, multibillion-dollar losses, the Treasury Department is drawing up contingency bailout plans, which will surely include the assumption of hundreds of billions of dollars in potential liabilities.

That would be hard enough to swallow if the cause had, in fact, been the companies’ willingness to finance low-interest loans to working-class home buyers. But the real reason was greed. You know that statistic you always hear about how half the nation’s $12 trillion in mortgages is “touched” by Fannie or Freddie? The implication, of course, is that the two companies are the very heart and soul of the nation’s housing market. But the majority of the mortgages in question are ones that are held by Fannie and Freddie as part of their gigantic portfolio of mortgage-backed securities — the same kind of complex derivatives that brought down Bear Stearns and have caused untold pain to most of the big Wall Street firms.

Holding those securities has nothing to do with “the mission.” What Fannie and Freddie are supposed to do — their real mission, if you will — is to create liquidity in the housing market. (The affordable housing mission was added to their charters much later.) They do this primarily by buying mortgages from banks, insuring them, and creating mortgage-backed securities that they then sell to Wall Street. With a long-term mortgage, for instance, Wall Street takes on the interest rate risk, but doesn’t have to worry about the risk that homeowners will stop paying their loans. Fannie and Freddie assume that risk. That arrangement gives the banks more capital to make yet more housing loans, and supposedly frees them to continue loaning even when the economy takes a dip.

The problem is that while the two companies are still called government-sponsored entities, they are also publicly traded corporations. And for much of the last two decades, they have been hell-bent on growth, the clear goal being to push up their stock prices. “Wrapping” mortgages for banks — you can make money doing that, but you can’t double your earnings every five years, which was the stated goal of the former Fannie Mae chief executive, Franklin Raines.

Ah, but if you buy up the mortgage-backed securities yourself, taking on the interest rate risk as well as the credit risk — all the while using your government-sponsored pedigree to borrow at lower rates than your Wall Street competitors — well, then you’ve got a spectacular growth business. And if you’re the C.E.O., with lots of stock options and bonuses based on stock price and profits — as Mr. Raines was — you can put tens of millions of dollars in your pocket, too.

The mission? It was little more than a fig leaf that the companies trotted out whenever somebody pointed out the obvious: that its growing portfolio of mortgage-backed securities was dangerous. (Needless to say, Fannie and Freddie insist that affordable housing is their real raison d’être, and object to such characterizations.)

Then, in 2003, came the accounting scandal. Fannie Mae had to restate $9 billion in earnings, and Mr. Raines, who had made $90 million during his six years as chief executive, lost his job, replaced by Mr. Mudd, who had been his No. 2. (Mr. Raines never had to give back any of the money, though.) Freddie Mac, its smaller cousin, had to restate about $5 billion in earnings. Its chief was also booted in favor of Mr. Syron, the former executive chairman of the Thermo Electron Corporation. The accounting scandal emboldened their formerly tepid regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, to crack down on the interest rate risk they were taking with their ballooning portfolios.

So how did Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron respond? Did they decide to pull back, take less risk and act as a stabilizing force in the market? Not even close. Like their predecessors, Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron put their investors — and their bonuses — first, and their mission a distant second.

As we are now learning, in 2005 and 2006, the two men plunged their companies headfirst into subprime mortgages — and continued doing so even as the subprime market began to implode. According to Fannie Mae documents obtained by The Washington Post, Mr. Mudd described getting into subprime mortgages as taking a step “towards optimizing our business.” Mr. Syron did the same — as Mr. Duhigg’s article in The Times made clear. The two companies also got heavily into underwriting so-called Alt-A mortgages, which, as the Post article put it, are “often made with no verification of the borrower’s income.”

These are the loans that Mr. Syron is now claiming were made to comply with “the mission.” But the mission had nothing to do with it. Fannie and Freddie got involved with subprime mortgages for the same reason as everyone else on Wall Street: they offered higher rates of return than ordinary mortgages. Why? Because they were riskier. As we now all know.

You want to know the truth about “the mission?” The country doesn’t even need Fannie and Freddie to help with affordable housing. Several laws mandate that banks reinvest in the communities in which they operate — and that mandate has come to be defined largely as making loans available for affordable housing. Several executives involved in community-based banking told me that Fannie and Freddie actually refused to buy those mortgages — they weren’t profitable enough. (A spokeswoman for Freddie Mac denies this.)

With any luck, once we get through this crisis, the country can figure out a better way to provide both liquidity and stability for the housing market without being so reliant on Fannie and Freddie. But for now, given the paralysis in every other sector of the market, the country badly needs Fannie and Freddie to do what they are chartered to do: “wrap” loans so that banks will keep writing mortgages.

That’s why Congress recently passed a law that allows Fannie and Freddie to insure mortgages up to nearly $625,500, from the previous limit of $417,000. That’s also why the Treasury is now taking pains to ensure the marketplace that the companies will not go bust, even if it means a government takeover. If Fannie and Freddie were to file for bankruptcy — the fate, frankly, they deserve — the mortgage market (not to mention the entire financial system, just as Mr. Greenspan once predicted) would quite likely freeze up completely. In the midst of the worst housing crisis since the Great Depression, that would be disastrous.

All right, so be it, we’ll keep them alive for the greater good of the country, moral hazard be damned. But let’s at least acknowledge that there is something deeply flawed with an arrangement in which the shareholders and executives reap the profits in good times, while the government and the taxpayers absorb the losses when things go awry. At the very least, the companies should stop using the mission as an excuse, and acknowledge they did the wrong things for the wrong reason.

Their only mission has been to get rich, and it has hurt us all.
696 2008-08-23 Ten polar bears, an unusually large number, were seen swimming in open water off the northern coast of Alaska recently, some heading for shore and some heading toward the retreating ice in the Chukchi Sea, two federal officials confirmed Friday.

Susanne Miller, the biologist in charge of the polar bear project for the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, said 8 of the 10 bears spotted in the aerial survey had been within 15 miles of shore. One was 35 miles from shore and another one 50, but neither was more than 20 miles from the nearest arctic ice.

Bear sightings in open water were infrequent until about 2004, Ms. Miller said, but rising temperatures have melted much of the ice platform on which they live and hunt for seals.

In May, Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne put the United States polar bear population under the protections of the Endangered Species Act, primarily because of the loss of its habitat.

“It’s not unusual for bears to be swimming,” Ms. Miller said, “but depending on their condition and how much time they’re spending in the water, this could be problematic. It’s going to cost them more energy to swim through water than travel on land.”
697 2008-08-23 The two companies have also discussed a broader partnership that could range from joining forces on public policy issues to featuring content from Google on other Verizon services, including Internet access and FiOS TV. Representatives for the companies declined to comment. The talks were first reported in The Wall Street Journal.

Google and its rivals have been working to secure deals with carriers and handset makers in hopes of gaining a foothold in a market that is small for now but is growing fast. Of the 36 million Verizon Wireless customers who access data using their phones, about 13.1 million search the Web, according to estimates from Nielsen Mobile, which tracks wireless trends. (Verizon has 68.7 million customers over all.)

About 3.8 million of Verizon’s customers use the network to access a search engine like Google or Yahoo, Nielsen said. Significantly fewer customers — 2.3 million — use the most prominent search tool on Verizon’s phones, which bears its own brand.

“That battle may be lost,” said Rajeev Chand, an analyst at Rutberg & Company.

Some carriers have resisted working with search engine companies because they fear those companies will take a large portion of the revenue that is expected to come from mobile advertising. And as the race among carriers to keep customers has become more competitive, they are also wary about giving information about their customers to new business partners who could later become foes.

As search companies jockey for position with carriers and handset makers, they are eyeing profits that, for the most part, will not be significant for years. The search advertising market is minuscule for now. Last year, marketers spent just $35 million in the United States on search advertising on mobile phones, according to eMarketer, a research firm.

The figure includes traditional search ads, like those Google and Yahoo place alongside search results, as well as voice ads that users receive when they make a directory inquiry. Still, the market is expected to grow rapidly, reaching $1.5 billion by 2012, according to Marketer.

Experts say many of these search deals have not done much to turn mobile users into mobile searchers. “We’ve seen a ton of carrier deals with search providers in the past two years,“ said Omar Hamoui, chief executive of AdMob, which specializes in placing ads on mobile phones.

“All these deals haven’t moved the needle in the same way that one device with a good browser and a good search user experience has,” Mr. Hamoui said, referring to the iPhone.

But Mr. Hamoui noted that if Verizon eventually highlighted Google’s service on all of its phones, the agreement could prove to be significant.

Google has a voracious appetite for expansion of its search business beyond personal computers and into the mobile world. In May, Sprint agreed to feature Google’s search engine on its phones; previously Sprint had been working with Microsoft.
698 2008-08-23 Only a few states, including New York, have challenged the increases, though several insurance departments say they have stepped up their scrutiny.

J. Robert Hunter, an insurance consumer advocate with the Consumer Federation of America, is urging state regulators to find out why rates are rising when Americans are driving, in total, billions of miles less than a year ago.

“As Americans drive less because of the price of gas, fewer claims will be filed with insurance companies,” Mr. Hunter said in a letter to the nation’s governors in June. “Whether this will mean windfall profits for insurers or rate cuts for the consumers is up to governors and state regulators to determine.”

Many state regulators are staying on the sidelines, having taken steps to deregulate auto rates in recent years, in hopes that competition will keep rates low. Some states do not preapprove rates, as New York does, but can take action later if they find an increase was inappropriate.

“A lot of them say, ‘We don’t regulate rates, so we don’t care,’ ” said Mr. Hunter, citing evidence that rates are lower in states where regulators exert a heavier hand.

Insurance companies say that their auto rates are based on their recent experience with claims, and that this year’s increases are justified. The reduced driving has not yet shown up in fewer accidents, they say, and meanwhile, other factors are increasing the overall cost of claims.

“Higher inflation, and the commodities price boom, increases the cost of steel, plastic, paint, aluminum, copper and everything else used to repair a vehicle,” Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said. “It also ultimately drives up medical and legal costs.”

While insurers track accidents closely, their data lags behind real time because it can take months to settle claims. The Department of Transportation has tracked big declines in driving through June, but the insurance institute has data on crash frequency only through March. Whether accidents declined over the summer will not be known until the end of September, Mr. Hartwig said.

Still, Mr. Hartwig, an economist, offered data from the 1970s to show what can happen when a spike in gasoline prices prompts Americans to curtail their driving. During the five-month Arab oil embargo of 1973 and ’74, car crashes did taper off, he said, but they rose almost immediately after the embargo ended. Meanwhile, the oil price shock spread inflation throughout the economy, driving up the cost of car repairs.

“Entrenched inflation can push up costs for many years,” said Mr. Hartwig, warning that the same thing could happen again.

The overall uncertainty about inflation is making it hard to evaluate insurers’ projections that their claim costs are about to rise.

In general, consumer groups and regulators want auto premiums to be high enough to keep companies from going broke, but low enough to be affordable, because auto insurance is mandatory. They also want rates to reflect insurers’ costs — not factors like drivers’ credit scores.

When rates began rising late last year, regulators assumed that it was just the normal turning point of a business cycle.

“When prices have been low, there’s pressure for them to go up,” said Jerry Hagins, a spokesman for the Texas Insurance Department, which stopped preapproving auto rates in 2003. Texas is now conducting market research to learn whether rates are rising faster than insurers’ costs. The results are expected at the end of this month.

Florida’s insurance commissioner, Kevin M. McCarty, also said it was too early to tell whether this year’s rate increases were out of line.

When Mr. McCarty received Mr. Hunter’s call for hearings last month, he wrote back to say he did not want to “overhaul the auto insurance pricing structure in Florida based on short-term developments” like oil speculation and the ups and downs of the dollar.

So far, the only state to deliver on Mr. Hunter’s call for public hearings is North Carolina, which usually holds them every year.

In the state this year, the insurers and their regulators are further apart than ever. The industry is calling for a 13 percent increase, while the staff of the insurance commissioner, Jim Long, says rate cuts of as much as 20 percent are appropriate. (The percentages apply to the maximum rates insurers can charge; in practice, many drivers pay less.)

Much of the gap results from disagreements over how to handle risky drivers. But the effect of gasoline prices was also debated at the hearing.

Allan Schwartz, an actuary from New Jersey who served as an expert witness for the state, said the relationship between gasoline prices, driving habits and crash frequency was well established, but the insurers had failed to take it into account, artificially inflating their requested rate increase by 2 percentage points.

Representatives of the insurance industry disagreed. Mr. Long is expected to issue a ruling in September on which way rates can move.

New York does not hold public hearings, but its insurance department can still approve or deny requests for auto rate increases. This month, with 48 applications pending, the department decided to challenge one insurer, Geico, on whether it had taken gasoline prices and New Yorkers’ reduced driving habits into account when projecting its claims costs.

The question prompted Geico to withdraw its proposal for an increase, which would have applied to 75 percent of its car insurance business in New York. Geico is still pursuing a rate increase for the remaining 25 percent, which covers New York’s riskiest drivers, but has scaled back the size of the increase, said Mr. Moriarty of the department. A Geico spokeswoman, Rachel N. Veness, declined to discuss the company’s next steps, citing “the highly competitive nature of our business.”

Buoyed at having struck a blow for consumers, New York then sent queries to all of the other companies seeking rate increases, asking about gasoline prices and accident trends. Eric R. Dinallo, the state’s insurance superintendent, has warned that New York will not act on their applications until they respond.

“That is not something we’ve heard about in any other state,” said Raleigh Floyd, a spokesman for Allstate, which has an application pending in New York. He said Allstate did not plan to withdraw its application and was confident that it could show that an increase was warranted.

Matthew Denn, the insurance commissioner in Delaware, said he thought New York’s intervention might catch on in other states.

“I think it’s a good idea,” he said, adding that it would be administratively difficult in Delaware, one of many states where regulators now have the authority only to roll back rates deemed excessive after the fact, not to deny increases in advance. “I’m going to ask our actuaries if there’s some way that that can be done.”
699 2008-08-23 PARIS — Responding to new concerns about the French military presence in Afghanistan after the deaths of 10 soldiers there in a Taliban ambush, Prime Minister François Fillon said on Friday that he would support a parliamentary vote in September on the troop deployment in line with recent constitutional changes.

Parliament, which is dominated by the conservative party of President Nicolas Sarkozy and Mr. Fillon, is expected to approve the continued involvement of French troops. But the vote is a gesture to public concern. It would take place after a parliamentary debate on Afghanistan beginning Sept. 22.

The vote would take place under new rules requiring parliamentary approval for any military deployment overseas that lasts more than four months. Mr. Fillon would apply the new rules to the Afghan deployment, even though it began before the constitutional changes were made, in order to hold the vote.

On Tuesday, Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner and Defense Minister Hervé Morin will testify before a special joint session of the foreign and defense committees of the lower house of Parliament on France’s Afghanistan policy.

Mr. Sarkozy has strongly defended the need for France to fight the Taliban in Afghanistan alongside its Western allies as part of the fight against terrorism and for the rights of Afghan women. But his promise in April to commit an additional 700 French troops, bringing the total to nearly 3,000, was not popular.
700 2008-08-23 BEIJING — Before his United States team plays Japan on Saturday for the bronze medal, Manager Davey Johnson plans to make a quick speech. He will simply remind his players that a consolation prize in what may be the final Olympic baseball competition is better than no prize at all.

“It’s a pretty good group,” Johnson said after the Americans lost, 10-2, to Cuba on Friday night. “They’re not a group I need to motivate a whole lot.”

At least that is his hope. His players looked deflated afterward, having expected to ride the momentum of four straight victories into a semifinal matchup against Cuba, their rival. The United States could not match Cuba’s power or pitching, giving up four home runs — including a pair of three-run blasts in Cuba’s six-run eighth — and 14 hits while mustering only six of its own.

“If you would have told me before the game that we would have scored that many runs against that good pitching, I would have thought you were crazy,” Cuba Manager Antonio Pacheco said through a interpreter. Cuba faces unbeaten South Korea for the gold medal on Saturday night.

The Americans had defeated Cuba four consecutive times before a tough 11-inning loss last Friday that left Johnson and Pacheco criticizing each other for what each considered unsportsmanlike behavior. United States second baseman Brian Barden said he was pleasantly surprised at how Cuba respected the game Friday, though that sentiment was hardly shared by his teammates or Johnson.

After Alexei Bell launched a deep three-run homer in the eighth that pushed Cuba’s lead to 7-2, he stood at home plate admiring the blast, looking up to the sky and flinging his bat to the side. The American catcher Lou Marson jawed at him as he entered his home-run trot and again when Bell crossed the plate.

“I have a bad taste in my mouth,” Marson said. “I’m sure everybody else does, too.”
701 2008-08-23 Shares on Wall Street rose sharply on Friday in response to a decline in oil prices, speculation that Lehman Brothers might be sold and expectations that the federal government would soon reaffirm its support for the troubled mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

The rally, which began on Thursday, followed a slump earlier in the week.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 1.73 percent, or 197.85 points, at 11,628.06, and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.13 percent, or 14.48 points, to 1,292.20. The Nasdaq was up 1.44 percent, or 34.33 points, at 2,414.71.

Light crude oil closed down $6.59 at $114.59 a barrel after surging more than $5 on Thursday. Given that energy prices have been the main driver of rising inflation over the last few months, the dropping oil price helped relieve marketwide fears.

“As I look at the markets, we’re going up one day, down the other day,” said Edward Rombach, derivative markets analyst at Thomson Reuters. “Gold and oil go up and the dollar goes down, and the reverse happens the next day. The swings are pretty big.”

The euro slipped against the dollar Friday, easing to 1.4775, from 1.4877 on Thursday.

Speculation that the troubled brokerage firm Lehman Brothers might be bought by the Korea Development Bank was taken as good news by investors wary of the shock waves that have rippled through the financial sector. Lehman rose 69 cents, to $14.41, at Friday’s close, up more than 5 percent.
702 2008-08-23 PETRONE--Emiel N.  3/23/43--8/23/04. Eternal love, we miss you so. M...
703 2008-08-24 Associated Press: "Shannen Doherty, Jennie Garth and the cast of the CW's '90210' toasted the teen drama's return to television Saturday night at a lavish invitation-only beachside premiere party."...
704 2008-08-24 Senator John McCain plans to do a little campaigning to try to stay in the public's eye while the Democrats gather to nominate his rival in Denver....
705 2008-08-24 Ten mountaineers are reported missing after an avalanche swept down the northern face of Mont Blanc....
706 2008-08-24 A new McCain commercial features the high-profile Democrat who wasn't chosen to be Obama's running mate....
707 2008-08-24 More campaign-related opinion for Sunday, August 24: Editorial: What the Voters Know The economy's dire circumstances will not abate soon. And voters believe that neither candidate is paying enough attention to their distress. Frank Rich: Last Cal...
708 2008-08-24 Equally important was the awakening of civil society. A generation of older people who grew up in a democratic Czechoslovakia before and just after World War II joined forces with younger people who were disappointed by Stalinist communism to create a social movement. This widespread renewal of active citizenship showed that a majority of people wanted to be free and would pursue their dream, even knowing that the Kremlin would do its best to stop the movement.

By the end of 1968, Mr. Kundera and Mr. Havel offered opposing views of the Prague Spring’s importance. Mr. Kundera argued that it was a far-reaching experiment in which the Czechs, falling back on the best traditions of their history, attempted to create a new socio-political model of democratic socialism, which would offer a higher quality of democracy, free of various ills associated with capitalism.

Mr. Havel, who unlike Mr. Kundera had never been a communist, offered a more sober view. In his opinion, the Prague Spring was just an attempt to revive the Western-style democracy that Czechoslovakia once had. Initial developments after 1989 seemed to prove Mr. Havel right. Most Czechs and Slovaks did not want to return to what many saw as a utopian search for a third way, but instead supported a traditional democracy and market economy.

Today, on the other hand, almost two decades after communism, an increasing number of Czechs and Slovaks are critical of their existing democracies, which are marked by corruption, cynicism of political parties, populism and the capitalist pressure to turn citizens into consumers. Now, it is Mr. Havel who speaks critically of such social ills.

The Prague Spring had a real impact outside Czechoslovakia. The Kremlin’s decision to use brutal force to destroy the experiment had a devastating effect on the Euro-communist movement. After 1968, once powerful communist parties in France, Italy and other Western European countries gradually faded.

Ideas generated during the Prague Spring were a source of inspiration for Mikhail Gorbachev’s glasnost and perestroika in the mid-1980s. Like the Czechoslovakian leaders of 1968, Mr. Gorbachev believed that a degree of political and economic democracy could be combined with communist rule.

The current tendency in the Czech Republic and Slovakia to play down the Prague Spring is likely caused, in part, by feelings of shame at how easy it was for the Soviet Union to defeat the experiment, and how quickly many people reverted to collaborating with the communist regime. It is not easy to come to terms with the fact that an event that provoked so much hope could be followed by 20 years of oppression and humiliation.

A good illustration of our conflicting attitudes toward the communist past was a recent discussion in the Czech Parliament of a the new state-run Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which is to hold and study the communist archives. In giving the institute such a complicated name, lawmakers had to define “totalitarianism.” In the end, they decided that totalitarianism in the Czech Republic includes the entire period from the communist takeover in 1948 to the Velvet Revolution in 1989.

But including 1968 in the totalitarian period makes it difficult to explain how it’s possible that the Prague Spring produced works of literature, film and drama more significant than anything the country has produced since the fall of communism.

True, the invasion ushered in a humiliating period, which started with the leaders of the Prague Spring being taken to Moscow and forced to sign the Moscow Protocols, under which more than 100,000 Soviet troops were stationed in the country for an indefinite period. It continued, in the spring of 1969, with the installation of a neo-Stalinist regime led by Gustav Husak, under which all the liberal achievements of 1968 were destroyed. The “normalization” regime that lasted until 1989 was one of the most oppressive in Czech and Slovak history.

But the Prague Spring itself was a memorable interlude. The year 1968 saw upheavals elsewhere in Europe and in the United States, with young people rebelling against the establishment and searching for new models of life. The Czechoslovak experiment was part of that global movement. And like revolutions in the West, it generated ideas that survived — especially its emphasis on human rights. A strong effort was made to build a robust civil society. Today, as the Western world seeks to revive popular interest in the democratic process, this is the Prague Spring’s most important legacy.
709 2008-08-24 The institute, which does research, offers courses and occupies the entire 12th floor of the International Affairs Building on Amsterdam Avenue near 118th Street, is far less calm than usual, too. Dr. Nepomnyashchy said that she and her fellow experts had been discussing the Russia-Georgia conflict on cable news, PBS and NPR, and in the pages of national newspapers and magazines.

“There’s always been a pretty constant flow of media appearances by members of our faculty,” said Dr. Nepomnyashchy, sitting near a small red rug that she said the president of Turkmenistan had given her. “But nothing as intense as this.”

The surprising thing is, however, that Dr. Nepomnyashchy would prefer even more focus on her institute, not less. A New Jersey native who married a Russian, Dr. Nepomnyashchy says she is “not just frustrated, but mystified” by the lack of attention paid to the region in general — and even to this crisis in particular.

“This is a world event of the first order,” said Dr. Nepomnyashchy, who visited Georgia two months ago. “And I don’t say that because I’m trying to push Russian studies. I say that because I’m scared.”

Formerly known as the Russian Institute, Harriman was founded after World War II to provide a center of expertise on the Soviet Union. But since the end of the cold war, its courses have not been considered as “hot” as those involving China or the Middle East.

But that, said Dr. Nepomnyashchy, reflects the public’s short attention span. “Our function is to have a long attention span,” she added.

The world may be less interested in her subject than Dr. Nepomnyashchy would like, but within her subject, she points out, Harriman and Columbia are very much in the thick of it. The proof: The presidents of two former Soviet republics — Georgia and Estonia — graduated from Columbia.

“Two out of 15,” Dr. Nepomnyashchy said with a smirk. “That’s not bad.”
710 2008-08-24 The Consumed column on Aug. 10, about the Zune, a digital-music player made by Microsoft, misstates one of its functions. It includes an FM-radio receiver, not a transmitter.
711 2008-08-24 TORONTO (AP) — The Boston Red Sox right-hander Josh Beckett will not be facing the Yankees on Tuesday after skipping a bullpen session Saturday because of continued numbness and tingling in his pitching arm.

Manager Terry Francona said Beckett had inflammation in his elbow and would most likely not start again until Friday, when the Red Sox return home to open a three-game series against the Chicago White Sox.

The knuckleballer Tim Wakefield, out since Aug. 7 with tightness behind his right shoulder, threw in the bullpen on Saturday and will come off the disabled list to start Tuesday, when the Red Sox begin their final regular-season series at Yankee Stadium. Wakefield is 7-8 with a 3.67 earned run average in 23 starts.

Beckett, who took Thursday off, threw in the outfield for the second consecutive day on Saturday and will not throw off a mound until Tuesday. He said the decision to push his start back was made after numbness and tingling returned on Friday.

“It’s gotten better,” he said. “We had the one day where it kind of came back. That’s why we decided to do what we did. It has gotten better. The treatment and stuff is definitely working.”
712 2008-08-24 “We believe in the power of self-organized groups to improve lives and even change the world,” said Douglas Atkin, whose title at Meetup.com is chief community officer. “We build the software and get out of the way.” Mr. Atkin himself is one of 28 members of the Brooklyn Beagle Brigade.

Promoting personal, real-life contact is one way Meetup.com, whose offices are in Lower Manhattan, differentiates itself from other popular social networking sites, like Facebook.com or Myspace.com.

“There’s no inherent reason why other Internet sites — or even pre-Internet — why quirky people couldn’t get together to share their interest,” said Thomas H. Sander, who runs the Project on Civic Engagement at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government with Professor Putnam.

“Meeting at a bar week after week or a dog run with dog owners increases the chance you’ll form friendships,” Mr. Sander said, who is intrigued by Meetup .com’s combination of what he described as “high-tech and high-touch.”

For most members of the Boston terrier group that Saturday, making friends seemed secondary to giving their pets a chance to frolic with fellow terriers.

“I know the names of the dogs better than the names of the people,” said Karen Rogers, 36, whose 3-year-old terrier, Beanie, was her inspiration for forming the group. “When Beanie’s playing with other Bostons, it’s different because she can be herself and really roughhouse.”

Ms. Rogers, who lives on the Upper West Side and works for an office furniture dealer, relies on Beanie’s hot-pink harness to tell her apart from the pack.

The group is sustained by a devoted handful of terrier owners who show up every month for the play dates. For some it is a welcome chance to get off their computers and meet people face-to-face. One of the regulars, Karineh Gurjian-Angelo, a photographer, shows up with brindle-coated Bono. She lives in Queens, where, she said, well-maintained dog runs are difficult to find. “It’s fun for him, it’s fun for us. The rest of the time he has to be on a leash,” she said.

Before Meetup.com, people tended to expand their social networks through church membership or neighborhood associations.

“If I move to New York and know no one and I’m a poodle owner or British expat or an animal lover, I can sign on to a Meetup and find a way of meeting people who share those interests even if I know no one in New York City,” Mr. Sander said.

James Jenkin, 38, was also at the park with his partner, Shannon Cane, and their dogs. Both men recently moved to Brooklyn from Australia and have gone to the last three Boston terrier gatherings. “The phenomenon of being able to see 20 to 30 Bostons at a time is part of the appeal,” Mr. Jenkin said. “Maybe making friends will happen the longer you come to these things.”

But Danielle Bufalini, 29, deputy editor of Daily Candy, an online newsletter, who was at the same play date, was a little wary of going, so she brought along two friends. All sat huddled together on rocks in the middle of the pebble-covered dog run.

“I’m not going to Meetup without anyone else,” said Ms. Bufalini, whose Boston terrier, Huck, was content to socialize. “It seems strange to be that dog-crazy.”
713 2008-08-24 “It’s a real balancing act,” said Mr. Earley, who has a committee that helps him coordinate schedules, but who ultimately has the final say. “You have to consider which fans the players want to see, as well as requests that come in from the players themselves or their representatives.

“And then there are all the television considerations, especially where the European players are concerned,” he said. “Showing a match here that is on in the evening but airs live in Stuttgart, Germany, at 4 a.m. is not really a good idea.”

Mr. Earley, who lives in Redding, Conn., and is married with three children, grew up in Pittsburgh, working a variety of jobs at local tennis tournaments. “I did everything,” he said, “from getting players water to working as a chair umpire.”

He worked his way up the tennis ladder, trying to make a name for himself alongside lesser-ranked players at Future, Satellite and Challenger events in places like Pensacola, Fla.; El Paso, Tex.; Sioux City, Iowa; and Honolulu. He became the Open referee in 1993 but did not move from his home in Charlotte, N.C., to the New York area until 1997, when he became the director of the United States Tennis Association Pro Circuit, an organization based in White Plains that runs 94 developmental professional tennis tournaments around the country.

“I have worked at the lowest levels of professional tennis,” Mr. Earley said in a voice that swelled with pride. “Traveling from city to city throughout the years has been a blast.”

On Thursday, Mr. Earley played a central role at the Open draw in Manhattan, conducting a random selection of top-seeded players for the purpose of placing them in each half of both the men’s and women’s brackets.

A short time before, Mr. Earley was sitting among tournament officials and reporters and watching a video promoting this year’s event, which runs through Sept. 7. The video said that 700,000 fans were expected to attend and that 90 million viewers around the world were likely to watch the tournament, one of the four international tennis competitions that make up the Grand Slam, on television.

Those hefty numbers suggest that regardless of the kind of schedule Mr. Earley creates, some players, fans and television executives are bound to be unsatisfied.

“Brian’s job is to be as fair to everyone as possible where scheduling is concerned,” said Jim Courier, who was the top-ranked player in the world for a 58-week stretch in the early 1990s and is now a television analyst. “He has to be judge and jury, weigh every extenuating circumstance and manage a lot of personalities — and a lot of egos.”

Mr. Earley, who ranks Andre Agassi and Patrick Rafter among the players easiest to deal with, remembered a time in the late 1980s when he was working at the Open as an assistant in charge of scheduling and one of those egos came crashing through the door.

“This one player stormed in, and she was unhappy about the time we had slotted for her,” he recalled. “She was a prominent player, and she said she wasn’t going to go out there until we changed her start time. She really got worked up, but we did not change her time, and she eventually went out there and conducted herself like a professional and won her match.”

Virginia Wade, who won the first Open women’s singles title in 1968, when the tournament was played in Forest Hills, Queens, said she had had “major run-ins” with tournament referees during her career. “Back then, as now, I think all players want to be treated like they are the most important people in the tournament, but you eventually realize that the referee is doing the best he can to accommodate everyone,” Ms. Wade said.

Gail Brodsky, an 18-year-old player from Coney Island who will be participating in this year’s Open, was asked whether she thought she deserved a fair share of the spotlight, on a show court in prime time in front of the hometown crowd.

“I grew up playing mostly at night, under the lights, so I guess if I had a choice, that’s what I would prefer,” she said. “But I don’t think I’ve done enough in my career to make any kind of demands.”

As far as Mr. Earley is concerned, that is one less request he will have to deal with, but he knows there will be many more. “No matter what, there will always be tough calls,” he said.
714 2008-08-24 Floors 10 and 11 are home to most of the offices, with cubicles placed strategically in front of windows to maximize light. Cubicles are 48 inches tall, with additional 12-inch-high glass panels between each workstation. “Some people went from private offices to cubicles so this provides privacy but allows more interaction than private offices did,” Mr. Gresham said.

Some executive offices are enclosed, but sliding glass doors and partitions allow them to take advantage of available natural light or let that light flow from their offices out onto the rest of the floor. Mr. Lloyd calls this “an open-window and open-door policy” that fosters a different, more subdued, kind of management style.

“If at times you may have been emotional, you won’t be in a fishbowl,” he said. “It contributed to a better pattern of dealing with people — an unexpected benefit we weren’t anticipating.”

The glass interior staircase has steps of white marble. Handrails are brushed stainless steel, which is used elsewhere throughout the space. Perforated ceiling panels in the 12th-floor cafe area are steel, as is a column in the reception area and legs on chairs and glass tables.

White is the basis of the color scheme, with accents of ochre and a pale teal, and variations of all three, depending on the material. Most walls are white, and some are finished with a Venetian plaster treatment that lends a slight sheen and subtle variation in color.

Completed in 1959, the Maiden Lane building is about the same vintage as the United Nations complex, completed in 1963, and the design of the fund’s new space takes some of its cues from the United Nations’ midcentury modern furnishings. Chairs and tables in the conference room are period reproductions, while other furniture, like the beige Barcelona chairs and glass coffee table in the reception area, were manufactured to original specifications by Knoll International.

Ikea, the Swedish home furnishings company, contributed the bulk of the furniture in common areas, especially on the 12th floor, which was conceived as a place for the 225 staff members, donors, executive staff members and suppliers to congregate.

The cafe area is bright and open, with a relaxed seating area at the far end and seating for groups of two along one wall. It is the most literal interpretation of the teamwork building concept of the whole design. This is where people gather for their morning coffee, impromptu meetings are held and executives can gather after large meetings, which previously were held at other sites because of space constraints.

It has been successful, Mr. Lloyd says. “We now have people just bringing in food and putting it down on the counter to share with the staff,” he said.

Besides conference areas, the former fund offices were missing any reference to their raison d’être, according to Mr. Switzer. He felt that some visual reminder of the world’s neediest children would reinforce the idea of a common goal, so it incorporated references throughout the three floors. Several lighted horizontal shadow boxes at eye level contain memorabilia, including the bright orange boxes used to collect donations. A lighted black-and-white photograph mural, showing scenes of the countries and people Unicef serves, is in the main conference room.

In the cafe, five ceiling-high color photographs depict families and children in need, while, on the 12th floor, another wall bears the legend, “whatever it takes to save a child.”
715 2008-08-24 Re “Looking for Swing Votes in the Boardroom,” which described the presidential candidates’ wooing of business leaders:

I have no problem at all with having these leaders’ voices at the table, as long as their voices aren’t the only ones there. And it says something that there is even competition for such a once-solid Republican constituency. Like many other Americans, some business leaders see a need for change, and see Barack Obama as a refreshing and appealing agent of it. Wall Street doesn’t have to lose in order for Main Street to win, and I believe they understand that. Steven M. Clayton
716 2008-08-24 That battle grew from a decades-old fight between the filmmaker Kevin McClory and the author Ian Fleming over the rights to “Thunderball” (Mr. McClory had contributed to the screenplay).

The Fox-Warner tiff turns on matters potentially more nettlesome to the industry at large. Central to Fox’s complaint is the mysterious matter of what is called turnaround.

On its face, turnaround is a contractual mechanism that allows a studio to release its interest in a dormant film project, while recovering costs, plus interest, from any rival that eventually adopts the project. But turnaround is a stacked deck.

The turnaround clauses in a typical contract are also insurance for studio executives who do not want to be humiliated by a competitor who makes a hit out of their castoffs.

That trick turns on a term of art: “changed elements.” A producer of a movie acquired in turnaround who comes up with a new director, or star, or story line, or even a reduction in budget, must give the original studio another shot at making the movie because of changed elements, even if a new backer has entered the picture.

Thus, “Michael Clayton” was put in turnaround by Castle Rock Entertainment (which, like Warner, belongs to Time Warner). When George Clooney became attached to star in it, however, Castle Rock stood on its right to be involved as a producer of what turned out to be an Oscar-nominated film.

Fox, in its complaint filed in February with the United States District Court for the Central District of California, contended, among other things, that Lawrence Gordon, a producer of “Watchmen,” was given a somewhat unusual perpetual turnaround right under an agreement reached in 1994. Such rights are conventionally given for a finite period, but Mr. Gordon, as a powerful producer who was once a Fox studio chief, may have had an edge.

According to the court filings, Fox had declared its willingness to part with the project under certain terms in 1991. In any case, Fox says, Mr. Gordon was supposed to resubmit “Watchmen” to Fox every time he came up with a changed element.

There certainly were changes. At one point, Terry Gilliam (“Brazil”) was supposed to direct it, at another, Darren Aronofsky (“The Fountain”), and at still another, Paul Greengrass (“The Bourne Ultimatum”). Writers have included Sam Hamm (“Batman”), David Hayter (“X-Men”) and Alex Tse (“Sucker Free City”), among others.

Paramount, still another party in the mix, was once close to making the film. But its new chairman, Brad Grey, backed away and created a turnaround of his own in 2005.

Tantalizingly, Fox’s complaint, which does not name Paramount, said that Warner settled a dispute with an unidentified “purported rights holder” by sharing part of its own claimed interest. Patricia S. Rockenwagner, a Paramount spokeswoman, says her studio has foreign distribution rights to the film.

Warner gave “Watchmen” the go-ahead when Zack Snyder, immediately after his surprise hit with “300,” took it under wing. Yet Mr. Gordon, by Fox’s account, never checked back with Fox about any of this.

Mr. Gordon did not respond to requests for comment. Warner, both in court and in a statement last week, said it had done everything legally necessary to make the film.

In the real world, of course, turnaround — along with much of Hollywood’s machinery for securing film rights — long operated with a certain degree of messy pragmatism. Elements might change. Producers would proceed on a wink and a nod. When things were stuck, a bit of horse-trading got them moving again.

But the stakes have become too high for that sort of informality. “It’s gotten a lot more difficult,” Larry Stein, a veteran Hollywood lawyer at Dreier Stein Kahan Browne Woods George, said of the entire business of rights protection.

Studios, Mr. Stein added, “are securing their self-interest in every way they can.” After all, who wants to slip up when the fifth sequel to “Batman” can take in half a billion dollars at the domestic box office?

WARNER has been stung lately in some very different situations involving rights. In March, a federal judge here ruled that the heirs of Jerome Siegel, a co-creator of Superman, the studio’s mainstay hero, were entitled to reclaim a share in the copyright of the character. Lawyers for the studio have not yet given up the fight, and proceedings are continuing over what that will mean in dollars and cents. The studio’s New Line Cinema unit is also embroiled in continuing litigation with the heirs of J. R. R. Tolkien over their claim to have been defrauded of profits due from the blockbuster “Lord of the Rings” series.

In the “Watchmen” case, it remains to be seen whether the presiding judge, Gary A. Feess, will grant an injunction blocking the movie’s release while sorting things out. But in 2005, Judge Feess issued an injunction blocking the planned release of Warner’s film “Dukes of Hazzard” in a rights dispute, leading to a settlement under which the studio paid $17.5 million to a producer who claimed infringement.

There will be motions and hearings aplenty, however, before it comes to that. And those who watch closely may see enough of Hollywood’s process to wonder how movies get made at all.
717 2008-08-24 Still, when it comes to dividends, investors should look at time frames significantly longer than a single year.

Historically, dividend income has represented around 40 percent of the market’s total returns. But in the 1980s, that fell to 28 percent, according to S.& P. And in the 1990s, it shrank to just 16 percent.

But guess what? Since the end of the 1990s, dividends have accounted for all of the market’s gains. In fact, without dividends, you would have lost money by investing in blue-chip stocks, based on the S.& P. 500.

Indeed, a $1,000 investment in the index on Dec. 31, 1999, would have fallen in value to $871 by the end of June this year, according to an analysis by T. Rowe Price in Baltimore. That’s why many investors refer to the current period as the “lost decade,” as equity investments have lost ground.

But had you reinvested your dividends from that original $1,000, your portfolio would have grown, though ever so slightly, to around $1,005. It shows that dividends provide “defensive protection in adverse market environments,” said Brian C. Rogers, the T. Rowe Price chairman and fund manager.

Step back even further, and you begin to appreciate how a steady, consistent dividend stream can gradually grow into a surprisingly large source of gains, even though the yield of the S.& P. is now a modest 2.2 percent.

“Two percent may not sound like a lot, since stocks can move up or down more than that in a single day without getting written up in the papers,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P..

But over time, two percentage points make a huge difference.

Since 1979, dividend-paying stocks have outperformed nondividend payers by 2.16 percentage points a year, based on total return. Had you invested $10,000 in 1979 in the dividend payers — and reinvested the income along the way — you would have wound up with $406,825 by Aug. 15 this year. That same $10,000 in nondividend paying stocks would have grown to just $243,385 — a difference of more than $163,000.

A separate analysis by T. Rowe Price showed that over the past 27 years — a period marked by generally falling payouts — reinvested dividends accounted for more than 50 percent of the gains in the S.& P. 500, thanks to the long-term effects of compounding gains.

OF course, this doesn’t solve one problem. Financial stocks represent a disproportionate share of dividend-paying stocks, and you may not want to make a big bet right now on struggling banks and brokers.

Yet by focusing on companies that don’t just pay dividends, but consistently increase them, dividend investors can reduce their exposure to this still-volatile sector.

The Vanguard Dividend Growth fund, for example, which invests in companies with a history of increasing their dividends and enough cash flow and earnings growth to keep doing so — recently held only 10 percent of its assets in financials. By comparison, financial shares make up nearly 15 percent of the market capitalization of the S.& P. 500.

Or you might consider a fund that embraces financials — but only those banks and brokers that haven’t cut their payouts. The SPDR S.& P. Dividend exchange-traded fund, for example, tracks the S.& P. High-Yield Dividend Aristocrats index, which is made up of the 50 highest-yielding stocks that have raised their dividend payouts every year for the past quarter-century.

Since the start of July, the fund is up 9 percent, while the S.& P. 500 is up only 1 percent.

Perhaps it’s an early sign of better days to come for dividend investors.
718 2008-08-24 GAZA — Two boats carrying more than 40 international human rights advocates landed in Gaza on Saturday, challenging an Israeli blockade of the Hamas-run territory.

About 2,000 residents came out to greet them at the small seaport near Gaza City. Many were singing, while others swam or set out in fishing vessels to meet the boats.

Israel had told the activists to keep their boats away but ultimately decided to allow them to land, apparently to prevent a potentially more damaging public relations drama.

Arye Mekel, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, said the decision was made “to avoid the provocation they had planned at high sea,” and because the Israeli authorities knew exactly who was on board and what cargo they were carrying.

The human rights advocates, ranging in age from 22 to 81 and coming from about a dozen countries, set sail from Cyprus on Friday morning to make a symbolic stand against what they called Israel’s “illegal” and “immoral” siege of Gaza. They were carrying 200 hearing aids for children in Gaza and thousands of balloons.
719 2008-08-24 His goal is to foster what he calls “a science without secrets and without borders,” mixing disciplines and cultures, and to laud veterans and emerging talents in hopes of propelling breakthroughs.

He said past successes included focusing attention on the need to reduce nuclear stockpiles and developing the first detailed analysis of flood risks along the Yellow River in China.

The threat of cyberattacks was also a focus of this year’s meeting. In a session on information security, Hamadoun I. Touré, the secretary general of the International Telecommunication Union, warned that pervasive computer use, while offering the prospect of a global “knowledge society,” also made billions of individuals into potential superpowers.

“Every single brain on earth is equal and can trigger an attack,” he said.

Jody R. Westby, the chief executive of Global Cyber Risk, a Washington-based consulting company, warned that governments were not doing enough to anticipate attacks. She said that the United States, while investing heavily in classified work on communications networks, had only one small program doing advanced research on the vulnerabilities in the private networks that handle the brunt of government communications and information management.

In a workshop on the northward spread of mosquito-borne ailments, participants discussed the growing gap between wealthier and poorer nations in dealing with health risks.

After presentations on recent outbreaks of the tropical chikungunya virus in Italy, Baldwyn Torto of the International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology in Nairobi, Kenya, suggested that too much of the discussion was focused on girding Europe against further outbreaks. A better approach, he said, would be to attack such diseases in the tropical spots where they originate.

At a final gathering on Saturday, Bill Fulkerson of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, said that meetings in the next several years would likely concentrate on the technological and scientific needs of developing countries that are trying to expand their economies without diminishing resources.

The daunting nature of the problems did not seem to blunt the experts’ determination to look for answers.

“What option do I have?” said Richard Wilson, 82, a Harvard physicist and an expert on nuclear power and environmental risk. “I could go down to Hilton Head and take a little club and knock a ball around the course, but I don’t find that a very attractive thought.”
720 2008-08-24 SEDONA, Ariz. — Senator John McCain publicly reacted Saturday to the news that his good friend, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., would be on the Democratic ticket with his now daily vacation ritual: going for a morning coffee run with his six-car motorcade to Starbucks and saying not a word.

But by the time he returned to his Hidden Valley Ranch compound, Mr. McCain had placed a call to Mr. Biden and congratulated him, midmorning Arizona time, from a perch on his deck. A McCain adviser characterized the call as “courteous.”

Mr. McCain’s campaign aides showed no such politesse. Within minutes of the small-hours-of-Saturday-morning confirmation that Mr. Biden would be Senator Barack Obama’s running mate, the campaign shot out an e-mail message (at 1:50 a.m. Eastern time) that pointed out that Mr. Biden, an also-ran in the 2008 primaries, had termed Mr. Obama not ready to be president.

Three hours later, the campaign released an advertisement containing video of Mr. Biden saying that “John McCain is a personal friend, a great friend, and I would be honored to run with or against John McCain, because I think the country would be better off.”

Mr. Biden made the comments to a surprised Jon Stewart on “The Daily Show” in 2005, and added that he did mean “with” because he had asked Mr. McCain in 2004 to leave his party and be the running mate for Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee that year. (Mr. Kerry asked, as well, but Mr. McCain declined.)

Mr. McCain and Mr. Biden have known each other since Mr. McCain arrived in the Senate in January 1987 — Mr. Biden arrived in 1973 — and have traveled together on numerous Senate trips around the world. A McCain adviser said Saturday that the two had “a great personal affection for each other” but that Mr. McCain knew he was running principally against Mr. Obama and would train his fire on him.
721 2008-08-24 Melissa Rose Langsam, a daughter of Sandra Klein Langsam and David E. Langsam of New Rochelle, N.Y., is to be married in Manhattan on Sunday to Todd Franklin Braunstein, the son of Barbara L. Braunstein and Jeffrey P. Braunstein of Westbury, N.Y. Rabbi Joshua Z. Gruenberg is to officiate at the Harvard Club of New York City.

The bride, 29, is a candidate for a master’s degree in public policy at Harvard. In 2006 and 2007 she was the speechwriter for the assistant secretary of state for African affairs. She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard.

The bride’s father is an assistant vice president and a financial adviser in Scarsdale, N.Y., with the global wealth management unit of Merrill Lynch & Company. Her mother is a psychiatric social work supervisor at the Bronx Psychiatric Center, part of the New York State Office of Mental Health.

Next month, the bridegroom, 32, is to become an assistant United States Attorney in Boston. Until July, he was a special assistant for domestic policy at the White House. He graduated magna cum laude and received his law degree cum laude from Harvard, where he was the president of The Harvard Crimson in 1996 and 1997.

The bridegroom’s mother retired as a school psychologist at the academic center in Bellport, N.Y., for the Eastern Suffolk Board of Cooperative Educational Services. His father, a certified public accountant, is a senior manager for the business management practice of Frederic Kantor & Company, a division in Manhattan of J. H. Cohn, a New Jersey accounting and consulting firm.
722 2008-08-24 Emily Beth Pronin and Dr. Joshua Denison Rabinowitz were married on Saturday evening by Rabbi Craig Axler at Riverview Park in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

The bride, 33, and the bridegroom, 36, are assistant professors at Princeton, she in the department of psychology and at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, he in the department of chemistry and at the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics. They graduated from Stanford, from which she received a Ph.D. in psychology and he received both a medical degree and a Ph.D. in biophysics.

Dr. Pronin, who is keeping her name, graduated summa cum laude from Yale. Her father, Irwin Pronin of New York, is a senior regulatory lawyer in Jersey City with Broadridge Financial Solutions, a brokerage firm. Her mother, Vivian R. Pronin of Hastings-on-Hudson, is an independent geriatric care manager there.

Dr. Rabinowitz is a founder of Alexza Pharmaceuticals, a research company in Mountain View, Calif., specializing in inhalation products for faster delivery of medications. He graduated with highest distinction from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where his parents, Stuart Elaine Macdonald and George Rabinowitz, both professors of political science, live and work.

Dr. Pronin and Dr. Rabinowitz met 10 years ago when they arrived at the same time for an open house for a rental property in Menlo Park, Calif., in Silicon Valley.

“I had thought I had an appointment for a private showing and was surprised to find five other people there,” Dr. Rabinowitz said. “I was kind of sulking around about having to apartment-hunt, and suddenly I’m talking to this gorgeous smiling woman,” he said. “She has this vivacious beauty that I found simply irresistible.”
723 2008-08-24 BY the early 1990s, Bill Cavalieri had moved his manufacturing business from Waterford to Tarpon Springs, Fla. Yet there was a part of his hometown that he took with him: a mystery that began in June 1972 involving his fellow co-captain of the high school football team.

He knew what the federal government said about his friend, which wasn’t much: that Arnold Holm, an Army helicopter pilot in Vietnam, had been shot down with his two crewmen somewhere west of Hue while on a reconnaissance mission, and hadn’t been found. They joined the nearly 2,500 military personnel missing in action during that war. In similar fashion to most of the missing on that list, those close to Captain Holm were left to wonder about particulars and whether there was a chance he could have survived. His wife, Margarete, and their daughter, Jennifer, then 5, were among those, as were his two siblings and the community of Waterford.

Over the years since, Mr. Cavalieri, who served as best man at the Holms’ wedding, became obsessed with learning the fate of the fellow he knew as resourceful and courageous. He didn’t buy into the presumption of death, concluding that if anybody could walk out of that jungle alive, it would be Arnie, and perhaps that he had been taken as a prisoner of war. Such thinking, and hoping, was common in the M.I.A. community. It was also common that the circle of friends and families of the missing became increasingly frustrated as the decades passed and no remains were found.

Mr. Cavalieri was alarmed by what he saw as a promise denied. The government makes an extraordinary oath to its men and women in uniform — the military will do everything possible to find them and bring them home, no matter how long it takes. Indeed, remains have been discovered in about a quarter of the cases of those unaccounted-for in the Vietnam War. The work is done by JPAC (the federal Joint P.O.W.-M.I.A. Accounting Command), which carries out archaeological excavations in remote locations, though its work is impeded by considerable obstacles, including dwindling budgets and unaccommodating foreign governments. Discovered remains, verified through DNA testing, have given relatives and friends a chance at last to reconcile the past, and to begin to move on. For the others, indeed the majority of cases, a kind of purgatory prevails. Relatives wait years for word, and then when it comes, wait for further word. In the matter of Captain Holm, there had been the added complication of multiple explorations by JPAC to locate the crash site without being able to do so, a circumstance that Mr. Cavalieri considered inexcusable. And so as the years passed, he became an unofficial sleuth.

He traveled to Washington, to examine declassified material to learn everything the government knew about the case. He then turned to amateur detectives for help — Brett Arnold’s civics class at Waterford High. Many of the students’ parents had known Captain Holm, and the class got caught up in trying to help solve the mystery. Students explored the Internet, and ultimately found some of the witnesses to the crash, and then wrote letters to JPAC with alternative ideas about the crash site. Mr. Cavalieri also contacted Rob Simmons, who at the time represented Connecticut’s Second Congressional District, and in a particularly gutsy move called Thomas E. White, then the secretary of the Army, persuading him to look into the case. All of this effort — from a group that became known locally as “Arnie’s Army” — seemed to get things moving, though, as matters prove in the recovery of remains, very slowly.
724 2008-08-24 The scent of leather beckons pilgrims down a narrow industrial lane near Monastiraki Square in the heavily trafficked shadow of the Acropolis. “The ones Jackie O bought, I want those,” says one woman, eying the rows of classic strapped sandals twisting like vines along the high walls of this compact family-run shop.

Of 27 available styles, the minimalist slip-ons selected by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis (No. 20, or the Jackie O) are among the most popular. “May I see them on your feet?” asks the founder’s grandson, Pantelis Melissinos, in English perfected during his student days at Parsons School of Design.

By moving the foot slightly in different directions on the leather base, Mr. Melissinos achieves a precise fit over each arch, then tightens and tweaks the straps.

In fashion’s endless recycle, Greek sandals have been this season’s must-have, particularly a variation on the calf-hugging gladiator style known here as the No. 7 Cleopatra.

Mr. Melissinos tells me he was asked to design a dramatic knee-high pair for Greek Elle magazine. For customers, he suggests a more manageable five straps to “here,” he says, pointing to midcalf. While basic sandals run 23 to 25 euros, or $34 to $37 at $1.53 to the euro, customized styles like the Cleopatras go for 80 euros ($119).

Though his grandfather set up shop in 1920 in the heart of old Athens near the train station that brought workers from all over Attica, Mr. Melissinos credits a long line of Americans for the business’s enduring success.
725 2008-08-24 Someday in the future, when novels are considered quaint as daguerreotypes and Corvettes run on lemonade, literary historians will look at our age and see a generation of novelists in thrall to the first person. One can’t open a first novel these days without being grabbed by the lapels and made to listen. Old men, young children, even the dead want to yak at us. Never has fiction been held aloft by so many filibusterers.

Steve Toltz hails from Australia, where the badgering first person runs deep, so “A Fraction of the Whole,” his 530-page debut, grows in the shadow of great expectations. But can it do more than just talk our ears off? The opening pages promise dire familial drama. Jasper Dean is trapped in a prison with a large chip on his shoulder. “One thing’s for sure,” he says. “My father punished me for existing, and now it’s my turn to punish him for existing. It’s only fair.”

Before long, Toltz is passing the narrative conch from Jasper to his father, Martin, and back again. Each Dean follows a different set of steppingstones in his life story, but the two can agree on one thing — that Martin’s brother, Terry, “cop killer, bank robber, . . . pride of the battler,” was probably the guy who threw the Dean family truly out of whack.

Terry was apparently many things to many Australians. Most important, though, he was his brother’s protector. Just before Terry was born, Martin got sick and fell into a coma. He emerges months later with Harold Bloomian recall of what his mother read aloud by his bedside: “It was as though great big trucks filled with words drove up to our heads and dumped their contents directly into our brains.”

Terry’s exploits as recounted by Martin — and the furor they cause — finally get this big, bloated zeppelin of a book off the ground. But they highlight one of its weaknesses. Without Terry, Martin is just a misanthropic blowhard who has an opinion about everything and the subtlety of a bad stand-up comic. (“The whole human race could get acute angina for all I care.”)

With Terry, or when talking about Terry, Martin has energy, a story to tell. “When they weren’t fighting, they were stealing,” he says of Terry and his first crew. “They swiped junked cars, broken car parts, school supplies, sporting goods; they broke into bakeries and stole bread, and if there wasn’t any bread they stole dough; . . . they robbed the post office of stamps and uncollected mail.”
726 2008-08-24 “Dare you see a Soul at the ‘White Heat’?” was the unnerving question put by Emily Dickinson in one of the poems she sent to a new correspondent, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, in the summer of 1862. The answer, fascinatingly explored in a book that pairs the reclusive Belle of Amherst with the man who assisted in the first posthumous publication of her work, is that Colonel Higginson both dared and feared. Meeting Dickinson for the first time in 1870, after eight years of correspondence, the colonel told his invalid wife he had never encountered anyone “who drained my nerve power so much.” Riding home to Newport, a town he loathed, Higginson was nevertheless ready to express gratitude that the newly fashionable resort stood no nearer to Amherst. “I am glad not to live near her,” he confessed.

In “White Heat,” Brenda Wineapple, author of an admired life of Nathaniel Hawthorne, doesn’t attempt to supplant Richard Sewall’s authoritative two-­volume biography of Dickinson. Neither does she try to elucidate some of the enduring mysteries in Dickinson’s life: the nature of the eye disease that afflicted her in her mid-30s; the nature of her mother’s long illness; or the ailment that preceded her own death, at 55, in 1886. We still don’t know why Dickinson elected, well past her youth, to don only virginal white or — beyond a sense of shared mental and social superiority — what caused the members of her family to cling so tightly to one another. (Vinnie and Emily, the husbandless sisters, spent their entire lives under the parental roof; their lawyer brother, Austin, lived in coffined coldness with his wife, Susan Gilbert, within eyeshot of Emily’s bedroom window.)

Praising Sewall’s work, Wineapple takes him to task only for his dismissal of Higginson, a bias that betrays, as she puts it, “a presumption typical” of Sewall’s generation. By restoring the colonel to what now seems his rightful position — as a courageous, principled radical who was Dickinson’s chosen reader, admirer and advocate — Wineapple throws what she describes as “a small, considered beam” upon the work and life of these two “seemingly incompatible friends,” the recluse and the activist.

That “beam,” when directed by a writer as thorough and intuitive as Wineapple, brightens not only the pale figures of the poet and the hitherto elusive colonel but the poems for which, upon occasion, Dickinson drew inspiration from Higginson’s more active life.

Already a committed abolitionist, Higginson was about to take to the battlefield with the Union Army’s first regiment of freed slaves when — in response to a literary advice column he had written for The Atlantic Monthly — Dickinson sent him four poems, asking “if my Verse is alive.” Higginson did not appear to mind that his subsequent editorial suggestions were ignored; neither did he show surprise that such an audacious writer should have selected for her correspondent a man whose own poetry, as he himself recognized, suffered from a deadening sense of decorum. (“My gentility is chronic,” he lamented.) The answer, Wineapple leads us to conclude, was that Emily Dickinson sought not a master but a disciple: one whom she could bewitch, baffle (“The Riddle that we guess / We speedily despise,” she announced in one penciled offering) and engage as her ­audience.
727 2008-08-24 THE cooling economy brought uncertainty to a week of vintage car sales around Monterey, Calif., just as it had raised questions in January at major Arizona auctions. But prices held steady again.

A relative newcomer, Gooding & Company, was again the leader, topping its 2007 total by $3 million. Bonhams & Butterfields doubled its sales to $22 million.

A much-watched car, the 1958 Chrysler Diablo concept, did not sell despite a $1.2 million bid at the RM auction. But Gooding’s $7.92 million sale of a 1937 Bugatti Type 57SC Atalante was a North American auction record.

Even the lower end of the market showed vitality as excellent examples of relatively inexpensive cars brought at least market-correct prices in most cases, and sometimes more.

Here are results of sales previewed in this section on Aug. 10. Prices include the buyer’s premium, an additional commission to the auction house.
728 2008-08-24 A traveler might reason that, despite the higher base rate, renting a hybrid could still end up costing less overall when gas is factored in. But this didn’t prove to be the case in a recent comparison of Hertz hybrids with economy cars by Sarah Pascarella, an associate editor at , a Web site that offers travel advice.

A two-day trip from San Francisco to was $55 cheaper with the economy car, costing $139 round trip, including gas based on the American Automobile Association’s online fuel cost calculator. The same trip with a Toyota Prius hybrid came to a total of $194. A trip from to , N.J., cost about the same when comparing the Prius to the Accent, while the economy car was about $43 less for a trip from to .

“I found choosing an economy car over a hybrid was often the more economical choice,” wrote Ms. Pascarella on SmarterTravel’s Tip of the Day.

In some cases, even renting an S.U.V. can be cheaper than renting a hybrid. Take the San Francisco weekend rental on Avis.com. When factoring in gas (at $4.19 a gallon) for a two-day trip from San Francisco to , Nev., the total cost to rent the Nissan Altima hybrid came to an estimated $262. The same trip in the Pontiac Vibe was $207.

Nevertheless, travelers are reluctant to book S.U.V.’s or other large vehicles that consume a lot of gas. “It’s a sign of the times,” said Neil Abrams, president of Abrams Consulting Group, based in Purchase, N.Y., which tracks the rental car industry. “They’re having a hard time in off-peak periods even giving away these things.”

The offer of free upgrades — a perk that once delighted customers at rental counters when the smaller vehicle they booked was sold out and they drove off in a large, often cushier car, for the same price — is now backfiring on rental car companies. “It used to be that many customers would purposely book a smaller car knowing that they could likely get an upgrade at the counter for free when the car they reserved wasn’t available,” Chris Payne, a spokesman for Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, wrote in an e-mail. “Today there are a lot of objections to the larger vehicle and a lot of times the consumer’s perception of a car being a ‘gas guzzler’ doesn’t match up with reality.”

TO show customers that the difference in gas cost when upgrading isn’t as great as they may think, the company is introducing a chart at rental counters with vehicle fuel cost comparisons based on 100-mile trips. For example, an upgrade to the sexier Ford Mustang from the LE will add $4.39 to your gas bill on a 100-mile trip, according to the chart. Moving up from the Toyota Prius to the 300 will cost $12.16 extra in gas.

“From an economic benefit standpoint, consumers have to ask, does the value proposition really hold,” when choosing between a hybrid and another rental car, said Mr. Abrams. “If you’re going to be renting a car for two weeks and traveling thousands of miles, it may be a benefit. It’s not unlike the decision a consumer has to make when he buys a car,” he said. “How long do you have to hold the car to get the full cost benefit?”

Recognizing the premium customers typically pay to rent a hybrid, San Francisco International Airport is introducing a rebate program to encourage travelers to go green. Starting Dec. 30, customers renting a hybrid at the airport will get a $15 credit on their rental bill.

In the meantime, if your heart is set on a hybrid, consider renting at off-airport locations, which typically offer lower rental rates than those at the airport. If you only need a car for part of your vacation, for, say, a day trip to George Washington’s Mount Vernon, just outside , a car-sharing service is another alternative.

Zipcar, the largest service, with vehicles in more than 50 cities throughout , has lowered the hourly rates of some of its hybrids, charging between $6 and $10 an hour or from $60 a day to encourage customers to book the green cars, which in turn lowers gas prices for the company. All reservations include up to 180 miles of driving, the cost of insurance, maintenance, parking, and even gas. There is an initial membership fee and incremental mileage charges if you drive more than 180 miles.

A first-time user planning to try the service only occasionally pays a $50 annual charge and $25 application fee. In a recent spot check, several hybrids were available for a two-day trip in Washington. Total cost: $152.90.
729 2008-08-24 PETRONE--Emiel N. 3/23/43--8/23/04. Eternal love, we miss you so. M....
730 2008-08-24 MORISSI--Isabel, age 85, February 20, 1923-August 5, 2008. Buried August 16, 2008, Calvary Cemetery, Woodside, NY....
731 2008-08-25 Also in Morning Buzz: Democrats in Denver, the new Goldman Sachs tower and more headlines from papers in the region....
732 2008-08-25 In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here
733 2008-08-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
734 2008-08-25 Lindsay Davenport and Rafael Nadal advanced in the opening round....
735 2008-08-25 Under the floodlights at Arthur Ashe Stadium on Monday night, the Open raised its curtain with a grandiose celebration of the 40th anniversary of open era tennis....
736 2008-08-25 Senator John McCain made a crack Monday evening about the famed loquacity of Senator Joseph R. Biden....
737 2008-08-25 With the presidential nominating conventions under way, a look at the candidates' positions on long-term care for the elderly....
738 2008-08-25 A Democratic pollster surveyed a group of Latino voters....
739 2008-08-25 Morgan Stanley said on Monday its Saudi unit has signed the kingdom's first swap agreement, a vehicle that allows foreigners to buy into listed stocks through intermediaries....
740 2008-08-25 En route to Denver, the Democratic candidate plays down any perceived rifts with the Clintons....
741 2008-08-25 Senator John McCain just told a group of donors here that his wife, Cindy, is en route to Georgia, according to a pool report from inside the fund-raiser....
742 2008-08-25 Tips and tricks we've discovered over the years that might be helpful to the first-time visitor....
743 2008-08-25 There has been considerable controversy this year over whether certain brands of bacteria-laden yogurt really help aid digestive health, but don’t let the hullabaloo sour you on yogurt. It’s a bona fide superfood, and live bacterial cultures are what make it unique.

If they survive the pasteurization process, you should find the bacteria -- usually Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria -- listed on the container among the ingredients, right after milk. Both types have long reputations as probiotics, bacteria that are beneficial to the intestinal tract and immune system. Beyond that, yogurt is a terrific source of protein and calcium. Many people who are otherwise lactose-intolerant can digest it.

Still, health isn’t the reason that yogurt is a staple of cuisines in the Caucasus, Balkans, Mediterranean and India. Yogurt is wonderful to cook with, much more than a breakfast food, and this week’s recipes will showcase a variety of dishes made with it.

Look for plain, minimally processed brands with no added gums, stabilizers or sweeteners. I prefer low-fat to nonfat, which can be watery and sour, and may contain fewer fat-soluble vitamins.

Drained of much of its water content, yogurt becomes a thick, creamy product known in the Middle East as labna or labne. Drained yogurt is like a moist, fresh, tangy cheese, and it makes a great spread or dip. In Turkey and in the Middle East, a number of dips and salad dressings are based on drained yogurt combined with pureed garlic and chopped fresh herbs. Drained yogurt can be mixed with chopped cucumbers for salads or with chopped dried apricots for a sweet and tangy dip.

Line a strainer with a double thickness of cheesecloth and set it over a bowl. Place the yogurt in the strainer, and refrigerate for at least two hours (preferably four hours or longer). Transfer to a covered container and refrigerate again. Serve as a spread, dip, or topping for rice, or use as the base for a salad dressing.
744 2008-08-25 As a federal appeals court hears arguments in CSX's dispute with a pair of hedge funds, what the court decides -- and what federal regulators do -- could affect shareholder communications as well as their use of some kinds of derivatives, accordin...
745 2008-08-25 Maybe someone should tell Senator John McCain that Daddy Yankee's big reggaetón smash from a few years back, "Gasolina," is not exactly about off-shore oil drilling....
746 2008-08-25 And the gold medals for Olympic advertising go to......
747 2008-08-25 Precision Drilling Trust's $2 billion deal for Grey Wolf coincides with a steep drop in the price of natural gas, which could eventually cause demand for Houston-based Grey Wolf's services to dry up fast....
748 2008-08-25 Microsoft and WPP may be considering swapping components of two richly valued online advertising deals that they struck last year, mergers that in hindsight seem far too pricey, according to Advertising Age....
749 2008-08-25 The McCain campaign keeps rolling out commercials, as the Democratic splinters over Clinton-Obama continue to be exposed....
750 2008-08-25 A son and a brother of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the newly named Democratic vice-presidential candidate, are accused in two lawsuits of defrauding a former business partner and an investor of millions of dollars in a hedge fund deal...
751 2008-08-25 Citigroup is embarking on yet another internal reorganization, this time appointing new global product and regional heads for its capital markets group. Read the full memo on DealBook....
752 2008-08-25 The Swiss police have raided a unit of Alstom, the French company whose power stations generate a fifth of the world's electricity, in a widening investigation of suspected corruption and bribery to win contracts....
753 2008-08-25 “That is the danger, that we declare victory,” said Mr. Harrison, who fears that poor blacks will increasingly be blamed for their troubles. “Historic as this moment is, it does not signify a major victory in the ongoing, daily battle.”

Such concerns have been percolating in black intellectual circles for months, on talk radio and blogs, in dinner conversations, academic meetings and flurries of e-mail messages crisscrossing the country.

It can be an awkward discussion for Obama supporters who argue that the success of the candidate — the man who might become America’s first black president — might make it somewhat more difficult to advance an ambitious public policy agenda that helps blacks. Some of Mr. Obama’s black supporters say that Mr. Obama himself, by rarely focusing on racial discrimination and urban poverty while campaigning, has often fueled the notion that the nation has transcended race.

Other supporters dismiss the idea that Mr. Obama’s success might undermine support for race-based policies. They say black voters should focus not on speculative debates but instead on helping him win the presidency, because his emphasis on solutions to problems like failing schools, unemployment and inadequate would benefit blacks.

Last month, the debate bubbled up when The Root, a Web journal of black politics and culture, published a provocative essay titled “President Obama: Monumental Success or Secret Setback?”

“If Obama becomes the president, every remaining, powerfully felt black grievance and every still deeply etched injustice will be cast out of the realm of polite discourse,” wrote Lawrence Bobo, a black sociologist at , who supports Mr. Obama and was outlining in the essay the concerns of some friends and colleagues. “White folks will just stop listening.”

Bev Smith, a black talk radio host whose program is based in and syndicated nationally, said some of her listeners echoed those worries.

“There’s an assumption now that we’ve made it,” Ms. Smith said. “Our concern is that we’ll get lost in the shuffle.”

The concerns have been driven in part by opponents of affirmative action who argue that race-based preferences in education and the workplace are increasingly irrelevant given the accomplishments of Mr. Obama and the growing black middle class.

Others, like , the vice chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, say the creation of minority voting districts should be reconsidered, too, given Mr. Obama’s success at wooing white voters in states like , and .

Ms. Thernstrom, who is white, said black and white academics who worried about the impact of Mr. Obama’s achievement were engaging in “habits of pessimism.”

“People feel that there’s something callous, something racially indifferent in saying, ‘Wait a minute; we’ve come a long way,’ ” said Ms. Thernstrom, a longtime critic of affirmative action who is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group.

“But whether he wins or loses, for a black man to become a standard-bearer for one of the two major parties, it does say something,” she said. “It says that the road we started down in 1965 with the Voting Rights Act has come to an end. We don’t need to talk about disfranchisement in the same way anymore.”

The fortunes of black Americans have certainly improved since the civil rights struggle of the 1960s. The number of educated, professional blacks has grown as poverty rates have declined. About 17 percent of blacks held bachelor’s degrees in 2004, compared with 5 percent in 1970, census data shows. (About 30 percent of whites held bachelor’s degrees that year.) In 2005, college-educated black women who worked full time earned more than their white female counterparts, census data shows.

But significant gaps between blacks and whites remain. About a quarter of blacks lived below the poverty line in 2006, compared with 8 percent of whites, census data shows. The median income of blacks, $30,200, is less than two-thirds that of whites, $48,800. And studies suggest that employers often favor white job seekers over black applicants, even when their educational backgrounds and work experiences are nearly identical.

Such disparities might explain the differences in opinion that remain between blacks and whites.

In a New York Times/CBS News poll released last month, 53 percent of whites said that blacks and whites had about an equal chance of getting ahead in society. Only 30 percent of blacks agreed.

Blacks and whites were similarly divided over the state of race relations. Fifty-five percent of whites said race relations were generally good, compared with 29 percent of blacks. Nearly 60 percent of blacks said race relations were generally bad.

“A few of my white friends have asked me, ‘With Barack achieving all of this, will we be in a position where we can put race aside?’ ” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of , who is a co-chairman of Mr. Obama’s campaign in that state.

Mr. Cummings said he points them to statistics on lingering racial disparities in education, health and income. “I hope that progressive-minded people will not make a blanket conclusion that if Barack has made it, everybody can make it,” he said.

Mr. Obama has occasionally made that point himself, noting that his candidacy alone will not resolve the nation’s lingering racial inequities.

“I have never been so naïve as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy, particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own,” Mr. Obama said in his speech on race in March.

As part of his urban policy plan, Mr. Obama promises to increase the minimum wage, expand affordable housing, provide full financing for community block grants and create a White House office of urban affairs. Some of his black supporters argue that it would be foolhardy for Mr. Obama to focus more on racial issues, particularly given that he needs to appeal to white voters who can be alienated by such talk.

“He’s running for president of the , not president of the Urban League,” said Jabari Asim, editor of The Crisis, the magazine, reiterating comments made by a fellow writer and editor. “I think most people understand that he can’t go out and push this overtly African-American agenda.”

Mr. Harrison, the Howard University sociologist, worries that such political imperatives might make it less likely that an Obama administration would be inclined to confront entrenched racial divisions.

But he still plans to savor Mr. Obama’s historic moment. He hopes that the nomination will lead to a national conversation about race relations and that the shifting political landscape might give rise to new strategies to address the legacies of America’s color line.

“It will certainly shift the conversation,” Mr. Harrison said. “It might end up being another vehicle for people to press the same points. But it might also open a new chapter of the debate.”
754 2008-08-25 “It’s almost divine intervention,” said Aubrey K. McClendon, chairman and chief executive of the , one of the nation’s largest natural gas producers. “Right at the time oil prices are skyrocketing, we’re struggling with the economy, we’re concerned about global warming, and national security threats remain intense, we wake up and we’ve got this abundance of natural gas around us.”

Senior Democrats in Congress are getting behind natural gas, portraying it as an alternative fuel for transportation that can serve as a stopgap until renewable sources of energy, like solar and wind power, become economical on a broad scale.

“You can have a transition with natural gas that is cheap, abundant and clean,” the House speaker, of , said Sunday on “Meet the Press” on .

She also said that an investment she and her husband had made in a company that produces natural gas for use in automobiles, revealed last week by The , was not a conflict of interest because “I’m investing in something I believe in.”

Representative of , the chairman of the House Democratic caucus, has introduced legislation to offer more tax credits to producers and consumers of natural gas and mandate the installation of natural gas pumps in some service stations.

Domestic gas production was up 8.8 percent in the first five months of this year compared with the period a year earlier, a rate of increase last seen in 1959, during the great drilling boom that followed World War II.

Most of the gain is coming from shale, particularly the Barnett Shale region around , which has been under development for several years. The increase in gas production stands in sharp contrast to the trend in domestic oil production, which has been declining steadily since 1970 and dropped 21 percent in the last decade alone.

The Barnett region proved that, using new technology, shale gas could be extracted on a large scale. But lately, companies have set their sights on shale formations that could produce far more gas than the Barnett.

Testing to determine the productivity of fields has been completed on just a tiny fraction of the potential acreage. According to a new report by , paid for by a foundation allied with the gas industry, there could be as much as 842 trillion cubic feet of retrievable gas in shales around the country, enough to supply about 40 years’ worth of natural gas, at today’s consumption rate. But thousands of wells need to be drilled before the exact reserves will be known.

Domestic natural gas prices have already plunged 42 percent since early July, an even faster drop in price than oil or most other commodities, in part because the rapid supply growth has begun to influence the market. Price spikes remain possible, of course, but throughout the industry the shale discoveries are causing a shift in thinking about the long-term outlook.

Black or brown shales are a type of sedimentary rock, high in organic matter, found beneath millions of acres in at least 23 states, including New York. The rock has been known for more than a century to contain gas, but it was considered virtually worthless until a decade ago because typical wells on such sites would produce gas briefly and then die.

Now, companies are drilling long, horizontal wells and pumping in water to the rock, releasing vastly more gas than could the vertical wells of old.

The Barnett was the first shale field to undergo major development, and gas production has gone up tenfold since 2001, so that it now produces 7 percent of the nation’s supply of natural gas. At least two other shale formations, the Haynesville in and and the Marcellus in Appalachia, are believed to be even larger, though substantial production in those will take another two to five years.

Prospectors have identified at least two dozen shale beds in North America that could contain large amounts of gas.

“Production is clearly growing, and the growth is sustainable,” said Michael Zenker, a natural gas analyst at Capital.

A report, by the analyst Shannon Nome, recently estimated that production from the eight largest shale fields was likely to hit 6.6 billion cubic feet a day this year, or 11.8 percent of national gas production, and then rise to 14.5 billion cubic feet a day by 2011 — almost a quarter of domestic production.

“Shale is the most significant domestic natural gas find in 50 years,” said Chris Ruppel, an analyst at the institutional brokerage firm Execution, “which means the will become gas independent, and more industrially competitive versus for gas-intensive industries such as chemicals, fertilizer, smelting iron and aluminum.”

Shale gas could ultimately be important beyond North America. The rest of the world has shale formations on an immense scale. Many of them are known to contain gas, but exploration and assessment of those fields with the new production techniques have barely started.

Several large shale fields are being explored in . In the United States, real estate speculators are becoming overnight millionaires in , Louisiana and Texas by buying up parcels of land and flipping them to companies that drill for natural gas. Wildcatters are ordering every rig they can get their hands on, and paying signing bonuses of $25,000 an acre to drill below houses, schools and churches. Pipeline companies are building as fast as they can to get the new gas to market.

As the frenzy unfolds, some energy experts urge caution in projecting how big the new supplies will be and whether they will alleviate the loss in productivity of conventional wells, particularly those in the Gulf of Mexico.

“It’s hard for me to believe we will have more domestic gas production in six years than we have now,” said Chip Johnson, president and chief executive of , a Houston company involved in several of the shale fields.

The Energy Department’s 2008 estimates for shale gas reserves that may one day be economically produced stand at 125 trillion cubic feet, about a seventh of the most optimistic industry estimates. Jeffrey Little, a department gas analyst, said the government estimate was based on 2006 data and could increase after further testing.

“The larger reserves could very well be out there, but their magnitude is uncertain,” he said.

Some industry experts warn that shortages of engineers and rigs, scarcity of pipelines near some shale fields and fights over land and water use could slow development in some states.

In the Marcellus field, drilling and pipeline work must be done over woody and hilly terrain, and enormous amounts of water are needed to fracture the shale. Drilling has been halted in places after local regulators caught companies drawing water from streams without permits.

“We see natural gas as potentially a very important transitional fuel, but we can’t use it at the expense of our natural resources,” said Kate Sinding, a senior lawyer for the , who warned that water-intensive drilling in shale could threaten local water supplies and aquifers.

Domestic gas production was in decline from the early 1990s to 2005, before production from shale beds and some lesser unconventional fields led to increases beginning in 2006. In the meantime, consumption increased by more than 15 percent, satisfied largely by rising imports.

Prices in recent years soared from less than $2 per thousand cubic feet in 1999 to more than $13 as recently as last month, before a precipitous decline in recent weeks. Natural gas closed Friday on the at $7.84 per thousand cubic feet, the lowest price since Feb. 1.

With the growth of power generation from natural gas, the Energy Department estimates that gas consumption will increase 3 percent this year and an additional 1.7 percent in 2009. But that is well below expected supply increases.

Such increases carry risks. Some in the gas industry fear that if prices fall too much, producers will pull back on their investments in drilling and development. “If prices drop much more,” said Mr. Johnson of Carrizo Oil and Gas, “producers will slow down or at least not be as aggressive.”
755 2008-08-25 With all the talk about what has not been built around ground zero, little attention is paid to what has: a 43-story investment bank headquarters where 11,000 people will be working next year.

Famously averse to publicity, Goldman has said almost nothing about the $2.4 billion headquarters it is building in Battery Park City, cater-corner from the new 1 World Trade Center tower, since the project was announced three years ago. Though the firm will fill the tower from top to bottom, including six vast trading floors, its name will appear nowhere on the building, which will simply be called 200 West Street.

Only by accident has the building been in the news at all. In December, seven tons of metal studs fell as they were being hoisted by a crane. Robert Woo, an architect with Adamson Associates International, one of the firms involved with the project, was seriously injured. He remains paralyzed from the waist down. In May, a piece of steel fell 18 stories onto a nearby ball field. No one was hurt.

Now that the steel framework has reached its full 739-foot height and the building has become an undeniable presence on the Lower Manhattan skyline, Goldman has permitted a peek into the headquarters and how it was designed.

Leading the architectural team is Henry N. Cobb, 82, a founding partner of Pei Cobb Freed & Partners. After nearly 60 years living and working in New York, Mr. Cobb finally got to design his first Manhattan building. But you would not know it by looking at his firm’s Web site, where the Goldman Sachs headquarters — excuse us, 200 West Street — is not promoted on any list of projects. (Yes, Goldman insists on that level of discretion.)
756 2008-08-25 That course is politically tricky, however. For the agreement to succeed, Mrs. Arroyo would have to pacify the large segment of the population that opposes ceding Muslims more territories than they already control. These opponents have threatened to organize militias to fight the Muslim front, if necessary.

The Arroyo government had said the agreement could be carried out only if Congress amended the Constitution and shifted the system of government to federalism. Opponents in the Senate and the House of Representatives have vowed to block that effort, in part because they are against breaking up the nation. They also oppose giving the president any opportunity to extend her term, which her allies could try once the federalism proposal is under consideration in Congress.

Indeed, the suspicion is widespread that the peace pact is mainly a ruse to extend her term, which otherwise ends in 2010. In formulating the agreement, the government did not consult outsiders or even release the draft to the public.

While the Arroyo administration initially seemed confused in its response to the impasse, there are signs that it has decided to pursue the peace accord and try to mollify the opposition.

At first the Philippine military threatened a broad offensive against the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. On Thursday, however, it declared that its retaliation would be directed at the two rebel bands that carried out the attacks, not necessarily against the entire movement.

Mrs. Arroyo’s advisers had also said the government was reviewing the agreement. On Saturday, however, her press secretary, Jesus Dureza, declared that the government would not sign the deal in its current form. Instead, it promised “widespread consultations” with communities and non-Muslim sectors in Mindanao — precisely what opponents have said the government should have done in the first place.

The Philippine government is under some international pressure to resume negotiations to resolve the conflict, now decades old. In particular, Malaysia has mediated between Manila and the rebels for the past five years — the signing was to take place in Malaysia — and its efforts were considered crucial in reaching the draft agreement. Malaysian investments in Mindanao, including in Muslim areas, have increased in the past several years.

The United States is eager to end the conflict as part of its fight against terrorism. It has promised millions of dollars in aid to Mindanao, particularly in Muslim areas, once a final peace agreement is signed. Hundreds of American military, mainly specialists in counterinsurgency warfare, have been stationed in Mindanao since 2002, and American companies like Exxon are looking at investments in Muslim provinces.

Julkipli Wadi, a professor at the Institute of Islamic Studies at the University of the Philippines, said Mrs. Arroyo should work to repair the damage she created by failing to involve others — like Congress, local governments, nongovernmental groups and communities in Mindanao — in the peace process.

Mr. Lingga of the Institute of Bangsamoro Studies warned that failing to forge a peace settlement would be very costly. “As the conflict will be prolonged,” he said, “secession might become an option to some.”

Indeed, the front’s chairman, Ebrahim Murad, said Saturday at his camp that “war is among the options.”

Zachary Abuza, an American expert on Islamic extremism and a senior fellow at the United States Institute of Peace, said, “If the Supreme Court rules against the agreement, brace yourself for a lot more fighting.”
757 2008-08-25 Across the metropolitan area, many suburban and rural schools are raising lunch prices while large urban districts are taking other measures to cover rising food bills, from reducing food management costs in Yonkers to shopping around for cheaper plastic plates and cups in Syracuse.

The New York City schools, which serve 626,670 lunches a day, will keep full lunch prices steady at $1.50. But the system will save money by, for example, replacing individual bread rolls and cherry tomatoes in salads with slices of French bread and whole tomatoes that can be bought in bulk. “It’s a lot of little things that add up to big savings,” said William Havemann, a spokesman for the city’s Department of Education.

To help offset higher food costs, the United States Department of Agriculture, which subsidizes school lunches, has increased its average lunch reimbursement to districts this year by 10 cents to $2.57 a meal for students who qualify for free lunches, and $2.17 for those who qualify for reduced-price lunches. Last year, the increase was 7 cents.

The department issued a report this summer, called “Meeting the Challenge of Rising Food Costs,” to help districts develop strategies to control food costs and stretch budgets. In addition to cash reimbursements, it will provide more free food this fall to 101,000 school districts participating in the lunch program. It will also expand another program, which provides free snacks of fruits and vegetables, primarily to low-income districts, to all 50 states from 14 states last year.

But many school officials contend that the federal lunch money is not keeping up with rising food prices, particularly in districts that are stocking their cafeterias with healthier food choices like skim milk, whole grains and fresh fruit.

“When you start including more fresh fruit and vegetables instead of green beans in a can, your costs increase,” said Brian Sirianni, assistant superintendent for business in the Ballston Spa district, north of Albany. His 4,500-student district is raising lunch prices by 35 cents, to $2, in the middle and high school, and by 25 cents, to $1.75, in the elementary schools — and may have to increase prices again in the next two years.

Affluent suburban schools are also feeling the pinch. In New Jersey, the Mount Laurel district, which serves an average of 1,985 lunches a day, will raise its lunch price by 20 cents — the highest increase in recent memory — to $2 in the middle schools, and $1.90 in the elementary schools. “We’re not trying to make a profit, we’re just trying to break even,” said Marie Reynolds, a spokeswoman for the district.

In poorer areas, people will definitely feel squeezed, said Irene Sterling, president of the Paterson Education Fund, a nonprofit group made up of parents and community leaders seeking to improve that city’s schools. “I think there’s going to be people upset, but I also think there’s very little anybody can do about it, because it’s part of a bigger picture,” Ms. Sterling said.

But school officials point out that even with the higher prices, students are getting a good deal.

Cindy Bonura, director of food and nutrition for the Syracuse schools, said that for $1, high school students in her area could choose from 11 different entrees, with fruits and vegetables on the side. The district, which serves an average of 15,000 lunches a day, is considering raising the price of the high school lunch to $1.50 next month. (Lunch prices in the other schools will remain $1.)

“If they went to a deli and got a chicken Caesar salad, it would be 6 to 7 dollars,” Ms. Bonura said. “And they’re not only getting a chicken Caesar salad, they’re getting a roll, a milk and fresh fruit besides that.”
758 2008-08-25 Obama advisers said they expected Mr. Biden to be a stronger and wilier point man for attacking the Republican ticket than John Edwards proved to be as the Democrats’ vice-presidential nominee in 2004, or Joseph I. Lieberman was as the running mate in 2000.

A task for Mr. Biden, the advisers said, will be to doggedly portray the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, as a handmaiden for President Bush who would continue his policies. In the words of one adviser, Mr. Biden can be an artful critic because he knows “chapter and verse” about Mr. McCain’s Senate votes and controversial positions after serving with him for two decades.

The campaign also wants Mr. Biden to take a lead role in warning voters about possible McCain nominations to the Supreme Court. Given Mr. Biden’s history overseeing the confirmation hearings for Robert H. Bork and Clarence Thomas as chairman of the Judiciary Committee, advisers to Mr. Obama say he is well suited to argue that one or two nominations by Mr. McCain could result in rulings that outlaw abortion rights.

Mr. Biden’s addition to the ticket was cheered by many Democratic interest organizations. But some women’s rights leaders, in addition to some supporters of Mr. Obama, complained privately that Mr. Biden was not terribly inspiring and would do relatively little to woo women who support Mrs. Clinton and have yet to embrace Mr. Obama.

Some of these Democrats said that Mr. Biden was an inferior choice to Mrs. Clinton and that they were left cold by the selection of a 65-year-old white man. They recalled bitterly that he was not a forceful ally of women’s groups, and they were critical of his handling of Anita Hill during Justice Thomas’s confirmation hearings in 1991.

Asked if the choice of Mr. Biden would win over supporters of Mrs. Clinton who remain undecided, Guy Cecil, who was political director of her campaign, said, “By the first week of November, her voters will recognize that the choice is too stark and the stakes are too high to vote for John McCain.”

The McCain campaign sought on Sunday to exacerbate tensions between the Clinton and Obama camps by running a television advertisement, “Passed Over,” which noted that Mrs. Clinton won millions of votes but was not chosen by Mr. Obama as his running mate because, the spot asserts, she spoke the “truth” during the primaries about his lack of “specifics” and “answers” to the nation’s problems.

A Clinton spokeswoman denounced the advertisement as misleading. McCain advisers said that they would keep running it and that they planned to criticize Mr. Biden as a Washington insider prone to gaffes and at odds with Mr. Obama’s message of changing the political status quo.

Obama advisers said internal campaign polling did not suggest that Mr. Biden, a native of Scranton, Pa., could single-handedly deliver a particular state or voter demographic. But they expect to reap rewards in swing states like Iowa, Nevada and New Mexico from his popularity among retirees, veterans, Catholics, Jews and blue-collar voters.

“I spoke with one supporter in Dubuque, Iowa — a very Catholic, working-class city — who said that people were pulling out their old Biden yard signs and putting them on their lawns on Saturday,” said David Wilhelm, an Obama adviser who managed Mr. Biden’s Iowa operation in the 1988 presidential race and advised him when he briefly ran again this year.

Mr. Biden spent Sunday preparing for the campaign at home in Wilmington, Del., and getting to know his new senior staff.
759 2008-08-25 Christopher Buckley’s usual weapon of choice is a rapier, not a blunt instrument. But he usually writes satirically, while his new book is a broad farce. An anomalously funny thing happened to Mr. Buckley on his way to the “Supreme Courtship”: nothing funny occurred to him. This is that rare occasion when Washington’s wickedest wit takes aim at a humor-squelching comedic target.

No Buckley book is ever a true bust. “Supreme Courtship” does, after all, posit a Supreme Court nominee who is rejected by the Senate Judiciary Committee for having opined, at the age of 12, that parts of the movie “To Kill a Mockingbird” were “boring.” And it offers Mr. Buckley ample opportunity to cook up laughable case names (“Miskimin v. Incontinental Airlines”), get creative with legalese Latin (“per res sciatica”) and opine about the Supreme Court’s recent track record.

“Generally, the court accepts only cases that it finds interesting; but sometimes a ‘what the hell’ element seems to come into play,” he writes. “Justices look solemn in their formal black robes, but every so often they like to have a little fun by taking on a strange case, or overturning a presidential election, that sort of thing.” Parts of this book would be more amusing if they seemed less true.

But other parts are mercifully far-fetched, particularly the plot angle that melds the Supreme Court with reality TV. A little background: President Donald Vanderdamp is in an unusual situation vis-à-vis the rest of the government. For one thing, he would prefer not to serve a second term. (“More of the Same” is his bumper-sticker slogan.) For another, he is irritated by the difficulty of finding a new justice who can jump all the hurdles of the approval process. So he decides, one night while channel-surfing, that he might as well make a spiteful choice as a scholarly one. He decides to nominate the star of a TV-courtroom reality show as his next Supreme Court contender.

That premise would be subtler if the TV judge were not a rootin’-tootin’ Texas babe who wears cowboy boots, drives a red pickup, is a heap more popular than the president and always shoots from the hip. Her name is Pepper Cartwright, and she has been described as the “Oprah of our judicial system.” Perhaps she belongs in a political sendup, but she’s way too broad for this one.

Pepper is babe enough to dazzle the old boys in Washington. (“Whoa, nice figure there, cookie,” one of them observes.) And she makes it onto the court with surprising ease. True, her presence is enough to make the most curmudgeonly justice say, “Pray God nothing critical comes before us in the next, say, 30 years.” But her quick study of American judicial history, along with her bona-fide horse sense, are enough to land her the job.
760 2008-08-25 Senior events, for players 55 and older, will continue to get stronger. Many well-known names competed in the Truscott United States Playing Card Company Senior Swiss Teams at the Summer North American Championships in Las Vegas last month. The winners were Reanette Frobouck of Pittsburgh; Fred Hamilton of Las Vegas; Mark Lair of Canyon, Tex.; and John Carruthers and Allan Graves from Canada. Hamilton won this event in 1998 and 2003.

Second, only 2 victory points behind, were Geoffrey Brod of Avon, Conn.; Richard DeMartino of Riverside, Conn.; Pat McDevitt of Brookline, Mass.; and John Stiefel of Wethersfield, Conn. They were the defending champions, and Brod, DeMartino and Stiefel also won in 2006 with Steve Earl as their fourth.

The diagramed deal is from the final session.

At the other table, after Lair (West) opened two spades, North strangely passed. A player who is short in the opponent’s suit should strain to enter the auction. As Edgar Kaplan used to say, far more points are lost with cautious passes than with aggressive calls. Hamilton (East) raised defensively to three spades, which ended the bidding. (If East had been interested in getting to game in spades, he would have responded two no-trump, asking partner to describe his hand further.) Three spades went down three.

In this auction Graves (North) doubled two spades, which would be the choice of most experts, although on this deal overcalling three hearts would have worked better. Four hearts is the best contract and would have made easily, losing two hearts and one club.

After East raised to three spades, Carruthers (South) advanced with three no-trump. If he had doubled, it would have been responsive, showing values and suggesting two places to play. In the long run this interpretation is probably more useful than a penalty double, which Carruthers wished he could have made.
761 2008-08-25 In March, Roddick, indeed, appeared to be rounding into the form that had put him atop of the rankings in November 2003, before Federer began his nearly five-year run at No. 1. Roddick won his 25th career title, in the Dubai Tennis Championships when he beat Nadal in the quarterfinals, Djokovic in the semifinals and Feliciano López in the final.

Roddick’s victory over Nadal was his first over a player ranked in the top two since June 2003. In the course of that run, his coach, the American icon Jimmy Connors, announced that he was ending his two-year relationship with Roddick to spend more time with his family.

It did not seem to matter to Roddick, who in April made it to the semifinals of the Sony Ericsson Open by dispatching Federer. That made him a dismal 2-15 against Federer. But for 2008, he was 3-0 against the top three players.

“Everything was clicking — I was playing as well as I ever had,” he said.

Almost as suddenly, Roddick began piling up injuries.

In May, back spasms forced him to withdraw during the semifinals of the Masters tournament in Rome. Roddick skipped the French Open with an inflamed shoulder. In June, he endured his earliest exit ever from Wimbledon — a second-round defeat to Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia that he now says was the result of returning to competition too quickly. Last month, he skipped a Masters Series event in Cincinnati with a stiff neck.

Now, Roddick is being written off, just as he was in 2006.

“He needs a big win in a major; getting to the quarters is not going to do it,” said Brad Gilbert, who coached Roddick to his 2003 United States Open title and is a television analyst for ESPN. “He needs a victory over Nadal or Federer or Djokovic to spark him. He is like a shooter in basketball who can get hot. His big serve can serve him well, and Andy knows better than most that any time he walks through the gates at Flushing Meadows, something special can happen.”

Roddick perhaps sensed that he was running out of time and the U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center was the place to make a stand when he chose to skip the Olympics. He decided to fine-tune his game at the Countrywide Classic in Los Angeles, where he lost in the final, and here at the Legg Mason, a tournament he had won three times.

He conceded that he was tormented when he caught glimpses of the opening ceremony and the Olympic tennis competition.

“It wasn’t an easy decision, and I knew it would haunt me, but with what has gone on in the last four months, I thought staying home was best for me,” Roddick said.

James Blake, who lost the Olympic bronze medal match to Djokovic, said he understood why Roddick chose to skip Beijing.

“If he goes out and wins the U.S. Open and gains a little confidence in not coming out here and changing time zones and dealing with the pressures of the Olympics, he made the right decision,” Blake told reporters in Beijing.

Roddick is no longer the 17-year-old kid who “swung from the hips” or the emotional 21-year-old who ran the table in 2003 Open. He is trying to recapture the swagger and anger that powered him into the 2006 final against Federer.

How great is the distance between him and Nadal and Federer and Djokovic?

Even Roddick does not seem to know.

“I’m not going in under ideal conditions with the time I’ve missed,” he said. “But the U.S. Open is my home-court Slam. It’s the one I gear up for and the one I really want to win again. I was playing well in the beginning of the year, and if I can find that level again, I’m going to be dangerous.”
762 2008-08-25 “We didn’t ask Wimbledon or anyone; we did what we thought was best for our sport as far as selling it,” Davies said.

If that meant tweaking rules on the fly, then he would do it the only way he knew how — trial and error.

“I’ve tried everything,” Davies said. “We tried serving three feet behind the baseline when everybody was upset there were no rallies at Wimbledon. We tried 21-point table tennis scoring — does not work, let me tell you.”

There were other professional organizations around at the time that included players like the Australian greats Rod Laver and Ken Rosewall. By 1968, the alternative circuits had reached a critical mass, leading the International Tennis Federation to approve open tennis.

“When it became open tennis, the power struggle came in,” Davies said. “You have a professional sport, meaning it’s a business. What are you going to do with it?”

Davies was influenced by the barnstorming, three-match evenings on the Kramer Tour, where two lesser known players started on the undercard, two major names would face off in a main event and all four would play doubles to round out the night.

It was on those nights, Davies said, that the professionals learned to play excellent and wildly entertaining tennis. At the W.C.T., Hunt spurred on players by promising them a percentage of the gate receipts at every stop on their travels.

Davies and Hunt took the next step. They tried to wrest appearance fees from the Grand Slams, but the tennis establishment did not like the idea of what they called “contract professionals.”

Davies was all too happy then to keep his pros in W.C.T. where every effort was guided toward television, and that meant securing sponsors. Davies said he once went to Wilson, the racket maker, and told the company that he would put a refrigerator emblazoned with its logo on the court. He would have announcers tell the audiences that tennis balls had to be kept chilled. “Of course, we made it up,” he said.

Sponsorship deals came, and the W.C.T. was on television. It all culminated in 1972, when Laver and Rosewall, by then with the W.C.T., duked it out in Dallas in a four-and-a-half-hour epic that bumped the rest of the night’s programming, including the evening news.

“All of a sudden, tennis was hip,” Davies said. “People were tuning in to watch something else and finding a fifth-set tie breaker.”

Along the way, Davies helped bring 30-second clocks, blue courts, multicolored clothes and those tie breakers into the mainstream.

“I think there was mixed reaction among the traditionalists, just like there was mixed reaction with people who wanted the Olympics to be full of amateurs,” he said.

But 35 years after he first mandated that players wear different colors — he would fine them if they did not — Davies said he could not have imagined how far today’s players would take it, from Maria Sharapova’s cocktail dresses and Serena Williams’s catsuit to Roger Federer’s dinner jackets.

“A lot of it has run amok, I must say,” Davies said. “That’s why you’ve got to be so careful when you’re making a rule, because it can come back to kick you.”
763 2008-08-25 DISAGREEMENT AT THE FED The inflation hawks are starting to openly challenge the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates low.      RUNUP TO OLYMPIC GOLDNBC started laying plans eight years ago to attract viewers and make money on its Oly...
764 2008-08-25 One of China's top sports officials said Sunday that a simple paperwork error was to blame for an age controversy involving the Chinese women's gymnastics team.     Cui Dalin, the vice minister of the General Administration of Sport of China, said...
765 2008-08-26 Beyond his ties to hedge funds and credit card companies, Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. has many backers in Delaware’s massive bankruptcy industry, according to Law Blog....
766 2008-08-26 The New York delegation’s first night in Denver was disrupted by a demonstration, arrests and a hotel lockdown....
767 2008-08-26 Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, former City Councilman Kenneth K. Fisher and Assemblyman James F. Brennan all endorsed State Senator Martin Connor, who faces a primary challenger....
768 2008-08-26 The world’s top cities get their own lots in the new global version of Monopoly — with some surprising real estate valuations....
769 2008-08-26 Hillary Clinton might have been given the keynote address....
770 2008-08-26 Ana Ivanovic, the Williams sisters and Dinara Safina advanced with U.S. Open victories....
771 2008-08-26 On the West Coast, another Romney joins the Republican candidate at a fund-raiser....
772 2008-08-26 At least 21 million television viewers watched the Democratic convention Monday night, when Michelle Obama spoke about her husband and her family, according to Nielsen Media Research....
773 2008-08-26 Roughly 24 million television viewers watched the Democratic convention Monday night, when Michelle Obama spoke about her husband and her family, according to Nielsen Media Research....
774 2008-08-26 In a speech to veterans, Senator John McCain accused Senator Barack Obama of being confused about America's global role as a "defender of the oppressed.''...
775 2008-08-26 More campaign-related opinion for Tuesday, Aug. 26....
776 2008-08-26 The Detroit Three are now asking for another $25 billion in low-interest loans. But before the federal government puts up taxpayer money (again) it might want to ask a few questions....
777 2008-08-26 The case against so-called "land grab" laws in Spain took a significant step forward this week when the European commission formally moved to take the complaint to the European Court of Justice. At the height of Spain's building boom, autonomous r...
778 2008-08-26 John McCain showed that he was not against bold-faced-types, per se, hobnobbing in company that is decidedly more Us Weekly and Billboard than Congressional Quarterly....
779 2008-08-26 Called cacik in Turkey, tarator in the Balkans and tzatziki in Greece, each version of this salad is a variation on a theme: yogurt, cucumbers, garlic and fresh herbs. The yogurt is thick and pungent with mashed garlic, while the cucumbers are finely chopped or grated, then salted and allowed to wilt. Walnuts enrich the Balkan dish, which is also considered a soup, as is cacik. India has its version too, raita, the cooling mixture that accompanies hot curries. Whatever the cuisine, it’s one of my favorite combinations, one I never forgo if I see it on a menu.

2 to 3 garlic cloves, cut in half, green shoots removed, and mashed to a paste in a mortar and pestle with 1/4 teaspoon salt

1. Toss the cucumber with a generous amount of salt and leave in a colander in the sink to wilt for 15 to 30 minutes. Rinse and drain on paper towels.

2. Beat together the yogurt, garlic, mint and olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir in the cucumbers. Adjust seasonings and serve.

To serve as a soup, place a couple of ice cubes in each of four to six bowls. If you wish, thin out the cucumber-yogurt mixture with a little water. Spoon into the bowls.

Add 1/4 to 1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts, and stir in with the other ingredients. Substitute 1 tablespoon walnut oil for 1 tablespoon of the olive oil.
780 2008-08-26 On "The Tonight Show" Monday, Senator John McCain had a chance to rebut Jay Leno's jokes about his age, but he also got to fire off a zinger about his host's job status....
781 2008-08-26 Jason Bay's eyes and ears will experience the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry at Yankee Stadium for the first time on Tuesday. When I asked Bay about this last week, he expressed excitement about getting a chance to play in important games this late in th...
782 2008-08-26 Some early birds come for the last seats. Some come to sprint to the best seats....
783 2008-08-26 The Caucus blog on John McCain's repartee with Jay Leno Monday night: Mr. McCain's age, a favorite topic of humor on late night talk shows, came up quite a bit ... After Mr. Leno gave Mr. McCain a gracious introduction, Mr. McCain was ready with a...
784 2008-08-26 Efforts to overhaul U.S. financial regulation are expected to gather pace next year, as a new Congress and administration seek to safeguard public money put at risk by recent rescue measures, according to Reuters....
785 2008-08-26 Temasek, the Singapore sovereign wealth fund that spent billions of dollars on shares in Merrill Lynch, sees value in banking stocks in the United States and Britain, a senior executive said on Tuesday....
786 2008-08-26 The Danish central bank bailout of regional lender of Roskilde Bank may signal the start of consolidation among the countries financial institutions, an analyst told The Wall Street Journal....
787 2008-08-26 Credit Suisse has bought an 80 percent stake in Asset Management Finance from National Bank Financial of Canada for $384 million in newly issued Credit Suisse stock....
788 2008-08-26 Many times during my motorcycle ride this week from Southern California to Milwaukee for Harley-Davidson's 105th anniversary celebration, I've encountered Route 6. And each time I've marveled at that gnarly old road and the terrain it traverses....
789 2008-08-26 PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOODS Some cities hit hardest by the mortgage crisis are buying foreclosed homes and investing in social initiatives and community cleanup to prevent problematic neighborhoods from sliding into decay.

SHARP DROP FOR JPMORGAN The JPMorgan Chase & Company has said the market value of its preferred stock investments in the home mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has dropped sharply — by about 50 percent, to $600 million in the quarter. [C2.]

The markets fell sharply after a disappointing news about several financial institutions. [C6.]

HONDA’S GLORY DAYS Honda never joined other automakers in the glory days of big pickups S.U.V.’s. Now no automaker in the United States is doing better. [C1.]

RISE IN HOME SALES Figures for July show that declining home prices helped send sales to their highest since February, though more than a third of the homes were sold at a loss. [C1.]

STICKING WITH THE DOLLAR The dollar’s modest comeback and retreat in oil prices have bolstered Persian Gulf policy makers who chose not to follow the advice of some experts about pegging their currencies to the dollar. [C1.]
790 2008-08-26 For people with children, the most common option is a home or small building in a poor neighborhood, properties that tend to be susceptible to foreclosure. Between 2004 and 2007, foreclosure rates in New York City doubled, with the highest rate of increase seen in two- and three-family buildings, according to a study by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. Renters in these types of foreclosed houses have little to no defense against eviction, even if they have a lease.

But the problems of H.I.V.-positive tenants begin long before the eviction date, when landlords with nothing else to lose stop paying the utilities.

One such tenant, a 49-year-old woman who asked not to be identified by name because she fears discrimination for being H.I.V. positive, lives in a three-bedroom apartment in Queens with three of her children and two grandchildren.

In June, the woman’s gas, which was included in her rent, was shut off. Then she received a legal document in her mailbox, saying the owners of the building she lived in were facing foreclosure.

When she called the gas company, she said they told her the bill was thousands of dollars overdue.

“I couldn’t heat a bottle for my grandson,” she said. “I couldn’t cook hot food. You can’t buy hot food with food stamps.”

The woman paid the gas bill for June, July, and August with her Social Security check, leaving only a few hundred dollars to live on each month. Though she is not sure where things stand with her landlord’s foreclosure proceedings, she makes calls almost every day looking for a new place.

“I’m really trying to move before they tell me, O.K., you have 30 days,” she said. “I want the kids to be stable before school starts come September, but it doesn’t look like it’s going to happen that quick.”

For their part, owners and landlords are so preoccupied with trying to renegotiate their mortgage, or having to move themselves, that little energy is left for the tenants.

“It’s beyond my control,” said Femi Adeyeye, one of the owners of the building the woman lives in.

The city’s H.I.V./AIDS Services Administration, known as HASA, provides rental assistance to people with the illness. Though assistance levels are reviewed on an individual basis, the agency pays about $940 for a one-bedroom apartment, not including gas and electricity, $1,069 for a two-bedroom, and $1,348 for a three-bedroom, the same guidelines since 2003. In addition to the HASA benefit, tenants are expected to contribute 30 percent of their income, usually from federal benefits, but cannot be left with less than $330 a month.

“HASA pays 20 percent less than Section 8,” said Sean Barry, a co-director of the New York City AIDS Housing Network, referring to the federal rental subsidy program. “If a landlord has multiple clients applying with Section 8 or HASA, they know they can play around with the regulations and get more money from Section 8.”

Advocates and clients are sure that discrimination is a factor that limits housing options.

“People don’t want me because I’m living with AIDS,” Mrs. Wilson said. “I think they’re scared.”

Mrs. Wilson, who also has hepatitis C, diabetes and depression, said she was turned down by one real estate broker after another. “I lost eight pounds,” she said of her housing search. “I ran and I ran and I ran.”

The City Council amended the city’s housing code in March, making it illegal for landlords to discriminate against potential tenants who receive federal, state or local housing benefits like Section 8 or HASA. But the amendment applies only to buildings with six units or more, not private homes, and it carries no penalty for those who violate it.

“There are no consequences, no monetary fines,” said Hannah Thorne, a case manager for Housing Works, a nonprofit group that helps people who are H.I.V. positive or have AIDS find housing and other services. “We look for apartments with clients, and the landlords say, ‘No programs, no programs, no programs.’ ”

It was months before Mrs. Wilson even looked at a place she could afford. She recently found a three-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn for $900, a big break from the $1,650 she pays now. She has stacks of moving boxes in her current apartment in the hope that her application is chosen from the pile, and that she; her husband, who has been unemployed since October; and two sons will be able to move soon.

The city provides same-day emergency housing to evicted tenants with AIDS who have not been able to find new homes. The temporary solution, a shelter or a single-room occupancy hotel, can become a long-term solution.

“Housing is a health care issue,” Ms. Thorne said. “A person is more likely to take their medication regimen if properly housed.”

A 52-year-old woman, who asked not to be identified by name because her family does not know she is H.I.V. positive, could not find a new place when her landlord went into foreclosure. Her biggest fear was that she, her two daughters and two grandchildren would end up in a shelter.

“They don’t give you your own place, you have to be there at a certain time of day, you have to sleep with one eye open because they steal your property,” she said.

Real estate brokers kept telling her they did not have any three-bedrooms in her price range. Once she found one, it took months before HASA inspected and approved it as medically appropriate, she said. Meanwhile, her old landlord refused to deal with a rodent and cockroach infestation, leaking ceilings and the peeling paint in her grandchildren’s closet.

“It was so overwhelming,” she said. “I thought I was never going to get out of there.”
791 2008-08-26 The Denver police used tear gas on Monday night to disperse a small group of demonstrators outside a hotel, witnesses said....
792 2008-08-26 Fifth-ranked Florida may be without receiver Percy Harvin and middle linebacker Brandon Spikes for its opener against Hawaii on Saturday. Harvin, still battling a right heel injury that required off-season surgery, participated in portions of practice Friday and Saturday, but said he had been unable to go full speed. Coach Urban Meyer announced Monday that Spikes injured his right foot during practice last week.
793 2008-08-26 Mr. Biden had just traveled to Tbilisi to show solidarity with the Georgians, and Cindy McCain, the wife of Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, made an unannounced trip there on Monday as part of a humanitarian mission. The man Mr. Biden seeks to replace, Vice President Dick Cheney, announced Monday that he would go to Georgia the day after addressing the Republican National Convention next week.

The shadow struggle in Denver got under way with envoys from both Georgia and Russia seeking out influential players.

“It is important for us to meet the key politicians in this country to make sure they have the right sense of what’s happening in our country and the right sense of what happened,” David Bakradze, the chairman of the Georgian Parliament and a former foreign minister, said by telephone from Denver.

Among those Mr. Bakradze and his compatriots met with on Monday were Madeleine K. Albright, former secretary of state; Richard C. Holbrooke, former ambassador to the United Nations; and Susan E. Rice, senior foreign policy adviser to Mr. Obama. (A session with Howard Dean, the party chairman, was postponed.)

In all their discussions, the Georgians argued for bipartisan firmness against Moscow.

“It’s not about Georgia,” Mr. Bakradze said. “It’s a much higher risk at stake. It’s about Russia forcefully changing the borders of the post-Soviet space.”

On the other side of the struggle in Denver was a delegation led by Mikhail V. Margelov, chairman of the foreign affairs committee in Russia’s upper house of Parliament, both of whose houses just recommended that Moscow recognize the independence of two Georgian breakaway regions, South Ossetia and Abkhazia.

In addition, Igor Yurgens, a close adviser to Dmitri A. Medvedev, the Russian president, traveled to Washington last week for a back-channel effort to smooth over tensions and assess the state of relations. Mr. Yurgens, who runs a Moscow research organization headed by Mr. Medvedev, met with officials at the White House, the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency as well as Russia scholars outside government, and spoke with advisers to Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain.

Mr. Yurgens did not come as an official representative of Mr. Medvedev, but said his trip had been approved by senior Russian officials. In an interview, he said he wanted to find a way to lower the heat over Georgia and make clear that in Moscow’s view, the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, had provoked the confrontation. He said several of the Americans agreed that Russia had had a right to respond but felt that the response was too heavy-handed.

Either way, Mr. Yurgens said, he emphasized the value of ties between the United States and Russia.

“Is it too much to sacrifice for essentially one man, a bipartisan relationship of this magnitude?” he said. “We have to calm down a little bit and step back.”

A Bush administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Yurgens had been told in strong terms that Russia needed to abide quickly by its agreement to withdraw fully from Georgia, something Moscow says it has done but Washington, Paris and Tbilisi dispute.

“Their actions,” the official said, “sooner rather than later, are going to make a huge difference in what we’re going to be able to do and how we might be able to get things back on track.”

Mr. Yurgens got a similar warning during a private lunch presided over by former Senator Gary Hart at the Nixon Center, a Washington research organization.

“At our meeting, the message was delivered loud and clear,” said Dimitri K. Simes, the center’s president. “I’m not aware of a single person in the mainstream who thinks it’s O.K. for Russia to keep forces in Georgia.”
794 2008-08-26 She said she plans to vote for Mr. Obama.

Jack Davis, an assembler at an auto-parts plant in Grand Rapids, said of Senator Obama: “I don’t care if he’s polka-dot as long as he can get us out of this mess.”

Senator Obama was up by 2 to 7 points in the most recent statewide polls. And he hopes to get a bounce from this week’s convention and his selection of as his running mate.

So what’s the problem for the Obama campaign?

The problem is the dog that isn’t barking.

Talk for more than a few minutes with an Obama supporter in a white middle-class or working-class area and you’ll hear about a friend or relative or co-worker who has a real problem with the candidate. When Jack Davis’s wife, Joan, who also plans to vote for Senator Obama, was asked about Democrats that she knew who would not vote for him, she replied:

“My mother! She’s 85 years old. I’m sorry to say, but she will not vote for him.”

Joseph Costigan, a regional political director for the union, Unite Here, spoke candidly about the tension between the economic distress of working men and women and the persistent, though hard-to-quantify, resistance to Barack Obama’s candidacy.

“We’ve been talking with staff in different parts of the Midwest,” he said, “and we’re all struggling to some extent with the problem of white workers who will not vote for Obama because of his color. There is no question about it. It’s a very powerful thing to get over for some folks.”

Mr. Costigan believes — and hopes — that the number of people holding such views is relatively small, and that Mr. Obama, now with the help of Senator Biden, can surmount that obstacle.

Surmounting it will be tough. Not only do the polls show this to be a close race, but the polls, when it comes to Senator Obama, cannot be trusted. It is frequently the case that a statistically significant percentage of white voters will lie to pollsters — or decline to state their preference — in races in which one candidate is black and the other white.

After many years of watching black candidates run for public office, and paying especially close attention to this year’s Democratic primary race, I’ve developed my own (very arbitrary) rule of thumb regarding the polls in this election:

Take at least two to three points off of Senator Obama’s poll numbers, and assume a substantial edge for Senator McCain in the breakdown of the undecided vote.

Using that formula, Barack Obama is behind in the national election right now.

The race issue can come up in peculiar and jolting ways. After hearing that some union voters had openly wondered about Senator Obama’s possible “demise,” I asked Dan Hammersmith, president of Unite Here Local 748 in Grand Rapids, if workers were really talking about whether Mr. Obama could survive as president.

“That is a concern that I’ve heard, yes,” he said. “But I tell people, ‘Are we supposed to be afraid of that and not go ahead and try to do something different?’ ”

Over the weekend The Detroit Free Press ran a chart showing how people responded when asked if they agreed with the statement that “there are people who want to hurt Barack Obama because of his race and sometimes I fear for his safety.”
795 2008-08-26 The Giants have said they will charge from $1,000 to $20,000 a seat for their personal seat licenses; once fans buy the seat licenses, they will still have to pay from $85 to $700 a ticket. The Jets are expected to unveil their ticket plan Tuesday.

“Here I am, buying a stadium for John Mara,” said Hank Honig, an accountant from Middletown, N.J., who owns eight Giants season tickets, referring to the team’s co-owner. “I’d love to see him issue a registration statement like a stock offering that would disclose information we don’t know. This is a greedy ploy with the only benefits going to them.”

Mara, who has been dealing with an outpouring of complaints that he no doubt anticipated, responded, “They have ownership of their seats and can transfer it.”

Thomas Malmud, a real estate lawyer who has season tickets to the Jets, the Mets and the Yankees, said that paying for seat licenses made him feel as if he is helping the Jets’ owner, Woody Johnson, pay the team’s half-share of the new stadium. He seemed less upset with the Mets.

“The Jets and Giants want me to be an equity partner without any upside,” he said. “But with the Mets, the price has some relationship to the market for sporting tickets.”

His Mets seats will jump from about $88 a game to $175. “It’s a huge increase, but not unconscionable,” he said.

Fans are now calculating how expensive it will be for many of them to attend games at the new stadiums.

Tickets for the best seats at the 85-year-old Yankee Stadium, which sold for $1,000 a seat this season, will jump at the new ballpark to $2,500; in other areas of the stadium, they will range from $135 to $500 for season tickets. Prices for single-game tickets, which ranged from $14 to $400 this season, will be released later.

The best seats at Citi Field, which cost $276 at Shea Stadium this season, will soar to $495, with other season tickets ranging from $125 to $225 a game. Single-game tickets this season ranged from $5 to $117. (Citi Field’s capacity of about 42,500 compares with 57,333 at Shea.) Neither team has made known all of its prices. Both teams also say broad swaths of more modestly priced tickets will be available.

Typically, all four teams sell a majority of seats as season tickets.

The personal seat licenses will allow the Giants to collect an estimated $185 million, after taxes, which will help pay for their stadium bonds. Mara conceded that fans were helping to finance a stadium whose costs had more than doubled from what he called an initial, and sketchy, $750 million estimate.

“It’s impossible to build a stadium of this magnitude without public funding unless you do something significant with ticket prices or P.S.L.’s,” he said.

Dave Howard, the Mets’ executive vice president for business, said that Citi Field’s pricing was designed to make those who sit closest to the field pay the most so that prices can be kept reasonable elsewhere. “The market indicates that a sector of our fan base is willing to pay a premium price for a premium location,” he said.

The shift to Citi Field unsettles fans like Richard Mermelstein, a lawyer from Scarsdale, N.Y. Since buying two season tickets the day the Mets acquired Gary Carter in 1984, he has upgraded several times to loge seats behind home plate. His bill — $9,280 in 2006, $10,584 in 2007 and $13,060 this season — would spike to $24,300, or $150 a seat, next season if he moves to the seats designated as comparable to his Shea seats.

“Imagine how you’d feel if $300 goes to waste when they’re out of it in September,” he said.

The Mets have so far not agreed to let him downgrade to less expensive seats and he fears that if he goes on a waiting list, he may lose out entirely in relocating to Citi Field.

Howard said that some downgrade requests are easier to fulfill than others, as fans with seats at Shea that are comparable to the less-expensive ones sought by Mermelstein are served first. He also said that partial season-ticket plans might not survive.

“We’ve told our customers that if they want priority seating, they should have a full-season plan,” Howard said.

Season-ticket holders of the four teams said they were contemplating various strategies to cope.

Some, like Mermelstein, want to downgrade — or else drop their tickets.

Some, like Honig, want to flip some of their seat licenses for a profit — after holding them for the required minimum of one year — to pay for the remaining ones.

Some are seeking partners to shoulder the costs.

One public-relations executive in , whose company did not permit him to speak publicly, was faced with a $120,000 bill for his six Giants seat licenses. He sold four of them to a major financial services executive for $30,000 each, a 50 percent markup. He retained two licenses, and has an option to buy back one of his partner’s licenses at market value.

Others, already sophisticated about reselling tickets on sites like , will try to recoup even more money by reselling tickets to attractive games.

Richie Brown of Manhattan, a uniform salesman, holds four fourth-row seats on the first-base side at Yankee Stadium that are jumping to $650 apiece from $220.

“It’s going to cost $2,600 to sit there on a rainy day in April to watch Kansas City,” he said. “You sit there saying, maybe at $220, you have a chance of selling them to somebody, but try selling four tickets at $650 each.”

Mark S. Rosentraub, a professor of urban affairs at Cleveland State University and an expert in sports finances, said that new-stadium economics were forcing fans to become smart, well-organized ticket brokers.

“You’ll have to put together packages where you sell your tickets at a loss but hope you make it back on your tickets,” he said. “If you’re used to seeing the Red Sox nine times, maybe now it’ll be four or five times.”

He said the Yankees, the Mets, the Giants and the Jets would not be setting their seat license and ticket prices so high without having studied data about the market from sources like StubHub. The Giants’ Mara offered a blunt lesson in market-driven economics on WFAN radio this month. “We have 130,000 people on our waiting list,” he said. “We could charge anything and still fill the stadium.”

The Nyack Rotary Club, with four Giants season tickets bequeathed to it by a member, faces an unusual problem. It raffles off the tickets to raise funds for scholarships and local elementary school literacy programs. Now, faced with paying seat licenses of $20,000 each, Christopher Haera, a former club president, said, “It seems odd to take out a loan to do a fund-raiser, and you don’t want to do a fund-raiser to do a fund-raiser."

Few fans have a broader view of season tickets than Aldo Zu-ppichini, who spends six figures annually to see the Yankees, the Giants, the Jets, the and the . He is giving up his football tickets (“I’ve got a 65-inch flat screen”) and has traded down to $135 seats in the Terrace Suite (“a fancy name for the upper deck”) at the new Yankee Stadium rather than pay $650 a game to watch .

Zuppichini, a resident of Fort Lee, N.J., who is the vice president for sales for Pretzel Crisps, reluctantly signed a 10-year contract for the $135 seats, with built-in annual ticket price increases of 4 percent a year.

“You can’t be any more die-hard then me,” he said, “but when the Giants’ P.S.L. letter came in, I was so burned, I read half of it and threw it away.”

Feeling more betrayed is Irwin Shivek, of Boynton Beach, Fla. He bought his first two Giants season tickets back in 1946, doing so “over the counter” from Jack Mara, John’s uncle, at the team’s old business offices on 42nd Street in Manhattan.

In time, Shivek added two more season tickets and ended up in one of the Giants Stadium sections that make up the ’s Club at the new stadium, where seat licenses cost $20,000 and game tickets go for $700 each. The Giants say they are priced at that level because of their location behind the Giants’ bench, and because they provide access to a club that will provide free food and beverages and the ability to watch post-game interviews.

In 1989, Shivek moved from Secaucus, N.J., to , and gave his tickets to his daughters, Susan and Lynn (whose middle name is Mara, a show of the family’s allegiance to the Giants). Susan and her husband will pay the new bill — $40,000 for two licenses and $14,000 for their season tickets, starting in 2010. But Lynn cannot.

“If the tickets were still in my name, I’d tear them up,” said Shivek, a former executive at Syms, the clothing chain. “If they couldn’t afford to finance that stadium on their own, they shouldn’t be leaving Giants Stadium.”
796 2008-08-26 More than 40 years after the Beatles first proposed a concert in Israel, a date has been set for Paul McCartney to play there, The Times of London reported. Mr. McCartney’s show in Tel Aviv, which had previously been announced with a date to be set, is now scheduled for Sept. 25. Earlier this year Israel officially apologized to the remaining members of the Beatles for canceling a concert tour in 1965. At the time Israeli officials cited financial problems, and some there had argued against the concert, suggesting that the band’s performance would corrupt Israeli youth. Ron Prosor, Israel’s ambassador to Britain, said the country wanted to “rectify a historic missed opportunity.”
797 2008-08-26 Every sentence was greeted by loud applause. And while Mr. Kennedy spoke slowly, he was firm and energetic, gesturing with a hand and sounding very much like the man who enraptured the party’s convention 28 years ago.

In a moment that captured the generational arc of the night — and the Kennedy family’s connection to Mr. Obama, whom Mr. Kennedy endorsed in a turning point of his campaign — a video tribute to the Massachusetts senator was introduced by Caroline Kennedy, his niece and the daughter of President John F. Kennedy. Her tribute was as much to her uncle as to the man who brought her into national politics.

“I have never had someone inspire me the way people tell me my father inspired them, but I do now: Barack Obama,” Ms. Kennedy said inside the Pepsi Center. “And I know someone else who’s been inspired all over again by Senator Obama. In our family, he’s known as Uncle Teddy. More than any senator of his generation, or perhaps any generation, Teddy has made life better for people in this country and around the world.”

“For 46 years, he has been so much more than just a senator for the people of Massachusetts; he’s been a senator for all who believe in a dream that’s never died,” she said, invoking Mr. Kennedy’s speech to the Democratic convention in 1980.

The Democrats’ 2008 convention was gaveled to order with a stream of opening speakers who began laying the foundation for the tasks that Mr. Obama and his advisers hope to accomplish during the four-day event. Throughout the day, aides to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Mr. Obama, of Illinois, worked to ease tensions over the Clintons’ roles at the convention in what was amounting to a decidedly strained passing of the generational torch.

In a speech to the New York delegation earlier in the day, Mrs. Clinton strongly urged her supporters to vote for Mr. Obama at the convention. And Mr. Obama, campaigning in Davenport, Iowa, said he had spoken to former President Bill Clinton earlier in the week and made clear that he welcomed Mr. Clinton’s role at the convention.

Even before the sun set here, speakers were assailing the presumed Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, in a way that made clear the convention would not be a replay of the Democrats’ genteel gathering in 2004. Speaker after speaker, reading speeches that had been carefully vetted by a team of Obama advisers, denounced Mr. McCain for his ties to President Bush, his positions on the economy and his stand on abortion.

“John McCain has spent more than 25 years in Washington voting against women’s freedom,” said Nancy Keenan, the head of NARAL-Pro-Choice America, “and has pledged to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will overturn Roe v. Wade.”

The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who is chairwoman of the convention, said: “Republicans say John McCain has experience. We say John McCain has the experience of being wrong.”

But while some speakers took the rough road, others — starting with old friends and associates of the Obamas and scheduled to culminate with Michelle Obama’s anticipated address — offered a warm picture of Mr. Obama and his family. If one big task for Mr. Obama this week was to try to paint a critical picture of Mr. McCain and his policies, another was to try to present a fuller portrait of Mr. Obama and push back against Republicans’ efforts to paint him as culturally and politically distant from mainstream America.

Mr. Obama’s half-sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, talked about growing up in a family with little money, raised by a mother who was “an eternal optimist who understood that parents are our first and best teachers.”

In remarks prepared for delivery later on Monday night, Mrs. Obama is to speak of her own family’s blue-collar past and spoke of her husband’s life as “a great American story.”

She is to add in her prepared remarks: “Barack and I were raised with so many of the same values: that you work hard for what you want in life; that your word is your bond and you do what you say you’re going to do; that you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don’t know them, and even if you don’t agree with them. And Barack and I set out to build lives guided by these values and pass them on to the next generation.”

And Mrs. Obama’s portrait of her life growing up on the South Side of Chicago, living in a modest house, is expected to offer a contrast with speakers who offered a mocking reminder of how Mr. McCain was unable to say last week how many homes he owned.

“About the only guy who seems to have done really well these last eight years,” said Andy Tobias, the Democratic treasurer, “is a guy with a private jet and so many homes that he loses count.”

Yet for all the planning by Mr. Obama’s aides, the appearance by Mr. Kennedy was the most anticipated event of the day. The convention hall included many delegates who remembered when he stilled Madison Square Garden in New York as he yielded the party’s 1980 nomination to President Jimmy Carter, declaring the “dream will never die.”

As the convention roared to life, Mr. McCain was hardly passive. He taped an appearance on the NBC program “Tonight,” where he poked fun at Mr. Obama’s choice for running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, alluding to his verbosity and the risks that trait posed during a debate.

“The problem for any of them might be getting a word in edgewise,” Mr. McCain said, before adding, “I take that back.”

Mrs. Clinton, preparing for her own speech on Tuesday, appeared before distraught members of her home-state delegation. She criticized a commercial from the McCain campaign that sought to foster divisions between her supporters and those of Mr. Obama.

“Let me state what I think about their tactics and these ads,” she said. “I’m Hillary Rodham Clinton and I do not approve of that message.”

Aides to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama were negotiating a plan that would allow delegates from some states to vote for either candidate during the roll call for the nomination, but then end the voting relatively early with the declaration of unanimous consent for Mr. Obama. One idea, according to a Democrat involved in the process, is to have New York delegates cast their votes and then have Mrs. Clinton make a motion for the hall to unanimously endorse Mr. Obama.
798 2008-08-26 Bjorn Phau, top, a German qualifier, pushed Rafael Nadal in their first-round match. Elena Dementieva, above, acknowledged she still had her mind on the Olympics. Aravane Rezai won the first match on Court 11....
799 2008-08-27 A new animated film, “The Year of the Fish,” takes Chinatown and transforms it into a magical landscape populated by characters from a modern Cinderella tale....
800 2008-08-27 New York City came in first — for the first time — in the New York State Water Taste Test at the State Fair this year. The tiny village of Pulaski, population 2,398, came in second....
801 2008-08-27 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia sneaked past Sofia Arvidsson of Sweden in second round action at the U.S. Open....
802 2008-08-27 The Huntsman-Hexion trial is fast approaching and the parties have been engaging in low-grade trench warfare over discovery requests which have made Hunstman appear rather foolish, according to the Deal Professor....
803 2008-08-27 IE 8 is Microsoft's answer to the renewed browser challenge. Meanwhile, Firefox is now a credible competitor to IE, with its share of the browser market having climbed to 19 percent....
804 2008-08-27 Apple's recent problems with the iPhone, MobileMe and the Macbook Air aren't unusual. The company has always struggled with occasional technical issues -- just like its competitors....
805 2008-08-27 With money still tight, investors in real estate are forced to turn to hard-money lenders, who charge high interest for short-term loans. More often than not these days, those lenders are hedge funds, according to The Wall Street Journal....
806 2008-08-27 Officials of Jefferson County in Alabama told their lawyers to prepare a bankruptcy filing if the county was unable to reach an agreement with creditors over how to escape from $3 billion of bonds with soaring interest rates. The Jefferson County ...
807 2008-08-27 Hedge fund firms often pride themselves on being ahead of the curve on financial trends but roughly 70 percent lag behind on planning for their own futures, according to a study to be released on Tuesday. "Regardless of firm size, most participant...
808 2008-08-27 A United States appeals court threw out a $241 million restitution award against France's Artemis, which sprang from a lawsuit over the purchase of assets from the failed Executive Life Insurance Company, and ordered a retrial of the damages phase...
809 2008-08-27 In her speech, Hillary Clinton could have made a stronger case for Obama....
810 2008-08-27 A United States appeals court threw out a $241 million restitution award against France’s Artemis SA resulting from a lawsuit over the purchase of assets from the failed Executive Life Insurance Company, and ordered a retrial of the damages phase.

The California insurance commissioner’s lawsuit had accused Artemis, controlled by the billionaire Francois Pinault, and French banking, insurance and government entities of conspiring to circumvent California and federal law to buy a junk bond portfolio and other assets in a state sale of the insurer in 1991.

The other defendants, including Credit Lyonnais, an insurer, MAAF Assurances, a French government entity and a number of individuals, all settled the case, paying a total of about $700 million in damages.

Most of the same defendants pleaded guilty to federal criminal charges of making false statements to federal bank regulators in connection with the Executive Life transactions.

Credit Lyonnais was accused of leading a conspiracy of the other defendants to buy the Executive Life assets through a front company, and lying to state and federal regulators about who controlled the company.

At trial, a Los Angeles jury exonerated Pinault and found Artemis liable for conspiracy, but awarded the insurance commissioner no compensatory damages.
811 2008-08-27 Officials of Jefferson County in Alabama told their lawyers to prepare a bankruptcy filing if the county was unable to reach an agreement with creditors over how to escape from $3 billion of bonds with soaring interest rates.

The Jefferson County Commission voted unanimously on Tuesday to have the law firm of Bradley, Arant, Rose and White and the county attorney take over negotiations with creditors led by JPMorgan Chase and draw up bankruptcy papers should talks falter. The two replace bankers and advisers, including Citigroup, whose proposals failed to win support.

“We are hoping for success but preparing for filing if necessary,” the commission president, Bettye Fine Collins, told reporters. “This has some likelihood to work. Wall Street may not want to take a chance at court.”

The agreement with creditors that provided the county time to work toward a solution expires on Friday. Gov. Bob Riley has agreed to help negotiate with Wall Street on a deal to avert a court filing, Ms. Collins said.

Should the county renege on the debt, it would be the largest municipal bond default ever in the United States, outstripping the Washington Public Power Supply System’s $2.25 billion default in 1983 of revenue bonds sold for nuclear plants.

Jefferson County, which includes Alabama’s largest city, Birmingham, has unsuccessfully sought to refinance debt, amassed building a sewer system, which it now says it cannot afford. More than $3 billion of the bonds, including $2.2 billion of so-called auction-rate debt, have interest that resets frequently, a strategy intended to hold down costs. That backfired when the fallout from the credit crisis pushed the county’s rates as high as 10 percent.
812 2008-08-27 William Kristol seems to have given up all hope that John McCain can find a suitable vice-presidential candidate in the Republican ranks. So he makes lemons out of lemonade by trying to convince us that somehow an independent senator, who has already lost as a Democratic candidate for vice president, is Mr. McCain’s best running mate because it would prove that Republicans are serious about reaching across the aisle to solve America’s problems.

Notwithstanding the fact that Senator Joseph I. Lieberman no longer has the political credibility to sway Democratic or independent voters, it defies the imagination to think Republicans would nominate someone whose only connection to the Republican Party platform is an unwavering support for the war in Iraq.

William Kristol underestimates the passion Democrats would have for voting against Joseph I. Lieberman as a vice-presidential candidate on the Republican ticket.

With the exception of George W. Bush and Dick Cheney, there is possibly no more disliked political figure among Democrats than the smug, faithless, pro-war Mr. Lieberman.

Talk about energizing the electorate: all John McCain has to do is choose Mr. Lieberman and many Democrats will enthusiastically line up and vote for an Obama-Biden ticket without a shred of ambivalence.
813 2008-08-27 Re “Too Much of a Bad Thing,” by Maureen Dowd (column, Aug. 24):

I agree that John McCain’s campaign has gone to the prisoner-of-war well too many times when he’s criticized. But of more concern to me is that his campaign wants us to believe that his military service and his time in the Hanoi Hilton somehow qualify him to be president of the United States.

I have yet to hear any real discussion or analysis of whether someone who spent that much time being tortured and in solitary confinement has the kind of mental and emotional stability we should require in a president.

As admirable and honorable as his service was, we do not know to what extent he was altered by brainwashing or torture. Could this affect his judgment at any time? Christine Penberthy
814 2008-08-27 Moreover, while the stock market stumbled, the country’s trade surplus and the profits of its leading energy companies remained as robust as ever. Russia holds about $600 billion in foreign exchange and gold reserves.

Over the weekend, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin noted that Russia was on track to meet his goal of doubling its 2003 gross domestic product by 2010.

But since the start of the conflict in Georgia on Aug. 7, the ruble has slid 4 percent against the dollar in spite of intervention by the central bank, and the cost of insuring Russian sovereign and corporate bonds has steeply risen. In another worrisome sign for the economy, Russian officials said Monday that they saw little chance of Russia joining the World Trade Organization.

The talks had in any case been stalled over import tariffs for airplanes, with implications for Boeing, and Russia’s poor record on protecting intellectual property rights.

While warning of consequences for Russia if its troops do not quickly withdraw from Georgia, Western leaders have not made any specific threats, but possible measures include barring Russia from W.T.O. membership, expelling it from the Group of 8 industrialized countries or withholding visas and freezing offshore bank accounts of Russian political leaders.

Those penalties could sting far more sharply in today’s Russia than they would have during the days of the Soviet Union, because many of the top officials in government also sit on the boards of directors of state companies.

Mr. Medvedev, for example, was chairman of the natural gas monopoly Gazprom until his inauguration in May. Gazprom, the world’s second largest publicly traded energy company after ExxonMobil of the United States, lost 3 percent of its value on Tuesday.

“Such connections never existed in the cold war,” Irina Y. Yassina, a researcher at the Institute for the Economy in Transition, said of this blending of state and business power.

While many leading companies were brought under state control in the Putin years, they are also striving to globalize their business as an outlet for Russia’s petroleum wealth.

“This is a point of pressure that could help the countries back away from a dangerous situation,” Ms. Yassina said.

But it remains to be seen whether the stock slumps at these companies will influence policy. Also, economic pressure can cut both ways. Many analysts question whether Western European countries that depend heavily on Russian oil and gas will support penalties severe enough to provoke retaliation from the Kremlin.

Even the United States has something to lose from confronting Moscow. At the beginning of this year, Russia’s central bank and sovereign wealth funds held about $100 billion in mortgage-backed securities from the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at a time when the market for these bonds is exceedingly soft. Russia has reduced its holdings by 40 percent since then, but it has not dumped its entire portfolio, which could create further troubles for the companies.

Still, some Russian officials have been trying to minimize the damage. On Tuesday, Senator Mikhail V. Margelov, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the upper house of Parliament, was at the Democratic National Convention in Denver meeting with advisers to Senator Barack Obama’s campaign and holding a conference call organized by Goldman Sachs, the investment bank.
815 2008-08-27 While Jonas Salk and Albert Sabin were rivals at different institutions in the race to develop a vaccine, working conditions were more collegial in the Harvard laboratory, where Dr. Weller was the newly appointed assistant director of the division of infectious diseases at Children’s Medical Center. Dr. Enders, who had been Dr. Weller’s teacher at Harvard Medical School, said when told of the 1954 Nobel Prize he would share: “No discovery in the scientific world is due to the work of any one man, but always results from the work of many people.” (Dr. Enders died in 1985, Dr. Robbins in 2003.)

Dr. Weller went on to make advances in the study of parasitic diseases like schistosomiasis, to isolate the varicella zoster viruses for chicken pox and shingles, and, with the fortuitous aid of his own 10-year-old son in 1960, to help identify the virus for German measles.

Thomas Huckle Weller was born June 15, 1915, in Ann Arbor, Mich., the son of a University of Michigan Medical School pathologist, Carl Vernon Weller, and the grandson of a general practitioner, Martin Weller. After earning an A.B. degree at the University of Michigan, he graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1940. His studies there prompted a lifelong interest in tropical diseases.

Dr. Weller was a teaching fellow at Harvard until 1942, was commissioned as an Army medical officer in World War II and was dispatched to a research post in Puerto Rico to work on malaria control at military bases in the Caribbean. He left the Army with the rank of major in 1946, continued his clinical training at Children’s Hospital in Boston, and was a founding member, with Dr. Enders, of the research division of infectious diseases at Harvard. Dr. Robbins, whom Dr. Weller had first met in medical school, joined the center in 1948.

Dr. Weller was a consultant to the World Health Organization, the Pan American Health Organization and the International Health Organization of the Rockefeller Foundation.

Although professional travels took him to Trinidad, Egypt, Thailand, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and to rural areas of Brazil — where Chagas’ disease and snail-borne schistosomiasis were common in the 1970s — Dr. Weller never contracted any of the infections he studied, said his son Peter, who is a professor of medicine at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. (As a child of a medical researcher, Peter Weller said in an interview that he was a source of varicella virus for his father’s tissue-culture studies.)

Thomas Weller is also survived by his wife of more than 60 years, Kathleen Fahey Weller; another son, Robert Weller; a daughter, Janet Weller; and six grandchildren.

In Dr. Weller’s 2004 autobiography, “Growing Pathogens in Tissue Cultures: Fifty Years in Academic Tropical Medicine, Pediatrics, and Virology” (Watson Publishing) he revealed the source of the viral sample for congenital rubella (German measles) nearly a quarter century before: It was the urine of his son Robert, who was 10 when he developed signs of a particularly severe case of measles.

Using tissue-culture procedures he had pioneered, Dr. Weller inoculated human cells derived from the sac around the fetus with the boy’s urine. He watched daily through the microscope for characteristic signs of viral infection, and eventually saw what he later described as a “peculiar rounding of scattered cells with refractile bodies in the cytoplasm and nucleus.”

Wary of claiming to having isolated the virus, Dr. Weller sought confirmation of the discovery. With help from a Harvard colleague, Franklin A. Neva, Dr. Weller obtained urine samples from two boys at Phillips Exeter Academy, where a rubella outbreak was under way, and one sample from a Harvard student.

“Each specimen produced changes similar to those seen in my son’s cultures,” he recalled.

From 1962 to 1965, cases of adult-onset rubella mounted in a pandemic in Europe and the United States, resulting in thousands of miscarriages, stillbirths and therapeutic abortions for women with intrauterine infections, and in life-threatening organ disorders in infants who survived.

Meanwhile, as the urgency grew, Drs. Weller and Neva learned of competition, in Maryland, in their race to isolate the rubella virus. Scientists at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research were trying, unsuccessfully at first, to isolate the rubella virus from Army recruits.

This time Albert Sabin arranged a cooperative exchange of virus samples between the two laboratories, a courtesy that Dr. Weller acknowledged when results were reported in back-to-back papers in the same issue (October 1962) of the journal in which his tissue-culture studies had been published.

Today the vaccine that resulted from the successful isolation of the virus is part of the standard MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) immunization routinely administered to infants and preschool children in the United States.
816 2008-08-27 THE instructions on the red wrapper are very explicit: (1) Open the packaging. (2) Use both hands to break open the fortune cookie. (3) Retrieve and read the fortune. (4) Eat the cookie.

In China, such details are necessary, it seems.

“Chinese people don’t know what to do with a fortune cookie,” said Nana Shi, who started an online business last October that is likely the only company currently selling fortune cookies in China. “They don’t know that you have to open it.”

Although most Americans think of fortune cookies as Chinese, the crispy curved wafers that are given away free by the billions in the United States every year are all but unknown in China.

In recent years, research by a Japanese scholar named Yasuko Nakamachi has shown that fortune cookies almost certainly originated in Japan, and were brought to the United States by immigrant bakers.

Ms. Shi, 40, who lives in Beijing, first became intrigued by the cookies at a Chinese restaurant during a visit to California in 2001. “I thought, Why don’t we have these in China?” she said.

In 2006, she started putting together a business. She bought a fortune cookie machine from a businessman in China who had imported it but never used it. Her company, Beijing Fortune Cookies, has 16 employees and is growing.
817 2008-08-27 Darren Aronofsky returns to Venice after the lukewarm reception here two years ago of his New Age movie, “The Fountain.” His new offering, screening as part of the competition, is “The Wrestler,” with Mickey Rourke playing a retired pro trying to make a comeback with the aid of an ex-stripper (Marisa Tomei) and to win one last match against his archrival.

Also in the running for the Golden Lion will be Jonathan Demme, who won an Oscar for “The Silence of the Lambs” (1991) and whose remake of “The Manchurian Candidate” was screened in Venice in 2005. His “Rachel Getting Married” tells the tale of a former model (Anne Hathaway) who emerges from yet another stint in rehab to attend the wedding of her sister (Rosemarie DeWitt).

Kathryn Bigelow is returning as well, in competition for the first time with “The Hurt Locker.” A drama she wrote with the war reporter Mark Boal, it follows the vicissitudes of American bomb disposal specialists in Iraq. The cast is headed by Ralph Fiennes, who starred in Ms. Bigelow’s futuristic “Strange Days,” shown here in 1995.

Also in contention for the United States is the Iranian-born Amir Naderi’s “Vegas: Based on a True Story,” about the family of a compulsive gambler and the intrusion of an stranger.

The number of American films, 10 in various categories, was to some extent reduced because of delays caused by the Hollywood screenwriters’ strike, said the festival’s director, Marco Müller, in his fifth year at the helm. Mr. Müller and his team considered 3,689 features for this year’s event (up from 3,122 last year), for a total selection of 67 films from 18 countries. The German director Wim Wenders will preside over the panel judging the 21 films in competition.

The contenders include three from Italy. In “Il Papà di Giovanna” (“Giovanna’s Father”), Pupi Avati returns to the Bologna of his childhood in the 1930s — the house where he grew up was a set — with the story of a young girl who kills her best friend and is committed to a mental hospital. Pappi Corsicato tackles the Southern macho man’s nightmare in “Il seme Sella Discordia” (“The Seeds of Discord”), the tale of a Neapolitan husband who discovers both that he is infertile and that his wife is pregnant.

The Turkish-born Ferzan Ozpetek, who has adopted Italy as his long-term home, is in Venice with “Un Giorno Perfetto” (“A Perfect Day”). His countryman Semih Kaplanoglu is also competing, with “Sut” (“Milk”), the second part of his “Yusuf” trilogy. The first, “Yumurta” (“Egg”), was screened at Cannes last year; the last will be “Bal” (“Honey”).

The Italo-Chilean director Marco Bechis’s “Birdwatchers” deals with a clash of cultures, following a tribe in the Amazon whose territory and lives have been devastated by settlers. Mr. Bechis mixed professional and nonprofessional actors.

Before he won the Golden Lion for “Hana-bi” (“Fireworks”) in 1997, Takeshi Kitano could stroll around the festival almost unnoticed, save for the occasional shrieks of recognition from Japanese visitors. He has since become one of the most regular and sought-after celebrities at the event (his “Zatoichi” won a Silver Lion for best director in 2003). He is back in competition with “Akires to Kame” (“Achilles and the Tortoise”), in which he stars as a hapless artist with an invalid wife. Two other Japanese productions, both animated, are also in competition: Hayao Miyazaki’s “Gake no Ue no Ponyo” (“Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea”) and Mamoru Oshii’s “Sukai Kurora” (“The Sky Crawlers”).

Barbet Schroeder is one of three French directors in competition. His “Inju, la Bête Dans l’Ombre” (“Inju, the Beast in the Shadows”) relates the story of a novelist who goes to Japan to promote a book and falls in love with a geisha who is being threatened by a former lover. Mr. Schroeder’s “Virgin of the Assassins,” filmed in Medellín, Colombia, was screened in Venice in 2000 and won the Gold Medal of the Presidency of the Senate.

Yu Lik-wai — a cinematographer who shot “Still Life,” which won the Golden Lion in 2006 — makes his debut as the sole Chinese director in competition, with “Dangkou” (“Plastic City”), a gangster drama set in the criminal underworld of São Paulo.
818 2008-08-27 “Traitor,” a somber, absorbing and only moderately preposterous new thriller written and directed by Jeffrey Nachmanoff, manages an impressive feat of economy, condensing a vast and sometimes contradictory compendium of post-9/11 fears and anxieties into 110 swift minutes. The terrorists are all around us! The government is not doing enough to catch them! It’s doing too much!

The movie, despite its unassuming style and tightly focused story, tries to cover every side and cater to just about every possible ideological objection, an effort at comprehensiveness that seems noble and a little nutty. There are, for instance, two F.B.I. agents, Clayton and Archer. Archer (Neal McDonough) is prone to making insensitive remarks about Islam and the Bill of Rights, and to smacking around suspected terrorists; Clayton (Guy Pearce), a minister’s son with a soothing Southern accent, delivers calm homilies on religious tolerance and holds a Ph.D. in Arabic studies.

On the other side, there is Fareed (Aly Khan), a murderous and mercenary master terrorist whose jihadist cant is indistinguishable from hypocrisy. But then again there is Omar (Said Taghmaoui), one of Fareed’s lieutenants, who, if you put aside his vocation as a planner of suicide bombings, seems like a pretty smart and thoughtful guy. American foreign policy is criticized in a general way — hot-button words like Iraq, Israel and oil are never uttered — and no one could accuse Mr. Nachmanoff of underplaying the danger of Muslim extremism.

His point is not to suggest an easy symmetry — or, goodness knows, moral equivalence — between terrorists and American law-enforcement officials. Rather, the film’s sometimes clumsy efforts at topicality illuminate the conflicted psychology of its main character, Samir Horn (Don Cheadle). Samir, the son of an American mother and a Sudanese father, is an observant Muslim and a veteran of the Army Special Forces, a highly trained warrior whose allegiances are, at first and for a gratifyingly long time afterward, decidedly ambiguous.

He is, in other words, an elegantly conceived and suavely played construct, a theoretical being born out of a very real political conflict. Samir, enigmatic and quiet though he is, has less in common with Robert Ludlum’s Jason Bourne than he does with some of the cold-war specters dreamed up by John le Carré in his prime. Samir’s doubleness is built into his biography, and whatever choice he makes is likely to constitute some form of betrayal.
819 2008-08-27 DENVER — Let’s play a game: Who would draw more contempt if he showed up here this week, Joseph I. Lieberman or John Edwards?

“Lieberman, definitely,” said Lola Hopper, a delegate from Texas. “If he showed his face, he’d have to leave town in the back of a trunk.”

Edwards? “He’d have to go into hiding, but Lieberman would be worse.”

Yep, that seemed the consensus among delegates surveyed about the last two Democratic running mates, both of whom have become party pariahs, but for different reasons.

Mr. Lieberman, the lapsed Democratic senator from Connecticut and Al Gore’s running mate in 2000, is supporting John McCain’s presidential campaign and will speak at next week’s Republican convention. He may even be in the running to be Mr. McCain’s Number Two.

Mr. Edwards, the former presidential candidate and John Kerry’s wing man in 2004, just recently admitted to an affair two years ago with a former campaign staffer, Rielle Hunter. His wife, Elizabeth, suffers from incurable breast cancer. While Mr. Edwards is hardly missed here ("He’s a sick puppy,” said New Hampshire delegate Lou D’Allesandro), Mr. Lieberman is certifiable delegate poison.

Indeed, on the scale of veep violations, it appears that Mr. Lieberman committed a much greater infraction jumping into bed with Republicans than Mr. Edwards did with Ms. Hunter. As Phil Johnston, a Massachusetts delegate put it: “"Edwards was only unfaithful to his wife. Lieberman was unfaithful to an entire party.”
820 2008-08-27 Federal Reserve policy makers expect to eventually raise their benchmark interest rate in an effort to slow inflation, but they have not agreed to a timetable for the move, according to minutes of the Fed’s last meeting in early August.

“Members generally anticipated that the next policy move would likely be a tightening” of interest rates, according to the minutes, which were released on Tuesday. But “the timing and extent of any change in policy stance would depend on evolving economic and financial developments and the implications for the outlook for economic growth and inflation.”

Although members of the Fed’s policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee, are not tethered to the comments, their remarks reinforced a sense on Wall Street that the central bank is carefully watching the trend of rising prices, and is more likely to raise rates than lower them by the beginning of next year.

Inflation is running at the fastest pace in decades, despite a recent retrenchment in gasoline and energy prices. Several members of the Fed board “worried about the possibility that core inflation might fail to moderate next year unless the stance of monetary policy was tightened sooner than currently anticipated by financial markets.”

Still, the prevailing view among Fed governors at the Aug. 5 meeting appeared to be that inflation would taper off next year.
821 2008-08-27 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that more Americans bought newly built homes in July, with sales up 2.4 percent to an annual pace of 515,000 units, less than the 525,000 expected by economists. The positive sales figure came a day after a private agents’ group reported that sales of previously owned homes rose 3.1 percent in July.

The new reports signaled to some analysts that the sharpest corrections in home prices and sales might be over. “The biggest declines, they’re all behind us now,” said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a research firm.

“But,” he added, “that doesn’t mean we’re in any sense ready to move up. Or that we’re ready for sales to accelerate. Or for prices to flatten out.”

While some buyers may be coming back into the market, many obstacles to a recovery remain. Mortgage rates rose this summer as lenders continued to tighten their standards for issuing home loans. Inventories of previously owned homes rose last month, and foreclosures are expected to continue.

“The supply of homes is going to remain very large for quite some time, and that means prices are far from hitting bottom,” Mr. Hoffman said.

Consumer confidence also remains low, which could discourage demand. A survey by the Conference Board, released on Tuesday, showed that confidence was up in August, but still lower than its level in the spring. Among the 5,000 households included in the survey, 3.3 percent of respondents said they planned to buy a home in the next six months, a big increase from the month before.

Still, economists expect that home sales will stay moderately low for an extended period, as buyers wait for prices to fall even further.

“Sales are probably not going to rebound any time soon because the mortgage conditions continue to get tighter,” Mr. Gault said. He said that the excess supply meant that “prices have still got to come down some more.”

Of the 20 cities surveyed in the Case-Shiller index, Las Vegas had the worst annual decline, with values dropping 28.6 percent in the last year. Prices in Miami fell 28.3 percent, and prices in Phoenix dropped 27.9 percent in the same period.

Only previously owned, single-family homes are included in the Case-Shiller survey, which economists consider the most reliable indicator of home values.

Sales of new homes slipped in Midwestern and Southern states, according to the Commerce Department report, but rose in the Northeast and West. The median price of a new home in July was $230,700, down 6.3 percent from a year ago. Sales of new homes remained 35.3 percent below their level in July 2007.

The new-home sales report is considered volatile by economists, and the government said it had no evidence that the actual change in last month’s sales was “different from zero.”
822 2008-08-27 JOHANNESBURG — President Robert Mugabe opened Zimbabwe’s Parliament on Tuesday to rambunctious heckling from opposition lawmakers, just hours after the police arrested three more of them, bringing the total to five.

Mr. Mugabe, who has ruled the country for 28 increasingly repressive years, declared that he had “every expectation” of striking a power-sharing deal with the opposition, but his government seemed to be further embittering its rivals and complicating prospects for a settlement by locking them up.

The police had sought to arrest eight members of Parliament before they could vote Monday for the powerful position of speaker of the lower house, opposition officials said, but backed off when legislators summoned reporters. The opposition’s candidate for speaker won on Monday by a margin of 12 votes. For the first time since the country became independent in 1980, the opposition gained a majority in Parliament.

But between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m. on Tuesday, legislators wanted by the police heard a knock on the doors of their hotel rooms. Their lawyer, Alec Muchadehama, who said he feared for their lives, counseled them not to let anyone in until he arrived. Later Tuesday morning, they were taken into custody. More than 100 opposition supporters have been killed since Zimbabwe’s disputed elections in March, human rights groups say.

The government said in The Herald, the state-run newspaper, that the legislators were being sought on charges including rape, kidnapping and incitement of political violence.

The opposition countered that the real motive for the arrests was to try to regain control of Parliament. The governing party, ZANU-PF, has 99 seats, the main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, has 100, and 10 additional seats are held by another opposition faction. “It looks like they’re slowly cutting us down,” said Thabitha Khumalo, deputy spokeswoman for the Movement for Democratic Change.
823 2008-08-27 MCCLURE--Douglas O. , Sr. Educator and Headmaster, died on Wednesday, August 20th at his home in Scarborough, Maine. A naval officer, teacher, and headmaster of Rockland Country Day School, Princeton Day School and Sewickley Academy, he served as ...
824 2008-08-27 TRANSMISSION LIMITS Dreams about renewable energy are bumping up against the reality of a power grid that cannot handle the new demands.      CELEBRITY SPORTS STARS The star athletes who competed in the Beijing Olympics, like Serena Williams and D...
825 2008-08-28 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
826 2008-08-28 Is it enough to love a pet well enough?...
827 2008-08-28 The spot lauds Mr. Obama's historic achievement of becoming the first African American to become the presidential nominee of a major political party....
828 2008-08-28 International buyers considering Florida should take note of the latest statistics from the Florida Association of Realtors. First off, the volume of sales of existing homes in July was actually up from the same month a year earlier. Only six more...
829 2008-08-28 In the Middle East, yogurt is used in hot dishes as well as cold. This simple soup is both comforting and light, good at any time of year, but in warm weather serve it warm but not simmering hot. To stabilize the yogurt so that it doesn't curdle when it cooks, stir in a little cornstarch.

1. Heat the olive oil in a large, heavy soup pot over medium heat and add the onion. Stir often, until the onion is tender and beginning to color, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and the barley, and stir together until the garlic smells fragrant, about 30 seconds to a minute. Add the stock and salt to taste, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 40 minutes or until the barley is tender.

2. In a small bowl, combine the cornstarch and two tablespoons water, and stir until the cornstarch is dissolved. Whisk into the yogurt. Remove soup from heat, and whisk in this mixture. Return to low heat and bring to a bare simmer, stirring. Do not boil. Add salt to taste and a generous amount of pepper. Stir in the cilantro, and season with fresh lemon juice if desired (or squeeze a few drops over each bowl). Serve hot or warm, garnished with thin rounds of lemon.
830 2008-08-28 Donald Young is out of the U.S. Open after he lost his men's doubles match....
831 2008-08-28 It's become clear to me that the math of greenness has become one of those endless Internet morasses, like red state-blue state, Mac-Windows, or just about anything involving digital photography....
832 2008-08-28 And so on. (The real answer to that question, of course, is "neither—bring your own reusable bags." But until U.S. stores start charging 15 cents per bag, as groceries in Europe do, Americans aren't likely to go to that trouble any time soon.)

As I do my best to be a concerned eco-citizen, I'm constantly reminded of these upstream complications. I recently wrote on my blog how much my wife and I love our 2004 Toyota Prius, and how we tried to buy a second one to replace our old Corolla, but were told that there's a 10-month waiting list.

Reader reaction was all over the map, but I was particularly surprised by the anger of the anti-Prius crowd.

For example: "The only reason to buy a Prius is so you can drive around like a smug eco-holier-than-thou."

Well, no, actually. You might also buy one because it's a Consumer Reports favorite in terms of ride, design and reliability. Or because it spews out 90 percent less pollution than a regular car. Or because it gets 45 miles per gallon or better, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil while we try to figure out a more permanent fix.

Calling names like "smug" is a playground-bully tactic that's not helping anyone.

"But it costs more than a similarly sized regular car."

Maybe, maybe not. Our Prius gained us a $1,500 tax credit, and there's no sales tax on hybrids in Connecticut. Plus we buy a LOT less gas than we would for a regular car.

But let's say all of that still doesn't equal the price premium—who cares? I'm not driving the Prius to save money. I'm driving it because it saves a ton of fuel and pollutes a lot less.

The one that really troubled me, though, was this: "The Prius requires so much more energy to build and ship than a regular car, it's actually an environmental disaster."

I actually saw this one invoked on CBS News last Sunday. The correspondent stated "an engineer figured out" that a Prius requires much more energy to build than a regular car. Therefore, you're being more environmentally responsible if you buy an old used regular car.

"An engineer?" Well, thanks for identifying that reliable source.

I did a little research of my own, and I've found "several engineers" who can easily debunk the first engineer's logic. Read this one, for example (http://tinyurl.com/2oqkv7), and this one (http://tinyurl.com/5dt7f9). The bottom line: the overall Prius environmental impact is, at worst, neutral, and at best, still positive.

Besides, none of these analyses take into account the market pressure that my buying a Prius will create. The car companies have to manufacture *something.* The more the public wants fuel-efficient, low-emissions vehicles, the more the car companies will deliver. Every consumer who buys an older, dirtier, gas-guzzling car is contributing to the status quo. You're not only keeping that old, dirty gas guzzler on the road, but you're also sending a message to the car companies that they should *keep* building dirty gas-guzzlers.

It's become clear to me that the math of greenness has become one of those endless Internet morasses, like red state-blue state, Mac-Windows, or just about anything involving digital photography. Both sides will make endless creative arguments to make their points, and we may never find the bottom line of the eco balance sheet.

Actually, on this Prius point, I think I may have come up with an approach we can all live with: buy a *used* Prius.

And then don't drive it much.
833 2008-08-28 The board of our New York condominium association intends to raise the processing fee on sales from $1,000 to 1 percent of the sale price. This new fee could amount to $6,500 to $9,000. Is this legal? "The question has two parts," said Arthur I. W...
834 2008-08-28 Could it be a clue, given that one of the finalists on John McCain's shortlist, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, is an Orthodox Jew who does not work on the Sabbath?...
835 2008-08-28 Society | An essay explores why the Patty Hearst kidnapping resonates so deeply with the public. She represented a nightmare to which many families caught up in the radical 1970s could relate -- a "largely naïve young woman who was being fought o...
836 2008-08-28 Morgan Stanley hopes to invest up to a quarter of its $4 billion global infrastructure fund in emerging economies like India, a senior official at the U.S. fund said. Gautam Bhandari, who on Tuesday was named as head of Morgan Stanley Infrastructu...
837 2008-08-28 As the market for initial public offerings continues to drag, the addition of more delistings is causing increased pain for U.S. exchanges. Compared to previous years, more companies have been delisted so far this year from the Nasdaq Stock Market...
838 2008-08-28 It seems it's been a wild ride lately for a hedge fund run by the Blackstone Group. The first half of August saw Blackstone's Kailix fund posting monthly losses of more than 12 percent as of Aug. 15, according to The New York Post, which cited per...
839 2008-08-28 ConocoPhillips on Wednesday confirmed a report that it plans to sell the remainder of its gas stations in the United States. The company announced that it had agreed to sell the 600 or so stations to Pacific Convenience & Fue, a subsidiary of Petr...
840 2008-08-28 Late Wednesday, a federal judge threw out a copyright infringement suit against video-sharing site Veoh. Google's YouTube unit claimed the ruling bodes well for its legal fight with Viacom....
841 2008-08-28 “The choice in this election is clear,” Mr. Biden said. “These times require more than a good soldier. They require a wise leader,” he said, a leader who can deliver “the change that everybody knows we need.”

Part of Mr. Biden’s assignment on Wednesday night was to connect with struggling American families and to portray himself and Mr. Obama as products of the middle class who would fight to restore the American dream. He spoke lyrically of riding the train home to Wilmington, Del., every night and imagining the conversations in the homes he passed.

“Like millions of Americans, they’re asking questions as profound as they are ordinary,” he said. “Questions they never thought they would have to ask.” Whether to bring an aging parent into their homes to save money. How to pay for gas and groceries. Whether to defer a college education. How to pay for retirement.

Mr. Biden, who referred to his childhood struggle with stuttering, made a few verbal slips, including referring to Mr. McCain as “George.”

The self-described “kid from Scranton” paid a moving tribute to his 90-year-old mother, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden. He said she had taught him honor, loyalty and bravery. She also helped him overcome his stuttering, telling him, as he put it, “it was because I was so bright I couldn’t get the thoughts out quickly enough.”

After his wife and daughter were killed in an auto accident, Mr. Biden said, “she told me, ‘Joey, God sends no cross you cannot bear.’ And when I triumphed, she was quick to remind me it was because of others.”

He added: “My mother’s creed is the American creed: No one is better than you. You are everyone’s equal, and everyone is equal to you.”

And in another apparent slip, he also referred to $200 million in taxes on corporations when he meant to say $200 billion in tax cuts for companies.

But largely he fulfilled the mission the Obama campaign had assigned him: humanize himself and Mr. Obama, attack Mr. McCain, and present a familiar voice and message to the swing voters and conservative Democrats that Mr. Obama had difficulty courting during the primaries.

He was introduced by his son Beau, 39, the attorney general of Delaware and an Army Reserve officer who is scheduled for deployment to Iraq in October.

The younger Mr. Biden, a polished second-generation politician, delivered a fluid and moving testimony to his father’s humanity, recalling the 1972 car accident that killed Mr. Biden’s first wife and a young daughter.

He moved many in the hall to tears in relating the story of the accident, which occurred between the time Mr. Biden was elected to the Senate and was sworn in to office.

Many in Delaware expect the younger Biden to seek his father’s Senate seat if the Obama-Biden ticket wins in November.
842 2008-08-28 Amgen’s pricing policies are not unique in the pharmaceutical industry. But criticism has intensified as new studies have suggested that Aranesp and Procrit, a similar drug sold by Johnson & Johnson, may be harmful to cancer patients using the drugs to treat the anemia caused by chemotherapy. The studies indicated that high doses of the drugs might worsen cancer, hasten death and cause cardiovascular problems.

Amgen has maintained that its pricing policies have not caused overuse of the Aranesp. “Nevertheless,” it said in a statement in response to a reporter’s questions, “we believe these contracting changes, along with other modifications, help to clear up those possible misperceptions.”

Amgen has begun briefing cancer clinics and patient advocacy groups about the changes, which will take effect Oct. 1.

“It’s a step in the right direction,” said Nancy Roach, chairwoman of the board of the Colorectal Cancer Coalition.

Because of the new safety concerns, the Food and Drug Administration has put stronger warnings on the labels of Aranesp and Procrit while Medicare has restricted reimbursement for use of the drugs. Sales of both products, while still in the billions of dollars annually, have fallen sharply.

Congress has been investigating Amgen’s pricing practices. In a letter sent to Amgen in late March, John D. Dingell and Bart Stupak, both Democrats of Michigan, said they were concerned that Amgen’s “bundling” practices “have helped fuel excessive and dangerous off-label use of Aranesp.” Mr. Dingell is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Mr. Stupak of the subcommittee on oversight and investigations.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said in April that Amgen had provided nearly $800 million in rebates to more than 6,000 facilities in 2006.

Amgen once offered discounts and rebates to doctors based on how much Aranesp they bought. In response to criticism that this was leading to overuse of the drug, it quietly changed its policy in February to offer the discounts and rebates based on the share of a clinic’s anemia drug purchases represented by Aranesp as opposed to Procrit. This change was meant to show that its contracts were aimed at competing with Johnson & Johnson, not increasing overall use of anemia drugs.

In its newest change Amgen will stop offering rebates. The rebates -- a big check coming all at once to a doctor after the drug had already been used -- attracted more criticism than discounts at the time of purchase.

However, an Amgen spokeswoman said the company would offer bigger discounts at the time of purchase to doctors who buy at least 50 percent of their anemia drugs from Amgen rather than Johnson & Johnson. The net effect could be the same total discounts to the doctors, she said.

Amgen also used to offer extra discounts on two other drugs, Neulasta and Neupogen, to doctors who bought more Aranesp. Both drugs help protect cancer patients from infections by bolstering their white blood cell counts.

Amgen has a near monopoly on white cell boosters. Johnson & Johnson sued Amgen, saying this “bundling” violated antitrust laws because doctors were forced to buy Aranesp to get the indispensable white cell boosters at an affordable price.

The two companies settled the lawsuit in July, with Amgen agreeing to pay Johnson & Johnson $200 million but not admitting any wrongdoing.

Amgen changed its contract in February so that the extra discounts on Neulasta and Neupogen were based on Aranesp’s share of a clinic’s anemia drug purchases. But now it is ending the bundling altogether.

Dr. Peter Eisenberg, an oncologist in Marin County, Calif., said he welcomed the end of bundling. His practice, California Cancer Care, had been buying the drugs separately because it refused to accept Amgen’s terms.

“Our practice probably gave up a million bucks over two years, probably more, in rebates by not signing a contract,” he said.
843 2008-08-28 There has been dispassionate analysis: “If you are employed in a different country, you should expect to learn that country’s language, unless you are only a part-time employee. Sports is an entertainment industry where visibility and availability is important to keep the industry afloat,” wrote fredfromsj of San Jose, Calif.

There has been humor tinged with disbelief, like that from the reader near Harrington’s table.

The L.P.G.A. policy has touched an international nerve. Because of the manner in which the information seeped out, and because the L.P.G.A. tour has not finished drafting a written version of the policy, the organization has been both pilloried and praised around the globe.

If the L.P.G.A. hoped to use this as a trial balloon, it has plenty of material to wade through before a final document is forged. Harrington, for example, raised many questions those in the L.P.G.A.’s headquarters in Daytona Beach, Fla., might want to consider.

“Do you have to pass an exam?” said Harrington, an Irishman who has won three of the last six major championships. “Surely if you can say hello, that’s English. Is that good enough? Who draws the line about how many words you’ve got to know in English?

“Obviously some people are natural talkers and some people aren’t. What if you have a person who genuinely struggles with learning new language, they have a learning disability? That’s tough to ask somebody with a learning disability who might have found golf as the saving grace in their life, to ask them to learn a different language or else you can’t play.”

And that was not all Harrington observed.

“There’s people out there who don’t naturally pick up second languages,” he said. “They could make an effort, but it would be difficult. I’m just saying that there’s a lot of different issues to that. It’s a big step to actually put it out there.”

Libba Galloway, the deputy commissioner of the L.P.G.A., took great pains Tuesday to make the point that no group from within the 120 international players on tour was singled out. But convincing the public of that could have been made more difficult when all 45 South Korean golfers on the tour attended a mandatory meeting to discuss the policy at last week’s L.P.G.A. stop.

Asian players have won 7 of the 24 Tour events this year. Because of their high visibility, the L.P.G.A. has been accused of targeting Asians, a charge it denies. The L.P.G.A. said it has tried to assist Asian players, particularly South Koreans, and other international players.

For the past two years, with the help of the Kolon Group, a South Korean conglomerate that has led development of golf in Korea since 1985, an L.P.G.A. program has helped immerse international players in American culture, customs and language.

The organization insisted the purpose of its language policy is to help players maximize their earning power and promote the tour at the same time. To do this, officials believe, a player must speak English. The threat of a player being suspended — which Galloway has said she hope and believes will never be necessary — is the sticking point.

“They’re trying to sort out something that’s an issue,” Harrington said. “You know, it’s quite a step to do what they’ve done.”
844 2008-08-28 And workers put the finishing touches on the backdrop: faux columns intended to suggest a federal building in Washington and create an air of stateliness. (The McCain campaign named it the Temple of Obama, a label repeated by some commentators.)

Mr. Obama shared his rationale for the move when he took the stage at the Pepsi Center on Wednesday night. “We’re going to be moving to Mile High Stadium tomorrow, and I want to let you know why,” he said. “We want to open up this convention to make sure that everybody that wants to come can join in the party and join in the effort to take America back.”

Yet for Mr. Obama, the dramatic setting of the speech, which will take place between 10 and 11 p.m. Eastern time, stands in contrast to the “workmanlike” message he intends to offer.

“I’m not aiming for a lot of high rhetoric,” he said Wednesday. “I am much more concerned with communicating how I intend to help middle-class families live their lives.”

Mr. Obama holed up in a Chicago hotel over the weekend, and worked on the address well into the night this week with a small group of aides. He has studied several acceptance speeches, including Bill Clinton’s in 1992, Ronald Reagan’s in 1980 and John F. Kennedy’s in 1960.

Some aides worried about the setting overwhelming the message. But those closest to the planning said they had no regrets and were sticking to the sort of big-event politics that no other candidate has been able to match this year.

“We are leaning into this, how can you not?” said Jenny Backus, a campaign strategist working on the convention plan. “This is the enthusiasm gap,” referring to what polls show as excitement for Mr. Obama that Senator John McCain’s campaign has not matched.

Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary to President Clinton, said that delegates in the hall were excited about the stadium event but that it was the party’s senior strategists who were more wary of the setting.

“There’s a concern in the campaign about how do you pull this off in a way that makes it about the economic themes they want to hit,” Ms. Myers said. “He needs to get from the stadium to the diner, and it’s a hard thing to pull off.”

Mr. Obama’s aides had hoped to upend the traditional convention style. But the prolonged primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton left the convention in the hands of the party’s career planners. Their flashy stage design, which has been likened to an arcade, had none of the look or feel of the more spare style of the Obama brand.

When a close circle of his top advisers presented Mr. Obama with $6 million plans to move his acceptance speech to the football stadium in early July, the candidate asked one question, said Anita Dunn, a senior strategist: “Will it rain?” The campaign produced a raft of meteorological data showing it had rained on Aug. 28 only once in 20 years. (Aides were alarmed, however, to arrive in Denver on Sunday to news of a nearby tornado.)

Peter Gage, one of the Obama planners, said he studied photographs of Kennedy’s speech at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the only other such address to be held in an outdoor stadium in the modern television era.

Mr. Gage said the circular stage in Denver was inspired by Kennedy’s. A Sky Cam above the field will provide bird’s-eye views. Mr. Obama’s family will sit on seats on the floor before him, along with voters from swing states. The goal is to highlight ordinary people, and then mobilize them to work for the campaign.

The Obama campaign dismissed Republican attempts to turn the night against them.

“I know that Senator McCain and his people are shooting barbs on the opulence of our convention from the mountaintop in Sedona from the McCain estate,” said David Axelrod, the campaign’s chief strategist. “I don’t think it warrants a response.”
845 2008-08-28 Gardasil, Merck’s vaccine against the human papillomavirus, or HPV, has received nearly universal support from medical associations, regulatory bodies and policy-making groups because the vaccine is highly effective to help prevent cervical disease, including cancer. Indeed, “A Necessary Vaccine,” your Feb. 26, 2007, editorial, endorsed a vaccination mandate.

We believe that your news article minimizes the risks of HPV to American women. The truth is that even 50 years after the advent of Pap testing, 10 women a day are dying of cervical cancer in the United States, as are 500 women around the world. Given these numbers, it is difficult to understand why you did not quote even one cervical cancer survivor, widower or motherless child.

The combination of screening and this first-of-its-kind vaccine gives doctors and the public health community the necessary tools to reduce the burden of cervical cancer even further in the United States and throughout the world. To help make this happen, Merck has committed to provide Gardasil to developing-world women at prices from which Merck will not profit.

We take seriously our responsibility to develop and market medicines and vaccines that have saved and will save millions of lives, and that is what we will continue to do.
846 2008-08-28 Wall Street posted a big advance after the government reported a larger-than-expected increase in orders for big-ticket manufactured goods, indicating that the economy is stronger than many investors thought.

The Commerce Department said orders for durable goods rose 1.3 percent in July compared with the previous month, led by a big gain in demand for commercial aircraft. That was well above the 0.1 increase expected by economists surveyed by Thomson/IFR.

Durable goods, which also include cars, appliances and machinery, are under scrutiny not only because they reflect business spending, but because they are also an indicator of consumer confidence. The July increase equaled a 1.3 percent rise in June; both months produced the strongest gains since a 4.1 percent increase in December.

Light, sweet crude oil rose $1.88 to settle at $118.15 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on worries that Tropical Storm Gustav might hit Gulf of Mexico installations.

“The strength in durable goods is just the latest indication that manufacturing is actually holding in quite well, and that’s a really big plus,” said Stuart Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. “Against the backdrop of the drumbeat of negative news of the last several weeks, it was encouraging to see a little bit of positive news. The basic fact of the matter is that although the economy has been weak, it hasn’t fallen off a cliff.”
847 2008-08-28 WASHINGTON — Senator John McCain has decided on his running mate, two Republican strategists in contact with Mr. McCain’s campaign said Wednesday. He is expected to reveal his choice at 11 a.m. Friday at a rally at a basketball arena in Dayton, Ohio.

Mr. McCain’s decision is known only to his small inner circle of advisers, no more than three or four people, who have refused all public discussion on the matter. Republicans close to the campaign said that the top contenders remained the same three men who have been the source of speculation for weeks: former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and, possibly, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.

It was unclear how seriously Mr. McCain was considering his good friend Mr. Lieberman, who favors abortion rights and whose selection could set off a revolt among delegates at the Republican National Convention next week in Minneapolis-St. Paul as well as a furious backlash among Christian conservatives, a crucial voting bloc of the Republican Party. But as recently as Tuesday, Mr. McCain was said to still be entertaining the idea of Mr. Lieberman, who was Al Gore’s running mate on the Democratic presidential ticket in 2000.

Under this option, Mr. McCain’s choice of Mr. Lieberman would help him appeal to women, independents and conservative Democrats in a tough year for Republican candidates. “It’s really alive in McCain’s mind,” said a Republican consultant familiar with some of the campaign’s deliberations.

Other Republicans said they suspected that whatever Mr. McCain’s personal views, his aides could be pushing Mr. Lieberman with reporters as part of a disinformation campaign to stir interest in the selection and to make it appear as if Mr. McCain, a longtime opponent of abortion, was open to all possibilities and was therefore more of an independent candidate.
848 2008-08-28 She estimated that the 1,200 backstretch workers were cheated out of $70,000 in pay each week because of wage violations. Some workers said their pay had not risen in a decade.

Beginning in late July, when the track opened for the season and Saratoga Springs swelled with racetrack fans, 10 state investigators descended on the historic track and interviewed workers in the dorms and horse stalls, where track visitors rarely go.

The investigators found that most of the workers — more than 95 percent of whom are Hispanic — were required to work seven days a week, and often more than 360 days a year when their work included time at the two New York City-area tracks, Aqueduct and Belmont, the Labor Department said.

The hot walkers walk the horses to cool them down after they exercise, while the grooms brush and bathe the horses, rub them down and muck out their stalls.

Lauro Ventura, 61, a groom for 15 years, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that living conditions at the track were bad. “Three or four of us sleep in a room that’s 10 by 10,” he said in Spanish. “Some guys sleep on air mattresses, some buy little cots, and some just sleep on the floor.”

Bedbugs are a big problem in the dorms, he added. “A lot of the workers bring their sleeping bags from Belmont, where the bedbug problems are much worse,” he said.

Ms. Smith said her department would hold seminars on labor laws for all horse trainers doing business in New York. She said she also wanted to work with the State Racing and Wagering Board to see whether labor law violations should be taken into account in licensing trainers.

Charles Hayward, chief executive of the New York Racing Association, which runs Saratoga, Belmont and Aqueduct, the state’s largest thoroughbred tracks, said the association was concerned about the findings of the investigation.

“N.Y.R.A. shares Commissioner Smith’s concern that workers who are employed by independent trainers on the backstretch are treated fairly and with dignity,” Mr. Hayward said, “both in respect to their living conditions and their ability to earn a living wage.”

The investigators interviewed 88 of the Saratoga track’s 115 trainers, and concluded that 77 of them had failed to keep legally required time and payroll records, Ms. Smith said. The trainers interviewed did not dispute the wage and hour figures that investigators found, she said.

The Labor Department computed that the hot walkers were underpaid by an average of $71.65 each week and the grooms by $82.31.

Mr. Ventura said he was paid $475 a week for about 55 hours of work, which comes to slightly more than $7.15 an hour when overtime is included. But he said that some friends who worked the same schedule were paid only $300 a week.

Jose Ramon Rivera, a hot walker, said in a telephone interview, “We’re fighting for all the grooms, hot walkers and night watchmen to get paid the minimum wage of $7.15 an hour, and overtime after they work 40 hours.”

Ms. Smith said the Labor Department would continue the investigation at Aqueduct and Belmont when the workers moved back there.

The racetrack investigation is part of a stepped-up effort by the department to uncover wage violations in low-wage industries. Two weeks ago, Ms. Smith announced that labor investigators had visited 84 carwashes across the state and found $6.5 million in wage violations involving 1,380 workers.

Mr. Ventura, the groom, discussed another issue that investigators found troubling: the conditions under which the backstretch workers travel when they accompany horses from track to track.

“The trainers want us to be inside the trailer with the horse because sometimes the horse goes crazy,” Mr. Ventura said. “They want us to calm him. The trailer is so small there is no chair for us to sit on. Sometimes we just sit on the floor and risk getting stepped on.”

On one trip, the driver slammed on the brakes, Mr. Ventura said, and he went flying under the horse. His hand and back were stepped on, and his eye was gashed open. He said a track doctor told him he should take a few days off from work, but when the trainer said he would not pay him for missed days, Mr. Ventura decided to work anyway.

“If we don’t work the days we’re injured, we don’t get paid,” he said.
849 2008-08-28 The architect Matteo Thun has designed everything from smart hotels to those cute little Illy espresso cups. So when word came that he had created ebony and steel knives for Zwilling J. A. Henckels, it seemed unlikely they would end up in a 99-cent store. Even so, the prices, from $300 for a paring knife to $450 for a chef’s knife, shown with Mr. Thun at right, are staggering. A call was placed to his offices in Milan to learn why. Mr. Thun, who has done very well, with vacation homes in Capri and Tyrol, was nonetheless all charm and self-deprecation. He gave much of the credit for his new line, the Twin 1731, not to his design, but to the materials, including a steel used by NASA.

You know, Manolo Blahnik, of course. What happens if you look in the window?

Nothing. The heels are way too high. So are the prices.

Probably if you fall in love with a Manolo piece, you can’t say why, but it’s definitely a dream. The dream costs you an unbelievable $400, $500; there are many Manolos over $1,000. But if I were a woman, I would go — this is my true answer — I would go for one Manolo every two years, rather than five whatsoever.

So it’s all about beauty?

It’s a combination of the very warm ebony and the high performance of the steel blade. It’s a bit like driving one of those fabulous Lamborghinis. It’s a dream. But you remember the words of Goethe. He says one takes hold with the eyes and sees with the fingers.

I was driving one two days ago, but for a very simple reason: Lamborghini has V.I.P. cars for free.
850 2008-08-28 The Qantas cabin is more restrained than those of other airlines that have already unveiled A380s: Singapore Airlines has private first-class suites, and Emirates has showers in the first-class bathrooms. Qantas spurned such showstopping features in favor of a sprucely futuristic style.

Like many of the other airlines that have ordered the A380, including Singapore and Emirates, Qantas has allocated most of the extra space to business class, the most profitable section of most long-haul aircraft, where the seats have been made considerably larger, as they have in first class. And there are 450 seats in Qantas’s A380, 38 more than in the 747s on its routes between Australia and the United States. (Qantas will charge the same fares for the A380 as for all its other planes.)

In addition to the brief of comfortably accommodating the requisite number of passengers, Mr. Newson’s team had to navigate strict safety regulations and the logistical labyrinth of a multinational industry with unionized work forces in airports all over the world.

“It’s unbelievably complex,” he said. “There’s fire testing, crash testing and all of the health and safety issues relating to objects used 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you alter the shape of a plate, you may have to alter the tray and the carts, which can get you into massive logistical issues.”

To make things even more difficult, he was working on the aircraft while it was still being built, a process plagued by delays.

For the look of the interior, Mr. Newson chose a sober version of the retro-futurist style he developed in the early 1990s, which has since become the default for fashionable bars. The shapes in the A380 are gentler, and the colors calmer: beige for first class and earthy shades of red, orange and green for the rest, accented by a honeycomb mesh pattern on the carpets and seat backs.

All the accessories — doorknobs, dining trays, bathroom fittings and so on — are styled in what Newson calls “the old airline aesthetic” of the 1960s (which some aviation blogs have slammed as overly austere).

Yet the design language of the Qantas A380 is defined less by what the passengers see than by how they feel. Given that flat beds, cashmere blankets and other airline “innovations” are instantly copied by the competition, Mr. Newson has tried to distinguish Qantas’s superjumbo with intelligent detailing derived from the old-fashioned design process of analyzing every component to identify how it could best be made and laid out with the latest technology.

Giving economy passengers an extra inch of leg room is a prime example. The seats in first class are 6.5 inches wider, and those in business class 20 inches longer than the ones in Qantas’s 747s. But the airline was stingier with extra space in economy and premium economy. The only way to compensate was by making the seat backs slimmer. Mr. Newson’s team did so by developing a lightweight carbon-fiber shell with Recaro, the German manufacturer, which used similar technology in seating for race cars.

Among the other details are bassinets with state-of-the-art upholstery, additional padding and extra soundproofing to help babies sleep more comfortably. And, instead of the customary metal footrests, there are soft mesh ones that, combined with the angle of the seats, stop passengers from sliding forward. Each first-class seat has two screens, one large and one small; passengers can see the map of the flight on the small screen while watching a movie on the big one. A control pad on the first-class seat backs allows the cabin crew to switch off the lights or close the window shades without reaching across sleeping passengers.

Then there are the L.E.D.’s that illuminate the cabin. They are programmed to wash the interior with colors that change subtly throughout the flight. Each shade is selected to create the ideal mood for a particular activity, like sleeping, waking or eating, regardless of time zone.

“Designing an aircraft is like creating a mini-world,” Mr. Newson said. “You’re putting people in a confined environment and controlling how they’ll feel with the oxygen, humidity and everything they touch and see. It all has an effect.”
851 2008-08-28 The American soprano Renée Fleming and the British rock group Pink Floyd received the Polar Music Prize in Sweden on Tuesday, Agence France-Presse reported. The awards were bestowed by Carl XVI Gustaf, the King of Sweden, in Stockholm. The winners received about $156,000 each. Ms. Fleming, right, was honored by the Royal Swedish Academy of Music, “in recognition of her sublime unparalleled voice and unique stylistic versatility.” Nick Mason and Roger Waters accepted the award on behalf of Pink Floyd, selected “for their monumental contribution over the decades to the fusion of art and music in the development of popular culture.” The Polar Music Prize was founded in 1989 by Stig Anderson, the publisher, lyricist and manager of the Swedish pop group Abba. The prize has been awarded since 1992. Last year it was shared by the composer Steve Reich and the jazz saxophonist Sonny Rollins.
852 2008-08-28 Last month, while visiting Jerusalem, Mr. Obama crammed a note in the Western Wall that was promptly fished out and posted on the Internet. The message was elegantly phrased, as if he had anticipated that his private words to the Almighty would soon be on public display.

In the note, Mr. Obama asked for protection, forgiveness and wisdom, a message in keeping with the humility he tries to emphasize. But his uncanny self-assurance and seemingly smooth glide upward have stoked complaints from his opponents, first Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and now Senator John McCain, and other critics that he has not spent enough time earning and learning, that his main project in life has been his own ascent.

Because he betrays little hint of struggle, Mr. Obama can seem far removed from the troubles of some voters. Older working-class whites may be uncomfortable with his race — he is the son of a white mother from Kansas and a black father from Kenya — and his age. But they may also find it hard to identify with him, even though he tries to assure them that they have much in common, mentioning that his mother relied on food stamps at times and that he worked as a community organizer in Chicago’s poorest neighborhoods.

His command of crowds of 75,000, his eloquence and his comparing himself to Joshua and Lincoln can belie his point.

These voters are not the first to see a contradiction between Mr. Obama’s sense of his aura of specialness and his insistence that he is just like everyone else.

“I’m just a first among equal, folks,” Mr. Obama’s fellow editors at the Harvard Law Review wrote about him in an affectionate but biting parody issue after he was elected its president. “But still, no one’s interviewing any of them.”

Nearly a decade ago, Mr. Obama joined luminaries like George Stephanopoulos and Ralph Reed for regular seminars, organized by Robert Putnam, a professor at Harvard and the author of “Bowling Alone,” about the deterioration of American community ties. As a young state senator from Illinois, Mr. Obama was one of the less prominent members of the group. But soon everyone was referring to him as “the governor” — a friendly smack, said Mr. Putnam, at Mr. Obama’s precocity and drive.

From an early age, Mr. Obama’s mother taught him to think grandly about his potential to help others. Once he reached adulthood, admiring teachers and mentors reinforced the message, steadily directing his sights higher and higher. As a law student, he mused about wanting to be mayor of Chicago; as a law professor, he talked about running for governor of Illinois; not long after that, he was running for president.

Mr. Obama groomed himself more carefully than he sometimes admits. In an interview this year, he denied that he wrote “Dreams From My Father,” the post-law school memoir that has enchanted so many followers, with political ambitions in mind. But his Harvard law school classmates say that Mr. Obama was already talking about a future run for public office. To truly address the poverty and injustice he had seen as an organizer, he believed he would need to gain some power.

Starting in law school, Mr. Obama began pulling together a large cast of mentors, well-connected and civic-minded friends who rose in Chicago and Illinois politics along with him, including a spouse he thought was ideal.

“He loved Michelle,” said Gerald Kellman, Mr. Obama’s community organizing boss, but he was also looking for the kind of partner who could join him in his endeavors. “This is a person who could help him manage the pressures of the life he thought he wanted,” he said.

Mr. Obama won his army of powerful champions — including Abner J. Mikva, a former federal judge; Tom Daschle, a former Senate majority leader; Senator Edward M. Kennedy; and too many Chicago leaders to count — by impressing them with his intellectual heft and idealism, but also with his eagerness to absorb their lessons. As a man who barely knew his own father, Mr. Obama might have sought many things from these figures: authority, security, even love. But his needs were more concrete, Mr. Kellman said. “He forms mentorships in order to learn,” he said. “He wants to know what they know.”

Both allies and critics sometimes concluded that Mr. Obama was too gifted, or in too much of a hurry, for the tasks that consumed others.

“I thought of him much more as a colleague” than a student, said Laurence Tribe, a law professor at Harvard for whom Mr. Obama worked. “I didn’t think of him as someone to send out on mechanical tasks of digging out all the cases.” Other students could do that, Professor Tribe added.

Mr. Obama’s campaign promotes accomplishments from his days in the Illinois State Senate: he successfully championed campaign finance and racial profiling laws, as well as child-care subsidies and tax credits for the working poor. But “he didn’t participate in rank-and-file things,” said John Corrigan, a former consultant to the state Senate’s Democratic caucus. “He was destined for something bigger than potholes.”

And in the United States Senate, Mr. Obama leads a subcommittee on European affairs, but he has not held any oversight hearings to probe foreign policy issues, just a few to discuss nominations.

The McCain campaign has seized on this pattern, mocking their opponent as a self-consumed star, even suggesting that he has a messianic complex.

Mr. Obama has heard the charges before. Long before the presidential race, some around him seemed to resent his ability to galvanize a following. “Bluebooking is not important for celebrities,” fellow students joked about him in the law review parody, referring to the tedious process of checking citations.

As for the messiah charge, Michael Madigan, the speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives and a Democrat, once publicly called Mr. Obama the same thing.

If there is one quality that those closest to Mr. Obama marvel at, it is his emotional control. This is partly a matter of temperament, they say, partly an effort by Mr. Obama to step away from his own feelings so he can make dispassionate judgments. “He doesn’t allow himself the luxury of any distraction,” said Valerie Jarrett, a close advisor. “He is able to use his disciplined mind to not get caught up in the emotional swirl.”

In 2006, Mr. Obama backed Alexi Giannoulias, an old friend from the basketball court who was then 29, for Illinois state treasurer. Opponents accused Mr. Giannoulias of corruption, citing thin evidence: a loan his family’s bank made to a convicted felon. After Mr. Giannoulias worsened the situation by calling the felon a nice guy, Mr. Obama told him to fix his campaign or get out of the race.

“I was almost crying,” said Mr. Giannoulias, who eventually won. “He was almost upset at how thin-skinned I was.”

It is not that Mr. Obama does not experience emotion, friends say. But he detaches and observes, revealing more in his books than he does in the moment. “He has the qualities of a writer,” Mr. Axelrod said. “I get the sense that he’s participating in these things but also watching them.”

Mr. Obama watches and assesses no one more avidly than himself. During the primary season, supporters who complimented him on debate appearances found that he often disagreed. “I wasn’t great nor was I wonderful,” Mr. Obama responded last spring at a fund-raiser in Seattle. Then came his usual refrain: “I have to get better, and I will do better,” he said, according to Michael Parham, a donor.

As a campaigner, Mr. Obama has had to learn not to be too detached. When Mr. Axelrod first devised “Yes We Can” as a slogan during Mr. Obama’s Senate campaign, the candidate resisted: it was a little corny for his taste. “That’s where the high-minded and big-thinking Barack came in,” said Peter Giangreco, a consultant to the Obama campaign. “His initial instincts were off from where regular people’s were.”

While he speeds through rope lines, Mr. Obama sometimes connects better one on one. In spare moments, he sometimes surprises supporters — a doorman who scraped together a small contribution, an elderly woman he heard enjoyed his memoir — with an out-of-the blue phone call. Waiting backstage to speak to 20,000 people in Seattle in February, Mr. Obama grew so absorbed in talking to an elderly Michigan couple that he had to be reminded not to miss his entrance cue.

Every once in a while, though, Mr. Obama will relax his guard. Two years ago at a party celebrating the publication of his second book, “The Audacity of Hope,” the new senator rose to say a few words, recalled Ms. Jarrett. As he talked about what his new job in Washington had cost his wife and two daughters, tears began to course down his face.

Michelle Obama rescued him with a kiss, and after a moment, everyone started to applaud.

Mr. Obama is often called a permanent outsider — racially, geographically, politically. But his story is more complicated than that. “He’s been an outsider at Columbia and Harvard,” said Matthew McGuire, a friend. “He was an outsider but within the ultimate insider clubs.”

Within those and other powerful institutions, Mr. Obama has always appointed himself critic. After being elected the first African-American president of the Harvard Law Review, Mr. Obama gave a speech to black students and alumni that was so rousing, some recall it nearly two decades later. “Don’t let Harvard change you,” went the refrain. As a community organizer, he led Chicago residents to challenge the local authorities. In the Illinois State Senate, Mr. Obama was not only a reformer who pushed for tighter campaign finance rules, but an everyday skeptic who often pointed out hilarities and hypocrisies to colleagues.

Despite the speed of his rise, Mr. Obama often talks of politics as a closed system, one stacked against outsiders who lack powerful patrons or fat donor bases.

That criticism of the system has become the cornerstone of his political identity. Changing government, making it more responsive to citizens’ needs, has been the promise of every campaign he has ever run. Today, despite the millions of people and dollars devoted to his election, Mr. Obama insists, improbably enough, that he is still the same advocate for the poor he was 20 years ago on the streets of Chicago.

“All the time, he says, let’s keep in mind that this is not about Barack Obama,” said Ms. Jarrett, an advisor. “He still sees himself as the community organizer.”

But after he accepts his party’s nomination on Thursday night, it will be hard to call Mr. Obama anything but the establishment. As head of his party, he will preside over everything he says he objects to about politics: the artifice, the influence of special interests, the partisanship. If he wins the presidency, there will be no more rungs on the ladder for Mr. Obama to climb, only re-election. The system he says is broken will become his.

Even those closest to him are not quite sure how he would make the transformation.

“That’s uncomfortable,” said Mr. Axelrod, about the prospect of Mr. Obama becoming the ultimate insider. “You need to accept that role to a degree if you’re the nominee or the president,” he acknowledged.

And yet, “I don’t think that’s a role he wants to play,” Mr. Axelrod said. “His idea is that you should always be challenging the institution.”
853 2008-08-28 Several well-known foreign bridge players have moved to the United States to compete in the world’s toughest tournament circuit and make a living doing it. Lukasz Lebioda from Poland, though, moved not for bridge but for work. Lebioda enjoyed considerable success with Andrzej Wilkosz in the 1960s and ’70s, highlighted by a second-place finish in the 1970 European Open Team Championship.

Starting in 1979, though, he did three years of postdoctoral studies at the University of Michigan before becoming a professor of biochemistry at the University of South Carolina. His work has left him little time to play bridge, but he plans to change that when he retires in two years.

The diagramed deal occurred during a knockout team event at the New Orleans regional last year.

At the other table East did not make the thin one-heart vulnerable overcall, which resulted in West’s leading a club against two spades. The declarer, Larry Cohen, guessed the diamonds correctly and lost three spades, one heart and one diamond.

In this auction, after Paul Soloway (East), who died later that year, overcalled one heart, Lebioda (West) judged well to raise to two hearts, then to sell out to two spades.

West led the heart ace, East signaling encouragement with the five. Declarer ruffed the second heart and played a club to dummy’s ace. (As a side point, this play marked South with the king. If he had put in dummy’s jack, neither defender would have been sure who had the king.)

Declarer played a spade to his king and West’s ace, ruffed the third heart, cashed the spade queen and took the club king to give this position (see Diagram 2):

South should have played a diamond now and ruined the story. Instead he led a club to the jack and discarded a diamond on the club queen.
854 2008-08-28 While the chunky Suunto X10 might not go well with a tuxedo, James Bond would still love it. The watch hides a Global Positioning System unit, stopwatch, compass, barometer and altimeter into a package not much bigger than 007’s favorite Omega.

Because the X10 can track G.P.S. satellites, you can record and download your last run or hike to Google Earth or other digital mapping programs. You can also plan routes and set waypoints for future trips on a PC using the included Track Exporter software.

The X10 offers 33 percent longer battery life than its predecessor, the X9i, and charges via an included U.S.B. cable. It also uses a newer G.P.S. chip that finds and locks onto satellites faster than the X9i.

If you become lost, a press of the “Find Home” button will direct you back along the same route you came or even offer a more direct route. The watch also displays current speed and distance traveled.

It should be available in September, sadly without the garrote or sleeping gas attachments available from Q branch.
855 2008-08-28 In the race to take advantage of the tight global food market, Brazil has a number of advantages over its southern neighbor. It is much bigger, with around 173 million acres of land currently under cultivation, more than twice that of Argentina. It has a wider range of agricultural exports. And while Argentina is the world’s second biggest exporter of corn and the third biggest exporter of soybeans, Brazil is the world’s first or second largest exporter of beef, soybeans, orange juice, chicken, sugar and coffee.

The government in Brasília wants it to stay that way. Last month, it announced a $49 billion credit line for farmers, up 12 percent from last year’s total. Officials said farmers needed the credit to buy tractors and other machinery, pay for seed and fertilizer — which have also risen in price — and to increase productivity.

“We need to give incentives to producers because people are buying and eating more,” said Reinhold Stephanes, Brazil’s agriculture minister. “This is our opportunity to produce and export more, and help to reduce hunger in the world.”

Most of the credit line comes in the form of reduced interest rates and longer payoff periods for loans. More than $40 billion is earmarked for larger agribusiness concerns, and the rest is to help small farmers.

The government’s main goals are to help producers expand onto available land and increase productivity on their current land. It estimates there are up to 220 million unused acres available for planting.

“Our productivity can’t remain the same if people are going to eat more,” said Mr. da Silva, referring to the growing — and increasingly affluent — populations in China, India and Latin America. “We have to plant more.”

Mr. Alves, the southern Brazilian farmer, has already bought a tractor and a combine for the equivalent of $512,000. He put 70 percent down and financed the rest. Many of his colleagues in Brazil’s agricultural heartland are doing the same.

In Argentina, the Kirchner administration tried to raise taxes on grain and soybean exports in line with rising world prices. The decision was intended to force Argentine farmers into selling their wares at home, thus creating a domestic glut that would keep prices down and inflation in check.

But instead of reaping the windfall, the government reaped a whirlwind of protest. The sliding tariffs pushed the tax on soybeans, Argentina’s most important export, to almost 50 percent. It also infuriated farmers, who took to the highways in sometimes violent demonstrations. After weeks of tense debate, the Senate narrowly voted against the measure on July 17. The rate is now fixed at 35 percent.

While that wave of turmoil has subsided, farmers said suspicion and uncertainty remain. “The feeling is that they are going to screw us again and so it is difficult to plan our short- and medium-term future,” said Sean Cameron, a grain farmer who is also president of Aprotrigo, an farm industry organization. “The problem has not been solved and it needs to be solved quickly.”

Many Argentine farmers agreed. Some farmers are pressuring government officials to enact policy changes that would actually make it easier and more profitable to export.

Some trade experts say Argentina needs to enact such changes. But many trade analysts believe both countries will eventually benefit from the run-up in global food prices.

“They have different approaches to what is happening in the world agricultural markets,” said Simla Tokgöz, an international grain analyst at the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute, an research center based in Iowa. But “short-term volatility happens in all countries. In the long term, Argentina has great potential to increase production and to continue to be a major exporter of grains and oil seeds.”
856 2008-08-28 Nikolay Davydenko is a 27-year-old Russian, a tennis player of seemingly infinite skills who has had endless ups and downs. Over the last year, he has been at the center of a betting scandal involving one match and has been accused of not trying hard enough in another. His energy had waned to the point that he did not seem to care how he played.

For a man ranked fifth in the world and seeded fifth in the United States Open here, he has endured extremes. Last October, he won the Moscow tournament for the third time in four years. In April, he beat Rafael Nadal in the final of the Miami Masters.

But for someone of his ability and ranking, this year’s downs have been really down. In the previous Grand Slam tournaments, he lost in the fourth round at the Australian Open, the third round at the French Open and the first round at Wimbledon.

At the Beijing Olympics, he lost in the second round to Paul-Henri Mathieu of France.

Maybe things are getting better. On Wednesday, in the first round of the Open at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, he played well in dispatching 76th-ranked Dudi Sela of Israel, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. In broken English, but with a clear message, Davydenko assessed his day this way:

“Very surprising,” he said, adding, “But I play good all three sets, fighting good and, like, very good concentration.”

“I was playing O.K., but in the big moments, he was playing much better than me,” he said. “He is very fast and he got his first serve in. He has no weakness from the baseline, so I can’t bring him in.”

This tournament aside, Davydenko has had enough distractions. They started with a tournament in Poland last August, when heavy Internet bets were made against him in the middle of a match he was winning. He lost but was cleared of complicity. He said he did not know if an investigation was continuing.
857 2008-08-28 HOUSTON — ConocoPhillips said Wednesday that it would sell 600 company-owned gasoline stations in the United States to PetroSun West for $800 million, completing the oil major’s exit from the low-margin, highly competitive retail business.

ConocoPhillips, which operates the Phillips 66, Conoco and 76 brands in the western and central United States, is the latest big oil company to sell its service stations.

“Tying up capital in a retail gas station is not its most efficient use,” Phil Weiss, energy analyst at the Argus Research Company, said. “The margins on the product side aren’t that high. You can be getting only pennies a gallon.”

Service stations have struggled with shrinking margins even as gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon because they have not been able to keep pace with soaring crude oil prices.

In June, Exxon Mobil announced it planned to leave the retail gasoline business by selling the remaining 2,220 stations it owns. BP is also selling its American retail business.

Privately held PetroSun, the largest independent gasoline and convenience store operator on the West Coast, said the deal would leave it with operations in 10 states and annual petroleum sales of more than a billion gallons.

The service stations will still carry one of ConocoPhillips’ brand names, a ConocoPhillips spokeswoman said.
858 2008-08-28 Mr. Cuomo subpoenaed Xcel and four other companies last September, seeking to determine whether their efforts to build new coal-fired power plants posed risks not disclosed to investors, like future lawsuits or higher costs to comply with possible regulations restricting carbon emissions.

The attorney general’s office is still negotiating with the four other companies — the AES Corporation, Dominion, Dynegy and Peabody Energy. But Mr. Cuomo hopes that the agreement will help persuade other companies to follow in the footsteps of Xcel, which supplies natural gas and electricity to customers in eight states. Among utilities, Xcel is one of the nation’s largest producers of greenhouse gases and a major provider of wind energy.

Many coal-fired power plants have been proposed or are under construction across the country and environmental advocates have made it a priority to reduce their impact.

“This landmark agreement sets a new industrywide precedent that will force companies to disclose the true financial risks that climate change poses to their investors,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. “Coal-fired power plants can significantly contribute to global warming, and investors have the right to know all the associated risks.”

The agreement represents another novel use by Mr. Cuomo of the Martin Act, a powerful tool that allows the attorney general to bring criminal as well as civil charges. Mr. Cuomo’s predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, used the law to vastly expand the office’s investigations of suspected Wall Street malfeasance.

Now Mr. Cuomo has turned it into a de facto form of environmental enforcement, too. For energy companies, including those based far from New York, he is able to claim jurisdiction because they issue securities on Wall Street.

The agreement with Xcel requires the company to analyze the likely effects on its business of current and future legislation or regulations in the states and countries where it operates and to disclose that information in its investor filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Congress and many states are considering global warming legislation. Ten states stretching from Maryland to Maine, including New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, have struck a deal to cap emissions and allow trading of pollution allotments among producers.

Under the agreement with Mr. Cuomo, Xcel will disclose the financial risks of lawsuits and of federal or state court decisions that would affect its business. The company will also analyze and disclosed the “material financial risks” to itself associated with global warming, like drought — coal plants are prodigious users of water — or rising sea levels.In a statement, the chairman of Xcel, Richard C. Kelly, said the company had already voluntarily reduced carbon emissions and planned to continue to do so.

“We previously provided detailed information concerning the expected impact of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions regulations on our operations, and under this agreement we will make even more detailed disclosures,” Mr. Kelly said. “This agreement will enhance our already aggressive efforts to be responsible environmental stewards.”

Xcel officials said their reductions of greenhouse gases had totaled 18 million tons since 2003. They added that the company planned to build an additional 6,000 megawatts of renewable energy generation by the end of the next decade.

Justin McCann, an energy analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said that the company had included more detailed information on climate change risks in its most recent filing, since Mr. Cuomo’s investigation began. But the new agreement will require even more disclosure, he said, and probably encourage other companies to follow suit.

“Utility lobbies are very strong, but they have read the writing on the wall in terms of greenhouse gas reductions,” Mr. McCann said. “They know it is extremely popular with the public, and so they have wanted to get ahead of the curve, so they can have some input.”

But some of the companies that Mr. Cuomo scrutinized might be less amenable to adopting the new requirements than others. When Mr. Cuomo issued his subpoenas last year, Vic Svec, a spokesman for Peabody Energy, described the attorney general’s inquiry as “outrageous” and suggested that Mr. Cuomo’s use of the Martin Act was a form of legal harassment.

Reached Wednesday, Mr. Svec said: “We’re confident that our disclosures around CO2” — carbon dioxide — “have been and continue to be adequate.”
859 2008-08-28 EASING UP ON RULES The Justice Department will impose new guidelines that will no longer allow federal prosecutors to indict a company for paying an employee's legal fees.      RISK DISCLOSURE The New York attorney general said Xcel Energy, a lead...
860 2008-08-29 The Republican ticket debuts, stops for ice cream and Buckeye paraphernalia....
861 2008-08-29 Photo: James Hill for The New York Times
862 2008-08-29 The latest on Senator John McCain's selection of Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin to be his running mate....
863 2008-08-29 Gold medalists Michael Phelps, Nastia Liukin and Kobe Bryant, along with 150 other U.S. Olympic team members, will be on the season premiere of ''The Oprah Winfrey Show.''...
864 2008-08-29 2. In a mortar and pestle, mash the garlic with 1/4 teaspoon salt to a paste, and stir into the yogurt. Set aside.

3. Place the baby spinach in a bowl, and add just enough boiling water to cover. Let sit for a couple of minutes, then drain, rinse with cold water, squeeze out excess water, and chop coarsely.

4. Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a wide, heavy skillet, and add the pine nuts. Stir until they begin color (two to three minutes), then remove from the oil with a slotted spoon and set aside. Add the spices to the oil. When they begin to sizzle, cook for about 30 seconds and add the spinach, toasted pine nuts, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook, stirring, until the spinach is heated through and coated with the oil and spices, two to three minutes. Transfer to a serving dish, and spoon the yogurt over the top.

This is very nice served with Arabic bread.

Variation: Omit the pine nuts, and instead sprinkle 1/4 cup chopped walnuts over the yogurt.

Advance preparation: The spinach can be wilted up to three days ahead and kept in the refrigerator.
865 2008-08-29 La Presse is reporting today that the Canadiens are making plans to retire Patrick Roy's No. 33 this season as part of the club's 100th anniversary....
866 2008-08-29 Senator John McCain and his new running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, appeared together in Dayton, Ohio. (Video: MSNBC)
867 2008-08-29 At a rally in Dayton, Ohio, Senator John McCain introduced Alaska Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate.
868 2008-08-29 The selection of Sarah Palin as John McCain's running mate tells us a great deal about how he and his advisers see this election shaping up....
869 2008-08-29 I am the owner of a commercial condominium unit being used as a medical office on the ground floor of a residential co-op. Recently, several of my patients who had arrived before the office was open were ordered by the staff of the building to "go...
870 2008-08-29 My wife and I are first-time home buyers, and so far we have done all the work ourselves and have not used an agent. Through our own research, we have found a home, and we are preparing to make an offer. My wife's aunt is a real estate agent, and ...
871 2008-08-29 Like the entire industrial Midwest, Dayton has contributed much to the prosperity and progress of America, and now, in these tough, changing times, after all you've done for our country, you want your government to understand what you're going through, to stand on your side and fight for you.

MCCAIN: And that's what I intend to do.

That's why I'm running for president: to fight for you, to make government stand on your side, not in your way.

Friends, I've spent the last few months...

... looking for a running mate that will who can best help me shake up Washington and make it start working again for the people that are counting on us.

As I'm sure you know, I had many good people to choose from, all of them dedicated to this country and to getting us back on the road to prosperity and peace. And I am very grateful to all of them, and honored by their willingness to serve with me.

And I'm going to continue to rely on their support and counsel during this campaign, and after we win this election, when the real work begins.

But I could only choose one. And it's with great pride and gratitude that I tell you I have found the right partner to help me stand up to those who value their privileges over their responsibilities, who put power over principle, and put their interests before your needs.

MCCAIN: I found someone with an outstanding reputation for standing up to special interests and entrenched bureaucracies; someone who has fought against corruption and the failed policies of the past; someone who's stopped government from wasting taxpayers' money...

... on things they don't want or need and put it back to work for the people; someone with executive experience, who has shown great tenacity and skill in tackling tough problems, especially our dangerous dependence on foreign oil; someone who reached across the aisle and asked Republicans, Democrats and independents to serve in government; someone with strong principles of fighting spirit and deep compassion...

... someone who grew up in a decent, hardworking, middle-class family, whose father was an elementary school teacher and mother was the school secretary.

They taught their children to care about others, to work hard and to stand up with courage for the things you believe in.

Both of them were coaches, too, and raised their children to excel at sports.

And I'm sure they taught them skills that will surely come in handy over the next two months.

The person I'm about to introduce to you was a union member and is married to a union member and understands the problems, the hopes and the values of working people, knows what it's like to worry about mortgage payments and health care and the cost of gasoline and groceries; a standout high school point guard; a concerned citizen who became a member of the PTA, then a city council member, and then a mayor, and now a governor...

... who beat the long odds to win a tough election on a message of reform and public integrity. And I am especially proud to say in the week we celebrate the anniversary of women's suffrage, a devoted...

MCCAIN: ... a devoted wife and a mother of five.

She's not -- she's not from these parts and she's not from Washington. But when you get to know her, you're going to be as impressed as I am.

She's got the grit, integrity, and good sense and fierce devotion to the common good that is exactly what we need in Washington today.

She knows where she comes from, and she knows who she works for. She stands up for what's right, and she doesn't let anyone tell her to sit down.

She's fought oil companies and party bosses and do-nothing bureaucrats and anyone who puts their interests before the interests of the people she swore an oath to serve.

She's exactly who I need. She's exactly who this country needs to help me fight...

... to help me fight the same old Washington politics of me first and country second.

MCCAIN: I am very pleased and very privileged to introduce to you the next vice president of the United States...

... Governor Sarah Palin of the great state of Alaska.

PALIN: Thank you so much.

And I thank you, Senator McCain and Mrs. McCain, for the confidence that you have placed in me. Senator, I am honored to be chosen as your running mate.

I will be honored to serve next to the next president of the United States.

I know that when Senator McCain gave me this opportunity, he had a short list of highly qualified men and women. And to have made that list at all, it was a privilege. And to have been chosen brings a great challenge.

I know that it will demand the best that I have to give, and I promise nothing less.

First -- first, there are a few people whom I would like you to meet. I want to start with my husband, Todd.

And Todd and I are actually celebrating our 20th anniversary today. And I promised him...

I had promised Todd a little surprise for the anniversary present, and hopefully he knows that I did deliver.

And then we have as -- after my husband, who is a lifelong commercial fisherman, lifetime Alaskan. He's a production operator.

Todd is a production operator in the oil fields up on Alaska's North Slope. And he's a proud member of the United Steelworkers union. And he's a world-champion snow machine racer. (APPLAUSE)

Todd and I met way back in high school. And I can tell you that he is still the man that I admire most in this world.

Along the way, Todd and I have shared many blessings. And four out of five of them are here with us today.

Our oldest son, Track, though, he'll be following the presidential campaign from afar. On September 11th of last year, our son enlisted in the United States Army.

Track now serves in an infantry brigade. And on September 11th, Track will deploy to Iraq in the service of his country. And Todd and I are so proud of him and of all the fine men and women serving this country (inaudible)

PALIN: Next to Todd is our daughter, Bristol, another daughter, Willow, our youngest daughter, Piper, and over in their arms is our son, Trig, a beautiful baby boy. He was born just in April.

PALIN: His name is Trig Paxson Van Palin.

Some of life's greatest opportunities come unexpectedly. And this is certainly the case today.

I never really set out to be involved in public affairs, much less to run for this office. My mom and dad both worked at the local elementary school. And my husband and I, we both grew up working with our hands. I was just your average hockey mom in Alaska, raising...

We're busy raising our kids. I was serving as the team mom and coaching some basketball on the side. I got involved in the PTA and then was elected to the city council, and then elected mayor of my hometown, where my agenda was to stop wasteful spending, and cut property taxes, and put the people first.

I was then appointed ethics commissioner and chairman of the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. And when I found corruption there, I fought it hard, and I held the offenders to account.

Along with fellow reformers in the great state of Alaska, as governor, I've stood up to the old politics as usual, to the special interests, to the lobbyists, the big oil companies, and the good-old- boy network.

When oil and gas prices went up so dramatically and the state revenues followed with that increase, I sent a large share of that revenue directly back to the people of Alaska. And we are now -- we're now embarking on a $40 billion natural gas pipeline to help lead America to energy independence.

I signed major ethics reform. And I appointed both Democrats and independents to serve in my administration. And I championed reform to end the abuses of earmark spending by Congress. In fact, I told Congress -- I told Congress, "Thanks, but no thanks," on that bridge to nowhere.

If our state wanted a bridge, I said we'd build it ourselves. Well, it's always, though, safer in politics to avoid risk, to just kind of go along with the status quo. But I didn't get into government to do the safe and easy things. A ship in harbor is safe, but that's not why the ship is built.

Politics isn't just a game of competing interests and clashing parties. The people of America expect us to seek public office and to serve for the right reasons.

PALIN: And the right reason is to challenge the status quo and to serve the common good.

Now, no one expects us to agree on everything, whether in Juneau or in Washington. But we are expected to govern with integrity, and goodwill, and clear convictions, and a servant's heart.

Now, no leader in America has shown these qualities so clearly or present so clear a threat to business as usual in Washington as Senator John S. McCain.

PALIN: This -- this is a moment when principles and political independence matter a lot more than just the party line. And this is a man who has always been there to serve his country, not just his party.

And this is a moment that requires resolve and toughness, and strength of heart in the American president. And my running mate is a man who has shown those qualities in the darkest of places, and in the service of his country.

A colleague once said about Senator McCain, "That man did things for this country that few people could go through. Never forget that." And that speaker was former Senator John Glenn of Ohio.

And John Glenn knows something about heroism. And I'm going to make sure nobody does forget that in this campaign. There is only one candidate who has truly fought for America, and that man is John McCain.

PALIN: This is a moment -- this is a moment when great causes can be won and great threats overcome, depending on the judgment of our next president.

In a dangerous world, it is John McCain who will lead America's friends and allies in preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.

It was John McCain who cautioned long ago about the harm that Russian aggression could do to Georgia and to other small democratic neighbors and to the world oil markets.

It was Senator McCain who refused to hedge his support for our troops in Iraq, regardless of the political costs.

And you know what? As the mother of one of those troops, and as the commander of Alaska's National Guard, that's the kind of man I want as our commander in chief.

PALIN: Profiles in courage: They can be hard to come by these days. You know, so often we just find them in books. But next week when we nominate John McCain for president, we're putting one on the ballot.

PALIN: To serve as vice president beside such a man would be the privilege of a lifetime. And it's fitting that this trust has been given to me 88 years almost to the day after the women of America first gained the right to vote.

I think -- I think as well today of two other women who came before me in national elections.

I can't begin this great effort without honoring the achievements of Geraldine Ferraro in 1984...

... and of course Senator Hillary Clinton, who showed such determination and grace in her presidential campaign.

It was rightly noted in Denver this week that Hillary left 18 million cracks in the highest, hardest glass ceiling in America...

... but it turns out the women of America aren't finished yet and we can shatter that glass ceiling once and for all.

So for my part, the mission is clear: The next 67 days I'm going to take our campaign to every part of our country and our message of reform to every voter of every background in every political party, or no party at all.

PALIN: If you want change in Washington, if you hope for a better America, then we're asking for your vote on the 4th of November.

My fellow Americans, come join our cause.

Join our cause and help our country to elect a great man the next president of the United States.

And I thank you, and I -- God bless you, I say, and God bless America. Thank you.
872 2008-08-29 The following is the text of a statement by the McCain campaign on its selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as Senator John McCain's running mate.

ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain today announced that he has selected Alaska Governor Sarah Palin to be his running mate and to serve as his vice president.

Governor Palin is a tough executive who has demonstrated during her time in office that she is ready to be president. She has brought Republicans and Democrats together within her Administration and has a record of delivering on the change and reform that we need in Washington.

Governor Palin has challenged the influence of the big oil companies while fighting for the development of new energy resources. She leads a state that matters to every one of us -- Alaska has significant energy resources and she has been a leader in the fight to make America energy independent.

In Alaska, Governor Palin challenged a corrupt system and passed a landmark ethics reform bill. She has actually used her veto and cut budgetary spending. She put a stop to the "bridge to nowhere" that would have cost taxpayers $400 million dollars.

As the head of Alaska's National Guard and as the mother of a soldier herself, Governor Palin understands what it takes to lead our nation and she understands the importance of supporting our troops.
873 2008-08-29 The nonpartisan organization, which supports transparency in government, announced its support for a wide array of candidates in the Sept. 9 primary....
874 2008-08-29 Texas-bound hurricane slowed by large land mass to the south, The Onion reports:...
875 2008-08-29 British regulators are investigating potential antitrust violations involving an unnamed Procter & Gamble subsidiary, the consumer products company said Thursday in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. British authorities started their inv...
876 2008-08-29 Microsoft on Friday announced its first major deal since failing to buy Yahoo , agreeing to acquire Web-based survey company Greenfield Online for about $486 million. The deal gives the software giant access to Greenfield's Ciao.com, a popular pri...
877 2008-08-29 He said Mr. McCain was out of touch with the problems of everyday Americans. “It’s not because John McCain doesn’t care,” he said. “It’s because John McCain doesn’t get it.”

And he went so far as to attack the presumed strength of Mr. McCain’s campaign, national security. “You know, John McCain likes to say that he’ll follow bin Laden to the gates of hell, but he won’t even follow him to the cave where he lives,” he said.

The speech loomed as arguably Mr. Obama’s most important of the campaign to date. It was an opportunity to present himself to Americans just now beginning to tune in on this campaign, to make the case against Mr. McCain and to offer what many Democrats say he has failed to offer to date: an idea of what he stands for, beyond a promise of change.

To that end, he emphasized what he described as concrete steps he would take to address the anxieties of working-class Americans, promising tax cuts for the middle class and pledging to wean the country from dependence on oil within 10 years to address high fuel prices.

With the speech, Mr. Obama closed out his party’s convention here and prepared for a quick shift of public attention to the Republicans as Mr. McCain moved to name his running mate and his party got ready for its convention in St. Paul on Monday.

He delivered it in a most unconventional setting, becoming the third nominee of a major party in the nation’s history to leave the site of his convention to give his acceptance speech at a stadium. In this case, it was Invesco Field, set against the Rockies and about a mile from the arena where he had been nominated the night before. His aides chose the stadium to signal a break from typical politics and to permit thousands of his supporters from across the country to hear him speak.

And it came on a night that offered — by the coincidence of scheduling — a reminder of the historic nature of the Obama candidacy: 45 years to the day after the Rev. Dr. delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech on the Mall in Washington. Mr. Obama is the first African-American to be nominated for the White House by a major party, a fact that, for all its significance, has been barely mentioned over the course of this four-day gathering.

Even in invoking the anniversary of the King speech, Mr. Obama only alluded to race. But he quoted a famous phrase from Dr. King’s address to reinforce a central theme of his own speech. “America, we cannot turn back,” Mr. Obama said. “Not with so much work to be done.”

Mr. McCain marked the occasion of the speech by releasing a television advertisement in which, looking into the camera, he paid tribute to Mr. Obama and his accomplishment. “How perfect that your nomination would come on this historic day,” Mr. McCain said. “Tomorrow, we’ll be back at it. But tonight, Senator, job well done."

The advertisement stood in stark contrast to a summer of slashing attacks on Mr. Obama by Mr. McCain that apparently contributed to the tightening of this race. And the softer tone did not last; Mr. Obama was still on the stage, watching the fireworks, when Mr. McCain’s campaign issued a statement attacking him.

“Tonight, Americans witnessed a misleading speech that was so fundamentally at odds with the meager record of Barack Obama,” said Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain.

In his speech, Mr. Obama scored Mr. McCain for raising questions about his patriotism, and trying, he said, to turn a big election into a fight on small squabbles.

“I love this country, and so do you, and so does John McCain,” Mr. Obama said, an American flag lapel affixed to his left lapel. “The men and women who serve in our battlefields may be Democrats and Republicans and Independents, but they have fought together and bled together and some died together under the same proud flag.”

“So I’ve got news for you, John McCain: We all put our country first,” he said, prompting the crowd to break into a chant of “U.S.A., U.S.A.”

Mr. Obama looked completely at ease and unintimidated by his task or the huge crowd that surrounded him. And he chastised Mr. McCain for trying to portray him as a celebrity, an attack aides say has been particularly damaging, offering a list of people who he said had inspired him, from his grandmother to an unemployed factory worker he met on the campaign trail.

“I don’t know what kind of lives John McCain thinks that celebrities lead, but this has been mine,” he said. “These are my heroes. Theirs are the stories that shaped me. And it is on behalf of them that I intend to win this election and keep our promise alive as president of the .”

Mr. Obama delivered his speech on a day of considerable political churn. Even as Mr. McCain was paying tribute to Mr. Obama on television, his aides disclosed that he made a choice for vice president and would announce it on Friday, timing intended to draw attention away from Mr. Obama on a day in which he and his running mate, Senator , would be starting a joint campaign swing.

Mr. Obama’s audience began lining up to go through security and enter the stadium eight hours before he was to speak. As seats filled, they watched a series of musical performances, including by , who sang, “Signed, Sealed, Delivered I’m Yours.”

But the table for Mr. Obama was also set by speeches from some of the best-known Democratic leaders. They were led by , the former vice president who confronted a question that has, fairly or not, hovered over Mr. Obama as he struggles in his contest with Mr. McCain.

“Why is this election so close?” Mr. Gore asked. “Well I know something about close elections, so let me offer you my opinion. I believe this election is close today mainly because the forces of the status quo are desperately afraid of the change Barack Obama represents.”

Mr. Obama used much of his speech to link Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush — a line of attack that his aides view as their strongest going into the fall — and signaled that he saw next week’s Republican convention, when Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush are to appear together, albeit briefly, as a way to press that line of attack.

“Next week, in , the same party that brought you two terms of George Bush and will ask this country for a third,” he said. “And we are here because we love this country too much to let the next four years look just like the last eight. On Nov. 4, we must stand up and say: ‘Eight is enough.’ ”

Speaking in generally broad terms, Mr. Obama offered a contrast between Republican and Democratic views of the role of government.

“We measure the strength of our economy not by the number of billionaires we have or the profits of the Fortune 500,” he said, “but by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a business, or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off to look after a sick kid without losing her job — an economy that honors the dignity of work.”

The outdoor acceptance speech was by any measure a risky gambit by a campaign that has shown a taste for taking chances and breaking with convention, as his aides acknowledged. Bad weather could have soaked the moment. Mr. Obama’s first question to aides when they proposed this was, “Will it rain?” It did not; the day was dry, if hot.

When held his outdoor rally at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in June 1960, half the seats were empty, as a dispatch in The noted in dismissively describing the event as a “fresh air vaudeville.” The stadium here was packed by 5:15 mountain time, three hours before Mr. Obama was to take the stage, after a week in which Democrats and Obama supporters had been hustling for tickets.
878 2008-08-29 If Rafael Nadal looked a touch worn out in his first match — a three-hour, three-set affair against a qualifier from Germany — then all the fatigue, all the residual effects of a gold medal run in Beijing seemed to melt away on Thursday night. After two days of rest, he showed the poise of what Patrick McEnroe called “a clear-cut favorite” before the tournament and dismissed the American qualifier Ryler DeHeart, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4.

DeHeart, ranked 261st in the world, had played four matches to get to make his first career appearance in Arthur Ashe Stadium, including three qualifiers and a five-set upset of Olivier Rochus in the first round. But there was little he could do when Nadal looked as comfortable as ever on the hardcourt. After overcoming his failures on grass by winning Wimbledon, Nadal now looks capable of doing the same on this surface.

But when he was asked about his remarkable season so far, particularly on the hardcourts in Beijing, Nadal refused to look ahead.

“I did very well the last few months,” he said. “Not yet here in New York.”

DeHeart, 24, rallied in the third set, taking the first three games. That only forced Nadal to shift into one of his higher gears. With ruthless precision and stunning speed, he fought back to 3-3, before easing back to bring the match home. He finished with a scintillating forehand, taken from his backhand side, into the corner down the line.

“I started touching the ball with the forehand and having a lot of winners,” Nadal said.

Nadal has an arguably easier path to the final than his main rivals Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic, the second and third seeds, if only because those two could potentially meet in the semifinals.
879 2008-08-29 DAYTON, Ohio — The Obama campaign was already nervous that Senator John McCain might try to steal the show from their big night by letting the name of his running mate selection slip out, and when the McCain campaign announced Thursday that it would run a new television commercial during their convention, those fears intensified.

But when it was finally broadcast, the television advertisement that they had feared would be a knife in their back turned out to be something of a Valentine.

“Senator Obama, this is truly a good day for America,” Mr. McCain said, talking straight to the camera, in a striking departure from some of the pointed advertisements he has run of late. “Too often the achievements of our opponents go unnoticed. So I wanted to stop and say, Congratulations. How perfect that your nomination would come on this historic day. Tomorrow, we’ll be back at it. But tonight, Senator, job well done.”

It was just a blip in a day of fevered speculation about just whom Mr. McCain would tap as his running mate, a day in which there were tea leaves to read everywhere but few hard and fast facts. McCain campaign officials said the campaign had no intention of letting their closely held secret out Thursday.

Mr. McCain, who had settled on his selection, was less than forthcoming here Thursday night when reporters shouted questions about his pick. “Wilford Brimley,” he responded, invoking the actor and oatmeal pitch man who had campaigned with him in New Hampshire. In recent days Mr. McCain, who will turn 72 on Friday, has joked that he is attracted to Mr. Brimley because he is a former marine — and is older than he is.
880 2008-08-29 “Yes, we can,” the man chanted at appointed moments, in concert with others in Section 126.

The night sky brought an air of majesty to replace the summery festival feel of the late afternoon. While Mr. Obama spoke, people stopped texting and twittering to hear his words.

“America, this is not a time for small plans,” Mr. Obama said, and three teenage women chanted “Tell it, Barack” in unison.

“Individual responsibility and mutual responsibility, that’s the essence of the American promise,” he said.

“Tell it, Barack,” said a growing group that now included much of the section that the “tell it Barack” girls were sitting in.

The occasion was part coronation, part organizing meeting, part Woodstock. Inside the stadium, the home of the Broncos, chants of “Eight is enough,” referring to President Bush’s tenure, broke out, and big delegate hats outnumbered face paint (usually preferred at a football game). To some extent, the event resembled a Broncos game, though without beer sales, no discernible opposition and Mr. Obama in the spotlight role of John Elway (the Hall of Fame Broncos quarterback).

“This is one of the greatest experiences of my life,” said Jane Culkin, a 16-year-old volunteer who attends George Washington High School in Denver. Behind her, Carrie Siubutt, of Brooklyn, was eating a bowl of multicolored Dippin’ Dots while getting her first look at the stadium, which was filled by 7 p.m.

“This makes me feel very lucky to be an American,” said Ms. Siubutt, a native of Trinidad.

“I feel like I’m the only one here,” she said a few minutes later while flags filled the field, waving in rhythm to a “Sí, se puede” chant.

The scene was one of the most unusual sights in the annals of American political conventions. Overnight, the familiar trappings of the convention hall were moved outdoors, with banners from every state filling the field. As the afternoon wore on, the warm-up acts went from C- to B- to A-list, and spectators passed the time taking pictures, getting autographs and throwing the occasional Obama beach ball. By the time Al Gore came on at 6:45 p.m., the stadium was aflutter with flashbulbs, waving flags and Obama signs.

In a twist on the normal convention finale, the prominent figures — donors, elected officials and media celebrities like Dan Rather — looked somewhat like the interlopers. Younger people dressed in jeans and shorts — many not of voting age — seemed decidedly more at home, as if they were attending an open air concert and were fully versed in the festival ritual. The wave broke out in Section 338 just after Mr. Gore’s speech ended and spread quickly around the stadium.

The Obama campaign seemed to be trying to de-electrify the proceedings, keeping much of the focus on the grass roots instead of the rock star. A “Faces of America” montage flashed on a video screen in the back of a stage. There were a long procession of speakers from the military and relatively low-key musical acts and unintentionally subduing speeches from Democratic politicians.

The blue seats of the stadium gradually filled throughout the afternoon, with Democrats waiting for hours to hear Mr. Obama’s acceptance speech. The atmosphere was one of historic celebration, with a resolution read into the convention’s minutes stating, “Martin Luther King would have been proud.”

After all the lines and waits and security screenings, the first thing people found were phone banks: clusters of tables filled with phones and eager volunteers who handed out lists of names and numbers. Callers were instructed not to ask their targets for money or votes — just to turn on their televisions to watch Mr. Obama’s speech. The reward, or potential reward: a raffle with coveted floor seats as its prize.

The crowd was multiracial, and black voters, echoing one another, said they simply could not miss this moment.

Lillian Woods, 50, of Phoenix arrived at 1 p.m., seven hours before Mr. Obama would speak. “I had to be here for the whole thing,” she said, passing the time in the hot sun. “It’s history in the making.”

Alycee Nelson Ruley, a retired marine from Morton, Pa., recalled watching Walter Cronkite cover Dr. King’s March on Washington as an 8-year-old.

“I vividly remember watching, and I vividly remember not being able to go,” Ms. Ruley said. She is a Republican, but after Mr. Obama won the South Carolina primary, she vowed to go to Denver if he won the nomination.

Mr. Obama did a “God Bless America” closing and, a few minutes later, heads in the crowd shot upward to see the first pops of orange fireworks — the Obama version of the balloon drop. The Obamas, along with Mr. Obama’s running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., and his wife, Jill, hugged and mingled on stage to the orchestral booms of string and percussion. Smoke from the fireworks created a building haze overhead, dotted with specks of confetti.

People filled the aisles, heads turned in every direction. They pointed cameras at the sky as they filed out.
881 2008-08-29 About 70 African migrants were missing after their boat capsized in the Mediterranean near Malta, the United Nations refugee agency said Thursday in Geneva. It urged Maltese authorities to free eight survivors rescued Tuesday by fishermen. Three bodies have been recovered, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees said.
882 2008-08-29 Thomas Adams, the board president of California’s League of Conservation Voters, said the changes were “all going to support a development pattern that will help the state meet its climate goals.”

The bill yokes three regulatory and permit processes. One focuses on regional planning: how land use should be split among industry, agriculture, homes, open space and commercial centers. Another governs where roads and bridges are built. A third sets out housing needs and responsibilities — for instance, how much affordable housing a community must allow.

Under the pending measure, the three regulatory and permit processes must be synchronized to meet new goals, set by the state’s Air Resources Board, to reduce heat-trapping gases.

Seventeen regional planning groups from across the state will submit their land-use, transportation and housing plans to the board. If the board rules that a plan will fall short of its emissions targets, then an alternative blueprint for meeting the goals must be developed.

Once state approval is granted, or an alternative plan submitted, billions of dollars in state and federal transportation subsidies can be awarded. The law would allow the money to be distributed even if an alternative plan fails to pass muster.

State Senator Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat who is sponsoring the bill, said in an interview that he expected the Senate to approve the bill soon.

Mr. Steinberg, who will be the Senate majority leader in the legislative session beginning next year, said Wednesday that he met with Governor Schwarzenegger this week and received “positive signals, no guarantees.”

Environmentalists have long blamed profit-driven land-use planning around the country for creating the expansive, sometimes redundant network of roads that have carved up farmland near urban areas.

They have also praised regional planners in Portland, Ore., for that city’s clustered growth and pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly communities.

The tools Portland planners have used are called urban growth boundaries, efforts to control sprawl by encouraging higher density development within an area and largely prohibiting it outside.

These boundaries have gained little traction in California, where developers have seen them as too restrictive and local governments have been jealous of their own planning powers.

Sacramento and San Diego have recently tried to build coalitions to support clustered development.

Most environmental groups strongly support the pending bill. Among them is the Natural Resources Defense Council, a major force in the development two years ago of the landmark state law to limit heat-trapping emissions from all sectors of the economy.

But some groups have expressed reservations, objecting to the relaxation of some existing environmental constraints on developers.

Jan Chatten-Brown, an environmental lawyer in Santa Monica, wrote in an e-mail message that the bill “gives up an important tool” by relaxing some requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act and making it harder for citizen groups to sue developers.

Communities that take part in the process will be able to revise their housing plans every eight years instead of five; developers working with a state-approved plan will have to do less extensive environmental reviews of their projects.

Ms. Chatten-Brown also said the legislation overlapped with some of the provisions of the 2006 law committing the state, by 2020, to a 30 percent reduction in the projected level of emissions of heat-trapping gases.

The Natural Resources Defense Council and the League of Conservation Voters estimate that $15 billion to $20 billion in annual federal, state and local transportation grants support highways, bridges, bike paths and light-rail systems.

Because there is no assurance that regions would lose transportation dollars if their plans fail to win state approval, a few environmental groups stayed in a neutral corner.

But Mr. Adams, with the League of Conservation Voters, said that “a land-use bill of this magnitude had not been successful since the 1976 passage of the California Coastal Act.”
883 2008-08-29 AT&T set up in the parking lot of the Pepsi Center in Denver to give conventiongoers a chance to try out the new iPhone. Coca-Cola was handing out Dasani water to people standing in security lines at Invesco Field.

Union Pacific has a new hybrid locomotive on display, part of a 30-car fleet it is using for parties at both conventions. A Minneapolis company that makes a fire retardant called FoamPro will have six fire trucks emblazoned with an elephant logo at the Republican convention.

“For companies, conventions are an attractive place to be,” said Giovanna Torchio, director of business development at Jack Morton Worldwide, a marketing agency. “You have a concentrated group that have multiple roles and share a passion.”

Major corporations help bankroll the conventions, too. A total of $112 million in private money was raised through the sale of sponsorships by host committees at both conventions to finance them. This compares to $16 million in federal money available to each venue to cover convention costs. (Each venue receives an additional $50 million in federal antiterrorist money, but it is earmarked to pay for security.)

Donations to the host committees are tax deductible, and they come with a promise of political access that is harder to come by under new ethics rules passed by Congress last year.

Corporations are banned from making direct political contributions, but they can write six- and seven-figure checks and receive V.I.P. credentials to the convention floor, invitations to private events with members of Congress, and space to set up logo-plastered booths at convention events. (They can even put their logo on key cards at the hotels where delegates are staying.)

The companies also see the conventions as good networking opportunities with other businesses, and a chance to provide story fodder to the 15,000 members of the news media.

Most companies at the conventions are already skilled Washington hands. A report from the Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington nonprofit organization that studies money and politics, found that the 173 donors to the host committees — mostly corporations but also several trade unions — have contributed $180 million to federal candidates and spent $1.3 billion in lobbying federal officials since 2005.

At both conventions, the biggest corporate presence is Qwest, which has donated $6 million in telecommunications services to each host committee and is the “official telecommunications provider.” The company’s chief executive, Edward A. Mueller, hosted an invitation-only reception at the Denver Art Museum.

“At the Super Bowl, $6 million will get you two 30-second spots,” said Steven Davis, Qwest’s vice president for public policy. “These are weeklong events, with tens of thousands of people and millions of television viewers.”

One popular marketing theme is “green.” Xcel Energy, an electric and natural gas utility that gave $1 million to each venue, has a display called the “Green Energy Frontier,” with solar panels, a full-size wind turbine blade and a solar home.

“Being a utility, we don’t have a lot of product to show,” said Steve Roalstad, an Xcel spokesman. “But we want to show that what we do affects people.”

Camco International Ltd., a company based in Britain, was named the “official carbon adviser” in Denver, where it promoted its carbon offset programs. Around 20 Camco employees were working at the convention, and some of the company’s executives were to appear on a panel discussion on climate change.

Coca-Cola was named the “official recycling provider,” and was sending an 18-wheel tractor-trailer — with the Coke logo splashed on the side and a recycling display inside — to both conventions. Scattered throughout both events are recycling bins provided by Coke.

About 150 Coke employees are promoting recycling and offering free samples of the company’s vitamin water, lemonade, tea and Coke Zero. In Denver, Coke sponsored a reception for Latino delegates, and another one for diplomatic and international politicians at the Denver Art Museum.

One trade group, the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, decided not to become a convention sponsor. But it still had a presence in Denver, and was spending nearly $2 million to promote its agenda of using more coal. The group was handing out brochures at the airports, putting advertisements in convention publications and running advertisements on CNN.

“We will be engaged in guerrilla marketing,” said Joe Lucas, a spokesman for the group. “We did not look to the host committee to provide us with opportunities. We are having our own brand ambassadors interact with conventiongoers.”
884 2008-08-29 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — In a move that drew praise from conservatives, Gov. Charlie Crist on Thursday named to the State Supreme Court a former congressman who played a major role in the impeachment of President Bill Clinton.

The appointee, Charles T. Canady, 54, spent eight years in Congress before being named an appeals court judge in 2002 by Gov. Jeb Bush.

While in Congress, Mr. Canady was one of the House managers who handled the impeachment case against Mr. Clinton.

“I have tremendous confidence in him,” said Mr. Crist, a Republican, who called Mr. Canady a “faithful servant in the truest sense of the word.”

Mr. Canady, a graduate of Yale Law School, was elected as a Democrat to the Florida Legislature and served for eight years but switched to the Republican Party before he ran for Congress in 1992.
885 2008-08-29 Donald Brown ran for 146 yards and scored four first-half touchdowns Thursday night as Connecticut defeated Hofstra, 35-3, in the teams’ season opener in East Hartford, Conn.

The Huskies improved to 7-0 against second-tier Football Championship Subdivision teams since UConn started playing in college football’s top division in 2002.

Brown, a junior, split time with Andre Dixon a year ago. But Dixon rolled an ankle in practice this week, leaving Brown to carry the load. Brown had two touchdowns in each of the first two quarters, and 130 yards rushing at halftime. He finished with 23 carries in less than three quarters.

Hofstra announced just before kickoff that the senior quarterback Bryan Savage would miss the game with an injured back. The junior Cory Christopher took his place, throwing for 130 yards and 2 interceptions. He also carried the ball 21 times for just 25 yards, and was sacked 7 times.

UConn was undefeated at home last year and has an eight-game winning streak there.

GEORGIA TECH ROLLS Paul Johnson’s option offense was a hit for Georgia Tech in a season-opening 41-14 victory against Jacksonville State in Atlanta.

Johnson, the former Navy coach, had his triple-option offense ready after much concern based on a rash of turnovers in the spring game and summer scrimmages.
886 2008-08-29 As the picaresque story begins, the much older Jan Dite (Oldrich Kaiser, who bears a strong resemblance to Mr. Barnev) is released from a Czech prison after serving just under 15 years and sent to live in a nearly deserted town on the Czech-German border. Here he ponders his past while rebuilding a ruined house. The scenes of the older Jan, set in the early 1960s, feel extraneous to the story of his life before his imprisonment and are dead spots in an otherwise lively and amusing satire.

The flashbacks that make up the heart of the film follow Jan’s ascent from frankfurter vendor at a railroad station to waiter at a luxurious restaurant whose snooty headwaiter, Skrivanek (Martin Huba), boasts that he once served the king of England. As Jan’s status rises, he absorbs Skrivanek’s career advice and delights in showing off his acrobatic skills juggling platters of food.

Early in his career he is told that when coins are dropped on a floor, people from all levels of society will grovel to pick them up. That lesson in greed and its ramifications help form Jan’s pragmatic value system. Another useful piece of advice he retains is that in a world of unstable currencies, rare stamps are the safest investment.

The performance of Mr. Barnev, who has the poker face and agility of a silent clown, defines the style of a film whose timing and physical comedy look back to 1920s slapstick. The banquet scenes, including one in an elegant Prague hotel playing host to a pint-size Ethiopian emperor and his entourage, are staged as witty spoofs of pomp and ceremony in which everyone looks foolish.

Jan falls under the spell of Liza (Julia Jentsch), a blond German Sudeten girl and worshiper of Hitler who consents to marry Jan only after he undergoes medical tests to certify his Aryan bloodlines. As Jan makes passionate love to her she impatiently moves his head, the better to concentrate on a portrait of Hitler on the wall.

With the commencement of World War II, Jan works in a hotel that has been converted into an institute where giggling blond German women have been recruited to breed the master race with studly soldiers. Scenes of them frisking naked on the luxurious grounds suggest a pageant set in an insane asylum, directed by Busby Berkeley. The place is soon transformed into a macabre rehabilitation center for wounded German soldiers

Heeding the call of duty, Liza travels to the Eastern front to work as a nurse and returns with a cache of priceless stamps stolen from abandoned Polish-Jewish homes. Suddenly Jan’s dreams of being a wealthy hotelier can be realized. Oblivious to the tides of history, however, he is unprepared when the Communists arrive to occupy his beautiful establishment. So busy looking out for himself that he fails to anticipate what should be obvious, Jan embodies the central European Everyman as an archetypal naïf protected by his own innocence, until reality arrives.

“I Served the King of England” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has nudity, sexual situations and some violence.

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Written (in Czech, with English subtitles) and directed by Jiri Menzel, based on the novel by Bohumil Hrabal; director of photography, Jaromir Sofr; edited by Jiri Brozek; music by Ales Brezina; production designer, Milan Bycek; produced by Petr Dvorak, Helena Uldrichova, Dusan Kukal, Vit Komrzy and Luba Feglova; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes.
887 2008-08-29 “Sukiyaki Western Django,” the latest offering from the protean and prolific Japanese director Takashi Miike, is a feast for genre fetishists, a loving and lurid pastiche of the spaghetti westerns that were themselves lurid pastiches of classic Hollywood cowboy pictures. It is fitting that the honorary master of ceremonies at this film-geek orgy is Quentin Tarantino, dean of the international film-geek fraternity, who elegantly disembowels a snake in the opening scene and who appears later to fill in some plot holes and speak in bizarrely accented English.

His manner of speech is no stranger than anyone else’s in the movie, but it is perhaps a little more puzzling, since nearly everyone else in the movie is a Japanese actor speaking in a stylized version of the idiom of the Old West. Mr. Tarantino for his part sounds like a samurai from Texas. Or something.

Not that linguistic authenticity, or any other kind, has anything to do with “Sukiyaki Western Django,” the gleeful cosmopolitanism of which is summed up in its jazzy, nonsensical title. The original spaghetti-slingers dubbed English dialogue into the mouths of their international casts, and Mr. Miike has taken the further step of allowing his performers, in effect, to dub themselves into English.

Their sometimes awkward readings — of lines like “Don’t you reckon we’d better high-tail it?” — emphasize the demented artificiality of the movie, which concerns a feud, hidden treasure and a gunslinger who comes to town for money and sticks around to see that justice prevails. An acknowledged source is Sergio Corbucci’s “Django,” a raw, ripe 1966 Italian western, but there are also references to Shakespeare’s “Henry VI,” Rambo and plenty of other high- and low-cultural touchstones.

The run-down local saloon, you may notice, is called Eastwood’s, and the hero (Hideaki Ito), a taciturn marksman with no name, is a campier, less haunting cousin of the many gaunt and solitary riders Clint Eastwood has played over the years. This lone avenger strolls into a desolate mountain town to find the place gripped by a feud between the Genji, who dress in white, and their red-clad rivals, the Heiki. In the middle are two women (Yoshino Kimura and Kaori Momoi), the mother and grandmother of a small boy whose mixed heritage is symbolized by the red-and-white roses growing on his father’s grave.
888 2008-08-29 And workers put the finishing touches on the backdrop: faux columns intended to suggest a federal building in Washington and create an air of stateliness. (The McCain campaign named it the Temple of Obama, a label repeated by some commentators.)

Mr. Obama had shared his rationale for the move when he took the stage at the Pepsi Center on Wednesday night. “We’re going to be moving to Mile High Stadium tomorrow, and I want to let you know why,” he said. “We want to open up this convention to make sure that everybody that wants to come can join in the party and join in the effort to take America back.”

Yet for Mr. Obama, the dramatic setting of the speech, which will take place between 10 and 11 p.m. Eastern time, stands in contrast to the “workmanlike” message he intends to offer.

“I’m not aiming for a lot of high rhetoric,” he said Wednesday. “I am much more concerned with communicating how I intend to help middle-class families live their lives.”

On Thursday, Mr. Obama was putting the finishing touches on what is being billed as the most important speech of his career so far, in a year that has been filled with them.

Mr. Obama had holed up in a Chicago hotel over the weekend, and worked on the address well into the night this week with a small group of aides. He has studied several acceptance speeches, including Bill Clinton’s in 1992, Ronald Reagan’s in 1980 and John F. Kennedy’s in 1960.

Some aides worried about the setting overwhelming the message. But those closest to the planning said they had no regrets and were sticking to the sort of big-event politics that no other candidate has been able to match this year.

“We are leaning into this, how can you not?” said Jenny Backus, a campaign strategist working on the convention plan. “This is the enthusiasm gap,” referring to what polls show as excitement for Mr. Obama that Senator John McCain’s campaign has not matched.

There was a giddy, country fair atmosphere at the stadium on Thursday afternoon. For all of their complaints about the move from the Pepsi Center to the stadium — which they found out about only two months ago — network producers, anchors and techies seemed glad to be out on the field as Stevie Wonder did a sound check on the dais, preparing for an appearance tonight.

And aides to Mr. Obama expressed new confidence after what some perceived as an upbeat turn in their convention, which had been dominated by news of lingering resentment from supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton — which seemed to have come to a close, at the convention, at least, with former President Bill Clinton’s forceful endorsement of Mr. Obama as “ready” on Wednesday night.

The night — capped by an address by Senator Joe Biden, and a late appearance by Mr. Obama — sent delegates to their new convention home with an extra bounce in their steps that was evident in the stadium this morning.

Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary to President Clinton, said that delegates in the hall have been excited about the stadium event but that it was the party’s senior strategists who were more wary of the setting.

“There’s a concern in the campaign about how do you pull this off in a way that makes it about the economic themes they want to hit,” Ms. Myers said. “He needs to get from the stadium to the diner, and it’s a hard thing to pull off.”

Mr. Obama’s aides had hoped to upend the traditional convention style. But the prolonged primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton left the convention in the hands of the party’s career planners. Their flashy stage design, which has been likened to an arcade, had none of the look or feel of the more spare style of the Obama brand.

When a close circle of his top advisers presented Mr. Obama with $6 million plans to move his acceptance speech to the football stadium in early July, the candidate asked one question, said Anita Dunn, a senior strategist: “Will it rain?” The campaign produced a raft of meteorological data showing it had rained on Aug. 28 only once in 20 years. (Aides were alarmed, however, to arrive in Denver on Sunday to news of a nearby tornado. The weather reporters were predicting clear skies for Thursday night’s address.)

Peter Gage, one of the Obama planners, said he had studied photographs of Kennedy’s speech at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the only other such address to be held in an outdoor stadium in the modern television era.

Mr. Gage said the circular stage in Denver was inspired by Kennedy’s. A Sky Cam above the field will provide bird’s-eye views. Mr. Obama’s family will sit on seats on the floor before him, along with voters from swing states. The goal is to highlight ordinary people, and then mobilize them to work for the campaign.

The Obama campaign dismissed Republican attempts to turn the night against them.

“I know that Senator McCain and his people are shooting barbs on the opulence of our convention from the mountaintop in Sedona from the McCain estate,” said David Axelrod, the campaign’s chief strategist. “I don’t think it warrants a response.”
889 2008-08-29 A realistic portrayal of New York City's Chinatown can be seen in a new animated movie, ''The Year of The Fish,'' which opens on Friday at the Angelika Film Center.      The movie, an adaptation of a Cinderella-like Chinese fable, was shot in live...
890 2008-08-29 DWINDLING VALUE Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac gave hefty servings of stocks and options to employees for decades, but those workers are reeling from falling stock prices.      WALL STREET JOB CUTS Lehman Brothers is said to be preparing to lay off up...
891 2008-08-30 As the Republicans travel to St. Paul for their party's convention, a potential hurricane is gathering in the Gulf of Mexico and threatening to disrupt the nomination of John McCain and his new running mate....
892 2008-08-30 The Democratic convention has raised the bar for the Republicans....
893 2008-08-30 Sarah Palin might be the most ordinary person ever on a major-party ticket....
894 2008-08-30 The National Basketball Players Association suspended the agent Calvin Andrews for one year. Andrews was accused of recruiting improprieties regarding the former Southern California star O. J. Mayo. Mayo, who played one season at U.S.C. and was drafted third over all by the Memphis Grizzlies, has denied receiving improper funds. Mayo is now represented by Leon Rose, also LeBron James’s agent.

Mayo and Andrews parted ways in May. The union said its disciplinary committee reserved the right to take further action against Andrews.
895 2008-08-30 The Boeing Company’s largest union urged members to reject a contract offer next week and walk off the job in a strike that would shut production and may further delay the 787 Dreamliner. The union, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, also filed unfair-labor practice charges against Boeing “for their direct dealing with our members,” said a union spokeswoman, Connie Kelliher. Boeing put full proposals online during the talks instead of letting union leaders present details to members, drawing the complaint. Boeing said it wanted more open communication with the 27,000 machinists.
896 2008-08-30 A federal appeals court has ruled that the government can prohibit meat packers from testing their animals for mad cow disease. Because the Agriculture Department tests only a small percentage of cows for the deadly disease, a Kansas meatpacker, Creekstone Farms Premium Beef, wanted to test all of its cows, but the government says it cannot. Larger meat companies worry that if Creekstone is allowed to perform the test and advertise its meat as safe, they could be forced to do the expensive test, too. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said restricting the test was allowable.
897 2008-08-30 The Republican Party has hardly been a champion of diversity in recent memory. So it was heartening to see Senator John McCain choose Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate.

We would be criticized for cynicism if we were to suggest that Mr. McCain might also be hoping to sow a new round of gender discord in the wake of the Democrats’ unexpectedly unifying convention. We didn’t have to.

Governor Palin (who was on almost no one’s short list) left no doubt of her mission, as she eagerly praised the “determination and grace” of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who failed to make the Democratic ticket. “But it turns out that the women in America aren’t finished yet, and we can shatter that glass ceiling once and for all,” she vowed.

How well that plays, only the voters can say. Ms. Palin doesn’t share much else with Mrs. Clinton — beginning with the fact that she is opposed to abortion rights. Like many Alaska politicians, Governor Palin favors oil and gas interests over environmental protection. She’s for drilling in her state’s wildlife refuge, which Senator McCain opposes, even after reversing his position to favor off-shore oil drilling.

In choosing the 44-year-old governor, Mr. McCain brought some youthful counterbalance to his campaign. Republican strategists have clearly been fretting about the visual contrast between the 72-year-old Mr. McCain and his 47-year-old rival, Senator Barack Obama.

Governor Palin’s lack of experience, especially in national security and foreign affairs, raises immediate questions about how prepared she is to potentially succeed to the presidency. That really is the only criterion for judging a candidate for vice president.
898 2008-08-30 We invite you to leave responses to the Saturday, August 30 column....
899 2008-08-30 “No Profit Without a Risk,” by Floyd Norris (High & Low Finance, column, Aug. 22), argues that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s new investment policy does not guarantee that the P.B.G.C. is completely safe in every conceivable scenario. The question is not whether the investment policy is 100 percent risk-free. The question is whether, on balance, it offers a better and more prudent approach to risk and return than the prior policy.

That policy, with a heavy overconcentration in fixed income investments, essentially locked in the P.B.G.C.’s $14 billion deficit. It ensured that Congress would have to bail us out someday. In essence, it guaranteed failure.

The new policy calls for 45 percent diversified equities, 45 percent diversified fixed income, 5 percent private equity and 5 percent real estate. It targets an annual return of approximately 7.5 percent — hardly shooting for the moon.

It takes risk that is quite modest among large investors and gives the P.B.G.C. a chance to succeed.
900 2008-08-30 O.K., the women thing might have been a little bit of a selling point. Not nearly so much as the national guard commandership, of course. But if the millions of Democratic women who are still ticked off at Obama for stepping in front of Hillary in the line want to look elsewhere ...

John McCain has a low opinion of the vice presidency, which he’s frequently described as a job that involves attending funerals and checking on the health of the president. (Happy 72nd birthday, John!) There’s a lot we don’t know yet about Palin, and I am personally looking forward to deconstructing her role in the Matanuska Maid Dairy closing crisis. But at first glance, she doesn’t seem much less qualified than Tim Pawlenty, the governor of Minnesota who most people thought was the most likely pick. Unlike Joe Lieberman, Palin is a member of the same party as the presidential candidate. And unlike Mitt Romney, she has never gone on vacation with the family dog strapped to the roof of the car.

However, I do feel kind of ticked off at the assumptions that the Republicans seem to be making about female voters. It’s a tad reminiscent of the Dan Quayle selection, when the first George Bush’s advisers decided they could close the gender gap with a cute running mate.

The idea that women are going to race off to vote for any candidate with the same internal plumbing is both offensive and historically wrong. When the sexes have parted company in modern elections, it’s generally been because women are more likely to be Democrats, and more concerned about protecting the social safety net. “The gender gap traditionally has been determined by party preference, not by the gender of the candidate,” said Ruth Mandel of the Eagleton Institute of Politics.

Over the last week, we have heard over and over and over that Tuesday was the anniversary of the day women got the right to vote. (They got it when a state representative in Tennessee, where the House was split on the ratification issue, changed his vote because his mother wrote him a letter telling him to shape up. That’s a story that I would love to get into, but, unfortunately, right now we have Sarah Palin to deal with.)

After that big moment of enfranchisement, women went through a long period in the desert where they had the vote but not much else. Then came the great revolutions of the 1970s, when all the assumptions about the natural divisions between the sexes were challenged. During that era, women could be excited and moved by symbolic candidacies that promised a better, more inclusive future, like Shirley Chisholm’s presidential race and Geraldine Ferraro’s presence on the Democratic national ticket.

This year, Hillary Clinton took things to a whole new level. She didn’t run for president as a symbol but as the best-prepared candidate in the Democratic pack. Whether you liked her or not, she convinced the nation that women could be qualified to both run the country and be commander in chief. That was an enormous breakthrough, and Palin’s nomination feels, in comparison, like a step back.

If she’s only on the ticket to try to get disaffected Clinton supporters to cross over, it’s a bad choice. Joe Biden may already be practicing his drop-dead line for the vice-presidential debate: “I know Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton is a friend of mine, and governor, you’re no Hillary Clinton.”
901 2008-08-30 But Luke’s explanation for the crime is one that would not pass much muster in Brooklyn or, for that matter, any part of New York City: “Small town, not much to do in the evening.”

Mr. Mizrahi’s motivation, the police said, was not boredom, but money — even if it was in the form of quarters.

The police said they received a call about 10 p.m. Wednesday from a woman they think is Mr. Mizrahi’s mother. The woman said she had found 19 city parking meters in her home. Officers went to the house and called the Department of Transportation, which sent someone to pick up the meters.

A day later, at 7 p.m., the woman called again, to say that she had discovered 68 more meters, most of which were hidden in a crawl space in her basement.

Officer Steven Giannopoulos of the 61st Precinct described the crawl space as “a total mess,” adding: “It hadn’t been cleaned in a thousand years. It was filthy, filled with flies.”

Real estate records show that a Renee Mizrahi is the owner of the East First Street house. A call to the house on Friday night was not answered, and it could not be determined if Ms. Mizrahi is Maurice’s mother, or if she was the woman who reported finding the parking meters.

Officer Giannopoulos said Mr. Mizrahi had an arrest record that quickly made him a suspect: at least seven arrests in the past year or so for breaking into parking meters. But until Thursday, no one had connected the rash of decapitated meters in Gravesend to Mr. Mizrahi. It is not even clear if anyone had reported the decapitated meters.

The thief would come out at night, Officer Giannopoulos said, and back a truck into the meters to bend the poles. Then, using an electric saw, he would cut through the metal, take the top of the meter and drive away, leaving just the pole behind. Officer Giannopoulos said he thought at least 100 meters had been stolen in this way, most of them from McDonald Avenue, Avenue U and Kings Highway.

The trove of meter heads was on display during a news conference at Police Headquarters on Friday. They were laid out on a table in a briefing room, their coin slots and windows smashed or broken, with unidentifiable parts dangling.

But like a jewel thief who prefers a particular cut of diamond, the Department of Transportation said, this thief had a taste for one particular kind of meter — the twin-mounted ones.

A department worker who requested anonymity said the department was “replacing the twin mounts with singles,” because the thief had found the twin mounts easier to remove.
902 2008-08-30 Ms. Palin and Mr. McCain then embarked on a bus tour across Ohio and north into western Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh, a route that took in a wide swath of the central battleground in this year’s presidential campaign.

Mr. McCain’s pick, Ms. Palin, who opposes abortion, played especially well among evangelicals and other social conservatives, who have always viewed Mr. McCain warily and who have been jittery in recent weeks because of reports that Mr. McCain was considering naming a running mate who favors abortion rights.

The McCain campaign sees Ms. Palin as a kindred spirit to Mr. McCain, particularly in her history of taking heat from fellow Republicans for bucking them on issues and spotlighting their ethical failings. Like Mr. McCain’s, her political profile is built in part on her opposition to questionable government spending projects.

But they differ on a number of policies. Ms. Palin opposed Mr. McCain on one of the most prominent Alaskan issues: She supports drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Mr. McCain opposes it, much to the consternation of some Republicans. Mr. McCain’s environmental policy accepts that global warming is driven by pollution; Ms. Palin has said she is not convinced. A spokeswoman for Ms. Palin, Maria Comella, said, “Governor Palin not only stands with John McCain in his belief that global warming is a critical issue that must be addressed, but she has been a leader in addressing climate change.”

Ms. Palin, a former mayor of the small town of Wasilla, an Anchorage suburb, rose to prominence as a whistle-blower uncovering ethical misconduct in state government. Her selection amounted to a gamble that an infusion of new leadership — and the novelty of the Republican Party’s first female candidate for vice president — would more than compensate for the risk that Ms. Palin could undercut one of the McCain campaign’s central arguments, that Mr. Obama is too inexperienced to be president.

Democrats and at least some shocked Republicans questioned the judgment of Mr. McCain, who has said repeatedly on the campaign trail that his running mate should have the qualifications to immediately step into the role of commander in chief.

Mr. McCain’s words on the matter have had more than usual resonance this year because of his age — he turned 72 on Friday, and hopes to be the oldest person ever elected to a first term — and his history with skin cancer.

Ms. Palin appears to have traveled very little outside the United States. In July 2007, she had to get a passport before she visited members of the Alaska National Guard stationed in Kuwait, according to her deputy communications director, Sharon Leighow. She also visited wounded troops in Germany during that trip.

Mr. McCain’s announcement of Ms. Palin came in the immediate afterglow that Democrats were enjoying from their nomination of Mr. Obama, and for one news cycle at least, as Republicans intended, Ms. Palin effectively muffled the news coverage of Mr. Obama’s acceptance speech to 80,000 people at the Democratic National Convention in Denver on Thursday night.

Mr. Obama wished her well in a call from his campaign bus.

“He also wished her good luck, but not too much luck,” said Robert Gibbs, a senior strategist to Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama’s fellow Democrats were considerably less welcoming, and most said they were flabbergasted by what they characterized as a desperate, cynical or dangerous choice, given Ms. Palin’s lack of any experience in national security.

“On his 72nd birthday, this is the guy’s judgment of who he wants one heartbeat from the presidency?” said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, who said the selection smacked of political panic. “Please.”

Mr. McCain’s advisers said Friday that Mr. McCain was well aware that Ms. Palin would be criticized for her lack of foreign policy experience, but that he viewed her as exceptionally talented and intelligent and that he felt she would be able to be educated quickly.

“She’s going to learn national security at the foot of the master for the next four years, and most doctors think that he’ll be around at least that long,” said Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain’s top advisers, making light of concerns about Mr. McCain’s health, which Mr. McCain’s doctors reported as excellent in May.

Many conservatives said that the choice would energize them, giving Mr. McCain the support of a highly active group of voters and volunteers whose support was crucial to both of President Bush’s victories.

“They’re beyond ecstatic,” said Ralph Reed, the former head of the Christian Coalition.

Ms. Palin is known to conservatives for opting not to have an abortion after learning that the child she was carrying, her youngest, had Down syndrome. “It is almost impossible to exaggerate how important that is to the conservative faith community,” Mr. Reed said.

The choice of Ms. Palin was reminiscent of former President George Bush’s selection of Dan Quayle, then a barely known senator from Indiana as his running mate in 1988.

It was far from clear Friday whether adding a woman to the ticket would persuade Clinton supporters to come over to the Republicans, given Ms. Palin’s differences with Mrs. Clinton on issues from abortion rights to her positions on health care and climate change. Some women said that the pick could be seen as patronizing, a suggestion that women would vote based on a candidate’s sex rather than on positions. But others saw the choice of Ms. Palin as a welcome step.

“I think it’s absolutely fantastic,” said Kimberly Myers, a retired transit worker in Pittsburgh who had originally supported Mrs. Clinton but who said that Mr. McCain’s choice would win him her vote. “She’s actually broken the glass ceiling.”

As they began gathering in Minneapolis-St. Paul for the start of their convention on Monday, some Republican delegates said they were concerned that Ms. Palin did not have the experience in foreign policy or national security to be commander in chief.

“We’re in a global war, we’re in a global economy, so it’s less than honest if someone says that this woman is qualified to lead America right now,” said Todd Burkhalter, a Republican delegate from Mobile, Ala..

Her selection was kept secret until Friday morning, after the two men who had been rumored to be on Mr. McCain’s short list, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, let it be known they were out of the running.

The McCain campaign said that Mr. McCain first met Ms. Palin in February this year at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington and came away “extraordinarily impressed.” But Mr. McCain apparently has spent little time with her.

Ms. Palin flew to Flagstaff, Ariz., on Wednesday evening to meet with two of Mr. McCain’s senior campaign aides, Steve Schmidt and Mark Salter, said Jill Hazelbaker, a campaign spokeswoman. The group met at the Flagstaff home of Bob Delgado, the chief executive officer of the Hensley Corporation, the family business of Cindy McCain, Mr. McCain’s wife.

After meeting with Mrs. McCain there the next morning, Ms. Palin was taken to the McCain vacation compound near Sedona, where Mr. McCain offered her a spot on the ticket at 11 a.m.

She flew to Ohio later that day with Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Salter, and checked into a hotel as the Upton family. Ms. Palin’s children, who had been told they were going to Ohio to celebrate their parents’ 20th wedding anniversary on Friday, were informed there that their mother would be the Republican vice-presidential nominee.

Thursday evening she had a final meeting with Mr. McCain. One adviser suggested that although Mr. McCain was sure about his choice, he wanted to sit down with Ms. Palin one last time before he made what he knew would be an astonishing announcement the next morning.

As recently as last month, Ms. Palin appeared to dismiss the importance of the vice presidency in an interview with Larry Kudlow of CNBC, who asked her about her prospects for the job.

“I still can’t answer that question until somebody answers for me, what is it exactly that the V.P. does every day?” Ms. Palin told Mr. Kudlow. “I’m used to being very productive and working real hard.”
903 2008-08-30 Some commentators were quick to characterize Comcast’s decision as having a chilling effect. Om Malik, the founder of the technology Web site GigaOm, called the cap “the end of the Internet as we know it.”

DSLReports.com, a Web site about consumer broadband information, said it indicated “a significant shift in the U.S. broadband market that won’t be reversible.”

In recent months Comcast and other companies have considered clamping down on their most active subscribers, saying the limits were necessary to ensure fair access to the network for all.

Comcast’s cap does not amount to Internet metering, the charging of different prices for different broadband speeds or usage, but the change to Comcast’s policy does not rule out metering in the future.

In June, Time Warner Cable began a metering trial in one Texas city by offering various monthly plans and charging extra when consumers exceeded their bandwidth limit. AT&T has said that it is considering a similar pricing plan. The concept is not a foreign one; consumers already pay by usage for water and electricity. But broadband access has seemed unlimited, and any stifling of that is sure to concern some customers.

Until now, Comcast had not defined excessive use, but it had contacted customers who were using the heaviest amount of broadband and asked them to curb usage. Most do so willingly, the company said. The ones who do not curb their usage receive a second notice and risk having their accounts terminated.

Although the 250 gigabyte cap is now specified, users who exceed that amount will not have their access switched off immediately, nor will they be charged for excessive use. Instead, the customers may be contacted by Comcast and notified of the cap. The company did not say how 250 gigabytes was selected.

According to Comcast, a customer would have to download 62,500 songs or 125 standard-definition movies a month to exceed the caps. But high-definition video and video gaming require a higher amount of bandwidth. S. Derek Turner, the research director for the nonpartisan media policy group Free Press, said broadband caps could create a disincentive to view online video.

“As media companies put content online, consumers can bypass the cable companies and get their content directly from the Internet,” Mr. Turner said. “A 250 gigabyte cap may seem very high — and it is for today’s Internet use. But it’s essentially the equivalent of four hours of HD television a day.”

Critics have charged that Internet providers are trying to protect their cable TV and telephone businesses by stifling Internet access. Comcast says Fancast, its online video Web site, will count against the 250 gigabyte limit, but its digital voice service will not.

Comcast said there was no link between the caps, announced Thursday, and the Federal Communications Commission’s finding on Aug. 1 that the company was improperly inhibiting customers who used BitTorrent, a popular file-sharing program.

But Andrew Jay Schwartzman, the president of the Media Access Project, said the caps appeared to be a direct result of that finding. Mr. Schwartzman’s group represented Free Press in its complaint against Comcast about the file-sharing controls.
904 2008-08-30 The question is particularly acute for Mr. McCain, who turned 72 on Friday and would be the oldest person elected to a first term as president if he won in November. His campaign now needs to convince the public that it can imagine in the Oval Office a candidate who has spent just two years as governor of a state with a quarter of the population of Brooklyn.

But Ms. Palin, 44, brings clear assets to the ticket. The “gun-packing, hockey-playing woman,” as the Republican strategist Karl Rove described her, instantly bolstered Mr. McCain’s wobbly conservative base, which rejoiced over the selection of an anti-abortion evangelical Christian.

Her reputation as a reformer who took on her state party over corruption and wasteful spending could reinforce Mr. McCain’s own maverick appeal.

Her personal narrative as a working mother raising five children, including an infant with Down syndrome, with a husband who belongs to a union, might prove attractive to working-class voters in swing states who have been suspicious of Mr. Obama. And her presence on the ticket will allow Republicans to argue that Mr. Obama would not be the only one to break barriers if elected.

“He’s chosen a Washington outsider who will be an ally for him in shaking up the way things are done,” said Ron Nehring, chairman of the California Republican Party. “This is someone with solid conservative credentials but solid credentials as a reformer. And it’s clear after watching today’s event, no one is going to push Sarah Palin around — not Barack Obama and not Joe Biden,” the Democratic vice-presidential candidate.

In picking a running mate without deep experience but who would make history, Mr. McCain chose someone who in some ways resembles Mr. Obama. At the same time, by choosing Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware as his running mate, Mr. Obama tapped a longtime Washington hand with even more time in the Senate than Mr. McCain. Just as it might be harder for Mr. McCain to attack his opponent over his level of experience, it might be tougher for Mr. Obama to paint his rival as a creature of the capital.

The selection of Ms. Palin offered clues to how Mr. McCain would govern: holding deliberations to a tight circle of advisers, looking beyond the obvious options, taking risks and relishing surprise.

Yet if he disregarded more conventional prospects, like former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, it might be that Ms. Palin was still the fallback from a more audacious decision that Mr. McCain ultimately eschewed.

In the end, he passed over two of his best political friends, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and former Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, knowing their support for abortion rights would inflame conservatives at next week’s Republican convention.

Ms. Palin has been a rising star on the right since she beat an incumbent governor in a Republican primary in 2006 and then a former Democratic governor in the general election. With an approval rating around 80 percent, she is among the most popular governors. But her success has come on a small stage. The 115,000 votes she received in winning the governor’s office two years ago barely eclipsed the 80,000 people who packed a football stadium in Denver on Thursday night to watch Mr. Obama’s acceptance speech.

Democratic strategists compared her selection to those of Geraldine A. Ferraro in 1984 or Dan Quayle in 1988, suggesting that the decision reflected desperation by Mr. McCain. “He feels a little like Walter Mondale,” said Jim Jordan, a Democratic political consultant. “He’s a respected Washington lifer who’s run into political forces that are bigger than himself. And he’s responded by making a decision that feels panicky.”

Some Republicans, though, distinguished her résumé from Mr. Obama’s by arguing that Ms. Palin’s executive experience as governor was more valuable than Mr. Obama’s legislative history. The “not ready” argument against Mr. Obama, they suggested, will focus more on judgment than pure experience. And they maintained that Ms. Palin would get the better of Mr. Biden, predicting that the veteran senator, who is known for his slashing attacks, would have a hard time not looking as though he was being condescending to a woman.

“In a way, McCain has set a trap on the experience argument,” said Scott Reed, who managed Bob Dole’s presidential campaign in 1996, “because if they start picking on her on experience, it’s going to backfire with women.”
905 2008-08-30 “It’s nuts,” Mr. Brown said. “People are buying these cars from me and turning around and selling them as if they were flipping real estate.”

Advocates for these cars see Mr. Brown’s brisk sales as a sign that natural gas could become the transport fuel of the future, replacing much of the oil the nation imports. While that remains a distant dream, big increases recently in the country’s production of natural gas do raise the possibility of making wider use of the fuel.

To a degree, it is already starting to happen in Utah, where the cost savings have gotten the public’s attention. Natural gas is especially cheap here, so that people spend about 87 cents for a quantity of gas sufficient to propel a car approximately the same distance as a $3.95 gallon of gasoline.

The word about natural gas cars has been spreading in news reports and by word of mouth, and so many people in Utah are now trying to get their hands on used natural gas vehicles that they are drying up the national supply. Used car lots are stocking up, and beginning to look like county government parking lots with multiple lines of identical white Civic GXs once used in out-of-state fleets.

Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got into the act last year, spending $12,000 out of his own pocket to convert his state sport utility vehicle to run on natural gas. “We can create a model that others can look to,” Mr. Huntsman said in an interview. “Every state in America can make this a reality.”

In fact, some unique factors apply in Utah. Natural gas prices at the pump here are controlled and are the cheapest in the country, while the price of conventional gasoline is one of the highest. Questar Gas, the public utility, has compressed-gas pumps around the state open to the public, a fueling infrastructure that few states can match.

Special factors or not, the sudden popularity of natural gas vehicles here demonstrates their potential, according to advocates like T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oil billionaire who is financing a national campaign promoting wind power and natural gas to replace imported oil. “Utah shows that the technology is here and the fuel works and the fuel is better than foreign oil,” Mr. Pickens said.

Natural gas cars produce at least 20 percent less greenhouse gas per mile than regular cars, according to a California study.

No official figures are available on how many natural gas vehicles Utah has, in part because so many people go to garages that install conversion kits that are not certified by the Environmental Protection Agency and are therefore illegal.

But Questar estimates the number at 6,000 and growing by several hundred a month. That is small compared with the 2.7 million vehicles registered in the state, but natural gas executives and state government officials say it makes Utah the fastest-growing market in the country for such cars.

Cars fueled by compressed natural gas have been available intermittently in the United States for decades, and have found wide use in fleets, but have never attracted much consumer interest. The situation is markedly different abroad. Of the eight million natural gas vehicles operating worldwide, only about 116,000 were in the United States, mostly as fleet vans, buses and cars, according to a 2006 Energy Department estimate.

Congress mandated the use of fleets capable of using alternative fuel cars for governments and some energy companies in the early 1990s, but public interest petered out as gasoline prices plummeted. Over the years, all the major car companies except Honda dropped their production in the United States.

The cars have two major disadvantages — a shortage of fueling stations and limited range. (A typical natural gas car goes half as far on a full tank as a gasoline car.) Utah is one of the few states where a driver can travel across the state without being out of range of a station.

The situation is a Catch-22: Carmakers do not want to make natural gas cars when few filling stations are set up for them, and few stations want to install expensive equipment to compress gas with so few cars on the road.

Hundreds of stations supply compressed gas in a few states like California, New York and Arizona, but most are either closed to the public or charge only modestly less than regular gasoline prices.

Retail natural gas prices in some states are triple the price in Utah. The only state that comes close to Utah’s low gas prices is Oklahoma, and a surge of natural gas car buying is going on there, too.

The natural gas industry and some politicians are pushing to open up the market to gas-powered vehicles across the country. Even in states without fueling stations, a few drivers have switched by spending several thousand dollars to install a home gas compressor.

A proposal on the ballot in California this fall would allow the state to sell $5 billion in bonds to finance rebates of $2,000 and more to buyers of natural gas vehicles. Legislation has been introduced in Congress to offer more tax credits to producers and consumers and mandate the installation of gas pumps in certain service stations, with the goal of making natural gas cars 10 percent of the nation’s vehicle fleet over the next decade.

“If the incentives are right and the fuel and cars are available, natural gas can work,” said Gordon Larsen, supervisor for natural gas vehicle operations at Questar Gas. But he said that any drop in gasoline prices douses enthusiasm among drivers considering the switch.

With gasoline hovering just below $4 a gallon for unleaded regular here, interest in the Salt Lake City area is strong.

Questar reports that the volume of natural gas pumped at its 21 filling stations is up 240 percent this year from last, after a 50 percent rise in 2007. Demand has grown so fast that the compressors at many of Questar’s stations run low during the day, forcing drivers to settle for half a tank or fill up during off-peak hours.

The natural gas car surge in Utah is because of several factors. Questar has had filling pumps around the state to fuel its own fleet of service vehicles since the 1980s, and because it had excess capacity, it opened those stations to the public. Natural gas prices are cheap because under Utah regulations, the utility is obliged to offer about half of the gas that it sells to its retail customers at the cost of production.

The state and a few municipalities are preparing to open more filling stations. If the trend continues, it could eventually lower the environmental impact of driving in Utah.

For now, demand for compressed-gas cars is outstripping supply.

“People get into a frenzy and they just have to buy,” said Rick Oliver, owner of a company that converts vehicles. He said that in a recent online auction, a Utah buyer paid $19,000 for a 2001 Civic GX with 50,000 miles — the price a buyer of a new GX would pay after state and federal tax credits.

Gary Frederickson, a 48-year-old computer technician, has bought six natural gas vehicles on Craigslist over the last year, flying as far as Portland and Oakland to pick up the cars. One 1998 Ford Contour he bought for $3,000 in effect cost him nothing because he will receive a $3,000 state tax credit for buying an alternative fuel car.

“It’s crazy to be in Utah and have access to 85-cent-a-gallon fuel and not take advantage of it,” he said before a recent 2-cent increase.
906 2008-08-30 At Le Poisson Rouge on Thursday night, the Swedish singer Lykke Li began her set gripping a single drumstick, tightly, behind her head. Then the opening drums and bass of “Dance, Dance, Dance” kicked in, and, quite suddenly, she segued into a series of unlikely bends and twists before finding a groove, using that drumstick to strike a tambourine in her other hand.

“Having troubles telling how I feel,” she sang sweetly, “but I can dance, dance, dance.”

And so it went for the better part of an hour. Her words were by turns desperate, serrate, hungry, cloying. But on a circular stage in the middle of this basement room, everything important was conveyed by Lykke Li’s body, shaking with a ferocity that was, it seemed, always on, no matter the mood of the song.

Her debut album, “Youth Novels” (Atlantic), which was released domestically this month, isn’t nearly so intense. An amalgam of prim electronic pop, chilly new wave and melodic folk, it is musically assured, but in places conjures children’s music because of Lykke Li’s voice — vibrating at a high pitch, clipping some words short — which can make every line sound like a question.

Here, in a billowy, oversize black shirt, open over a black bodysuit, black tights and black belt, Lykke Li was dressed like an Olsen twin (2008 edition) and, at times, with that voice, sang like one too (1989 edition). This was particularly true on “Let It Fall,” driven by a firm, military beat banged out on a floor tom by the drummer Lars Skoglund; the hymnlike “Time Flies”; and on “Little Bit,” where Lykke Li struggles with a reluctant lover:

How we move from A to B can’t be up to me

But eye to eye, thigh to thigh

Throughout the song the keyboardist, Mikael Svensson, built a sturdy bed of driving synths that forced their way sternly through the emotionally wavering lyrics, providing a stark contrast: certainty.

Elsewhere, “Tonight,” the album’s most stirring song, was trancelike and haunting, and “Complaint Department” had the cold thrust of the new-wave innovators Yaz. For good measure, she covered Vampire Weekend’s “Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa,” making it sound as if it emerged from a Swedish pop tradition, not an African one.

At the encore Lykke Li was feeling generous. “Let’s do something that everyone can sing along to,” she said, and her band replicated the fuzzy, throbbing bass line from A Tribe Called Quest’s “Can I Kick It?” But still, as she danced around the circumference of the stage, the body mattered most.
907 2008-08-30 The struggling Italian airline Alitalia said on Friday that it had filed for bankruptcy protection. Alitalia, which is unprofitable and state owned, is trying to clear the way for a sale to private investors.

Alitalia said that its directors had also asked the government to appoint an administrator for the airline, which had been struggling with high fuel costs, aging aircraft and labor problems.

The move sets the stage for the eventual merger between the profitable parts of Alitalia and Air One, a smaller, private Italian airline, under a plan drawn up by the Italian bank Intesa Sanpaolo.

Under the plan, Alitalia’s underperforming assets, including its maintenance division, would be spun off into a separate entity, where they could be sold to help pay off some 1 billion euros in debt.

The profitable portion of the airline will be sold to a consortium of Italian investors, with Roberto Colaninno, 65, whose holding company controls the scooter maker Piaggio, as chairman of the new airline, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter. This portion will be merged with Air One.

In addition, these people said, Rocco Sabelli, who has worked with Mr. Colaninno at Piaggio and was previously at Telecom Italia, would become chief executive of the new airline.
908 2008-08-30 BIRMINGHAM (Reuters) — Jefferson County in Alabama and its lenders pulled back from the brink of a threatened bankruptcy filing on Friday after the county proposed restructuring $3.2 billion of sewer debt.

Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama, who this week entered the months of talks, said in a statement that the county, which is home to the state’s largest city, Birmingham, would be presented with a standstill agreement against default through Sept. 30 and that negotiations with lenders would restart next week.

A current standstill, or forbearance, agreement had been scheduled to expire on Friday and would have initiated a bankruptcy filing.

“The county presented a proposal that provides for a restructure of the existing bond debt at lower, fixed interest rates over a longer term,” Mr. Riley said. “Creditors received the proposal and agreed to respond next week.”

The immediate issue among bond holders, insurers and the county turns on about $850 million of notes with interest rates that reset periodically and that defaulted earlier this year. The notes are held by banks, including the Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase.
909 2008-08-30 LONDON (Reuters) — Microsoft has agreed to buy Greenfield Online, the owner of a European price comparison Web site ciao.com, for about $486 million to bolster its Internet search and e-commerce business in Europe.

Microsoft, whose $47.5 billion bid to buy Yahoo this year failed after a protracted battle, said on Friday that the acquisition should benefit its Live Search platform.

Internet search is dominated by Google, which has 62 percent of the global search market and 79 percent in Europe, according to the most recent data published by Web usage tracker comScore.

Microsoft has a 2 percent market share in Europe and 9 percent worldwide, behind both Google and Yahoo. In Europe, Microsoft is also outranked by online auction site eBay and Russia’s Yandex.

“The team at Ciao has built a passionate consumer community based on intuitive technology and extensive merchant relationships that we believe will deliver incremental benefit to the Microsoft Live Search platform,” Microsoft’s vice president for Windows and online services, Tami Reller, said.
910 2008-08-30 But the decision to take Mr. Gao into custody reflected the extreme irritability to even minor protest actions that gripped China’s capital during the Olympics. Mr. Gao is also part of a cadre of tireless petitioners, many of them inured to harassment and disappointment, who tried to protest anyway.

He was among at least a half-dozen people detained after they applied for legal permits to stage a demonstration in designated protest zones. The zones were established by the Chinese authorities, nominally to show their openness to divergent views during the Games. No protests ever took place in the zones.

“Anything that could threaten social stability makes the government very nervous,” said Jia Ping, the director of China Global Fund Watch Initiative, an organization that advocates on behalf of people infected with H.I.V.

Among those detained during the Games were Zhang Wei, a Beijing resident who was seeking to publicize the demolition of her home, and Ji Sizun, a democracy advocate whose foray to the protest application office ended with his disappearance into a large black car.

Wu Dianyuan and Wang Xiuying, two elderly women whose requests to protest yielded one-year “re-education through labor” sentences, seem to have fared better. Human Rights in China, a rights watchdog group, reported on Friday that authorities in Beijing had formally rescinded the sentence imposed on the two women during the Games. Ms. Wu’s son, Li Xuehui, said the police also bought the family a new television set.

Like Ms. Wu and Mrs. Wang, Mr. Gao is fearless, a man who seems to grow bolder with each detention.

Here in Wanggang, the dusty agricultural town where he is lauded by many residents and loathed by the authorities, he has waged a decade-long campaign against officials he says routinely pocket money meant to compensate farmers whose land has been confiscated for public projects. Broken bones, smashed teeth and irreversible impotence, he said, are among the repercussions of his 12 detentions. “He is so stubborn,” said his sister, Gao Xiuzhi, 55. “Nothing will stop him, unless he is killed.”

Last May his wife died after drinking a bottle of pesticide at the local government office. Family members said she could not afford treatment for her breast cancer and thought a dramatic gesture might move officials to hand over some of the money they owed her.

The police blamed Mr. Gao for her death, but the town rallied to his defense and the charges were eventually dropped.

After her death, Mr. Gao became even more relentless.

In recent years, he has taken on the cause of six rural towns whose farmland was overtaken by a new highway. “The government eats our meat, but that’s not enough — so they drink our blood and consume our bones,” said Huang Qihe, 43, a farmer.

Last week, when Mr. Huang and his neighbors heard a rumor that Mr. Gao had been arrested in Beijing and shipped back to Wanggang, they marched to the police station and demanded to see him. They were told he was not there, so they came back again. And again.

After a week, the police finally handed over the slip of paper officially acknowledging Mr. Gao’s detention and accusing him of extortion.

Infuriated, Dong Mingying, 45, and about 20 of her neighbors have been showing up at the station every day or two and threatening to go to Beijing if Mr. Gao is not released. “I think we are making them nervous,” she said proudly.

Reached at the Wanggang police station, an officer declined to comment on Mr. Gao’s case, saying it was being handled by the Nangang District Public Security Bureau. A man who answered the phone at the bureau insisted the matter was the responsibility of the Wanggang police.

Mr. Gao’s 23-year-old son, Gao Jiaqing, is not especially proud of his father. When he was 12, his father sent him to another province so he would not be exposed to the constant chaos wrought by his endless wars with the authorities. “At this point I’m numb,” he said, sitting on a bed piled high with his father’s documents.

Still he walks every day to the back of the crumbling hotel operated by the Wanggang Agricultural Cultivation Bureau where his father is being held and tries to cheer him up.

On Wednesday, before he was yanked away from the window, Mr. Gao, whose thin face has grown even gaunter, managed to slip some scraps of paper to his son. On them, he provided details of his detention and the names of the officials who had ordered him locked up. At the bottom, in tiny characters, he wrote: “I didn’t ask for money. I just wanted justice.”
911 2008-08-30 THEY don’t make economic recoveries like they used to.

“It seems there is some easing in the pace of growth,” said Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, whose calculations are reflected in the accompanying charts.

Economic recoveries in the decade after World War II were brisk affairs, but then they slowed. The pace of recoveries seemed to have stabilized in the 1980s and 1990s, he said, but “now we have taken another step down. We don’t know why.”

Mr. Achuthan believes the recovery that began in 2002 ended in October, as the economy entered a recession. “I have no doubt that we are in a recession now,” he said, although he added that it was possible that the National Bureau of Economic Research, when it eventually determines when the recovery ended, could choose a different month.

If Mr. Achuthan is correct, the annual rate of growth in the economy, as measured by real gross domestic product, was the slowest in this recovery of any, at 2.7 percent. The most lackluster prior recovery was the previous one, which ran from 1991 to 2001. Its average gain was 3.4 percent.

One possible explanation could focus on the fact that recessions have been milder in recent decades. If an economy does not go down far, then it will show less of a rise when it bounces back even if overall growth is robust.
912 2008-08-30 BANGKOK — Protesters in Thailand ratcheted up their campaign to oust the government on Friday, broadening their occupation to stop trains and block provincial airports, as well as waging an unsuccessful attack on police headquarters here.

Police officers responded forcefully on Friday to protesters who approached the metropolitan police headquarters, firing tear gas into the crowd that marched beside a truck emblazoned with a sign saying, “This evil government must get out.”

About 30,000 protesters continued to occupy the prime minister’s compound in central Bangkok, forcing Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej and his advisers to work out of a military command post on the outskirts of the city.

Calls by the People’s Alliance for Democracy, the umbrella group of protesters, for wider participation in their movement bore some fruit on Friday, with two major labor unions representing railway workers and employees of Thai Airways, the national carrier, calling for partial strikes.

About 35 trains between Bangkok and the provinces were canceled, and images broadcast on Thai television showed groups of protesters raiding the tarmac of the airport on the resort island of Phuket as bewildered tourists looked on. Sixteen flights were canceled or diverted.

Protesters also blocked the entrance of the airports in Krabi and Hat Yai, two other tourist destinations in southern Thailand.
913 2008-08-30 Ms. Palin and Mr. McCain then embarked on a bus tour across Ohio and north into western Pennsylvania to Pittsburgh, a route that took in a wide swath of the central battleground in this year’s presidential campaign.

Mr. McCain’s pick, Ms. Palin, who opposes abortion, played especially well among evangelicals and other social conservatives, who have always viewed Mr. McCain warily and who have been jittery in recent weeks because of reports that Mr. McCain was considering naming a running mate who favors abortion rights.

The McCain campaign sees Ms. Palin as a kindred spirit to Mr. McCain, particularly in her history of taking heat from fellow Republicans for bucking them on issues and spotlighting their ethical failings. Like Mr. McCain’s, her political profile is built in part on her opposition to questionable government spending projects.

But they differ on a number of policies. Ms. Palin opposed Mr. McCain on one of the most prominent Alaskan issues: She supports drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Mr. McCain opposes it, much to the consternation of some Republicans. Mr. McCain’s environmental policy accepts that global warming is driven by pollution; Ms. Palin has said she is not convinced. A spokeswoman for Ms. Palin, Maria Comella, said, “Governor Palin not only stands with John McCain in his belief that global warming is a critical issue that must be addressed, but she has been a leader in addressing climate change.”

Ms. Palin, a former mayor of the small town of Wasilla, an Anchorage suburb, rose to prominence as a whistle-blower uncovering ethical misconduct in state government. Her selection amounted to a gamble that an infusion of new leadership — and the novelty of the Republican Party’s first female candidate for vice president — would more than compensate for the risk that Ms. Palin could undercut one of the McCain campaign’s central arguments, that Mr. Obama is too inexperienced to be president.

Democrats and at least some shocked Republicans questioned the judgment of Mr. McCain, who has said repeatedly on the campaign trail that his running mate should have the qualifications to immediately step into the role of commander in chief.

Mr. McCain’s words on the matter have had more than usual resonance this year because of his age — he turned 72 on Friday, and hopes to be the oldest person ever elected to a first term — and his history with skin cancer.

Ms. Palin appears to have traveled very little outside the United States. In July 2007, she had to get a passport before she visited members of the Alaska National Guard stationed in Kuwait, according to her deputy communications director, Sharon Leighow. She also visited wounded troops in Germany during that trip.

Mr. McCain’s announcement of Ms. Palin came in the immediate afterglow that Democrats were enjoying from their nomination of Mr. Obama, and for one news cycle at least, as Republicans intended, Ms. Palin effectively muffled the news coverage of Mr. Obama’s acceptance speech to 80,000 people at the Democratic National Convention in Denver on Thursday night.

Mr. Obama wished her well in a call from his campaign bus.

“He also wished her good luck, but not too much luck,” said Robert Gibbs, a senior strategist to Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama’s fellow Democrats were considerably less welcoming, and most said they were flabbergasted by what they characterized as a desperate, cynical or dangerous choice, given Ms. Palin’s lack of any experience in national security.

“On his 72nd birthday, this is the guy’s judgment of who he wants one heartbeat from the presidency?” said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, who said the selection smacked of political panic. “Please.”

Mr. McCain’s advisers said Friday that Mr. McCain was well aware that Ms. Palin would be criticized for her lack of foreign policy experience, but that he viewed her as exceptionally talented and intelligent and that he felt she would be able to be educated quickly.

“She’s going to learn national security at the foot of the master for the next four years, and most doctors think that he’ll be around at least that long,” said Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain’s top advisers, making light of concerns about Mr. McCain’s health, which Mr. McCain’s doctors reported as excellent in May.

Many conservatives said that the choice would energize them, giving Mr. McCain the support of a highly active group of voters and volunteers whose support was crucial to both of President Bush’s victories.

“They’re beyond ecstatic,” said Ralph Reed, the former head of the Christian Coalition.

Ms. Palin is known to conservatives for opting not to have an abortion after learning that the child she was carrying, her youngest, had Down syndrome. “It is almost impossible to exaggerate how important that is to the conservative faith community,” Mr. Reed said.

The choice of Ms. Palin was reminiscent of former President George Bush’s selection of Dan Quayle, then a barely known senator from Indiana as his running mate in 1988.

It was far from clear Friday whether adding a woman to the ticket would persuade Clinton supporters to come over to the Republicans, given Ms. Palin’s differences with Mrs. Clinton on issues from abortion rights to her positions on health care and climate change. Some women said that the pick could be seen as patronizing, a suggestion that women would vote based on a candidate’s sex rather than on positions. But others saw the choice of Ms. Palin as a welcome step.

“I think it’s absolutely fantastic,” said Kimberly Myers, a retired transit worker in Pittsburgh who had originally supported Mrs. Clinton but who said that Mr. McCain’s choice would win him her vote. “She’s actually broken the glass ceiling.”

As they began gathering in Minneapolis-St. Paul for the start of their convention on Monday, some Republican delegates said they were concerned that Ms. Palin did not have the experience in foreign policy or national security to be commander in chief.

“We’re in a global war, we’re in a global economy, so it’s less than honest if someone says that this woman is qualified to lead America right now,” said Todd Burkhalter, a Republican delegate from Mobile, Ala..

Her selection was kept secret until Friday morning, after the two men who had been rumored to be on Mr. McCain’s short list, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, let it be known they were out of the running.

The McCain campaign said that Mr. McCain first met Ms. Palin in February this year at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington and came away “extraordinarily impressed.” But Mr. McCain apparently has spent little time with her.

Ms. Palin flew to Flagstaff, Ariz., on Wednesday evening to meet with two of Mr. McCain’s senior campaign aides, Steve Schmidt and Mark Salter, said Jill Hazelbaker, a campaign spokeswoman. The group met at the Flagstaff home of Bob Delgado, the chief executive officer of the Hensley Corporation, the family business of Cindy McCain, Mr. McCain’s wife.

After meeting with Mrs. McCain there the next morning, Ms. Palin was taken to the McCain vacation compound near Sedona, where Mr. McCain offered her a spot on the ticket at 11 a.m.

She flew to Ohio later that day with Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Salter, and checked into a hotel as the Upton family. Ms. Palin’s children, who had been told they were going to Ohio to celebrate their parents’ 20th wedding anniversary on Friday, were informed there that their mother would be the Republican vice-presidential nominee.

Thursday evening she had a final meeting with Mr. McCain. One adviser suggested that although Mr. McCain was sure about his choice, he wanted to sit down with Ms. Palin one last time before he made what he knew would be an astonishing announcement the next morning.

As recently as last month, Ms. Palin appeared to dismiss the importance of the vice presidency in an interview with Larry Kudlow of CNBC, who asked her about her prospects for the job.

“I still can’t answer that question until somebody answers for me, what is it exactly that the V.P. does every day?” Ms. Palin told Mr. Kudlow. “I’m used to being very productive and working real hard.”
914 2008-08-30 MARX--Emilie Hyman , 86, of Naples, Florida died at home with friends and family August 13, 2008. Born August 17, 1921 in Rochester, NY to Alfred H. Hyman and Esther Olson graduated from Vassar College in 1944. Soloed J3 Piper Cub 1945. Ran Old Ly...
915 2008-08-30 MISROK--Frances , on August 29, 2008, passed peacefully at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Cherished mother of Irwin, Lawrence and Carol. Dearly loved and loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Her kindness and smile will be missed....
916 2008-08-30 Senator John McCain spent the summer arguing that a 40-something candidate with four years in major office and no significant foreign policy experience was not ready to be president.      And then on Friday he picked as his running mate a 40-somet...
917 2008-08-31 The Republican candidate defends choosing Sarah Palin as his running mate, despite fairly widespread criticisms that she has no foreign policy experience....
918 2008-08-31 New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has ordered an evacuation of the city, in preparation for what he called "the mother of all storms."
919 2008-08-31 Photo: Peter Foley for The New York Times
920 2008-08-31 “Wow,” Missouri Coach Gary Pinkel said of the matchup, which featured 1,081 yards of total offense. “What a game.”

But for all the eye-popping statistics, Pinkel said his players were disappointed in their performance.

“Even when you make a lot of mistakes, you enjoy it,” Pinkel said of the victory. “We’ll get things corrected and certainly we’ve got their attention. I feel great that we won the game. We’ve got a lot of things we can improve to get better and that’s kind of where our focus will be.”

Pinkel, however, said he was encouraged by his team’s disappointment.

“Am I kind of glad they’re disappointed? Yeah,” Pinkel said. “Am I glad that I had to kind to get them cranked up a little bit? Yeah. Don’t tell them I said that.”

The shine of Missouri’s victory was marred by its defense, especially its secondary, in the third and fourth quarters.

“We didn’t do the things necessary in the second half that a football team does if you want to be really good,” Pinkel said.

Trailing at halftime, 31-13, Illinois scored on its second possession of the third quarter on quarterback Juice Williams’s 20-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Chris Duvalt.

The Tigers roared back with touchdown passes of 4 and 21 yards by Daniel to extend their lead to 45-20 with 2 minutes 50 seconds left in the third quarter.

But Illinois rallied in the next 4:21 behind touchdown passes of 26 yards and 65 yards by Williams and a 2-point conversion to pull back into the game at 45-35 with 13:23 left.

After the scoring barrage, Missouri ran four plays and punted. Two plays later, Williams completed a 53-yard pass to the Tigers 20 with 11:12 left.

But after absorbing a sack, Williams tried to complete a pass to Duvalt that Missouri linebacker Sean Weatherspoon stepped in front of and intercepted to squelch any hopes of Illinois comeback.

Later in the fourth quarter, Weatherspoon added a 35-yard interception return for touchdown. Williams found Michael Hoomanawanui on a 5-yard pass for a touchdown for the final margin.

“We’ve got to finish,” Missouri running back Derrick Washington said. “We can’t win the game in the first, second or third quarter. We’ve got to finish in the fourth.”

Illinois Coach Ron Zook had his own concerns after the game, expressing his dissatisfaction with his team’s defense.

“I thought we were going to play a little bit better than that,” Zook said. “Although once again, Missouri has a very good offense. They have a tendency to do that to you.”

Early on, Missouri showed why it possesses one of the nation’s most potent offenses. It opened the game’s scoring with a 7-yard touchdown run by Derrick Washington less than five minutes in.

After an Illinois punt, the Tigers were well on their way to a second score when wide receiver Tommy Saunders fumbled and lost the ball at the Fighting Illini 5.

After an exchange of punts, Williams threw a 30-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Will Judson with 1:28 left in the first quarter. But kicker Matt Eller’s point-after attempt was blocked, which kept the Tigers ahead by 7-6.

On Missouri’s next possession, the Tigers added to their lead with a 51-yard field goal by Jeff Wolfert just 44 seconds into the second quarter.

Illinois, however, claimed its only lead of the game less than five minutes later on Derek Walker’s 35-yard interception return for a touchdown to take a 13-10 advantage. On the play, Daniel attempted to throw an inside slant pass near the line of scrimmage, but threw the ball directly to Walker, who coasted into the end zone.

Missouri did not trail long, because on the ensuing kickoff, Maclin streaked untouched for a touchdown. It was his second career touchdown on a kickoff return, and it put the Tigers back ahead, 17-13, with 9:25 left in the second quarter.

After another Illinois punt, Washington reeled off a 40-yard touchdown run for a 24-13 advantage. Then, with just 20 seconds left in the second, Daniel lofted a 17-yard touchdown pass to tight end Chase Coffman to extend Missouri’s lead to 31-13.

Despite Missouri’s victory, the Tigers left well aware of their shortcomings. Their fans clapped politely after the game during the presentation of the large golden trophy, given to the winner of the Arch Rivalry, but it seemed to be of little consolation. After all, Missouri still has respect to gain and expectations to fulfill.
921 2008-08-31 Up from the playing fields, coldhearted capitalism seems the true national pastime as fans of baseball’s Yankees and Mets and football’s Giants and Jets brace for some nosebleed ticket price increases planned for their future stadiums. Two new state-of-the-art baseball parks open next year and a shared football stadium a year later, gracing the city like a bank of gleaming A.T.M.’s.

The average cost for the most prized Mets seat will be $495 — a 79 percent increase over the club’s top at the current stadium. It is an absolute bargain compared with the $2,500 per top ticket at the Yankees’ new park.

Both clubs insist they’re socking the less moneyed comparatively less, up and out in the most distant seats. But suspicion and anger are palpable on fan blogs demanding to know what’s happening to the bargain pleasure called baseball.

Part of the answer is it is being subsumed by the nation’s expense account culture. At both new baseball parks the rings of luxury suites already are nearly sold out at annual rentals of up to $500,000 for the Mets and $850,000 for the Yankees. City tax breaks figured importantly in the Yankees’ $1.3 billion park, and it, of course, includes a “Landlord’s Suite” for City Hall V.I.P.’s. That is only adding to taxpayers’ suspicions that they’re being sent down to the minors.

Baseball fans can take comfort that it will be even worse for football’s devotees. The management of the Super Bowl champion Giants has decreed that season customers have to first buy “personal seat licenses” of $1,000 to $20,000 for the continuing privilege of securing and paying increased prices for seats in the new stadium.

Giants tickets have always been the most prized in town, handed on in probate and fought over in divorce court. Some families are appalled. Others are conferring on how to come up with $80,000 to keep the four seats they’ve loyally held through thick and thin since shortly after the invention of the forward pass. The Jets have higher $25,000 P.S.L.’s (the term is already fan jargon) for the plutocrats’ seats, but spare them in the upper deck, where the proletarians roost and boo and still face higher ticket prices. The overbite will be there, fierce as the Jersey winter winds.
922 2008-08-31 To the Editor: It is hard to understand how The Times can run a long feature article on the Costa Brava, “Spain’s Wild Coast” (Aug. 17), without including a few quotes from food critics about El Bulli, which most food professionals have considered the No. 1 restaurant in the world.
923 2008-08-31 Epoque Hotels (www.epoquehotels.com), an online collection of more than 300 luxury boutique properties in 101 different places worldwide, recently started Affordable Dreams, a promotion that offers nightly room rates at select Epoque hotels for 95 euros or under, about $140 at $1.53 to the euro. Most of the properties are in Europe, but they also include the Hotel Cocoon in Salvador Bahia, Brazil, the Cosmo Hotel in Hong Kong and the Kosten Aike Hotel in El Calafate, Argentina. The discounted rates include a daily breakfast.
924 2008-08-31 At 11 a.m. on Thursday, at the McCain vacation compound near Sedona, Ariz., Mr. McCain invited Ms. Palin to join him on the ticket. He hardly knew her, and she had virtually no foreign policy experience, but Ms. Palin was a “kindred spirit,” a McCain adviser said. Mr. McCain was betting, the adviser said, that she would help him reclaim the mantle of maverick that he had lost this year.

The selection was the culmination of a five-month process, described by Mr. McCain’s inner circle and outside advisers in interviews this past weekend, and offers a glimpse into how Mr. McCain might make high-stakes decisions as president.

At the very least, the process reflects Mr. McCain’s history of making fast, instinctive and sometimes risky decisions. “I make them as quickly as I can, quicker than the other fellow, if I can,” Mr. McCain wrote, with his top adviser Mark Salter, in his 2002 book, “Worth the Fighting For.” “Often my haste is a mistake, but I live with the consequences without complaint.”

Mr. McCain began the search for a running mate shortly after he secured the Republican nomination, with some 40 names on a list. By early spring he had cut it to 20, including, a top adviser said, at least five women: Ms. Palin; Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay; Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice; Carleton S. Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard; and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas.

Mr. McCain cast the process, at least in those days, as orderly and said that the last thing he wanted was the kind of rushed decision that President George Bush had made in 1988 in selecting his running mate, Dan Quayle, then a senator from Indiana.

But it was not until the last few weeks that Mr. McCain winnowed his list to five or six finalists. They included, a McCain adviser said, Mr. Pawlenty, Mr. Romney, Mr. Lieberman, Ms. Palin and Tom Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania who also supports abortion rights. Ms. Palin, unlike the others, was barely mentioned in news media speculation.

The finalists, including Ms. Palin, were vetted, a campaign adviser said, and Mr. McCain then asked his inner circle — Mr. Salter, Rick Davis, Steve Schmidt and Charlie Black — to provide him with assessments of each. “He said, ‘Give me plusses and minuses on each of these people,’ ” Mr. Black said.

One of Mr. McCain’s closest friends, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, weighed in as well, pushing so hard for Mr. Lieberman — Mr. McCain, Mr. Graham and Mr. Lieberman are longtime traveling companions — that he vexed some of the other advisers. Others in the inner circle favored Mr. Pawlenty or Mr. Romney. Ms. Palin had no strong advocates in the group, an outside adviser said, but she had no detractors, either.

Last Sunday, 24 hours after Mr. Obama announced his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Mr. McCain met with his senior campaign team at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Phoenix. By then, campaign advisers said, the group had long decided that Mr. McCain’s “experience versus change” argument against Mr. Obama had run its course, to the extent that it had worked at all.

At the same time, Mr. Obama’s coming acceptance speech before a stadium of about 80,000 people (and what turned out to be a television audience of nearly 40 million) loomed large. As much as the campaign was publicly dismissing Mr. Obama as a celebrity in a rock-star setting, the concern was that his command of such a large crowd on the last night of the Democratic convention would give him the aura of a president.

In any case, one campaign adviser said, Mr. McCain hated running as the wizened old hand of experience. Despite his embrace this year of President Bush and many of the administration’s policies, Mr. McCain, a campaign adviser said, still saw himself as the maverick who delighted in occasionally throwing political grenades at his own Party.

Ms. Palin, and not Mr. Pawlenty or Mr. Romney, would reinforce Mr. McCain’s self-image, an adviser said. She had a reputation as a reformer in Alaska, she hunted and fished, and she had once belonged to a union. Just as crucial, Ms. Palin, 44, was beloved by the party’s religious base but did not come off as shrill. “She’s conservative,” Mr. Black said, “but she’s not an ideologue.”

After Mr. McCain contacted Ms. Palin, Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Salter met with her on Wednesday in Flagstaff, Ariz. It was not until the following morning that she traveled to Sedona to meet with Mr. McCain, who then sat down with her for his only interview of a potential running mate.

Within hours if not minutes after the interview was concluded, Ms. Palin had the job.

Over the next weeks, Ms. Palin will be prepared by Mr. McCain’s foreign policy staff, led by Randy Scheunemann, for the vice-presidential debate with Mr. Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who moves easily among heads of state.

Introducing Ms. Palin at a rally Saturday in Washington, Pa., Mr. McCain praised her and spoke about her selection.

“You know, I had a lot of good people to choose from, and I want to thank Mitt Romney and Mike Huckabee and Fred Thompson and Rudy Giuliani,” said Mr. McCain, referring to his rivals for the Republican nomination. “And,” he added, “it’s with great pride and gratitude I tell you I have found the right partner to help me stand up to those who have corrupted Washington.”

For her part, Ms. Palin still sounded surprised to have been picked. “Well, I know that when Senator McCain asked me to be his running mate, he had a short list of highly qualified men and women,” she said. “To have made that list at all was a privilege. And to have been chosen, it brings a great challenge.

“I know that it will demand the best that I have to give, and I promise nothing less.”
925 2008-08-31 Using what looked like the simplest strategy — just keep the ball in play — Cipolla returned practically everything Wawrinka hit his way, using a mix of solid backhands, timely volleys and well-placed drop shots. Wawrinka said he tried to just extend the match, thinking that Cipolla would get tired.

That strategy did not always look as though it would work. Wawrinka continued hitting unforced errors (88 in all), expressing his frustration with scowls. In a point somewhat typical of the match, Wawrinka hit an easy overhand out of bounds while up by 6-5 in the second set, and Cipolla went on to win the game and then the set. In the end, though, Wawrinka triumphed, 5-7, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-0, 6-4.

This tournament was by far the best Grand Slam showing by Cipolla, a 24-year-old who had to play the tournament’s qualifying rounds to get into the main draw. His highest ever ranking was 110th. In his only previous major appearance in singles, at the French Open in 2007, he lost to Rafael Nadal in the second round.

After the match, Cipolla refused to shake Wawrinka’s hand. Cipolla said that he endured cramps for several sets, and might have pulled a leg muscle, but that Wawrinka shouted and gestured toward him during the match as though he were faking an injury. “You don’t want to shake my hand?” Cipolla said Wawrinka asked him at the net. Cipolla’s response: “Of course not.”

Wawrinka said after the match that he thought Cipolla ran around fine when playing well but then came up lame when he was not winning. “I always have respect of the adversary,” Wawrinka said. “After playing for four hours, or a little bit more than four hours, it’s a little bit hard not to get frustrated, to just play and not say, ‘Come on,’ or something. After the match, it’s over. You can say hello.”

Wawrinka has matched his performance in last year’s Open when he made it into the Round of 16, which is the deepest he has made it in a Grand Slam tournament. He will next face Andy Murray of Britain, the sixth seed, who Wawrinka said is also one of his best friends on the tour.

“I like to play against friends sometimes,” he said. “You know you’re going to have a good match and try to play well.”

Just don’t expect him to ask for any pointers from Federer. When they saw each other in the locker room this past week at the Open, they instead reminisced about their Olympic win.

“We joke a lot together,” Wawrinka said. “But the jokes are private.”
926 2008-08-31 These strange angels have a big heart. I wish we had them over here in France, where this year 100,000 “owners” discarded their pets to selfishly go on vacation!

Our shelters are overcrowded; so are our foster homes. We certainly would appreciate these tough-looking angels roaming around our cities to help fight the abusers.

Simone Ford

Paris

For whatever reason, nonconformists — those who choose to look and think and act outside the box — tend to have sensitive minds and spirits.

Animals, in their own quieter way, have so much to offer. You just have to have your senses tuned in to receive it.

Kira Labinger

Upper East Side

It’s great to see articles about people helping animals, especially those that don’t fit the stereotype of animal activists. Instead of simply accusing and taking the animals away, these men are working with people who may not have the knowledge or resources to care for their animals.

Angela Jergler

Sugar Hill, Ga.

It is heartwarming to read of people using their own time and resources to help our fellow living beings who can’t protect themselves. And from a group that faces their own form of prejudices — amazing.

Sarah Peterson

Chaska, Minn.

I’m one of those turned off by tattoos. I’ll think twice now about inked people, since I’m also an animal lover and helper. Thank you, guys — you are heroes.

Kathryn Dalenberg

Valley Head, Ala.

It’s nice to know that compassion comes in all shapes and sizes.

Linda Fleming

San Francisco

Animal abusers beware: we are no longer just little old ladies in tennis shoes!

Rina Deych

Borough Park, Brooklyn

Re “The Boy in the Bullpen” (New York Observed, Aug. 24), about the author’s recollection of talking his father into a trip to Yankee Stadium in 1961 and then meeting some of the Yankees:

Thank you for the glimpse back to a simpler time — of Coppertone tans, Spaldeens and Yankees seats for under a dollar!

Julie Dreizen

Upper East Side

I recall Ladies’ Day games at Yankee Stadium when I was a very young girl and, with my Brownie camera, took pictures of any Yankee that would pose for me. The feeling stays with you forever.

Edith Panzer

Bronxville, N.Y.

“The Boy in the Bullpen” showed that two worlds can merge on the playing field. It offered a replay of a young man’s epic bonding experience with his adored Yankees, while also recounting a father-and-son adventure.

Kristine Simmons

Stapleton, Staten Island

“The Boy in the Bullpen” was one of those stories that every little boy wants to live and then never forgets.

Shibu Mammen

Queens Village

Re “Fish and Hips” (Urban Studies, Aug. 24), about nude models who lie covered with sushi for dining at private parties:

I was disgusted to learn that a New York wine shop is hosting body sushi parties, and that seemingly ordinary couples participate in them. Body sushi is by no means something that ordinary good citizens practice in Japan. As a Japanese, I saw body sushi only in B yakuza movies.

No food lover eats sushi this way in our country.

Ayuko Shiina

Times Square
927 2008-08-31 LOS ANGELES (AP) — A professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, resigned from an admissions committee Thursday, saying he suspected officials were cheating to illegally admit more black students but have blocked access to data that would prove it.

The professor, Tim Groseclose, who teaches political science classes, said he was concerned because “applicants often reveal their own race in the essay portion of the application,” according to an article in The Orange County Register. California’s public universities are banned from using race as an admissions criterion.

University officials said that admissions evaluators do not see the names, race or ethnicity of applicants and that they are following the law. Of the freshmen that will start classes next month, 235 students are black, or about 5 percent of the class. Two years ago, just 96 African-American freshman enrolled.

Professor Groseclose said he wanted to use statistical analysis to examine whether students were being admitted by race. He asked for 1,000 student files, including essays, with the names removed, which officials refused because of privacy issues.

Professor Groseclose said he supports offering preferences to recruit and admit more black students.
928 2008-08-31 Over the 30 years covered in the study, the 69 companies had a total of 219 such projects. The average duration of each project, Professor Tellis said in an interview, was about four and a half years.

Some of these companies, like Hewlett-Packard, are well known. For H.P., the study focused on its research and development of computer monitors and printers. It found that it earned a “very high rate of return” on its R.& D. investment, Professor Tellis said.

On average, the professors found that shares of a company with R.& D. operations rose just after it announced the start of such projects. The increases occurred even though potential sales of any new products were generally several years away.

IN fact, the professors found that the biggest price jumps tended to occur early in the R.& D. process, which they divided into various stages — from the project’s initial setup and various development phases to the product’s introduction and, in some cases, the winning of awards for successful innovation. Typically, shares rose much higher in the setup and development phases than they did when product sales began.

This suggests that investors don’t have to wait for those sales if they want to gain from a successful R.& D. project. On the contrary, the professors wrote, the “markets respond promptly and substantially to announcements about innovation at all stages of the innovation project.”

It is understandable that many investors haven’t noticed this pattern, Professor Sood said in an interview. That’s because most previous academic studies of the market’s reaction to R.& D. have focused only on what happens in the commercialization stage. But, he argues, it is precisely because the stock market does a good job of discounting R.& D.’s future benefits that such a focus systematically underestimates the market’s actual reward for these expenditures.

Of course, not all R.& D. projects succeed. When they don’t, the stock market typically drives down the prices of the companies’ stocks. But the professors also found that the successes more than made up for the failures. As a result, the stock of the average company that initiated an R.& D. project fared better than the overall market, and better than rivals without R.& D. operations.

This means that it makes sense to invest in a diversified portfolio of companies with ambitious research and development programs, Professor Tellis says. If history is any guide, investors who do so will not only beat the market over the long term, but will also reap immediate gains as R.& D. projects unfold.
929 2008-08-31 The major stock indexes zigzagged through the week but ultimately ended lower.

On Friday, investors sold off stocks after a government report indicated that personal incomes had fallen and consumer spending had slumped in July. A weak earnings report from Dell dragged down the technology sector.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 84.51 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 11,543.55. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 9.37 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 1,282.83. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 47.19 points, or nearly 2 percent, to close at 2,367.52. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.81 percent from 3.87 percent the previous week.

For the month, however, stocks were in positive territory. The Dow gained 1.46 percent in August, the S.& P. 500 was 1.22 percent higher, and the Nasdaq was up 1.8 percent.
930 2008-08-31 BANGKOK — Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej prepared to hold a special session of Parliament Sunday, declaring that he would not resign in the face of continuing protests and a disruption of rail and air service that included a blockade of airports at two popular tourist resorts.

The prime minister called a special session of Parliament for Sunday as members of his six-party coalition, meeting Saturday evening, told reporters they would stand by him.

“I, the prime minister, have come to office in the appropriate way, and I won’t resign,” Mr. Samak said, noting that he had taken office after a democratic election just seven months ago.

The protesters, calling themselves the People’s Alliance for Democracy, accuse Mr. Samak of corruption and of seeking to amend the Constitution to allow the return of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.

Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup two years ago, returned to Thailand early this year, then fled this month to London, where he is seeking asylum to avoid several court cases alleging corruption and abuse of power which he says are politically motivated.
931 2008-08-31 “The conversation about the data is as important as the flow of data from the database,” he said.

The Many Eyes site, begun in January 2007, offers 16 ways to present data, from stack graphs and bar charts to diagrams that let people map relationships. TreeMaps, showing information in colorful rectangles, are among the popular tools.

Initially, the site offered only analytical tools like graphs for visualizing numerical data. “The interesting thing we noticed was that users kept trying to upload blog posts, and entire books,” Dr. Viégas said, so the site added techniques for unstructured text. One tool, called an interleaved tag cloud, lets users compare side by side the relative frequencies of the words in two passages — for instance, President Bush’s State of the Union addresses in 2002 and 2003.

Almost all the tools are interactive, allowing users to change parameters, zoom in or out or show more information when the mouse moves over an image, Dr. Wattenberg said.

Users can embed images and links to their visualizations in their Web sites or blogs, just as they can embed YouTube videos. “It’s great that people can paste in a YouTube video of cats” on their blogs, Dr. Viégas said. “So why not a visual that gives you some insight into the sea of data that surrounds us? I might find one thing; someone else, something completely different, and that’s where the conversation starts.”

Rich Hoeg, a technology manager who lives in New Hope, Minn., and has a blog at econtent.typepad.com, was so taken with the possibilities for group collaboration that he wrote a tutorial on using Many Eyes as part of his series called “NorthStar Nerd Tutorials.”

“Many Eyes is unusual, because it takes advantage of the collective intelligence of a group to get more out of a data set,” he said. For the tutorial, Mr. Hoeg exported enrollment data for graduate engineering students to the site, then used one of the tools there to display the information in various ways.

“I wanted people to understand that you can take the same data and have it tell lots of different stories,” he said.

Dr. Wattenberg noted an example from the site. In charting a particular topic — deaths resulting from human violence in the 20th century — one user originally presented a bubble graph in which the size of the circles represented the number of casualties tied to an event — for instance, World War I or World War II. After discussion on the site about the substantial growth in population during the 20th century, the originator offered two new time-based visualizations of the data, one a line graph and the other a stack graph — plotting the number of casualties against this growing population.

“You could see a new downward trend emerge,” Dr. Wattenberg said. “Violent deaths declined in the latter decades of the century. It’s a slightly more optimistic view.”

Ben Shneiderman, a professor in the computer science department at the University of Maryland, College Park, and a pioneer in information visualization, says sites like Many Eyes are helping to democratize the tools of visualization. “The gift of the Internet is that everyone can participate, and the tools can be brought to a much wider audience,” he said.

Presenting results in a static spreadsheet or table may do the job. “But sometimes it’s like driving with your eyes closed,” he said. “With visualization, it might be possible to open your eyes and see something that will help you” — for instance, patterns, clusters, gaps or outliers in the data.

“The great fun of information visualization,” he said, “is that it gives you answers to questions you didn’t know you had.”
932 2008-08-31 A picture caption with the Blueprints column last Sunday about the new offices of the United States Fund for Unicef reversed the identities of the designers shown. Gregory Gresham was at the left, and Lou Switzer was at the right.
933 2008-08-31 Still, the garden, which is filled with vegetables that were once staples in the tribe’s diet, is a sign of enthusiasm for farming that members believe could spread as the water arrives.

On the reservation, the sound of earthmovers fills the air as workers repair dilapidated and abandoned irrigation canals and ditches and dig new ones to distribute billions of gallons of water that the community will soon be receiving.

The water settlement, involving the two principal tribes on the Gila River reservation — the Pima, who call themselves Akimel O’otham, or “river people,” and the Maricopa — as well as a related band, the Tohono O’odham Nation on the Mexican border, took effect this year, after being approved by Congress in 2004.

It will take several more years to complete the irrigation and related projects here, at a cost to the federal government of about $680 million, but when done it will allow the community to double the amount of farming, both an economic and cultural boon.

For the time being, the community garden, with squash, beans and other vegetables is just over two acres. “We’re relearning how to grow them,” said Ed Mendoza, one of the founders of the garden, the Vah-Ki Cooperative Garden. “People get sick with diabetes, they’re obese, and there are heart attacks and stress because we eat an American diet now. Beans regulate the highs and lows of sugar. Okra makes you healthy. You can eat this food and feel the spirit immediately.”

Elsewhere, several members are acquiring plots in hopes of growing traditional crops as well as more profitable ones like alfalfa. Gila River Farms, the largest tribal agriculture outfit, plans to double its farming, to some 35,000 acres, once the water begins flowing again.

Most of the water was diverted in the late 19th century, slowing the Gila River to a trickle. It was a startling turn of events for a tribe whose ancestors had thrived on the river for generations through an elaborate system of ditches and laterals, some of them still visible today.

The construction of the Coolidge Dam, completed in 1928, by the federal government was intended to restore some of the lost water, but the reservation never received enough to bring back farming in any big way. Later diversions also depleted the Salt River, which runs north of the reservation and helped support farming as well.

As the water disappeared and the Pima switched to government rations as their staple, obesity, alcoholism and diabetes exploded.

Where adult-onset diabetes was hardly present a century ago, it is now everywhere and has been the subject of decades of research by government scientists. More than half of the population over 25 has it, and a rising number of children are getting it.

Scientists have found the genetic makeup of the tribe leaves it predisposed to weight gain from sugary foods. That, coupled with the decline in activity from farming and the drop in the consumption of natural foods, probably explains the high rate of the disease, said Leonard Sanders, a diabetes specialist on the reservation.

He said the Pima’s sister tribe in Mexico, which has kept up farming and eating off the land, has normal rates of the disease.

The Pima had long wanted the water back and by the late 1980s, buoyed by trends in water-rights laws and a new brand of reservation-born negotiators, serious talks began.

Water claims are usually complicated, hotly disputed affairs in the warm, dry West. Add in issues of Indian rights and sovereignty and it is perhaps not surprising that it took more than 30 years to reach the settlement.

It provides the reservation 653,500 acre-feet of water a year (an acre-foot is equivalent to about one family’s water use annually) coming from a mix of sources, with the Central Arizona Project tapping the Colorado River providing the biggest share. It also includes the $680 million to rebuild the irrigation system and to provide drainage, water monitoring and other benefits.

It may seem a staggering amount of water, but federal and state officials said the reservation might have gained much more had it prevailed in court. It had asked for two million acre-feet, for one thing, based in part on documented use of the river going back to the 16th century.

“It wasn’t a matter of if the tribes would win at trial,” said Gregg Houtz, the lead lawyer for the state’s Department of Water Resources in the settlement agreement. “It was a matter of how much.”

A big reason for settling, federal and state officials said, was to provide all sides certainty and clarity over how much water they will have now and in the coming decades. The reservation had already received or been promised about two-thirds of the water in the settlement, but, Mr. Houtz said, the additional water makes the Gila River Indians major water brokers as they lease some of it to cities and could vault the tribe to the top of farming in the state as well.

The reservation has discussed farming some 150,000 acres, 40 percent of its 372,000 acres, but it is planning to avoid large housing developments.

Said Rodney B. Lewis, the community’s former general counsel who helped negotiate the settlement, “we will be an island” amid suburban Phoenix’s sea of subdivisions.

The Gila River itself will remain largely dry; the water from the settlement will be delivered and distributed through a system of culverts and canals.

And it will take much effort to reverse the legacy of poor health, though programs abound, intended for the young and the old, to combat diabetes. Medical officials are particularly alarmed at a rise in the rate of the disease among the young.

Georgina Charles, 74, a diabetes sufferer, attends a regular exercise class for the elderly and says she watches what she eats, but acknowledges that she and others find it difficult to ignore detrimental food. One recent night she prepared traditional fry bread for a community event, substituting vegetable oil for the usual lard but laughing at the obvious.

“It’s not too good for us, but we eat it,” Ms. Charles said.

Just a few miles away, the community gardeners adjusted hoses as the weekly delivery of water arrived and took stock of their crops. The water they use comes from an underground aquifer, but they are contemplating how they might tap into the settlement water and promote natural foods.

Schoolchildren visit the garden and some of its produce ends up on tables at community functions but, members said, more needs to be done to take full advantage of the water.

“When we lost that water, we lost generations of farming,” said Janet Haskie, a community gardener. “Then people had the attitude like, ‘They owe us. I’m going to take these rations.’ So now we have to start over again, a little at a time.”
934 2008-08-31 Mr. McCain’s advisers said that rallying wavering women would be one of Ms. Palin’s main jobs in the weeks ahead. They said her campaign schedule would take her to areas in swing states like Ohio and Pennsylvania where there were pockets of women who had supported Mrs. Clinton in the primaries.

At the same time, they suggested, Ms. Palin would also be given the task of appealing to evangelical voters, who have long been unenthusiastic about Mr. McCain. In many ways, the choice of Ms. Palin may prove to have been as much an effort to drive up turnout among the Republican base as it was a move to compete for women.

“We had a solid Republican and evangelical base,” said Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. “But now it’s going to be very intense.”

James C. Dobson, the influential conservative Christian leader who said in the primaries that he could never vote for Mr. McCain, said the selection of Ms. Palin had won him over. If he went into the voting booth today, Mr. Dobson told the talk radio host Dennis Prager on Friday, “I would pull that lever.”

If Ms. Palin motivates evangelicals to rally behind the Republican ticket as they did for Mr. Bush in 2004, it could prove significant in states like Iowa and Ohio, where Republicans won by slim margins in 2004. It could also have an effect in North Carolina, a solidly Republican state that Mr. Obama is trying to win by appealing to black voters and new residents.

Republican leaders in North Carolina, who had been increasingly anxious over Mr. Obama’s intensive efforts there, said they were heartened by the selection of Ms. Palin.

“Our people are excited,” said Linda Daves, the chairwoman of the North Carolina Republican Party. “The social conservatives are one area where she is going to resonate.”

Mr. McCain’s choice of a running mate comes at a pivotal time in the campaign. It follows what even Republicans said was a successful convention here by Mr. Obama. And it comes on the eve of Mr. McCain’s convention, with Republicans nervously watching Hurricane Gustav as it heads into the Gulf of Mexico, an unwelcome reminder of how the Bush White House’s halting response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 hurt the president and his party politically.

Mr. McCain, in an interview taped for “Fox News Sunday,” said the convention program might be reduced or suspended for a day or two if the storm turned out to be destructive.

Aides to Mr. McCain, who has frequently criticized Mr. Bush’s slow response to Hurricane Katrina, said Saturday he would go to Mississippi on Sunday for an inspection of storm preparations.

With both presidential candidates having filled out their tickets — Mr. Obama traveled Saturday across Ohio with his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware — their campaigns have now shifted into high gear.

Mr. Obama’s aides said that they were confident of holding on to all the states Senator John Kerry won against Mr. Bush in 2004 and that they were already well positioned to pick up Iowa and New Mexico, both of which narrowly went to Mr. Bush. The Obama campaign is investing heavily to compete on more challenging terrain for Democrats, including Florida and Virginia.

But Mr. McCain is focusing heavily on taking two big states away from the Democrats: Michigan and Pennsylvania. Both have blocs of white, working-class voters who are anxious about the economy, a group that has given Mr. Obama difficulty and could be receptive to Ms. Palin’s support for gun rights and the portrayal of her as a churchgoing mother of five who shares their values.

Mr. Obama intends to campaign throughout the Republican convention, visiting Indiana, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

At a stop on Friday in western Pennsylvania, one of Mr. Obama’s biggest applause lines was reprised from his Denver speech, mocking Mr. McCain for pledging to follow Osama bin Laden to the “gates of hell” but not, in the view of Democrats, supporting sufficient military force in Afghanistan to capture him.

Mr. Obama this weekend began running the advertisement invoking Ms. Palin and linking Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush. In the advertisement, as images of Mr. McCain with Ms. Palin and then with Mr. Bush are shown, an announcer says, “While this may be his running mate, America knows this is John McCain’s agenda.”

But the campaign is about to turn to state-specific commercials tailored to local issues, possibly including one on a proposed national relief fund for hurricane insurance that is popular in Florida, said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama’s campaign manager.

Mr. Obama’s advisers said that compared with the mountains of data they had gathered on Mr. Pawlenty and Mr. Romney, they had far less information on Ms. Palin. Their dossier consisted of a thin document based mainly on her run for governor and newspaper clips.

Aides said the party staff members and allies in Alaska would sort through public documents relating to Ms. Palin’s time in the governor’s mansion, her two terms as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, and her two terms as a member of the Wasilla City Council.

Democrats were not the only ones regrouping. Republican officials said that though they had time to collect surface-level material on Ms. Palin and her husband, they had done no examination of the rest of her family.

Beyond that, Republican organizers said the convention aides in charge of reviewing every speech delivered from the lectern are now on the watch for blunt attacks on Mr. Obama’s readiness to lead, and reviewing how much to emphasize what had been the convention theme: “Not Ready ’08.” They are aware that such criticism in a high-profile setting would provide an opportunity for Democrats to make the same charge against Ms. Palin, who has almost no foreign policy experience and has been governor for just 20 months.

Several Republican delegates said they too were shocked by the selection of Ms. Palin and, while they wished her well, were deeply concerned that she did not have the experience in foreign policy or national security to be commander in chief.

“We’ve been told for the last few months that experience is what matters most in the next White House,” said John Scates, a delegate from St. Louis. “But McCain is picking someone whose experience is little to nothing or, at best, unknown.”

In the days ahead, Mr. Obama’s advisers said they would not just seek to define Ms. Palin as extremely conservative on issues like abortion and raise questions about her credentials as part of a larger effort to challenge Mr. McCain’s judgment. They will also argue that Mr. McCain’s decision would prove to be a mistake in terms of appealing to women and that it would hurt him in important battlegrounds like the Philadelphia suburbs.

“In terms of the classic suburbs, it’s a bomb,” said Marcel L. Groen, the chairman of the Democratic Party of Montgomery County, outside Philadelphia. “So far as suburban woman go, this will not help McCain at all: they’re pro-choice and anti-gun.”

It is complicated terrain, aides to Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain acknowledged. Any perception that Mr. Obama or his supporters were trying to tear down Ms. Palin could renew anger among supporters of Mrs. Clinton.

“I can’t imagine the Obama team will spend their time on Palin; they’ll spend their time with their negative ads attacking McCain and Bush,” said Mandy Grunwald, Mrs. Clinton’s chief advertising strategist. “You always have to be careful not to rally people to her side by attacking too much.”

Republicans said Ms. Palin would provide an outlet for women angered at what they said was the poor treatment of Mrs. Clinton by the Obama campaign, the Democratic Party leadership and the news media. Nicolle Wallace, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain, said: “I think the public pretty much accepts the fact that they played pretty dirty and that sexism played a role in the primary.”

Mr. Obama’s campaign has moved on a variety of fronts to increase his appeal to women. Leading women in battleground states are being mobilized, and a disproportionate number of female surrogates are being sent to argue for him on television. They are being asked to focus on abortion rights and pay equity, aides said, and to steer clear of criticizing Ms. Palin as having limited experience in elected politics and government.

And Mrs. Clinton is likely to play an even more active role on behalf of Mr. Obama in the fall campaign, her aides said, because of Ms. Palin. She is expected to participate in television appearances, fund-raisers and conference calls with reporters to rebut efforts by the McCain campaign to court her supporters.

Mr. Obama’s campaign said there were now about 18 states in play, including Alaska. In interviews, campaign officials said they would compete there, despite the fact that the name of its very popular governor will appear on the ballot.

Mr. McCain’s advisers laughed at that. “We’re scared to death about Alaska,” Mr. Black said.
935 2008-08-31 Not long ago at an L.P.G.A. tournament, one of the organization’s 120 international players and an executive from a major corporation — who was also born outside the United States — played golf and talked for more than four hours during a Wednesday pro-am. The talk continued after the golf, and e-mail addresses were exchanged so further discussions could ensue about how corporation and golfer might best form a partnership to their mutual financial benefit.

Libba Galloway, the deputy commissioner of the L.P.G.A., shared the anecdote Friday to illustrate how business sometimes works on the L.P.G.A. Tour. To protect the parties involved from embarrassment should the deal not come to fruition, she withheld the names of the player, the executive and the corporation.

“If that player had not been able to speak English, she couldn’t have communicated with this sponsor, and he probably would now be talking about a deal with someone else in his own language, or with someone who could communicate with him in English,” she said. “And the player would have lost out on a sponsorship opportunity.”

Fundamental to the case Galloway is making for the new L.P.G.A. policy calling for all international members of the organization to be able to speak passable English by the end of 2009 are these factors:

¶The policy covers all international players and singles out no specific group.

¶Its primary aim is to enhance financial opportunities for players and the Tour.

“I guess I’m puzzled by some of the criticism because we feel like we are committed to our membership to help them be the best they can be,” Galloway said.
936 2008-08-31 The American players, it seems, cannot show up for a news conference at the Open without being asked about the sad state of men’s tennis in this country. The generation that followed the era of Sampras, Andre Agassi, Jim Courier and Michael Chang — major winners all — has produced one Grand Slam singles champion, Andy Roddick, who prevailed at the 2003 Open.

And yet, for all the hand-wringing that accompanies any discussion of the current crop of American-born players, there is one truth that appears self-evident. With four American men in the Round of 32 — Sam Querrey, James Blake, Mardy Fish and Roddick — American tennis seems a lot healthier than its Australian counterpart.

“It’s frustrating,” said Darren Cahill, an Adelaide native who advanced to the semifinals at the 1988 Open as a 22-year-old. Cahill, who coaches and does broadcast commentary, added: “Maybe 10, 15 years ago when we had a great group of guys in Hewitt, Philippoussis, Rafter, maybe we didn’t work hard enough to piggyback on their success. Maybe we’re paying the price for it now.”

While Cahill has no concrete answers, he spent part of Thursday afternoon on a practice court on the National Tennis Center grounds in the company of a would-be solution. Cahill hit with 15-year-old Bernard Tomic, a German-born Australian of Croatian descent who won the Australian Open junior title this year.

Over the past few years, the Australian tennis hierarchy has undergone a significant restructuring aimed at identifying preteen talent and developing it. The average age of the seven Australian singles players at this year’s Open was 22.6 years, suggesting the talent nurtured by the revamped system remains still largely under wraps.

Cahill expressed a lament commonly heard in America when he said in Australia: “It is a great life. A lot of players in the Eastern bloc countries are playing for a chance to make a difference for their families. Maybe we just went through a period where we weren’t hungry enough.”

Moore, a Perth native who turned 18 earlier this month, got a taste of the competition that beckons. She was the runner-up in the junior girls’ singles at the Australian Open, which earned her a wild card into the Open. Moore defeated an American wild card, Melanie Oudin, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (5) in the first round before losing in straight sets, 6-1, 6-3, to a German qualifier, Anna-Lena Grönefeld.

Her second-round match was played on Court 13 in front of a sparse crowd that included one Australian flag-waving fan and Australian’s top-ranked women’s player, Casey Dellacqua, who had time to kill after falling in the first round to the French qualifier, Julie Coin, who went on to upset the No. 1 seed, Ana Ivanovic, in the next round.

Dellacqua, No. 40 in the world, advanced to the fourth round of the Australian Open in January, defeating a former No. 1, Amélie Mauresmo, along the way. She told reporters then, “I’ve achieved pretty much my goals that I set out to achieve for the whole year.”

After succumbing 7-6 (6), 7-6 (4) to Coin on Tuesday, Dellacqua, who has leapfrogged her countrywomen Samantha Stosur and Alicia Molik, who have battled injuries and illness, could not hide her disappointment. “I was clearly favored to win,” she said, “and I haven’t been in a situation like that for a long time now.” She added, “I’m at a level where I do need to put more pressure on myself.”

Watching Dellacqua’s first-round match was a woman on holiday from Sydney who wore an Australian flag like a cape. Her name was Melissa Bessant and she said she had planned her vacation around the Open. The Australians’ precipitous fall from a sport they dominated at the start of the Open era “has been a worry,” Bessant said, “especially since Australia has been known as such a big sporting nation.”

She added: “Obviously I’d like to see more of the Aussies. But they go out there and do their best. That’s really all you can ask for.”
937 2008-08-31 Melissa Sloane Kubit, the daughter of Glenna Kubit and Barry Kubit of Oceanside, N.Y., is to be married on Sunday to Mario Angelides, a son of Photini Angelides and Dennis Angelides of Rockville Centre, N.Y. Justice Timothy S. Driscoll of State Supreme Court in Mineola, N.Y., will officiate at the Crest Hollow Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y. The ceremony will incorporate Jewish and Greek Orthodox traditions.

The bride, 27, is an associate at the law firm of Garfunkel, Wild & Travis in Great Neck, N.Y.; she is a member of the firm’s litigation and arbitration practice group. She graduated summa cum laude from Muhlenberg College and received her law degree from Boston University.

The bridegroom, also 27, is an electrical engineer. He works for the Leviton Manufacturing Company, a producer of electrical and electronic products in Little Neck, Queens. He graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

Ms. Kubit and Mr. Angelides have known each other since the seventh grade and graduated with the same class from Oceanside High School. He was quite shy in those days but finally found the nerve to ask her out when they were home after their first semester in college. They went to a Greek cafe in Bayside, Queens. Ms. Kubit cannot hear, and they communicate mostly through lip reading. “One of the things that drew me to Mario was how he never passes any judgment on me — or anyone else, for that matter,” Ms. Kubit said, “and never viewed the fact that I was deaf as a negative, or as a disability.

“It was never anything he needed to accept. He’s quietly sensitive to my disability, without making it an issue.”

Mr. Angelides said Ms. Kubit “doesn’t let her deafness define her, and it doesn’t stop her from doing the things she likes to do.”
938 2008-08-31 Emily T. Cope, a daughter of Merrily Cope and James M. Cope of Salt Lake City, was married on Friday evening to Matthew David Burton, a son of David Burton of Malvern, Pa., and the late Mary Burton. Ryan K. Olsen, a high priest of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, officiated at the Millcreek Inn in Salt Lake City. Matthew Archer-Beck, a friend of the couple, led a ceremony that included a Quaker tradition of presenting a wedding certificate for all of the guests to sign.

The bride, 30, and the bridegroom, 35, met at the University of Virginia, from which they received law degrees.

Ms. Cope, who graduated summa cum laude from Cornell, is keeping her name. She is a litigation associate at the Washington law firm Hogan & Hartson.

Her father is a deputy district attorney in Salt Lake City. Her mother retired in June as the director of a crisis unit of Valley Mental Health, a nonprofit health care provider in Salt Lake City.

Mr. Burton is a lawyer in the Office of the Legal Adviser at the State Department in Washington, where he focuses on international environmental legal issues. He graduated from Johns Hopkins and received a master’s degree in law and diplomacy from Tufts.

His father works for the Coatesville School District as a special-education teacher at the Concern Treatment Unit for Boys, a residential center in Coatesville, Pa., for adolescents in the juvenile justice system. The bridegroom’s mother was the administrative assistant to the vice president for academic affairs at Immaculata, the university in Pennsylvania.
939 2008-08-31 Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about collector-car auctions in and around Pebble Beach, Calif., misstated the results for one auction house, Gooding & Company. Sales at its auction were $64 million this year, an increase of about $3 million — not $61 million. The article also misidentified the car that sold for a North American auction record; it was a 1937 Bugatti Type 57SC Atalante, not a Type 37SC.
940 2008-08-31 My mother went to Mocambo to listen to Doris Day covers. I went to Mocambo for Fish à la Diana.

Mocambo opened its doors in 1956, a European oasis of glamour and jazz on Park Street, Calcutta’s famous cabaret row. Its second-generation owner, Nitin Kothari, called it independent India’s first nightclub, which is plausible, even if impossible to verify. There was a German architect, an Italian manager and, soon after its opening, a 17-year-old chanteuse named Pam Crain, who wore a French evening gown and sang standards with Anton Menezes’ six-piece band. “She had a good voice, she was very good-looking,” Mr. Kothari, 61, recalled. “Very glamorous.”

My father would, of course, wear only proper shoes, no matter the swampy Calcutta heat. I asked my mother if she danced in a silk sari. She denied dancing.

So many stripes of Europeans left their mark on this city — Dutch, Portuguese, Armenian, English — that it seems somehow fitting that in cuisine and cabaret vibe, Mocambo is still an odd jumble of Europeanisms: a mural of faux Degas ballerinas, red vinyl banquettes, red silk lampshades hanging like upside-down tulips, cigarette smoke rising from the tables. Fish à la Moutarde is grilled beckty, a Bay of Bengal delicacy, drenched in a spicy mustard sauce, whose virtues a Bengali can croon about. Angels on Horseback is chicken wrapped in bacon. Fish à la Diana is indulgence itself: beckty, stuffed with prawn and cooked in cream.

The most expensive dishes range around 200 Indian rupees, or $4.60, at 44 rupees to the dollar. The best choices on the cocktail menu: Indian-made Old Monk rum and Black Dog whiskey (splurge on the 12-year vintage, about 200 rupees a double shot).

The music stopped 20 years ago. Mr. Kothari blamed Communists elected to power. They disapproved of bourgeois indulgences like dancing cheek to cheek, he said. They raised the entertainment surcharge to 30 percent. Others on Park Strip blamed power outages.

Despair — and then globalization — hit the other clubs, one by one. The Blue Fox became a McDonald’s and then closed after a gas cylinder exploded. Magnolia’s Sunday afternoon jam sessions were abandoned. A sprawling KFC opened across Park Street. The only restaurant to still have a live band is Trinca’s, which began as a tea room.
941 2008-08-31 To the Editor:     Re ''The Boy in the Bullpen'' (New York Observed, Aug. 24), about the author's recollection of talking his father into a trip to Yankee Stadium in 1961 and then meeting some of the Yankees:...
942 2008-08-31 MARX--Emilie Hyman, 86, of Naples, Florida died at home with friends and family August 13, 2008. Born August 17, 1921 in Rochester, NY to Alfred H. Hyman and Esther Olson graduated from Vassar College in 1944. Soloed J3 Piper Cub 1945. Ran Old Lym...
943 2008-08-31 MISROK--Frances, on August 29, 2008, passed peacefully at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Cherished mother of Irwin, Lawrence and Carol. Dearly loved and loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Her kindness and smile will be missed. ...
944 2008-08-31 To the Editor:     Re ''Fish and Hips'' (Urban Studies, Aug. 24), about nude models who lie covered with sushi for dining at private parties:...
945 2008-08-31 WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30 -8/30/03 Dearly Beloved, missed more each day. Remembered with deepest affection. Forever in our hearts. Bernie WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30--8/30/03. Five years and still in my heart everyday. Your daughter, Wendy...
946 2008-08-31 Seventeen months after the indictment, a federal judge in New York has set a trial date in the government's fraud  case against David A. Stockman, former C.E.O. of Collins & Aikman and once President Ronald Reagan's budget director.     A United S...