1 2010-07-01 Fresh off a tough appearance before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, Goldman Sachs president Gary D. Cohn told Bloomberg Television that the firm acted appropriately in hedging its risk....
2 2010-07-01 The former head of the American International Group unit that nearly crippled the insurer said the 2008 taxpayer bailout of up to $182 billion was too generous to customers like Goldman Sachs....
3 2010-07-01 Stocks fell Thursday as manufacturing and labor market data heightened fears of a double-dip recession before Friday's crucial employment report....
4 2010-07-01 Do you know what "Phiz on a five" means?...
5 2010-07-01 Republican Senate candidates Mark Kirk and Rand Paul released their second quarter fund-raising totals on Thursday....
6 2010-07-01 The Washington Democrat had voted against Senate version of the legislation....
7 2010-07-01 Highlights of the many tax relief-provisions, loan-program enhancements and other changes....
8 2010-07-01 There are eight teams left in the World Cup and three shirt manufacturers vying for the crown....
9 2010-07-01 After selling tobacco stock, the university official now faces more scrutiny for holdings in fast-food and drug companies....
10 2010-07-01 Lawmakers adopted a bill that would grant rights to domestic workers and were poised to allow no-fault divorce....
11 2010-07-01 The billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn disclosed that he had bought another 4.64 million shares of Lions Gate studio in the open market after his hostile tender offer expired, bringing his total stake to 37.9 percent....
12 2010-07-01 Though Robert C. Byrd opposed the presence of news photographers in the Senate chamber, one recorded his lying in state....
13 2010-07-01 Each year, the United States Open holds extensive tryouts for prospective ball persons of all ages....
14 2010-07-01 Alex Bogusky, one of the most-heralded creative executives in advertising for his work for brands like Burger King and the BMW Mini Cooper, is leaving the industry....
15 2010-07-01 An appeals court rules that the city failed to meet its obligation to spell out the consequences of closing 19 struggling schools....
16 2010-07-01 A growth in emissions in China and India "completely nullified" reductions made in the developed world in 2009....
17 2010-07-01 Daily Wish offers 2 first-class tickets to Hong Kong for a bargain....
18 2010-07-01 Jon Pareles and Jon Caramanica on Eminem's new album, "Recovery;" Ben Ratliff reviews "Love King" by The-Dream and Ben Sisario gives us a preview of July's notable releases. Jon Pareles is the host....
19 2010-07-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
20 2010-07-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
21 2010-07-01 Roosevelt's spending cuts and tax increases weren't the only reasons for the 1937-8 double dip....
22 2010-07-01 A peloton of college counselors take to the road to tour California colleges, and invite readers of The Choice to tag along....
23 2010-07-01 Bamyan Media now hopes to expand into Colombia, Lebanon and other countries....
24 2010-07-01 It seems that the plan by Gov. David A. Paterson and New York's legislative leaders to tax out-of-state hedge fund managers may have ignited something of a dispute with Connecticut, another stronghold of the industry....
25 2010-07-01 Yahoo approved a plan to repurchase up to $3 billion of its common stock over the next three years, the company said on Wednesday....
26 2010-07-01 Britain's Tate & Lyle said Thursday it is selling its European sugar refining business to American Sugar Refining for $314 million in cash, as it focuses on producing ingredients for industry....
27 2010-07-01 HiSoft Technology International and its stockholders priced American Depositary shares of its initial public offering at $10 each, below the expected range, the company said Wednesday....
28 2010-07-01 Senate Democratic leaders introduced their long-awaited small-business jobs bill on Tuesday - and in an indication of how urgently legislators viewed the matter, the Senate voted to begin debating the measure even before its details were finalized...
29 2010-07-01 Amazon refreshes the Kindle DX....
30 2010-07-01 Defense Minister Ehud Barak said Wednesday that he would meet in the next few days with the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad. It would be the first such high-level contact between Israeli and Palestinian officials in five months. At the moment, the two sides are speaking to each other through George J. Mitchell, the Obama administration’s Middle East envoy.
31 2010-07-01 The central figure in a failed suicide plot to bomb three New York City subways lines last year had contact with an elusive and feared senior Qaeda operative who spent his youth in Brooklyn and has eluded American authorities for at least seven years, a counterterrorism official said on Wednesday.

The central figure in the bomb plot, Najibullah Zazi, 24, and two men with whom he attended high school in Queens have been indicted in federal court in Brooklyn on charges they conspired to carry out the attack. Mr. Zazi and one of his co-defendants pleaded guilty to terrorism charges this year and admitted to traveling to tribal areas in Pakistan for weapons and explosives training.

Both men have been cooperating with the office of the United States attorney in Brooklyn and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and prosecutors have said in court that they met with two senior Qaeda leaders in Pakistan, Saleh al-Somali, the group’s head of external operations, and Rashid Rauf, a key operative, who sent the men back to New York to carry out a suicide strike.

The elusive senior Qaeda figure with whom Mr. Zazi had contact is the Saudi-born Adnan G. el-Shukrijumah, 34, long described by law enforcement officials as a hardened operative who was all the more feared because of his fluency in English and knowledge of New York City.

The contact between the men was reported late Wednesday by The Associated Press.

The State Department offered a reward of up to $5 million several years ago for information leading directly to the capture of Mr. Shukrijumah, but he has managed to avoid capture since the F.B.I. issued an alert for him in 2003.

Mr. Shukrijumah was identified as a senior terrorism figure by Khalid Shaikh Mohammed during his intensive interrogation, and concern about him grew with the discovery that he had received flight training in the United States about the same time as the 9/11 hijackers. A bulletin warning that he might try to cross American borders with a Saudi, Canadian or Trinidadian passport was issued in 2003.

Mr. Shukrijumah’s time in Brooklyn in the late 1980s and early ’90s put him close to the heart of radical Islamic extremism in the United States. His father, Gulshair el-Shukrijumah, reportedly did translation work for Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind cleric who was linked to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.

Mr. Rahman was sentenced to life in prison in 1996 for his role in a plot to bomb the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels, the United Nations and other landmarks in New York.
32 2010-07-01 PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — The police are reopening an investigation into a Portland massage therapist’s allegations that former Vice President Al Gore groped her at a hotel in 2006.

In a brief statement Wednesday, the Portland police did not say why they were reopening the investigation. They earlier said they considered the case closed because there was no evidence.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Gore said he “unequivocally and emphatically” denied making unwanted sexual advances toward the woman.

“Further investigation into this matter will only benefit Mr. Gore,” said the spokeswoman, Kalee Kreider.

The masseuse told the police that Mr. Gore made unwanted advances during an appointment on Oct. 24, 2006, at a downtown hotel. He was in Portland to deliver a speech on climate change.

Last week, the Portland police said that the woman’s lawyer came to them in 2006 but that the masseuse canceled appointments with detectives. The case was reopened in 2009, when detectives interviewed the woman. They determined that there was insufficient evidence.
33 2010-07-01 LONDON — Britain’s Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that the nation’s soldiers in combat abroad were not protected by European human rights law, reversing lower court rulings that the Defense Ministry said would hamper the British war effort in Afghanistan.

The 6-to-3 decision came in a case brought by the mother of a 32-year-old reservist from Scotland, Jason Smith, who died of heat stroke while deployed at the Iraqi desert city of Al Amarah in August 2003, months after American and British forces toppled Saddam Hussein.

Private Smith had complained to commanders of feeling unwell in 120-degree heat, but suffered cardiac arrest before being taken to a hospital.

The defense minister, Dr. Liam Fox, called the ruling a victory for “common sense,” and said “commanders’ orders given in the heat of battle” should not be open to constant legal review. The lawyer arguing the ministry’s case, James Eadie, said that if British forces had lost the case, they would have had to guarantee the human rights of “a British soldier on duty in a market in Kabul,” the Afghan capital, against actions by Afghans “over whom the United Kingdom has no control.”

But the ruling did not end a case that has been backed by an array of human rights and antiwar groups. The soldier’s family said it would challenge the London ruling before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, which has on its docket a similar case involving Iraqis seeking redress against actions by British soldiers. Rulings for the litigants in either case could supersede Wednesday’s decision.
34 2010-07-01 Ms. Liebman said she was not alarmed by the minor price decline because “it’s always the case that activity comes back first before prices do.”

Diane M. Ramirez, president of Halstead Property, said increased sales volume was an indication that the real estate market was on the mend. Halstead’s report showed 2,522 closings in the second quarter, 81 percent more than the same time in 2009 and 10 percent more than the first quarter.

“We’re looking at good steady transaction numbers, and to me, that’s a sign that the pulse feels healthy,” Ms. Ramirez said.

While prices generally showed no change, one segment that saw a marked decline was studio apartments in condominiums and new developments. The reports showed that median prices for these studios were about $460,000, which is 8.5 percent to 14 percent below the previous quarter.

But Ms. Liebman said sales volume remained strong. “It could be that there are fewer investors buying and the more traditional buyers are buying smaller or less-expensive units,” she said.

Larger and consequently higher-priced apartments appear to be selling well.

Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that while the high end of the market saw the sharpest decline in price and activity last year, the market for apartments priced $2 million to $10 million had picked up in recent months. He said that deals under $2 million accounted for 82 percent of his agency’s sales at the beginning of the year, but that that percentage had dropped to 60. “I would have never thought a year ago that we’d be where we are today,” Mr. Willkie said.

Prices at the high end remain relatively flat, but larger apartments now account for more of total sales. Three-bedroom apartments, for example, represented 18 percent of all apartments sold in the last three months, a 50 percent increase from the 12 percent market share they claimed in the first quarter and also a year ago, according to Prudential Douglas Elliman’s report.

“This recession came back from the bottom up,” said Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman. “Smaller apartments were first, because there’s always going to be a market for the entry-level apartment, but now the high end is selling too because people see an opportunity since prices are down.”

Two other good signs for the industry are shorter time spent on the market and smaller discounts from final listing prices, said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens. Apartments sat on the market for an average of 112 days in the second quarter, 13 percent less time than a year ago; and buyers paid 96.6 percent of the last asking price, up from 92.6 percent a year ago. “If sellers are pricing right, it’s selling quickly,” he said. “That’s a sign of a healthy market.”

Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Elliman’s report, said prices would most likely be flat for the rest of the year. “We’ve reached the point where a lot of the damage has been done, but we’re not yet at recovery,” he said.

Factors inhibiting recovery, he added, include continued difficulty getting jumbo mortgages, high unemployment, rising foreclosures and a “shadow” inventory of new development units that have yet to come to market.

“It’s still too early to celebrate,” Mr. Miller said.
35 2010-07-01 A close look at the figures suggests that while some budgetary conjecture — even wizardry — was involved in projecting the taxpayer savings from ending the program three months early, the action is more than just symbolic.

Ending the program early would bring to fruition what was already under way. No new money was being disbursed to bail out banks, automakers or financial institutions. While the original law authorized $700 billion to prop up ailing institutions, as of last week the government had disbursed $386 billion. New program money — not enough, critics say — is being spent to help homeowners help avoid foreclosure.

About half of that sum has been repaid, most notably by giant banks like Citigroup and Bank of America. The auto industry, which has received $80 billion from the fund so far, and the American International Group, which was given $48 billion under the program in addition to billions in other aid, account for most of the money that has yet to be recouped.

The proposal would prohibit using the bailout money for any new initiative, limiting the Treasury to programs that had already been announced, like foreclosure prevention. It also would specify that the Treasury could not, as the original law permitted, hand out for a second time money that had been repaid. Under the original law, the $700 billion was like a revolving line of credit with a limit on the amount of money that could be out at any one time, not a cap on cumulative disbursements.

The proposal would cap the amount that could be used over the life of the program at $475 billion. Treasury officials said that cap was manageable but consequential; officials had estimated that they might have to give out as much as $536 billion in total out of the original $700 billion.

After a series of complex calculations, budget experts projected that the latest proposal would reduce the ultimate cost to taxpayers — that is, the money that will most likely never be repaid — by about $11 billion from the current estimate of about $105 billion.

The most important practical consequence of ending the program early is that the Treasury Department will have less room for maneuver in the event that the economy takes another nosedive.

Treasury officials said Wednesday that they had been debating for months, on their own, whether to shut down the program early.

Mr. Geithner’s top aides engaged in months of debate over the question. Two counselors to Mr. Geithner, Jake Siewert and Lewis A. Sachs, who has since left government, argued that the program was politically toxic and that new financing was not likely to be needed.

Other advisers, like Lewis S. Alexander and Gene Sperling, wanted to keep the program to preserve the Treasury’s capacity to deal with unforeseeable events. They were joined by Herbert M. Allison Jr., assistant secretary for financial stability, who manages the program, and Michael S. Barr, assistant secretary for financial institutions.

As it moved slowly through the Senate, Treasury officials contemplated ending the program as one concession they could offer to secure votes, according to an adviser to Mr. Geithner who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about high-level deliberations.

“It was an idea to give the bill a little more acceleration,” the adviser said.

But the idea was shelved when the Senate managed to pass its version of the bill in June.

That changed this week, when Senator Scott Brown, a Massachusetts Republican whose support was vital to the Senate’s initial passage of the legislation, objected to the $19 billion bank fee included in the compromise legislation produced by a joint Senate-House conference committee. He declared he would not vote for the compromise if it included the tax.

So the bill’s primary shepherds, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, both Democrats, hurriedly but briefly reconvened the conference committee Tuesday to modify the bill.

Along with the TARP provision, the newest version of the legislation would require the F.D.I.C. to hold greater reserves in its insurance fund equal to 1.35 percent of insured deposits, up from 1.15 percent by 2020, financed by assessments on banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The provision is intended to save $5.7 billion, but critics said that it amounted to a tax on big banks by another name.

Mr. Brown praised the change on Wednesday but stopped short of saying whether he would support the bill.
36 2010-07-01 Just 48 days after Microsoft began selling the Kin, a smartphone for the younger set, the company discontinued it because of disappointing sales.

The swift turnabout for the Kin, which Microsoft took two years to develop and whose release was backed with a hefty ad budget, is the latest sign of disarray for Microsoft’s recently reorganized consumer product unit.

“It’s an absolute failure,” said Charles S. Golvin, an analyst with Forrester Research. Mr. Golvin said he was surprised to see Microsoft kill a product so quickly, given the company’s history of sticking with new products and improving them over time.

Microsoft’s consumer products unit has struggled to offer a credible competitors to Apple’s iPod and more recently the iPhone and an array of smartphones powered by Google’s Android software.

Microsoft also recently canceled a project to develop a tablet computer that would compete with Apple’s popular iPad.

Microsoft said that it would shift employees who worked on the Kin to the team in charge of Windows Phone 7, a coming revision of Microsoft’s operating system for smartphones, which is due in the fall. The Kin, which came in two models, was aimed at young users and emphasized access to social networks like Facebook and Twitter. While neither Microsoft nor Verizon Wireless, which sold the phone exclusively, disclosed sales figures, people close to the companies said that sales were disappointing. Verizon slashed the prices of the phones to $50 from $200 for the higher-end model and to $30 from $150 for a stripped-down version.
37 2010-07-01 Sean Dewhurst is a New York City pet-sitter with a fifth-grade education. He will enter sixth grade in the fall, at St. Ann’s School in Brooklyn Heights. He started a dog-walking and cat-sitting service last year in the Carroll Gardens neighborhood of Brooklyn, where he lives with his parents, his three siblings and his cat, Jackie Robinson. Sean, who is 11, has earned $750 so far, and is considering making pet-sitting a career. He is accepting new clients — he put his e-mail address on the fliers he taped to utility poles — but he’s tied up this week and next. He’s at sleepaway camp.

Favorite subjects at school: I like American history. I like puppetry. For one 45-minute period a week, I had puppetry. I thought it was fun. I have a bunch upstairs.

Company name: I just call it Sean’s Pet-Sitting Service.

Services and prices: If I feed a cat once a day, and change the litter and do fresh water, it’s $8. If they want me to do it twice a day, the same thing, it’s $6 for each visit. For dogs, for a 15-minute walk, it’s $8.

On being one of the city’s youngest pet-sitters: I haven’t really thought about it that way. I think that my age helps. I think people would like to see a kid doing this job because they’re happy for the kid. I’m glad that I started young.

Where the money went: I paid for an iPad with my earnings. It holds 16 gigabytes. I was just using it.
38 2010-07-01 ST. LOUIS — The Department of Veterans Affairs sent letters to more than 1,800 veterans this week, cautioning that they may have been exposed to a host of blood-borne diseases while undergoing dental work at the city’s Cochran V.A. medical center.

The letters, which characterize the risk of exposure as low, state that the source of the potential contamination was dental equipment that “may not have been cleaned correctly.” They offer free blood testing for H.I.V., hepatitis B, and hepatitis C to 1,812 veterans treated at the John Cochran Division of the center from Feb. 1, 2009, to March 11, 2010.

They added that “we are taking all the necessary steps to make certain that testing is offered quickly, and results communicated timely,” and that staff members at the center were “doing everything possible to address this situation and prevent it from occurring again.”

This is not the first time the St. Louis center has had issues with unsanitary medical equipment. A report last April by the inspector general of the V.A. identified “ongoing” problems with contaminated endoscopes at the hospital, noting that inspectors found that “rags and disposable gloves were strewn about” and that there were no “defined clean and dirty areas” in the hospital’s sterilization section.

The current situation came to light in a routine inspection. A spokeswoman for the department said that V.A. procedures called for instruments to be cleaned with a special detergent before being sterilized, but that the St. Louis center had failed to do so. Asked why the department waited three and a half months to notify veterans, the spokeswoman, Katie Roberts, said in a statement that it wanted to identify all “who were potentially at risk,” adding, “V.A. is in the process of standardizing the standard operating procedures for the cleaning of all reusable medical equipment across the country.”
39 2010-07-01 Democrats in the Senate need the support of a few Republicans to complete the financial regulatory overhaul and one of those who supported the Senate version of the bill, Scott Brown of Massachusetts, said he wanted to spend the recess reviewing the final language.

The bill gives government regulators the authority to liquidate failing financial companies by breaking them apart, selling assets and forcing creditors and shareholders to take losses so that taxpayers do not pay the bill.

The legislation also vastly expands the regulatory powers of the Federal Reserve and establishes a systemic risk council of high-ranking officials, led by the Treasury secretary, to detect potential threats to the overall financial system. It creates a powerful new consumer financial protection bureau and widens the purview of the Securities and Exchange Commission to broaden regulation of hedge funds and credit rating agencies.

The measure restricts the ability of banks to invest and trade for their own accounts — a provision known as the Volcker Rule, for its proponent, the former Fed chairman, Paul A. Volcker — and creates a new regulatory framework for derivatives, the complex financial instruments that were at the heart of the 2008 crisis.

The bill was shepherded through the House by Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, who spent more than a year drafting it even as Congress was mostly focused on health care.

The mostly party-line House vote stood in contrast to the bipartisan approval of the $700 billion financial system rescue in October 2008, when 172 Democrats and 91 Republicans joined in support of the bill requested by President George W. Bush.

Ms. Pelosi recalled that effort on Wednesday in her speech urging passage of the regulatory overhaul.

House Republicans complained that the Democrats’ legislation would extend the reach of government regulators too far, that it would encourage rather than prevent future bailouts, and that it would not address the causes of the financial crisis because it did not deal with the government-controlled mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

“When you look at this legislation it is proof positive again that this majority just doesn’t get it,” said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana. “Under the guise of financial reform, Democrats today are pushing another bill that will kill jobs, raise taxes and make bailouts permanent.”

But Democrats said that Republicans had tried and failed to prevent the government from responding to the worst financial downturn since the Great Depression and had put their desire to obstruct Mr. Obama’s agenda ahead of the nation’s best interests.

Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, a member of the Democratic leadership, said the bill would establish safeguards against future crises. “Never again will we allow the American economy to be held hostage to bad decisions made by Wall Street and the financial sector,” Mr. Van Hollen said. “Unfortunately our colleagues on the other side of the aisle haven’t gotten this message.”

Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, expressed disbelief at the Republican opposition. “To now make the argument that we need do nothing,” he said, “is pure ludicrousness.”

In speech after speech, Republicans attacked the bill as a threat to free markets and to economic recovery and job creation.

“This legislation is a clear attack on capital formation in America,” said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip. “It purports to prevent the next financial crisis, but it does so by vastly expanding the power of the same regulators who failed to prevent the last one.”

Mr. Cantor added, “It’s the notion that you can solve a problem by reflexively piling vast new layers of new bureaucracy and regulatory costs and taxes on it.”

Mr. Obama had wanted the bill completed and on his desk by Independence Day. The delayed vote in the Senate represented a small victory for Senate Republicans who were working hard to run down the clock and deny Democrats a chance to notch legislative accomplishments between now and the midterm elections in November.

But the Democrats also see political advantage in the Republican opposition, and Mr. Obama, at a town hall meeting in Wisconsin on Wednesday, seized on comments by the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, in which he said of the financial regulation bill, “This is killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.”

Mr. Obama said, “You would think this would be a bipartisan issue.” He added: “He compared the financial crisis to an ant. This is the same financial crisis that led to the loss of nearly eight million jobs, the same crisis that cost people their homes, their life savings.”
40 2010-07-01 Even real woodsmen and -women have bought them, as you can see from the comments and photographs on Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s new Web site, Bestmadeco.com, which he has created to be as much of a community center for outdoorsy types like himself as an online emporium. (Mr. Buchanan-Smith, who grew up on a farm in Ontario, has a pre-New York résumé of Hemingway-like experiences, including a job planting trees in Northern Ontario, artificially inseminating sows in Scotland and coming “this close” to joining the British Army.)

One morning late last winter, a barista at the City Girl Café on Thompson Street who was making coffee for a bleary-eyed Mr. Buchanan-Smith startled his customer by exclaiming, “You’re the ax man!” The barista, who had seen Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s photo in New York magazine, then worked out a payment plan to buy one. (Axes start at $180.)

And so it was that by late last month, after the rush of Father’s Day shopping — with panicked wives and daughters buying axes at the last minute — and a wild morning on Gilt Groupe, the online private sale site, during which 100 axes were bought in one hour, Mr. Buchanan-Smith realized all of them had been sold.

“Not that we’re making any money,” he said. “We’re just breaking even.”

But he has clearly struck a nerve. At a time when entire neighborhoods (like Williamsburg, Brooklyn, or the Outer Mission in San Francisco) are being remodeled by young entrepreneurs selling limited-edition handcrafted products like handmade cheeses, or exhuming old ones, like Edison light bulbs, or teaching their peers how to butcher the deer they bagged over the weekend — that is, selling products and skills that hark back to a pre-megabrand, pre-globalism world — someone like Mr. Buchanan-Smith can become a mini-star, the designer-turned-merchant, a Martha Stewart for this millennium.

And as the exultation of the “authentic” reaches near-hilarious heights in the design community, with young bloggers creating endless catalogs of “authentic” items like denim or Prouvé chairs, it’s not hard to see how a simple handmade ax, and all it implies (a knowledge of wood craft, or the ability to split a log or pitch a tent), would find an eager market.

Paola Antonelli, the senior curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art (and a former teacher of Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s at the School of Visual Arts), described his axes as “the ultimate antidote to life on the high-broadband lane.”

She added: “Tools, especially beautifully crafted ones, are irresistible, and it is not only a guys’ thing. If hardware store catalogs are already enough to make us swoon, imagine a collection of perfectly crafted axes. They shoot an electric shock right smack into the archipallium.” (For those of you who can’t quickly look up this last word, the archipallium is the oldest part of the brain.)

In any case, Mr. Buchanan-Smith is happily down the rabbit hole of a new business and life. He has settled into a 500-square-foot one-bedroom apartment in Greenwich Village (rent: $2,600) with a few choice possessions: the last stick his dog retrieved before she had to be put down, a pipe he made when he was 12 and messing around in his father’s workshop on their farm in Ontario and his grandfather’s kilt in the family tartan.

And there are new products: a handmade rope ladder, a pocket hatchet, a toolbox and a nifty leather sling that looks like a backpack but accommodates only Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s camp ax.

He’d like to work with a Canadian company to sell its Sou’wester, an oiled-canvas rain hat. He is intrigued by the work of two Brooklyn artists, Gabriel Cohen and Jolie Mae Signorile, who collect tropical bird feathers from aviaries and make arrows out of them. And he has commissioned a designer he met at an art camp in Minnesota to make vintage maps stamped with the Best Made Co. symbol, a bright red cross.

“With the ax, I wanted to do something simple and sweet,” he said. “It was like an invitation to this world I wanted to create. The world of making things where notions of courage and fortitude are associated with it, but also playfulness and levity.”

Mr. Buchanan-Smith has always been interested in the small stuff. For his thesis project at the School of Visual Arts, which he later turned into a book, “Speck: A Curious Collection of Uncommon Things,” published by Princeton Architectural Press, he invited artists and other obsessives to explore everyday ephemera — things like dust, the inside of a pocketbook, the bottoms of sneakers — in words and pictures.

Kim Hastreiter, an editor of Paper magazine and his former boss, said: “Peter is like a regular guy with an eccentric way of thinking, and he’s interested in things that function. You know he loves a Shaker table. He probably loves a yellow pencil or a bar of Ivory soap or a paper clip or a well-designed tube of toothpaste. It’s all about stuff that’s what it is. That’s an idea that’s really popular right now.”

Yet despite the appetites of fashion, said Mr. Mizrahi, for whom Mr. Buchanan-Smith has worked as a graphic designer for years, it’s not an affectation. “I think it’s a real connection to the manly ax and what it says about his manliness,” Mr. Mizrahi said. “If he’s passionate, and I think he is, other things will come from that.”

FIVE years ago, Mr. Buchanan-Smith was leading a charmed life, designing for Mr. Mizrahi, Paper magazine and others. He had won a Grammy and married his girlfriend, the author Amy Gray, on his family farm in Ontario. The two bought an immaculate Victorian in Maplewood, N.J., that had been restored by a man who made couture wedding dresses for New Jersey debutantes.

There was a rose garden. They had Maisie, a border collie, “who was like our first-born child,” he said. Life chugged along.

But in 2008, the engine sputtered and ran out of gas. Work dried up, and Mr. Buchanan-Smith closed his Midtown office, laid off his assistant, whom he could no longer pay, and moved his studio to his garage in New Jersey. He filled it with tools and woodworking equipment and started building things like bookshelves and “weird signs” to put on the walls.

“It was great to make stuff again,” he said. “As soon as you move to New York, you kiss your tools goodbye.”

Then came the ax epiphany. When Graeme Cameron, a Canadian environmental entrepreneur and Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s best friend from summer camp, came to visit that January, the two embarked on a gastronomic adventure to prepare Mr. Cameron’s birthday dinner — a whole day spent gathering ingredients in Manhattan, like $200 worth of wagyu. But when they realized they wanted to cook that pricey steak on an open grill, they were stymied.

Long story short: in searching for an ax to chop wood small enough to make a really hot fire (charcoal wouldn’t do, he said), all they could find was a cheap plastic-handled number from Home Depot.

“So I made it my mission to right the wrong,” Mr. Buchanan-Smith said. “I started collecting beautiful old axes from eBay and researching where the best ones were made now. And then things started to move really fast.”

He and Mr. Cameron collaborated on a new-old object based on memories of a perfect tool used long ago at summer camp. They found an established company in Maine that made an ax that fit their criteria. Then Mr. Buchanan-Smith stained, branded and painted it, and they invented Best Made Co., to fit their totemic ax.

Meanwhile, Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s marriage had foundered. Maisie, the border collie, was diagnosed with a rare brain disease and had to be put down. The immaculate Victorian had to be sold, at a $100,000 loss, and emptied of its contents.

“I felt like a refugee,” Mr. Buchanan-Smith said. “There’s a real loneliness when you get divorced, and if you’re a guy it’s not like people are running to comfort you. I felt like a total outcast, like I had some communicable disease. The married friends, the wives almost see you as a threat.”

By April, he and Mr. Cameron had parted, too.

“Graeme has a 2-year-old, he just bought a house, he has a lot on his plate,” Mr. Buchanan-Smith said. “It’s going to take us a while to get through our divorce, but we will get through. It’s like brothers having a falling out. We both took stock, realized it’s time for the second album. The first one did really well. But it doesn’t make sense to do the second one together.”

Mr. Cameron, who lives in Toronto, agreed that the “distance was impossible.” Also, he runs a company that manufactures products to clean up oil spills, so he’s a little busy right now. In addition, he’s working on building his own outdoor brand, “one that’s focused less on design and more on function,” he said, describing a line of tools “essential for surviving in the bush.” Will it compete with Best Made? “When it comes to an ax, it will,” he said.

On a recent morning in Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s bright TriBeCa studio, his ax-finishing crew of four was putting his pocket hatchets into their plain wooden boxes. He jumped up to show a reporter his rope ladder, and a stiff canvas satchel made by an American company, Archival Clothing, “that I could see passing down to my son,” he said. “I don’t care how many we sell, it’s just part of the story, the stuff that matters. Something that came through on Father’s Day, when we invited people to write about their fathers’ tools on the Web site, was this recurring theme of fathers who could never be what they wanted to be, a generation of men who lost out, who had to do what was expected of them.”

There were also tributes to fathers like Tibor Kalman, the designer; his daughter Lulu wrote about the veal shoulder Mr. Kalman liked to make in an old casserole, turning the roast with his bare hands.

“Peter has a great interest in the artifacts of daily life, and it happens that he was interested in an ax,” said Lulu’s mother, Maira Kalman, a longtime mentor and collaborator of Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s. “If he can make a living from it, that’s even more fantastic. But it’s really about the exploration of the object, and the exploration of being an entrepreneur, and how do you that in an honorable way, a kind way?”

Back in Mr. Buchanan-Smith’s studio, his two interns were packing up hatchets. Taylor Couture, 21, was tucking blades into muslin bags and laying the axes in their nests of wood wool. Then she began adding the hang tags, which everyone signed. She paused briefly to answer a question about why the axes were so popular.

“It really corners a section of the market,” she said. “No one else makes this, it’s unique, there’s a limited amount and it’s made by hand. The next company to come along and make a hand-forged, hand-painted ax is going to be, like, hmmm.”
41 2010-07-01 The Italian kitchen manufacturer GD Cucine will establish a beachhead in this country soon after Labor Day, when it opens its first American showroom in Manhattan.

One of the kitchens for sale will be the Treviso, named after the city where the company has its headquarters. Treviso combines a clean silhouette with traditional, warm materials — white-stained oak (above), graphite-stained oak or teak. The design has cabinets at different heights to allow unobstructed views in and out of the kitchen; tables that extend from them divide the space and create dining or work areas. A complete Treviso kitchen will range from $30,000 to $60,000, depending on the materials.
42 2010-07-01 Much about the music industry has changed in recent years, but at least one thing remains the same: the role of Eminem, left, as a chart-topping star. His latest album, “Recovery” (Aftermath/Interscope), sold 741,000 copies in its opening week, according to Nielsen SoundScan, the most sales in a one week by any artist since AC/DC’s “Black Ice” moved 784,000 copies in October 2008. Eminem’s sales easily exceeded those of other albums, including the new release from Miley Cyrus, “Can’t Be Tamed” (Hollywood), which sold 102,000 copies, good enough for the third slot. The opening week of Ozzy Osbourne’s “Scream” (Epic) had sales of 81,000, putting it at No. 4. Last week’s top-seller, Drake’s “Thank Me Later” (Aspire/Young Money/Cash Money), dropped to No. 2 with sales of 157,000, 65 percent fewer than the week before. Rounding out the Top 5 with 55,000 sales is the 34th volume of “Now That’s What I Call Music!”
43 2010-07-01 WASHINGTON — They grilled her on her handling of military recruitment at Harvard Law School. They highlighted how, as an aide to President Bill Clinton , she helped edit a medical group’s statement to strengthen support for the procedure critics call partial-birth abortion.

They painted her as a partisan and suggested she would be too deferential to Congress when reviewing the constitutionality of sweeping legislation, like President Obama’s landmark health care law.

But try as they might, Republicans could not knock Solicitor General Elena Kagan off her stride. And as her second day of questioning by the Senate Judiciary Committee wound down on Wednesday, some conceded that her confirmation to the Supreme Court was all but assured.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, referred to Ms. Kagan as “soon-to-be Justice Kagan” and said he assumed she would be confirmed.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, wrapped up his questioning by telling Ms. Kagan, “You have acquitted yourself well.”

And Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said it would be “highly improbable” for his party, with just 41 votes, to wage a filibuster.

“She has been, in my view, a witness who has manifested a deep knowledge of the law, and she’s certainly very adept at describing what she thinks about the law,” Mr. Kyl told reporters. “By the same token, I think she’s been very adept at avoiding very specific questions that could result in criticism of her point of view.”

During nearly eight hours on the witness stand Wednesday, Ms. Kagan hewed closely to the script she had set out for herself the day before, speaking expansively on matters where she was already on record, like the Citizens United campaign finance case, but exceedingly carefully on subjects that, like same-sex marriage, might come before the court.

That did not keep Republicans from pressing her to be more specific, especially on the policy work she performed in the Clinton White House during the debate over a proposed ban on the “partial-birth abortion” procedure.

Several Republican senators — including Mr. Graham and Orrin Hatch of Utah — homed in on a document in which Ms. Kagan warned that a statement from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists “would be a disaster.” She suggested language stating that in some cases, the procedure “may be the best or most appropriate” to spare the life or health of the woman — language the group ultimately adopted.

When the senators pressed her to explain, Ms. Kagan responded that the original language did not completely reflect the group’s view. “There was no way I would have or could have intervened” she said, to get the group to “change its medical views.”

Mr. Hatch was unsatisfied. “I just want you to be aware that bothers me,” he said.

Still, in an interview during a break, Mr. Hatch said he was having a harder time making up his mind about how to vote on Ms. Kagan’s confirmation than he did last year, when he voted against confirming Justice Sonia Sotomayor. He said Ms. Kagan had been a “better witness.”

Several other Republican senators indicated that while Ms. Kagan’s confirmation might be likely, their own support was not.

Senator Jeff Sessions, the committee’s ranking Republican, pushed Ms. Kagan yet again on her decision to briefly limit military recruiters’ access to Harvard Law School, and her stance against the “don’t ask, don’t tell” ban on open service by gay men, lesbians and bisexuals.

Ms. Kagan testified that her personal opposition to the policy played no role in decisions she made as solicitor general about litigation challenging the law. She told Mr. Sessions that she had consistently acted “to vigorously defend all statutes, including the statute that embodies the ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ policy.”

In a twist on their argument that Ms. Kagan might be a “judicial activist” who would legislate from the bench, some Republicans expressed concern on Wednesday that she might be too hesitant to strike down acts of Congress that arguably exceed the federal government’s constitutional authority.

“I am concerned that she views the power of the federal government to be essentially without limit,” Mr. Cornyn said. “She said yesterday that the courts would defer to Congress, and Congress knows no limit to its power grabs, as we’ve seen.”

His comments came against the backdrop of conservative-backed lawsuits asking courts to strike down a crucial part of the recently enacted health care law, which requires people to pay higher taxes if they do not buy health insurance, as well as the rise of the Tea Party movement and concerns over the expansion of federal spending and regulations.

Ms. Kagan seemed to do as much listening as talking on Wednesday, as senators used their time to put their own views in the record or score political points. When Mr. Coburn offered a conservative lament about his “absolute fear” that Americans are less free than they were 30 years ago, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, delivered a sharp retort.

“Were we really more free if you were a woman in 1980?” Ms. Klobuchar asked, noting that there were no women on the court and just one in the Senate that year.

As they had on Tuesday, Republicans extracted an endorsement from Ms. Kagan of Miguel Estrada, a former law school classmate and longtime friend of Ms. Kagan’s whose nomination to the federal appeals court was blocked by Democrats when George W. Bush was president. On Tuesday, Ms. Kagan testified that Mr. Estrada was qualified to sit on not only the appeals court, but also the Supreme Court. On Wednesday, Mr. Coburn demanded to know if she would have voted for him.

“I would have,” she said, before amending her comment to hedge just a bit.

In Wednesday’s hearing, Ms. Kagan also offered her take on an analogy made famous by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. at his 2005 confirmation hearings: that a judge should be like an umpire, calling balls and strikes. Ms. Kagan agreed that a judge should be neutral, but added that the metaphor had limits, because it “might suggest to some people that the law is a kind of robotic thing,” when in fact judgment is required.

The hearings will continue Thursday with testimony from outside witnesses. A committee vote is expected in the middle of July, after senators return from next week’s recess.
44 2010-07-01 Boeing said on Wednesday that it had agreed to acquire a combat engineering firm, Argon ST, for about $775 million as it seeks Pentagon contracts for high-tech intelligence tools.

The Pentagon has been cutting back on orders for some weapons meant for conventional wars. Instead, it has been shopping for technology better suited to fight against shadowy insurgent groups in places like Iraq and Afghanistan.

Argon, based in Fairfax, Va., develops a variety of systems used in surveillance, reconnaissance and combat. That includes reconnaissance equipment mounted on planes, sensors meant to warn of an approaching enemy and special sights to help troops locate snipers in urban warfare.

Earlier this week, Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary, said he planned to save up to 3 percent annually on defense contracts by pushing companies to cut overhead.

The deal shows the willingness of big contractors to make acquisitions as they try to match the Pentagon’s shifting priorities, said Brian W. Ruttenbur, an analyst for Morgan Keegan.
45 2010-07-02 Rafael Nadal's tough straight sets win over Andy Murray was a testament to Nadal's ability to adapt....
46 2010-07-02 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the party leader, is another Republican to line up against President Obama's Supreme Court pick....
47 2010-07-02 The likelihood that the oil from the spill in the Gulf of Mexico will reach shorelines along the Eastern Seaboard remains remote, according to projections issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration....
48 2010-07-02 How dog walking led to blogging for one New York woman....
49 2010-07-02 An analysis by the California attorney general's office suggests that Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae face little risk from a program that lets homeowners pay for expensive solar panels and energy efficiency upgrades over time through an annual surchar...
50 2010-07-02 Apple responded to consumer complaints about the so-called Death Grip that drops calls. It said it would fix the way the signal strength is displayed on the phone....
51 2010-07-02 A look at where employment stands today relative to where it was when the recession began....
52 2010-07-02 Me big stupid Keynesian?...
53 2010-07-02 It looks like the hedge fund industry will have to brace itself for yet another regulatory headache: Europe's new bonus restrictions....
54 2010-07-02 A plan by Gov. David A. Paterson and New York's legislative leaders to tax out-of-state hedge fund managers may fall by the wayside, after the move sparked criticism from New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, among others, Reuters reported....
55 2010-07-02 Apple is exploring new alternatives to get content into the living room, according to people familiar with the company's plans....
56 2010-07-02 Student Opinion | Which gender has it better?...
57 2010-07-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
58 2010-07-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
59 2010-07-02 More than 5.2 million people visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art during the fiscal year that ended Wednesday, the institution’s best performance since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Despite the impact of an economy in recession, the number of visitors was up more than 10 percent over the comparable period a year earlier. “Attendance fell by a million” after 9/11, said Harold Holzer, a spokesman for the museum, “and has been working its way back” ever since, “hovering around 4.7 million” in recent years. Visitors from abroad accounted for nearly 40 percent of the attendance, and the single most popular exhibition was “Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art” (above), which opened on April 27, will close on Aug. 15 and has already attracted more than 380,000 visitors. The Museum of Modern Art also reported robust growth in attendance during the fiscal year just ended, drawing more than three million visitors, a record, despite discouraging economic conditions. That was an increase of about 9 percent over last year, with two exhibitions performing especially strongly: “Monet’s Water Lilies” drew 857,386 people, and “Tim Burton” attracted 810,511.
60 2010-07-02 Finally, in October 1973, Mr. Aucoin checked out Kiss at a run-down Manhattan hotel with holes in the floor and prostitutes in the lobby. He decided to switch careers and manage the band, his first. The job had been vacant since the departure of the group’s former manager, Lew Linet, who started with Kiss when it was known as Wicked Lester.

“I decided this is kind of interesting because they were trying to put on a show,” Mr. Aucoin said in an interview with classicbands.com.

Mr. Aucoin unleashed his directorial skills. Kiss was already dabbling in makeup, but he had them put on gobs more. He choreographed their onstage movements. And fire-breathing? He claimed to have come up with it.

“It was Bill who said, ‘Let’s take them to the nth degree,’ ” Mr. Simmons said in Kiss’s authorized biography, “Kiss: Behind the Mask” (2003), by David Leaf and Ken Sharp.

“Let’s breathe fire. Let’s have explosions, and all sorts of things.”

Mr. Aucoin’s goal was to develop defined identities for each band member in the manner of the Beatles, and his approach had a comic touch. Mr. Simmons would be the Demon; Paul Stanley (rhythm guitar), Starchild; Ace Frehley (lead guitar), Spaceman; and Peter Criss (drums), Catman.

“Everything we did had to kind of build up those images, which were specific images,” he told classicbands. He confiscated film from photographers who shot a band member without makeup.

Mr. Aucoin’s biggest early contribution was a record deal. After hearing Kiss play, he promised to get them one within 30 days if they signed with him. If he failed, they were free to leave.

By September — within the deadline — Kiss had a contract with Casablanca Records. Their debut album, “Kiss,” came out in February 1974.

Mr. Aucoin and Neil Bogart, the owner of Casablanca, poured most of their savings into Kiss, which was also the record company’s first act. Mr. Aucoin put their first tour on his American Express card. He told Kiss’s biographers that he invested as much as $300,000 of his own money in Kiss.

“That was my whole roll, every cent I had,” he said.

Mr. Aucoin did what he could to make his investment pay off by taking 25 percent of Kiss’s revenues, compared with the traditional 15 percent, The New York Times reported in 1997.

When Kiss dismissed Mr. Aucoin in 1982, his reimbursement was part of the reason, Mr. Simmons told The Times.

“Let’s just say he was earning too much for the work he was doing,” he said. “We were new; we didn’t know.”

But when it came to band members’ own earnings, Mr. Aucoin persuaded them to split their profits equally — even individual songwriting royalties. The manager wanted to avoid the financial jealousies that can rip groups apart.

Kiss’s rise was rocketlike after the band scored a No. 1 hit with “Rock and Roll All Nite” in 1975. Four years later, Kiss was racking up nearly $120 million in annual revenues.

Mr. Aucoin treasured a visit to Cadillac, Mich., in 1976 as his Barnum-like pinnacle. The band arrived by helicopter because Mr. Aucoin thought that would be “kind of a Beatles thing.” He got the entire high school student body, the mayor, and the police and fire chiefs to wear Kiss makeup. A street became Kiss Street.

William Martin Aucoin was born on Dec. 29, 1943, and grew up in Ayer, Mass. He studied business at Northeastern University and worked at WGBH, Boston’s PBS affiliate, and NBC.

He is survived by his companion, Roman Fernandez; and his sisters, Betty Britton and Janet Bankowski.

Mr. Aucoin went on to manage and advise other music acts, including Billy Squier and Billy Idol. He charged rock groups $5,000 for consulting. One group he managed was Flipp, a Minneapolis-based band, which tried to expand on Kiss-style extravagance.

Kii Arens, a member of Flipp also known as Chia Karaoke, told The Minneapolis Star Tribune in 2002 why his band needed Mr. Aucoin: “Bill is there to say, ‘Well, you know, you need to check what the wind is like if you’re gonna drop cereal from the helicopter, because those Froot Loops could fly up into the propellers.’ ”
61 2010-07-02 “The recreation-vehicle industry is a leading economic indicator for the nation,” said Sid Johnson, the director of marketing for Jayco. “We lead the country into recessions, and we lead the country out of recessions.”

Across the street from the Jayco plant in nearby Middlebury, a new hotel is being built, a sign that good times are coming back.

While the upturn might signal growing consumer confidence, leaders in the recreation-vehicle industry acknowledge that much of the increase in production has been driven by the need to replace inventory that dealers were hesitant to restock during the financial crisis.

Officials in the region are unsure whether the new vehicles being produced and shipped to dealer lots will move quickly enough to encourage factories to hire even more workers.

“We’re at a critical juncture,” said Mike Yoder, a county commissioner in Elkhart County, which has a population of about 200,000. “Everything depends on whether these actually sell.”

Dealers say there is cause for optimism. At Camping World in Lincolnshire, just north of Chicago, the headquarters of the nation’s largest chain of recreation vehicles, sales have improved significantly for some models.

Marcus Lemonis, the chairman of Camping World, which owns 80 stores, said sales had increased 40 percent this year for the camping trailers that are towed behind a truck or car, models that cost an average of $28,000. Mr. Lemonis said sales were flat for luxury motor homes, the gleaming highway palaces that can cost $500,000 or more.

“The consumer has come back,” he said, “but in a more conservative way.”

The ripples of the rebound are reaching Chicago.

Kevin McNamara, an economist at Purdue University, said that while production of recreation vehicles is centered in Indiana, “some of the suppliers of the raw materials for those RVs are going to be coming out of the Chicago market.”

Zip Dee, an Elk Grove Village manufacturer of expensive powered awnings for recreation vehicles, has increased production as demand has risen from plants in Elkhart County and elsewhere, said Jim Webb, the company president.

“It’s getting stronger every month,” said Mr. Webb. “I’m optimistic, but I’m not jumping on any bandwagon. It’s going to be a slow recovery.”

In Elkhart, people say they are grateful for an increase in any kind of buyer.

About one-quarter of the jobs in the county are tied to the recreation-vehicle industry, said Dorinda Heiden-Goss, the county’s president of economic development. “We’re seeing positive signs,” she said. “We’re just praying that it’s sustained.”

Nationwide, production in the industry is about 93 percent higher than a year ago, said Kevin Broom, a spokesman for the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association.

Conditions in the industry had become disastrous. Nearly half of the 400,000 workers in the recreational-vehicle industry in the United States lost jobs during the recession, Mr. Broom said.

Paul Thomas, an 87-year-old businessman and the town historian in Elkhart, noted that two years ago many people in the county had already given up and moved away. United States Census Bureau figures show that Elkhart County saw a net out-migration of 2,366 people from 2008 to 2009, although a rising birth rate made up for the exodus and population figures remained relatively stable.

Plenty of houses stand empty, and many others are being foreclosed or sold at fire-sale prices.

But on Main Street in Elkhart, the talk over coffee in the Old Style Deli is more upbeat these days.

“It feels like things are turning around,” said Allen Knight, 59. “There for awhile, it seemed like another company was closing its doors every day. People wondered, ‘How long can this go on?’ It doesn’t feel so depressing now.”

But no one believes Elkhart will see a return to the high-flying days of the 1970s, when it seemed like any entrepreneur with a dream and some gumption, and a few good workers, could go into the recreation-vehicle business and become a millionaire.

The industry collapsed in 2008 when credit markets tightened significantly. Even when credit eased, banks looked skeptically at discretionary purchases of big-ticket items.

The problems with the economy, along with a period when gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon at the peak, left many dealers in ruins. Some 180 recreation-vehicle stores around the country closed last year, said Phil Ingrassia, a spokesman for the Recreation Vehicle Dealers Association.

For now, comparatively low gas prices of less than $3 a gallon are helping the industry. Winnebago Industries, a maker of motor homes based in Iowa, earlier this month posted its first quarterly profit in more than a year.

Jayco, which is privately held, expects shipments to dealers to increase by about 70 percent in 2010 compared with a year ago, Mr. Johnson said.

Despite signs of an improving market, manufacturers said they were being conservative, protecting themselves against getting stuck with a glut of inventory.

Mr. Yoder, the county commissioner, said many in the industry had been so badly hurt that they were reluctant to make brave predictions about success.

“When times are good, nobody ever thinks they’ll go bad again,” he said. “And when times are bad, nobody ever thinks they will ever get good again. We’re going through some of that psychology right now.”

The same kind of caution is evident among workers on the assembly line. Mr. Lehman does not pretend to be an economic expert, but he knows that $30-an-hour jobs are coveted. He knows about layoffs and financial pressure. He has a young family to support.

His shift starts at 5 a.m. He shows up early to pull on his tool belt, ready to sweat and grateful for the chance.
62 2010-07-02 “I’m gratified and pleasantly surprised by how broad the support was,” said Assemblyman Jonathan L. Bing, a Manhattan Democrat and lead sponsor of the bill. “Especially for lower-income individuals and victims of domestic violence, it will allow them to leave relationships that have clearly run their course. It would also give couples that want to end their marriages amicably a way to do so that they do not currently have under the law.”

The law on domestic employees was a major victory with sweeping implications for the estimated 200,000 such workers in the New York City area.

The legislation passed narrowly in both the Assembly and the Senate after the bills’ sponsors agreed to drop provisions allowing domestic workers to sue employers who violated the law and requiring employers to give two weeks’ notice before firing workers.

In the Senate, 3 Republicans joined all 32 Democrats to approve the bill, while in the Assembly, the legislation passed by 90 to 38. Gov. David A. Paterson said he would sign the legislation.

“I wrote, rewrote and rewrote again this legislation,” said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a sponsor of the bill. “I’ve been rewriting it for seven years. The final outcome is about parity, equity, dignity and justice for 200,000 people that would not have necessarily gotten it.”

Long constituting a vast secret economy in New York and yet virtually without recourse when their employers exploited or abused them, domestic workers would, under the law, be covered by laws against workplace sexual harassment. They would also be entitled to temporary disability benefits, unemployment insurance and even overtime, all enforceable by the state.

For the first time, domestic workers would have a set workweek of 40 hours — 44 in the case of live-in workers — and at least one day of rest a week. To win passage in both houses, however, advocates agreed to drop a requirement for six paid holidays and six days of paid vacation a year. Instead, domestic workers will be entitled to three paid vacation days annually after they work for an employer for at least one year.

The passage was met with peals of laughter and applause from a group of domestic workers who traveled to Albany to witness the vote. As they filed out of the Senate gallery on Thursday, some of the workers cried, while others hugged, took photos on their cellphones or called friends with the good news.

“It will mean that we will have protection, that the work we do will be recognized,” said Patricia Francois, 51, who left her job as a nanny a year and a half ago because, she said, her employer beat her. “We take care of the sick. We take care of the elderly. We take care of their worldly goods.”

The midwife bill, passed by the Assembly on Monday and the Senate late Wednesday, removes the requirement that midwives obtain an agreement from a doctor or hospital to provide backup to the midwife, including in emergencies. Some doctors refuse to sign such agreements because they believe it makes them responsible for patients they know little or nothing about.

Many midwives have privileges at hospitals, where help is around the corner should something go wrong. But the requirement for a so-called written practice agreement had been a particularly high hurdle for midwives who assist at home births, which are often outside mainstream practice, and for those in rural counties where doctors are scarce.

The bill gained momentum in April when St. Vincent’s Hospital in Greenwich Village, which had agreements with several home-birth midwives, closed, leaving those midwives unable to legally deliver babies.

The repeal of the requirement had been bitterly opposed by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, whose leadership argued that midwives could not practice safely without the direct supervision of a doctor.
63 2010-07-02 Lamoriello is not an executive who likes to lather players with hyperbole, but he brought up the name of Scott Stevens — the punishing defenseman to whom all Devils defensemen are compared — when talking about Volchenkov, a 226-pound veteran of seven N.H.L. seasons.

Lamoriello issued a warning to future opponents when he said of Volchenkov, “He’s going to make it very difficult to play in that zone.”

Lamoriello said that Tallinder, 31, was similar in style to the smooth, steady Martin. Lamoriello said he also liked the fact that Tallinder, a native of Sweden, would be able to help the Devils’ young Swedish prospects.

Although he had been quick in other years to splurge on free agents — perhaps to the detriment of the franchise — Rangers General Manager Glen Sather spent the day solidifying the team’s roster, re-signing forwards Vinny Prospal and Erik Christensen, and adding two veterans.

Goaltender Martin Biron, who spent last season with the Islanders, will be Henrik Lundqvist’s backup. Forward Derek Boogaard, formerly of Minnesota, signed a four-year, $6.5 million contract to be the team’s enforcer.

Sather said he was tired of watching opponents kick snow in Lundqvist’s face. “I don’t think we’re going to see that any longer here,” Sather said in a conference call.

Boogaard replaces Jody Shelley, the popular 34-year-old veteran free agent who was looking for a three-year contract — and got one, from the Philadelphia Flyers. Sather said he was willing to offer Shelley a two-year deal. Boogaard got a four-year deal because he is 28.

Although the Rangers missed the Stanley Cup playoffs last season (and had to watch as the team that edged them out for a spot, the Flyers, went to the finals), Sather said the Rangers have space for several prospects. Olli Jokinen left the Rangers to rejoin his former team, the Calgary Flames.

“What we’re looking for now is a little different that what we were looking for in the past,” said Sather, who also on Thursday signed the 20-year-old center Derek Stepan, who played the last two years at the University of Wisconsin.

The Penguins, knocked out of the playoffs in the second round by Montreal in the spring, were also busy reshaping their defensive corps, adding Martin and Zbynek Michalek of Phoenix, while losing Sergei Gonchar to Ottawa and Dan Hamhuis to Vancouver.

After re-signing goaltender Michael Leighton and acquiring defenseman Andrej Meszaros in a trade with Tampa Bay on Wednesday, the Flyers signed Shelley and the veteran free-agent defenseman Sean O’Donnell. They re-signed the defenseman Braydon Coburn.

The Islanders were quiet. They lost Biron, but they have two other goaltenders, Rick DiPietro and Dwayne Roloson, under contract. Forward Jeff Tambellini, who scored only 18 goals in four years with the Islanders, signed with Vancouver.

But this was only Day 1 of the shopping season.
64 2010-07-02 “The prosecutor is not allowed to advance his or her case by exploiting the fact that the defendant did something that he has every constitutional right to do,” said Eric M. Freedman, a professor of constitutional law at Hofstra University. “If it were permitted, the constitutional right would be undermined.”

The central issue in the case was whether the prosecutor, Jack Smith, was wrong to invoke the decision by Mr. Wilson to use his Sixth Amendment right to stand trial and his Fifth Amendment right to refuse to testify. Mr. Smith cited those rights to call into question Mr. Wilson’s statement of remorse that he was allowed to read to jurors, over the protest of prosecutors, without facing cross-examination.

“He has an absolute right to go to trial, put the government to its burden of proof, to prove he committed these crimes, but he can’t have it both ways,” Mr. Smith said in part. “He can’t do that, then say, ‘I accept responsibility.’ ”

A lawyer for Mr. Wilson, Ephraim Savitt, immediately objected, but was overruled by Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis. The judge also denied Mr. Savitt’s request after the summation to remind the jury that “it’s not the burden of the defendant to take the stand or to be subjected to cross-examination.”

Cynthia Hujar Orr, who is the president of National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers and works on death penalty cases, said she was unable to understand how the mistake occurred. “We live in a country where, if the government wants to take our lives, they must do it under their own steam, and we are not required to help them,” she said. “You cannot punish someone for invoking their constitutional rights.”

Mr. Smith, a former prosecutor at the International Criminal Court at The Hague who now heads the public integrity division of the Justice Department, declined to comment.

Morris J. Fodeman, who worked with Mr. Smith on the prosecution team and is now in private practice, said although “a prosecutor can’t normally argue that a defendant is guilty because he refused to take the stand or that he should be punished more severely because he elected to go to trial,” in a penalty phase trial, “the defendant had the burden of proof of establishing that he was remorseful and that he accepted responsibility. When he argued that his unsworn, uncross-examined statement proved he was remorseful, the government should be allowed to say, ‘Don’t credit it because it wasn’t tested through cross-examination.’”

The infrequency of death penalty cases in New York may leave lawyers and judges vulnerable to procedural missteps, said Scott H. Greenfield, a criminal defense lawyer who wrote about the case on his legal blog Simple Justice.

“In other parts of the country where they are more used to death penalty, it’s unlikely that these kind of issues would arise,” he said. “Around here without much experience everyone is basically trying to feel their way through it.”
65 2010-07-02 Peter W. Galbraith, the former No. 2 United Nations official in Afghanistan, has brought a case against Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, alleging wrongful dismissal and defamation. He is seeking unspecified compensation and reinstatement to a similar position. The case is expected to be heard in September by the United Nations Dispute Tribunal, which settles employment issues within the world body, where national courts have no jurisdiction. Mr. Galbraith, an American diplomat who was dismissed in October 2009 over his accusations that the United Nations was ignoring widespread electoral fraud, said he was pursuing “accountability.” Farhan Haq, a spokesman for Mr. Ban, said the secretary general had no comment.

Correction: July 22, 2010 

 A report in the World Briefing column on July 2 about efforts by Peter W. Galbraith, the former No. 2 United Nations official in Afghanistan, to fight his dismissal in October 2009 described incorrectly in some copies an administrative body that had rejected Mr. Galbraith’s case before he appealed to the United Nations Dispute Tribunal, which settles internal employment issues. The administrative body, known as the Management Evaluation Unit, reviews management decisions; it is not an arbitration panel.
66 2010-07-02 Justine Henin ruled herself out of this year’s United States Open after discovering that an elbow injury she sustained at Wimbledon was worse than initially thought. Henin, a former top-ranked player who is just six months into a comeback, fell heavily on her right elbow during her fourth-round loss to fellow Belgian Kim Clijsters. Henin said on her Web site that tests revealed a partial ligament fracture of the right elbow.
67 2010-07-02 TRENTON — Gov. Christopher J. Christie backed away on Thursday from his call for a state constitutional amendment to limit property tax increases to 2.5 percent per year, but insisted that a bill capping taxes passed by the Legislature did not go far enough.

“While I am happy that we are all now talking about capping property taxes, I respectfully cannot sign this bill,” Mr. Christie told a special joint session of the Assembly and Senate. But he said he would agree to a bill with limits like those he proposed putting into the State Constitution — the first movement in what had been a stalemate between the Republican governor, in his first year in office, and the Democrats who control both houses.

But brinksmanship over the issue continued. For several hours, it was not clear if the legislative leaders would invite the governor to speak, or if some lawmakers would boycott the speech. The Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, said his caucus attended only after assurances that “he’s not just coming to lecture us.”

And Mr. Christie, in his address, pledged to call legislators back for special sessions until a law was enacted. Ordinarily, legislators would have wrapped up their session this week, adjourning until September.

“We cannot leave this town for the summer and leave our citizens with an ever-growing property tax bill to pay because we refused to act,” the governor said.
68 2010-07-02 A state appellate court ruled unanimously on Thursday that New York City must keep open 19 schools it wanted to close for poor performance, blocking one of the Bloomberg administration’s signature efforts to improve the educational system.

The ruling, by the Appellate Division, First Department, in Manhattan, upheld a lower court finding that the city’s Education Department did not comply with the 2009 state law on mayoral control of the city schools because it failed to adequately notify the public about the ramifications of the closings.

Because many eighth graders assumed the schools would be closed and the Education Department discouraged them from attending the schools, few applied. Some of the schools could begin September with just a few dozen freshmen. School officials said they expected enrollment to grow with students who move into the city, but the number will still likely be far smaller than in past years.

Since taking office in 2002, the mayor has closed 91 schools that regularly posted low test scores or graduation rates and has replaced them with smaller schools, on the premise that the more intimate environments served struggling students better. Studies have shown that students in the new schools have fared better than their predecessors in the larger schools, but some other large schools have suffered from having to absorb more struggling students.

The 2009 state law that renewed mayoral control of schools required that the city hold public hearings and provide information on the effect of the closings. The city’s teachers’ union and the New York chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. sued the city, claiming that it had not met those requirements.
69 2010-07-02 Having determined Google has a monopoly, the agency ordered the company to resume offering its services to a French company called Navx, which sells a database to let drivers know where the French police are likely to have radar traps in operation.

Google found Navx’s business distasteful — it is arguable that Navx’s customers use the product to help them act illegally with impunity — so last November, Google stopped doing business with Navx. As a result, those using search terms like “radar trap” in French could no longer learn of the company’s product and, a few clicks later, buy it.

Navx complained to the French government, saying its sales had plunged and that as a result it was facing problems raising capital. On Wednesday, the authority ordered Google to resume selling ads to Navx and to produce clear policies on when advertisers would be turned down.

“Discriminatory practices may harm competition,” the authority said, “when customers of a company holding a dominant position find themselves disadvantaged in the competition on their own market.”

In other words, it does not matter that Navx is not a competitor to Google. Because Google is dominant in its market — Internet search word advertising — it must act almost as a government agency, with clear rules that can be understood in advance and are fair to all.

Google points out that the ruling is an interim order and forecasts that it will prevail after it provides more detailed rules to the French agency. “We remain confident of a positive outcome,” said Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman. “The French authorities acknowledge Google’s rights to set clear content policies to guarantee that ads are appropriate.”

Setting acceptable guarantees may not be easy. The French ruling cited what it called discrimination by Google in not taking ads from Navx while accepting ads from makers of global positioning system devices, like Garmin, whose Web sites promote similar products.

But even if Google is able to kick out Navx again, the ruling could have a lasting effect. “Now that there is a preliminary finding that they have a dominant position, they will have to be careful,” said Ron Soffer, whose law firm in Paris represented Navx. “The rules and procedures regarding ad words will have to pass the scrutiny of the authorities.”

If so, Google will have a staff dealing with writing, revising and defending its policies on whether it will take money from would-be customers. That is not an expense that your average company must bear.

Google’s position, rejected by the French, is that the relevant market is all of advertising, in which Google has a tiny share, rather than online search ads, in which it is dominant. It appears that if the French authorities do not reverse that conclusion in their final ruling, it will be the first official precedent rejecting Google’s argument.

In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission said in 2007 that it was possible that search ads could be a defined market for antitrust purposes. But it did not reach a conclusion on the issue as it approved Google’s acquisition of DoubleClick, an advertising distribution network.

In 2008, the Justice Department threatened to sue if Google went through with a proposed alliance with Yahoo in online advertising. The company backed down, so no precedent was set.

In the short run, the French decision could be good for Google. It will resume getting revenue from Navx. The amount is probably not that high, but every euro helps, even if you are running a monopoly.

But consider the history — from an investment perspective — of companies that grew to be so dominant that antitrust regulators felt compelled to pay attention to complaints that their market power was being abused.

There are some horror stories. Can you recall General Motors in the 1950s? Would it have done a better job of battling imports in the 1960s and 1970s if it had not been aware that regulators were monitoring its market share numbers? Would it have eventually gone bankrupt without such worries?

Or think about AT&T, which a quarter-century ago was broken up into a group of companies that, in due course, found that the technology had changed enough that they were all but irrelevant, forcing a new merger wave.

The more recent technology monopolists — in public imagination and government concern, whether or not in legal reality — continue to be profitable and successful. But their stocks have not been wonderful investments.

Remember “Wintel,” the dual monopoly supposedly held by Microsoft and Intel? Each of those stocks now trades for less than it did when the Justice Department antitrust suit against Microsoft went to trial in October 1998.

The Justice Department sued to break up I.B.M. in 1969 and dropped the case in 1982. By then, I.B.M.’s competitive position had eroded, although the company dismissed the notion that the lawsuit had affected its behavior.

“You certainly sit down and ask yourself whether you should be more conservative,” Thomas Barr of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, I.B.M.’s lead lawyer in the case, said in 1982. “But in an industry like this, you can’t decide what to do on that basis. I know of no example where the suit affected a business decision.”

No one can prove otherwise, of course. But I.B.M.’s competitors were not asking antitrust lawyers for advice. For whatever reasons, I.B.M. underperformed the American stock market while the suit was pending and has about matched it since then.

Google’s power remains vast, and this week’s ruling is certainly not going to destroy it. But I suspect that it will be a long time before another senior Google executive describes the company, as one did a few weeks ago, as “the biggest kingmaker on this earth.”
70 2010-07-02 Richard H. Pildes, a law professor at , said Ms. Kagan’s attitude toward Congress amounted to tough love. “Elena is a hard-minded person,” he said. “She’s lucid and clear and demanding of herself and demanding of others.”

“The deference to Congress that she’s talking about,” Professor Pildes added, “brings with it a real sense of the responsibilities of Congress as well.”

Asked on Wednesday by Senator , Republican of , why, in her role as solicitor general, she had made an aggressive argument in defending a federal statute outlawing the sale of videos, Ms. Kagan said poor legislative craftsmanship had left her little choice.

“I hesitate to criticize Congress’s work,” she said, “but it was a statute that was not drafted with the kind of precision that made it easy to defend from a First Amendment challenge.”

Ms. Kagan aligned herself with Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., who held his nose in the early years of the last century while voting to uphold statutes he thought were foolish.

Justice Holmes, Ms. Kagan said, “hated a lot of the legislation that was being enacted during those years, but insisted that if the people wanted it, it was their right to go hang themselves.”

In his memorable dissent in Lochner v. New York, a 1905 decision that struck down a New York work-hours law, Justice Holmes wrote that the Supreme Court should work hard to stay out of the way where economic legislation is concerned.

“A constitution is not intended to embody a particular economic theory,” he wrote. “It is made for people of fundamentally differing views, and the accident of our finding certain opinions natural and familiar, or novel, and even shocking, ought not to conclude our judgment upon the question whether statutes embodying them conflict with the Constitution of the United States.”

That is essentially the answer Ms. Kagan gave, in a kind of confirmation jujitsu, to questions from senators of both parties eager to see their views made into law by the courts rather than Congress.

Senator , Democrat of , asked about opportunities for female lawyers. Ms. Kagan agreed that society had far to go. “But this isn’t the court’s role,” she said. “This really is Congress’s role.”

What about the disparity between sentences imposed for trafficking in crack and powder cocaine, one that tends to produce racially skewed punishment? asked Senator , Democrat of .

“It is a policy issue, quintessentially,” Ms. Kagan responded. “There’s nothing that the Supreme Court or that any court can do about it. It’s really one that Congress has to decide.”

Like judges, members of Congress also swear to uphold the Constitution, Ms. Kagan said, and they should not look to the courts to save them from their folly.

“They ought to be the policymakers for the nation,” Ms. Kagan said of legislators and other elected officials. “The courts have an important role to play, but it’s a limited role. It’s essentially sort of policing the boundaries and making sure that Congress doesn’t overstep its role, doesn’t violate individual rights or interfere with other parts of the governmental system.”

Asked about the criteria the Supreme Court should use in deciding which cases to hear, Ms. Kagan listed three, including conflicts among the lower courts and matters of surpassing significance. But she placed special emphasis on the third one: when a lower court has struck down a federal law.

“That’s a serious thing, to invalidate an act of Congress,” Ms. Kagan said. “You know, for the most part we want to defer to the legislative branch, to the decisions of our elected branches. So that’s such a serious thing that the court is going to take that case.”

Ms. Kagan explained that much of her defense as solicitor general of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, part of which was struck down in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission in January, was based on factual findings in The Congressional Record.

Congress, she said, knows how money can warp politics, and she suggested that the Supreme Court should have paid more deference to that expertise.

Mr. Coburn’s question about mandatory fruits and vegetables was, of course, a transparent proxy for the recent health care legislation, and Ms. Kagan knew that.

She gave only a general answer about the limits of Congressional power to pass laws mandating behavior under the Constitution’s commerce clause. But she did say that the Congress had substantial power in another sense.

“The principal protector against bad laws is the political branches themselves,” she said.
71 2010-07-02 Last season, the moribund 12-70 team’s rating on YES crashed to 0.28, or a meager 20,981 TV households.

With the Yankees the reason for the existence of YES, the network has not needed the Nets to succeed as much as MSG needs the Knicks to bolster a channel lacking baseball since the Mets left to start SNY in 2006.

The Knicks and the Nets — and all the other James suitors — can look at what his arrival in Cleveland meant for ratings on Fox Sports Ohio. In 2003-4, James’s rookie season, the network’s rating nearly quadrupled to 4.6. It increased to 5.7 two seasons later, then dipped below 5.0 the next two, including the one when Cleveland went to the finals. But in 2008-9, the rating soared to 8.8, and last season settled at 8.6, or 130,428 homes.

Cavaliers games thus draw nearly twice as many households as the Knicks’ — and more than six times than the Nets’ — in a market that is about one-fifth the size of New York’s. Great star power can be a seismic factor.

Lee Berke, an industry consultant and former MSG executive, said that the James Effect could create the leverage for MSG or YES to sell advertising at rates up to 20 percent higher than now; push subscriber fees to higher levels than usually anticipated when affiliation deals with cable, satellite and telephone companies expire; and help sell club seats and luxury boxes at the under-renovation Garden or the under-construction Barclays Center in Brooklyn.

But crucial to those optimistic situations is whether James helps the Knicks or the Nets win consistently.

“A team with LeBron that doesn’t win, doesn’t have leverage,” Berke said.

The Nets or the Knicks may be able to win consistently by signing other free agents if James’s Ohio summit leads him to sign elsewhere. But only James — not Chris Bosh, Amar’e Stoudemire or Dwyane Wade — inspired New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to urge James to sign with the Knicks by quoting the King James Bible.

Mike McCarthy, a former president of the MSG Network, said that signing James would turn games into events after a very long hiatus. “It might be reminiscent of when Pat Riley came,” he said. “It creates a buzz where you feel guilty missing a game. He’s a flash point who makes win-lose-draw irrelevant.”

He added: “Some people just draw you. He explodes the ratings. And sponsors would pony up more.”

A Nets or Knicks team invigorated with James would have an intoxicating basketball elixir to sell. But either franchise would face strong local competition, said Mark Rosentraub, a sports management professor at the University of Michigan. The Yankees and the Mets have new stadiums, as do the Jets and the Giants. The Prudential Center in Newark, the Nets’ home for the next two seasons, is in its infancy and construction just began on the Barclays Center. The Garden’s renovation will not be finished until late 2013.

“It’s impossible to say what would affect the Garden more — signing LeBron or the Barclays, which is bringing in 365 event days that didn’t exist,” Rosentraub said. “The Prudential isn’t going away; the Jets and Giants want more, and the Yankees are clearly aggressive. That will have an effect.”
72 2010-07-02 The hearing was just the latest public questioning of Goldman executives about the bank’s role in the mortgage market. The commission on Thursday shifted attention to the way Goldman valued mortgage securities and how that affected the broader market.

The chairman of the commission, Phil Angelides, pointed to Goldman’s bet against housing to question whether the firm itself could have been affecting the market, through its position and its marks on companies like A.I.G.

“Look, you guys are net short, and you’re driving down prices — are you guys creating a self-fulfilling prophecy?” Mr. Angelides said. “Were you in fact pushing the market down?”

Goldman’s chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, said the bank did its best to estimate market pricing and that it did not move the market through its trading, claiming Goldman was a small player in the mortgage space.

“I think there’s a misperception that we move the market,” he said. “We’re a participant in the market.”

Market prices did move in Goldman’s direction in 2008, though many of the deals A.I.G. insured have been recovering and doing better since 2008, when they were transferred to the as part of the government’s $182 billion bailout of A.I.G.

The hearing revisited a debate on valuation that was prevalent at the height of the crisis, when many financial companies complained that they were being forced to take oversize losses on assets because of the market panic. The vice chairman of the commission, Bill Thomas, focused his questions on the models that A.I.G. used. He asked the A.I.G. executives why they preferred to use their models for pricing rather than market pricing when Goldman was demanding cash.

Andrew Forster, an executive vice president at A.I.G., said he did not believe the prices in the market three years ago were accurate.

“If you’re in a liquidity gap at a time when people do not want to add risk, personally I don’t think you should mark all your positions to zero,” Mr. Forster said.

The commissioners asked Goldman to follow up with additional information, including the identities of the third parties that provided to Goldman on A.I.G. as a company. Goldman has pointed to that insurance as the safety net that would have covered Goldman if A.I.G. had failed.

Another commissioner asked Goldman to provide details of any communications the bank had related to the legal waiver it and other banks received during the bailout. That waiver blocks lawsuits between the banks and A.I.G. related to the mortgage securities that are now held by the Fed.

In a second panel, , the former superintendent of the Insurance Department, spoke about the Fed’s and the ’s choice to pay off banks like Goldman in exchange for their mortgage bonds. Mr. Dinallo said it would have been better if the government had guaranteed those deals and left them on A.I.G.’s books.

, the chairman of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, also testified, and he advocated for passage of the financial reform legislation. Clarence K. Lee, a former official with the Office of Thrift Supervision, also testified.
73 2010-07-02 The Knicks and the Nets hope that LeBron James's talents include reversing their embarrassingly low TV ratings.     If James signed with either team, it would allow the MSG Network or the YES Network to boost advertising rates and eventually incre...
74 2010-07-03 A preview of the Wimbledon men's final on Sunday....
75 2010-07-03 The annual event in Philadelphia has attracted some of the best grandmasters from all over the world....
76 2010-07-03 In extending the free-agent forward Amar’e Stoudemire a maximum contract offer for five years and nearly $100 million, the Knicks moved themselves deep into the free-agent pool, with the desire to add an All-Star capable of averaging 20 points and 10 rebounds.

But is he a more economical and safer option than David Lee, the All-Star turned afterthought, who averaged 20.2 points and 11.7 rebounds for the Knicks last season and will probably depart regardless of what happens with Stoudemire?

Delving into the history of Stoudemire and Lee, a study facilitated because both played in Coach Mike D’Antoni’s pick-and-roll-heavy system without a true center at their side, offered some interesting ideas.

Stoudemire is the more dynamic and explosive of the two by a wide margin. He averaged 23.1 points and 8.9 rebounds last season. Stoudemire, though, played on Phoenix teams that had Steve Nash at point guard. Nash generated a large dose of Stoudemire’s offense through pick-and-rolls, and defenses had to respect Nash’s jump shot and ability to penetrate.

Lee, meanwhile, scored his points while playing with Chris Duhon at the point. Duhon struggled with his jump shot through much of his tenure with the Knicks, which allowed defenses to key on his drives and Lee’s rolls. In response, Lee developed a reliable jump shot.
77 2010-07-03 Say it ain’t so, Takeru!

Scandal of sorts has visited that seemingly incorruptible sporting event, the annual Nathan’s Famous Fourth of July International Hot-Dog-Eating Contest — a title that is as much of a mouthful as the hot dogs the competitors wolf down.

Let’s face it: Those who enter eating contests every year are not generally prone to performance-enhancement or sex scandals. But while the forecast for Sunday is sunny, the dark cloud of controversy will hover over this year’s mound of frankfurters. Only the various creatures that contribute to a Nathan’s hot dog can see an upside to this story.

Takeru Kobayashi, the thin, grinning carnivore from Nagano, Japan, will not be competing at Coney Island on Sunday. It is the first time he will miss the contest since his shocking debut in 2001 as a 23-year-old stranger.

“Man devours record 50 hot dogs in 12 minutes to claim victory in eating contest,” the Associated Press headline screamed that year.

Is he ill? Is he full?

Mr. Kobayashi is not welcome at this year’s hot-dog-eating contest because he has not signed his contract with the event’s organizers. Strange as it sounds (“contract” and “hot-dog-eating contest” in the same sentence?), it appears to be true. In the biggest news in free agency since that other guy, the basketball player, Mr. Kobayashi has refused to sign an exclusivity contract with Major League Eating, the sanctioning body of the Nathan’s event and dozens of other eating contests a year.

“The contract would have severely limited the ability to eat and eating behavior itself,” Mr. Kobayashi wrote on his blog on Friday, according to an English translation.
78 2010-07-03 Five East African nations are nearing agreement to collapse their borders so that foreigners will need only one visa to travel to any of the five, Kenya’s immigration minister said Friday. The proposal is part of an effort to forge Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda into a single market and increase investment in the region, Immigration Minister Otieno Kajwang said. Citizens of the five nations do not need visas to travel within their economic bloc, the East African Community, which on Thursday officially began operating as a single market with one set of regulations. Each country, however, still has to change a wide variety of labor, taxation and immigration laws to conform to the protocol.
79 2010-07-03 Credit: Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times
80 2010-07-03 And by contrast, those approaches have helped build positive relationships between the community and the police, rather than create the kind of antagonistic and hostile attitudes in local residents that stop-and-frisk has often fostered.

It is time to cease defending the racially biased stop-and-frisk practices of the city’s Police Department and to consider other proven crime-fighting approaches.

Apart from the Fourth Amendment protection against warrantless searches and seizures, the alarming 575,000 “pedestrian stops” chalked up last year by New York’s Finest are flagrantly contrary to law.

Section 140.50(1) of the state’s Criminal Procedure Law provides that “a police officer may stop a person in a public place ... when he reasonably suspects that such person is committing, has committed or is about to commit” a crime.

Absent the Constitution’s prerequisite of “probable cause” and the statutory requirement of reasonable suspicion, each of these arbitrary stops flouts the law, makes a travesty of the right to privacy and breeds contempt for law enforcement.

Eighty years ago, Justice Louis Brandeis observed: “The makers of our Constitution . . . conferred, as against the government, the right to be let alone — the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men.”

Heather Mac Donald’s ringing endorsement of Compstat policing and the more than half a million New York Police Department stop-and-frisk street encounters in just one year brushes aside the consequences that so many adverse interactions have on the relationship the police enjoy with the community.

For too many minority New Yorkers, the sight of a passing police car brings a sense of dread and angst, the terrible feeling that they do not yet enjoy the full liberties the Constitution promises or the rights of redress that many New Yorkers take as a given. It ignores, too, the fact that many street cops bristle at the constant pressure to produce higher year-on-year “numbers,” pressure that coarsens a profession that is overwhelmingly rooted in service.

The N.Y.P.D. should be proud that it takes crime and disorder seriously — something that sadly cannot be said for many big city police departments — but people of good conscience should beseech the deservedly much-respected Commissioner Raymond Kelly to look again at whether this level of adversarial interaction is really required.

The writer, a lecturer in the department of law and police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, is a former N.Y.P.D. officer and New York City prosecutor.

Heather Mac Donald argues that the racial disparities with respect to the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk practices are justified because of higher crime rates in black and Latino communities. While she cites many statistics regarding violent crime, she minimizes the fact that of the 575,000 stops in 2009, only 12 percent led to arrest or summons, and completely ignores that guns and other weapons were recovered in slightly more than 1 percent of the stops.

To Ms. Mac Donald, and perhaps many New Yorkers, the police’s singling out of “suspicious-looking” people for questioning because they live in “high crime” neighborhoods may seem like a low-cost, intuitively compelling approach to crime prevention. To the hundreds of thousands of innocent people stopped walking to school or work, running an errand for their families or simply visiting friends, these practices have the effect of undermining communities, damaging self-esteem and corroding trust.

Practices that yield so little and cause such harm demand critical examination.
81 2010-07-03 But they said the president’s decision to allow General McChrystal to retire with four stars was an important indicator for future potential employers — perhaps some defense contractors lining the Beltway around Washington — that he was not radioactive, at least as far as the White House was concerned.

Forcing him to retire with three stars “would have sent a signal that he was out of favor,” said John A. Nagl, a retired lieutenant colonel and president of the Center for a New American Security, a nonpartisan military policy institution in Washington.

Under Army regulations, four-star generals must serve three years in that rank before they can keep it in retirement, but the president can waive the rule. General McChrystal was awarded his fourth star only last year, when he was made the top American and NATO commander in Afghanistan. He announced his plans to retire on Monday, five days after being fired.

The White House decision means that General McChrystal, 55, will receive 85 percent of the base pay of a four-star general with 34 years of active service, amounting to an annual pre-tax retirement income of $181,416, according to Pentagon calculations. Had he retired as a three-star, the Pentagon said, General McChrystal would have received an annual pre-tax retirement income of $160,068.

Colleagues said that General McChrystal, who has a grown son, had spent time with family in recent days in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. He has also been in contact by phone and e-mail with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and General Petraeus, who praised him this week not only for his service in Afghanistan but for his “exceptional leadership” in Iraq, where for five years General McChrystal oversaw secret commando operations and aggressively pushed his ranks to kill insurgents.

Colleagues say that they do not know yet what General McChrystal will do in retirement, but that his background suggests a future as a well-paid outside consultant to the Pentagon or a government intelligence agency. There is no word either on members of his personal staff who lost their jobs in the course of his firing, among them his executive officer, Col. Charles A. Flynn.

For the few months that it takes the general to go through the military’s complicated process of retirement, he is expected to stay at Fort McNair, where he lives in a 200-year-old red-brick, white-columned Federal-style house on what is called General’s Row. The view from the front porch, as General McChrystal used to tell guests, is of the field where the accomplices to Abraham Lincoln’s assassination were hanged; the view from the back is of one of the prime bass-fishing spots on the Potomac.

“Stan will land on both feet, make no mistake about that,” General Keane said. “But the psychological and emotional transition that he’s going through, so unexpectedly, from the responsibility he had as a wartime commander to what he’ll deal with in retirement, will just take time.”
82 2010-07-03 Hard figures are difficult to come by when it comes to defense contracts, but Lale Sariibrahimoglu, the Turkey correspondent for Jane’s Defense Weekly, says that Turkish military sources said that military trade between the countries totaled around $1.8 billion in 2007. Israel, she says, was second only to the United States as a source of military technology for Turkey.

Turkey maintains that full reconciliation with Israel is possible only if Israel apologizes for the raid on the Turkish ship, provides compensation for the wounded and the families of those killed and agrees to an independent international inquiry.

So far, Israel has resisted the idea of an independent investigation, but the Israeli government has tried its best to tone down the crisis and patch up relations. This week, for example, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, a cabinet member who has cultivated close ties with the Turks, to a secret meeting with the Turkish foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu.

“It is not in the interest of Israel, or even Turkey, that this relationship continue to deteriorate,” Mr. Netanyahu said in an interview with Channel 1, the state television station, on Friday. “Israel cannot apologize because its soldiers had to defend themselves to avoid being lynched by a crowd.” He added, “We regret the loss of life.”

Israel has a free trade agreement with Turkey that no one has spoken of rupturing, and shortly before the flotilla raid Turkey helped ensure Israel’s inclusion in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

But problems are starting to crop up. Turkish officials are concerned that the Israelis will cancel a $141 million contract to enhance the intelligence gathering abilities of Turkey’s warplanes for fear that the new systems might be used against Israel, Ms. Sariibrahimoglu said.

“I am sure we are much more sensitive about sharing sensitive material with them out of fear it will get to the Iranians,” said Efraim Inbar, an expert in Turkish-Israeli relations and director of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan University.

Israel’s ties with Turkey had begun to fray well before the flotilla raid, starting with the election in 2003 of an Islamist prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who began to tilt Turkey toward new relations with two of Israel’s most serious foes, Iran and Syria. Relations with Israel took an especially icy turn in early 2008, when Mr. Erdogan lashed out at Israel over its killing of civilians in its offensive on Gaza.

Israel’s growing wariness of Turkey goes back several years, as evidenced by its decision not to sell the Turks its Ofek spy satellite, Israeli officials said, again speaking on condition of anonymity. On the civilian side the main fallout from the damaged diplomatic ties is easily visible on Turkey’s beaches, once a favorite vacation destination of Israelis who this year canceled en masse.

Menashe Carmon, the chairman of the Israel Turkey Business Council, said that although long-time cooperation between Israeli and Turkish businesses had not stopped, partnerships and investment ventures that were in their initial stages had slowed. “They have decided to wait and see what will happen politically,” he said, referring mostly to Israeli companies.

His office in a building overlooking the harbor in Jaffa features the Turkish and Israeli flags — a rare sight in Israel. He says he remains hopeful that better times lie ahead. He is busy at work planning a trip for Turkish businesspeople in Israel.

“The Turkish are regular visitors to Israel. This will be nothing new,” he said.
83 2010-07-03 The bill has yet to land on the governor’s desk, but one sponsor, Senator Eric L. Adams, a Brooklyn Democrat, said that in a conversation on Wednesday night, Mr. Paterson “stated to me he sees no problem with getting this bill signed into law.”

Earlier Wednesday, when asked if he would sign the bill, Mr. Paterson said he would have to read it first. But he gave some hint of where he stood, saying, “I don’t see why you have a database on people who have not been found to do anything wrong, but just how far the bill goes is something I’ll take a look at.”

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg “will urge the governor to veto the bill,” a spokesman, Jason Post, said. By limiting the information that the Police Department “can record, electronically, in stop and frisks, the ability of police to solve subsequent crimes will be limited,” Mr. Post said.

Senator Martin J. Golden, a Republican from Brooklyn who is a retired city police officer, said, “I think it’s a disgrace this legislation passed, and I hope the governor vetoes it.” Stripping officers of their ability to log the names of those stopped, he said, is “like handcuffing the police.”

Mr. Adams said the bill’s backers’ quarrel was not with the stop-and-frisk practice itself, which he called a “great crime-fighting tool,” but with the policy of indefinitely keeping the names of innocent people, which he called “unacceptable, not only in New York, but in America.” For that reason, said Mr. Adams, a retired New York City police captain, “we have abused the tool.”

The police, in executing their stop-and-frisk strategy, are supposed to question people who they have a reasonable belief might have committed or are about to commit a crime. But in hundreds of thousands of instances, according to Police Department data, officers have stopped people on the street without citing specific reasons.

In the run-up to the bill’s passage, Bloomberg administration officials, representing the Police Department, and lawmakers could not reach a compromise, several people said.

The mayor’s “team in Albany was in conversations with the bill’s sponsors, but couldn’t come to any agreement,” Mr. Post said on Thursday. Mr. Adams said the city had rebuffed a suggestion to allow the police to keep the names of people stopped by officers for six months.

In the end, Mr. Adams said there was no option but to bring the measure to the floor. A concerted fight by Mr. Bloomberg’s representatives and the Police Department to beat it back failed, Mr. Golden said.

The Senate passed the bill on June 23, by a vote of 32 to 29, and the Assembly approved it six days later, by a vote of 85 to 55.

In May, the New York Civil Liberties Union sued the Police Department and its commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, on behalf of a smaller group of people whose names are in the police database: those who were either issued a violation or arrested in street stops but later cleared of criminal charges or fined for a noncriminal violation.

Donna Lieberman, the civil liberties group’s executive director, said the police practice of keeping names was tantamount to a “regime of ‘round up the usual suspects.’ ”

Commissioner Kelly, speaking after a promotion ceremony at Police Headquarters on Friday, warned that if the governor signed the measure, the public would suffer.

“I think it’s a huge mistake,” Mr. Kelly said. “I think the public will be the loser for this. It appears that certain politicians think that crime has gone low enough and we need it to go back up. It makes no sense.”

Mr. Kelly repeated his belief in the value of the database as an investigative tool and said that the department was open to the notion of keeping names for a set period before eliminating them — which he said the department had proposed.

“We’ll see what happens,” Mr. Kelly said. “But I think the loser ultimately will be the public, because it impinges on the Police Department’s ability to do investigations and to solve crimes.”
84 2010-07-03 Does the world need another festival for emerging playwrights? Lynn Nottage, above, answered with an emphatic yes this week by hosting a fund-raiser in her Brooklyn home to benefit the establishment of the New Black Fest, a festival aiming to showcase innovative work by and about black people from around the world. Its organizers and supporters are busy raising money and seeking out advisers in time for an autumn inaugural festival, which would include readings and panel discussions. “This is not about separation, it’s about inclusion,” said Ms. Nottage, who won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize in drama for “Ruined,” about women in a Congolese brothel. “It’s about inviting people who don’t get access.” Katori Hall (of the Broadway-bound play “The Mountaintop”) and Suzan Lori-Parks (“Topdog/Underdog”) were among the playwrights attending the benefit. By the end of the night, $7,000 had been raised as the hat was passed among about 45 people from the world of film and theater, including Sandra Oh (“Grey’s Anatomy”), Russell Hornsby and Chris Chalk (of the Broadway revival of “Fences”), Eisa Davis (“Passing Strange”), the directors Malcolm Lee and Charles Randolph-Wright, and David Dower, associate artistic director of Arena Stage in Washington. Ms. Parks said the new festival would not only nurture and introduce new talent but also help African-Americans “remind each other that we are a great and powerful people,” she said.
85 2010-07-03 Reviewers have described the novel as a stylistic counterpoint to “Mambo Kings,” but it also explores a contrast in geography and identity: what it means to be Cuban in Miami, and what it means anywhere else.

Mr. Hijuelos, like the Castillo brothers of his fiction, came of age in New York. His father worked at a hotel, and his mother did odd jobs to bring in extra money. Being Cuban sometimes required explaining.

Over a lunch of roasted pork and beer in Little Havana, he recalled a moment early in his career when a white acquaintance referred to Desi Arnaz, the Cuban actor who played Ricky Ricardo on “I Love Lucy,” as “that Spanish guy.” It was generic. It was wrong.

“That was one of the first things I intended to explore,” Mr. Hijuelos said.

“Mambo Kings” brought Mr. Arnaz back to life, along with the hip-shaking music of the ’50s. In that novel he gives the Castillo brothers their big break by inviting them to play the song about Maria on his show. Lucie Arnaz, the daughter of Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz, said in an interview that she respected Mr. Hijuelos’s depiction because it showed that her father had stayed rooted despite his celebrity.

But the ideal that Mr. Arnaz embodied — “my father was very concerned about trying to pass as a hardworking, smart American,” she said — pushed many sons and daughters of Cuban immigrants away from the insular worlds of Miami or Havana.

Ms. Arnaz and Mr. Hijuelos ended up hyphenated (more American-Cuban than Cuban-American) so that when Mr. Hijuelos speaks Spanish, he repeats words under his breath to make sure he has them right. He says “Fuhgeddaboutit” far more than the typical Cuban curse words.

Mr. Hijuelos described his upbringing as outside the “exact moment of the culture” that has come to define the Cuban exile experience. Just a few tables away sat men roughly the same age, wearing guayaberas, speaking rapid Spanish.

“Others might be trapped in a certain time or emotion,” he said.

Still, partly because of that frozen-in-time feel, Cuban Miami has always been a touchstone for immigrants from the island, and Mr. Hijuelos is no exception. Driving through the middle-class neighborhood where his aunt lived in the ’60s, he recalled feeling a deeper connection to his roots whenever he came here as a child. He had cousins, friends, all Cuban, all playing in a subtropical world with the small ranch houses and scented trees that evoked their homeland.

“It’s so perfumed,” he said. “It’s a different world from what I saw in New York.”

At the main domino park on Calle Ocho and in a souvenir shop nearby, Mr. Hijuelos said he did not mind much that Cuban culture had become kitsch for many visitors to the city. He wished more of the culture, the music, the literature, were being sold alongside the posters, cigar boxes and T-shirts that said “made in America with Cuban parts.” But he appreciated that this world was being celebrated.

“There are so many different levels of ‘Cuban,’ ” he said.

“Beautiful Maria” actually tackles this idea head-on. In a self-referential twist near the end, Mr. Hijuelos himself makes an appearance at a Coral Gables bookstore for a reading, where he is confronted by Maria’s daughter, Teresa, who accuses him of invading her mother’s privacy. He accurately describes himself as “not very Cuban-looking at all,” with a stocky build, glasses, and light skin that makes him “more Fred Mertz than Desi Arnaz.”

When he meets Maria later on, they are able to connect because she, with her “amber dignity,” takes pity on him. Teresa grows to appreciate him as well — and this, to some degree, is Mr. Hijuelos’s greatest wish, to be embraced by his own people.

As a writer, he is a laborer like his father: he sometimes comes out of his studio with his elbows bloodied from banging against his desk. And while nothing he’s written since “Mambo Kings” has created the same kind of stir, he remains passionate. More than anything, he loves hearing that the characters he has created ring true to those who know from experience the worlds that he mostly imagines.

He smiles most broadly, in fact, when he talks about those who say they remember hearing the Mambo Kings play, as if they were real, as if they too belonged on the Calle Ocho mural with Tito Puente and Celia Cruz. Maria, in his mind, is no less alive.

“I know for a fact that there are many Marias in Miami who are lovesick for musicians,” he said. “I wrote the book on the assumption that it’s a true story; it may not be, but it feels real to me.”
86 2010-07-03 Over the course of an 11-inning afternoon Friday, the Yankees bucked one trend and continued two others. After muddling through the worst month by a starter in team history, A. J. Burnett responded with six and two-thirds scoreless innings. He left with a lead, but the Yankees’ two recent nuisances — bullpen troubles and a failure to hit with runners in scoring position — conspired to send them to a 6-1 loss to the Toronto Blue Jays.

With the Yankees one out from having Mariano Rivera pitch in a save situation — and four from rewarding Burnett for an encouraging day’s work — Joba Chamberlain allowed the tying run to score in the bottom of the eighth. The relievers’ struggles to preserve a close game were amplified in the 11th, when Dave Robertson was charged with four runs and Chan Ho Park allowed three inherited runners to score, forcing in a run with a bases-loaded walk before surrendering a bases-clearing triple to DeWayne Wise.

A game-winning hit by the Yankees would have turned Burnett from pitcher to pie-smasher, but Toronto set down the final 13 Yankees in order. In the first and sixth innings against Brett Cecil, the Yankees put the first two runners on base. In the third, they loaded the bases with no outs. Squeezing only one run out of those rallies did not sit well with the Yankees, whose most recent hit with a runner in scoring position came in the ninth inning Tuesday, a span of 21 at-bats.

“We’ve run into a little buzz saw,” Nick Swisher said.

So, too, had Burnett, who went 0-5 with an 11.35 earned run average in June. That the calendar pages had flipped to July meant nothing to him unless a more substantial change had occurred. To Burnett, one did. He threw a bullpen session Wednesday that, as he described it, left him feeling “real free upstairs.” From a physical standpoint, Burnett thought he corrected his primary mechanical flaw — his left shoulder was flying open, flattening his pitches and affecting his command — and the evidence was in his outing Friday.

Burnett experienced the same sensation only a few times among his 106 pitches, and this time, he said, he knew how to correct it. He has repeatedly diminished any connection between his problems and the 25-day absence of the pitching coach Dave Eiland, who rejoined the team Tuesday. But with a little “Arkansas talk” Eiland can convey Burnett’s problems in a way the pitcher can understand. His 95-mile-an-hour fastball hummed, particularly along the outside corner, and he controlled his curveball better than at any point over the last six weeks.
87 2010-07-03 “Things are getting very interesting,” Wade told The Associated Press after the Bulls meeting.

Asked whether James will have any influence on him, Wade said: “I can’t say. We’re both going to make our own decisions.”

The meeting was first reported by The South Florida Sun-Sentinel and confirmed by several other media outlets.

“We feel very strongly about our commitment to Dwyane and our fans,” Pat Riley, the Heat’s president, told the Sun-Sentinel.

Wade is a Chicago native and could instantly turn his hometown team into a powerhouse. The Bulls are well stocked with young talent, including point guard Derrick Rose and center Joakim Noah. Chicago also could, with a bit of payroll maneuvering, obtain a second superstar, possibly James, or even Bosh.

Wade, James and Bosh are the three biggest names in this celebrated free-agent class, and have talked openly about uniting, in one city or another. Heat executives met with James earlier in the day in Cleveland.

Both Bosh and Wade met with the Knicks earlier Friday, even as the Knicks moved to lock up the one star they have yet to meet in person: Stoudemire.

The Knicks are offering $99.7 over five years, the maximum allowed, to secure Stoudemire, according to a person involved in the talks, who requested anonymity while discussing private negotiations. Stoudemire, a five-time All-Star, wants to meet with the Knicks before accepting the offer and is traveling to New York on Saturday. A meeting could happen as soon as Sunday.

A 6-foot 10-inch, 245-pound forward, Stoudemire anchored the Phoenix Suns’ frontcourt for most of the last eight years, including five seasons under Mike D’Antoni, the Knicks’ coach.

It might take more than a rich contract to make Stoudemire comfortable. Like many star players, he is said to be wary of coming to New York without assurances that another elite player would join him..

But if those two sign elsewhere, which seems likely, Stoudemire could find himself cast in the unenviable role of franchise savior, with a depleted roster around him.

The Knicks have just five players under contract — Danilo Gallinari, Wilson Chandler, Toney Douglas, Bill Walker and Eddy Curry — and no stars among them.

The Knicks have also extended a maximum offer -- five years and $91.5 million — to Joe Johnson, but he is expected to stay with the Atlanta Hawks, who can pay him $28 million more over six seasons.

Stoudemire could also entertain offers from Miami, Chicago and the Nets, all of whom have substantial cap room. None of them are expected to offer a max contract, however. Stoudemire is a possible financial risk because of his injury history — including knee surgery in 2005 and eye surgery in 2009 — and his contract cannot be insured.

It was that risk that prompted the Suns to break off talks with Stoudemire on Friday. Stoudemire was seeking a six-year deal. He rejected the Suns’ final offer, a five-year deal that was predicated in part on him meeting certain playing-time requirements in the third and fourth years, according to the Arizona Republic.

“It wasn’t the right deal,” his agent, Happy Walters, told the newspaper, adding, “He’ll be sad to leave his teammates and the city he loves, but it’s time to move on.”

The Suns quickly reached an agreement with another power forward, Hakim Warrick, a day after re-signing center-forward Channing Frye.

A handful of other deals were reached Friday. Steve Blake, a journeyman point guard, agreed to terms with the defending champion Los Angeles Lakers. Paul Pierce was said to be nearing an agreement to re-sign with the Boston Celtics, and Dirk Nowitzki was similarly moving toward a new deal with the Dallas Mavericks.

No contracts can be signed until July 8, after the league’s annual moratorium ends and the new salary cap is set. C

The Knicks have been among the busiest teams in free agency, traveling to Los Angeles, Cleveland and Chicago in the first 48 hours. They made separate pitches to Wade and Bosh at a downtown hotel over the course of about five hours.

Wade was first, arriving in a sports-utility vehicle and telling awaiting reporters, “I’m in a New York state of mind, so we’ll see!” Afterward, he smiled and said, “The meeting went really well.”

Bosh’s meeting lasted 2 hours 40 minutes, the longest any player had met with the Knicks.

Asked if he was enjoying the courtship, Bosh said: “You got to enjoy it. I’m always like a kid on Christmas.”

More than 90 minutes after Bosh left, Knicks officials finally emerged from the meeting, offering optimistic platitudes.

Donnie Walsh, the team president, said he “felt good about the meetings.” He denied that an agreement has been reach with Stoudemire.

“This is not an easy choice for anybody,” D’Antoni said. “They’re going to have their patience and do what’s best for them -- it takes a little while, they have a lot of people advising them, so they aren’t going to just jump into it.”

Back in Cleveland, James entertained contingents from the Heat and the Los Angeles Clippers. Riley arrived with his seven championship rings. The Clippers arrived without their controversial owner, Donald Sterling, and without a coach (they have not hired one).

The courting of James will conclude Saturday when he meets with his own team, the Cleveland Cavaliers, and finally the Bulls.
88 2010-07-03 Yet Dunga, Brazil’s pragmatic coach, saw something in him, some extra commitment to defense from a midfield combatant, that makes both the coach and the player a lightning rod in Brazil.

The rejoicing around the world because Brazil has fallen will also find pockets of relief in Brazil. For this is not the soccer, the Joga Bonito or Beautiful Game, that Brazilians believe in. Dunga had traduced it, coarsened the style, picked mainly European-based players to perform in his own image as a ball fighter not concerned with style, but only with winning.

His critics include old players, and they line up behind Socrates, once an elegant presence on the field, now a doctor of medicine and a commentator on soccer, politics and economics. Socrates described Dunga’s football as “an affront to our culture.”

So plaudits are deserved for the Netherlands, mooted regrets for Brazil. A hope, a distant one perhaps, is that Brazil will try to rediscover its beauty before the next World Cup — in Brazil in 2014.

The Netherlands, it has to be said, did the right thing. It played the Brazil side in front of it, and not the Brazil of legend.

It also was more than prepared to mix sport with deliberate foul play, and if the referee, Yuichi Nishimura, was 100 percent right to give Melo a red card, he somehow allowed the Dutchman Mark van Bommel to remain on the field despite constant verbal haranguing of his decisions, and despite an ugly body check on Lúcio.

That said, the victory belonged to the Oranje, and the consequence of defeat was Brazil’s own doing.

Melo was at the heart of everything. Chosen to replace the suspended Ramires, he initially stepped out of character with his exemplary pass for the first goal. Ten minutes into the game, Melo spotted the run of Robinho and, from the center circle, delivered the ball right into his stride.

Robinho was too swift for any Dutch defender, too slick with his right-footed shot, which slipped beyond the undefended goalie, Maarten Stekelenburg.

Brazil, or so we thought, was marching on.

Alas, poor Melo was to undo all his good work. In the 53rd minute, he blocked off his own goalkeeper and, worse, headed a lofted center pass from Wesley Sneijder into his own goal.

In the 68th minute, neither Melo nor any defender did his job when Sneijder was given the freedom to head another goal from 19 feet.

In the 73rd minute, Melo’s fall from grace to disgrace became complete when he slyly, thuggishly, stamped his studs into the calf of Robben.

Melo walked the walk of shame. Dutch courage deserved the victory.

Dunga’s Brazil — more muscular, methodical and combative than it needed to be — is done.

With a game that was played on a desperately poor pitch that began to cut up before halftime, the sway of this World Cup changed significantly.

Germany, which faces Argentina on Saturday in Cape Town, will take heart that the apparent South American might is not as strong as it seemed. Spain, still the team most committed to style, will swell with belief that this could be its year.

The Netherlands, so very unafraid of the Brazilian reputation, will fancy itself able to go all the way now.

Brazil is out and the door is open.

We will never know, but many will ask: What if Dunga had chosen the artistry of Ronaldinho rather than the functionary Melo on his team?
89 2010-07-03 Prosecutors used the letter to argue against bail for the three defendants. They said, for example, that since their arrests, the Arlington couple had been making arrangements with a family friend to care for their two children and planned to send the children to Russia to live with relatives.

The prosecutors made clear that they believed that with their children in Russia, the couple would have even more incentive to flee the United States if they were freed pending trial.

In court in Alexandria, Mr. Kutzik and Ms. Pereverzeva appeared before the judge together, followed by Mr. Semenko. All three defendants wore dark green prisoner jumpsuits, and all three waived their rights to detention hearings and were ordered held.

The judge, Theresa C. Buchanan, scheduled a preliminary hearing on the charges for Wednesday, but a federal prosecutor from Manhattan, Jason B. Smith, said his office expected to seek indictments soon; no hearing would be needed if the indictments came first.

Eleven people have been charged with conspiring to act as unregistered agents of a foreign government. Nine of them were also charged with conspiring to commit money laundering. None has been charged with espionage. Lawyers for the three in Virginia either declined comment or could not be reached for comment.

Prosecutors, in their letter, echoed arguments they made at bail hearings in Manhattan on Thursday for three other suspected agents. Two of those defendants were denied bail; the third is to be allowed to serve a form of house arrest if she meets certain conditions.

In the letter, prosecutors said there was “little doubt” that the three Virginia defendants, if released, “could call upon substantial and sophisticated resources to assist them,” a reference to the S.V.R., the Russian foreign intelligence service that is a successor to the K.G.B.

“They are skilled deceivers who have repeatedly betrayed those closest to them and would readily do so again, by fleeing,” prosecutors said.

They also cited the case of a co-defendant, Christopher Metsos, who was arrested in Cyprus this week and fled after being released on bail.

Justice Minister Loucas Louca said on Friday that it was unlikely Mr. Metsos was still in Cyprus, The Associated Press reported.

Prosecutors have not released much information about what they believe Mr. Kutzik and Ms. Pereverzeva did for the S.V.R., but they have said that the couple traveled to New York four times to pick up money and supplies for clandestine work.

The couple lived together in various places, including Seattle, and moved to Arlington, a Washington suburb, last October, according to a criminal complaint filed in Manhattan.

The complaint says that in a 2006 court-authorized search of the couple’s apartment in Seattle, investigators found spiral notebooks that included pages of apparently random columns of numbers, which the F.B.I. said were codes to decipher clandestine radio transmissions that the agents used to communicate with the S.V.R. in Moscow.

The letter also said that agents found eight unmarked envelopes, each containing $10,000 in apparently new $100 bills, this week in a search of a safe deposit box rented by the couple.

“Exactly the same amount of cash, packaged in exactly the same way, was recovered” this week in the safe deposit box of two other defendants, a couple in Montclair, N.J., prosecutors said.
90 2010-07-03 “This is a public relations pirouette,” said James E. Katz, director of the Center for Communication Studies at , who also questioned why the problem was not discovered earlier. “They are trying to exculpate themselves by saying this seeming flaw is not a flaw because it has been there for such a long time. And the fact that they have to brag about how good the new phone is shows their own .”

Still, many customers agree that the iPhone 4 is better at making calls than earlier models.

Apple gave its explanation in an open letter to customers on its Web site. Company officials declined further requests for comment. , the sole carrier for the iPhone in the , whose network has been blamed for most of the reception problems, also declined to comment, referring questions on the issue to Apple.

Last week Apple said that people who saw their reception bars drop when they held the phone a certain way should simply hold it differently. That comment was greeted with derision by some users, and with barbs by rivals. It prompted scores of Web videos on how to avoid the so-called death grip on the iPhone 4. ran ads for its new Droid X saying that one of its great features was that users could hold it any way they wanted.

In the letter on Friday, Apple said, “Upon investigation, we were stunned to find that the formula we use to calculate how many bars of signal strength to display is totally wrong.” The company said the formula “in many instances, mistakenly displays 2 more bars than it should for a given signal strength.”

The company explained that sometimes the phone showed four bars when it should show only two. It acknowledged in the letter that people who see a drop of a few bars were most likely somewhere with a weak signal. But, the letter said, they are not aware of that “because we are erroneously displaying 4 or 5 bars.” The letter adds, “Their big drop in bars is because their high bars were never real in the first place.”

With the fix, Apple said, “the real signal strength remains the same, but the iPhone’s bars will report it far more accurately, providing users a much better indication of the reception they will get in a given area.” The fix will also be offered for older iPhones, the 3G and 3GS models, which suffer from the same problem, it said.

Like Apple’s previous response, its admission of a software bug — after suggesting last week that the problem had to do with hardware — is unlikely to diminish either scorn from critics or sales of the iPhone 4.

“You can’t make something like this up,” said Charles Wolf, an analyst with Needham & Company. “The problem is so ridiculous that it is humorous. But none of this is going to have any impact on sales.”

Apple apologized to users “for any anxiety we may have caused,” and said users who were not satisfied with their iPhone 4 could return it for a full refund within 30 days of purchase. No word on whether it will offer a coupon for .
91 2010-07-03 Analysts had expected that the Labor Department’s monthly snapshot would offer a bleak image of the job market, and they said that investors had largely factored that in long before the report came out.

“I guess it kind of set the tone for more of a negative day than anything,” said Stephen J. Carl, the principal head equity trader for the Williams Capital Group.

He added that things seemed to be modestly eroding as the afternoon continued. “You could potentially attribute that to profit-taking and not a lot of demand ahead of the three-day weekend, and people shutting down early potentially.”

According to the Labor Department, the nation’s private sector added only 83,000 jobs in June. Overall, nonfarm payrolls fell by 125,000 jobs, mostly as temporary workers hired by the federal government to help with the census completed those jobs.

The unemployment rate declined to 9.5 percent in June, from 9.7 percent in May.

“The bigger picture is there is still a lot of downside left,” said Bill Strazzullo, a partner and chief market strategist at Bell Curve Trading. “The whole economy just kind of ground to a halt in May. All the main economic indicators have been bad. The point is the momentum is clearly down.”

And as the second half of the year unfolds, Mr. Strazzullo said: “This is an indication of what you are going to see. The direction is down. And I think the second half of the year is going to be difficult.”

With the end of some stimulus measures and housing and consumer spending weak, “the private sector can’t carry the ball on its own,” he said.

The new economic numbers are likely to add to the debate about the state of the recovery, and especially about the ability of consumers to spend.

The jobs numbers came as the Commerce Department said orders for manufactured goods fell by 1.4 percent in May, the biggest drop since March of last year. This followed a 1 percent increase in April. Excluding the transportation sector, new orders fell by 0.6 percent.

Manufacturing has been one of the bright spots in the economic recovery, but the job market and consumer spending are also closely watched.

“A down day on the heels of one of the worst quarters is not a surprise,” said M. Jake Dollarhide, chief executive of Longbow Asset Management.

Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Partners, said in a research note that concerns over European sovereign debt issues and the health of the global economy were also at play in the market. The euro rebounded to its highest level in 30 days after fears that Banco Popular of Spain would need fresh capital were allayed.

The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 8/32, to 104 14/32. The yield rose to 2.98 percent from 2.95 percent late Thursday.

Consumer discretionary, financial and industrial stocks were down in early trading, while health care and telecommunications utilities stocks rose slightly.

Bank of America was down 18 cents at $13.84.

United States markets are closed Monday for the Independence Day holiday.
92 2010-07-03 TEL AVIV -- Since the deadly Israeli raid on the Gaza flotilla, Turkey has recalled its ambassador from Jerusalem and banned Israeli military planes from the country's airspace, while its prime minister has called the Jewish state ''a lying machin...
93 2010-07-03 Earlier this year, we started a recurring feature here at Bucks where we highlight others online who present novel cost-saving strategies we wish we had thought of. In our first installment, we detailed a creative tip for keeping thieves from tryi...
94 2010-07-04 A former champion did not compete in a Fourth of July hot dog eating contest, but his arrest still captured much of the attention....
95 2010-07-04 How Rafael Nadal beat Tomas Berdych to win the Wimbledon final....
96 2010-07-04 The free agent Amar'e Stoudemire took in a Broadway show and a Yankees game during a trip to New York....
97 2010-07-04 Benny Powell, a trombonist who performed or recorded with everyone from Frank Sinatra to Screamin’ Jay Hawkins but who was best known for his long tenure with Count Basie’s big band, died on June 26 in New York. He was 80.

He died in a Manhattan hospital, apparently of a heart attack, shortly after undergoing spinal surgery, said Devra Hall Levy, a family spokeswoman.

Mr. Powell spent most of his career as a sideman, but he made the most of his moments in the spotlight. His brief but lively solo on Basie’s 1955 recording of “April in Paris” helped make it one of the most popular numbers in the band’s repertory.

Mr. Powell was admired by critics and fellow musicians. Writing in The New York Times in 1984, John S. Wilson praised him for his “innate elegance” and his “mellow, full-bodied sound.”

Mr. Powell was with Basie from 1951 to 1963 and later returned to the band on special occasions and performed with Basie alumni ensembles. In a 1997 interview with the Online Trombone Journal (trombone.org), he said he remained so closely identified with Basie that “people still ask me, ‘Is the band in town?’ ”

He went on to lead his own small groups and became a familiar presence in the recording studios of New York and, later, Los Angeles. From 1966 to 1970 he was a member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Jazz Orchestra, a Monday-night fixture at the Village Vanguard in New York.
98 2010-07-04 Millions of Americans beginning to let soccer into their hearts are rightly dismayed by the archaic lack of instant replay. Additionally, soccer fans around the world (especially in Mexico and England) support replay now more than ever. We are not going to get another headline-grabbing opportunity like this.

Major League Soccer should announce that starting with the 2011 season, all games will use replay. In doing so, M.L.S. would gain a great competitive advantage over the world’s other leagues. And should they follow suit, we’ll always be the ones who got there first. Adam Weiner

The World Cup tournament has proved one thing: soccer needs to be brought into the 21st century. Four simple changes can drastically improve soccer:

¶Stop the game clock when the ball is out of play or play is stopped for a foul or injury.

¶Decide all ties with sudden-death overtime, then penalty kicks if that doesn’t resolve it.

With these changes, soccer would be infinitely more interesting to watch. If FIFA can’t get itself to modernize the game, the United States should lead the way. Paul Swart

Making mistakes is human — missing a penalty or failing to see the ball cross the goal line.

The claim that video technology would stop the flow of soccer is nonsense, as proved in rugby, a conservative and traditional sport that uses it. If anything stops the flow, it is players who come out of acting school and do nothing more than roll around on the field in fake agony.

“Fury at the Sounds of South Africa’s World Cup” (July 1) was more than a bit tone deaf. I attended four World Cup matches in mid-June, one of which was the Brazil-North Korea contest at Ellis Park in Johannesburg.

Throughout the match, a band of Brazil fans nearby battled with security officers over their perceived right to stand and play and obstruct the view of those behind them, while berating the fans behind them for not joining them in their annoying antics. I applaud the stadium security for restraint in tolerating the rudeness of this group.

George Vecsey should try sitting among the paying customers. What can seem endearing from the press box is something quite different up close.
99 2010-07-04 The writer, a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center, CUNY, is the author of “Blurring the Color Line.”

It’s true that over the last half-century, the old Protestant elite has opened its doors to an astonishing diversity of ethnic minorities. But this has not been done voluntarily, out of a strong devotion to America’s founding ideals. If minority groups had not been knocking at the doors, our Protestant elite would have never opened them.

Noah Feldman is right about the positive nature of this trend. Surely it is better to judge college applicants or potential employees by “merit” than by their last names. But Mr. Feldman does not mention the ways in which our so-called meritocratic elite has bent the playing field on behalf of its offspring: SAT classes, summer camp and tutors.

Is a child who grows up with those advantages more deserving than one who doesn’t? By replacing inherited status with meritocracy, we substituted a new kind of injustice for an older one.

The writer is a professor of education and history at New York University.

What Noah Feldman calls the “conscious decision to change” was not made out of a sudden awareness of ethical tradition, but under pressure from the civil rights and women’s movements.

Elite women especially, by forgoing their supposed privileges as wives, hit the establishment where it lived. The subsequent equality and diversity in institutions was hard-fought and a long time coming.

The writer is emerita professor of history, Brooklyn College and the Graduate Center, CUNY.

Noah Feldman does not mention one important influence: the Protestant-ness of most members of the white Protestant elite. For the most part, old, mainline Protestant churches promote the belief that all humans are equal in the eyes of God. Therefore, shouldn’t we as individuals and American society manifest this belief?

From religious tolerance to abolition and universal suffrage, this value has historically expressed itself in growing American inclusiveness and now is extending to sexual orientation.

Two subsidiary beliefs also play a role. One is that humans are descendants of Adam and Eve, which means we should recognize others as members of our one human family and treat them as such. The other is the social gospel of “do unto others” and reduce human suffering.
100 2010-07-04 Jets safety James Ihedigbo spent a week working sunup to sundown amid the ruins and rubble of earthquake-devastated Haiti.

And then there was Cleveland Browns offensive lineman Joe Thomas, who found a new hero after befriending the Purple Heart recipient Sgt. Eric Harder during an N.F.L.-U.S.O. Tour in Afghanistan.

At a time when athletes are often branded by the sweeping brush of negative headlines and me-first motives, these players rolled up their collective sleeves for the greater good and were rewarded with life-changing experiences.

“It was humbling,” Peterson said. “You really don’t realize how blessed you are.”

Joined by the former Oklahoma stars Tommie Harris, Roy Williams and Mark Clayton, Peterson spent 10 days touring parts of Africa with a group of Oklahoma City medical professionals, lawyers and business leaders. Together, they helped dig wells, assisted in building a small school, distributed medical supplies and played games with children while donating their time and money to help make a difference.

Peterson was struck by how the simplest necessities could be so difficult to get, with people often walking miles on dirt roads for fresh water.

“It was a blessing to be in a position to experience that,” he said. “It makes you more grounded and be able to say: ‘Hey, you think you’ve got it rough? Ha.’ This was rough. This was survival.”

Ihedigbo had much the same reaction upon arriving Haiti in March with his teammates David Clowney, Vernon Gholston and Ahmad Carroll. Through his Hope Africa charitable foundation, Ihedigbo was organizing a trip to Nigeria when he changed plans once the earthquake struck.

The most difficult and heart-wrenching moment came when they pulled up to a tent camp and began unloading supplies. Ihedigbo saw a woman cleaning her baby with a dirty sweatshirt. He handed her a box of baby wipes.

“Some of the places we went, this was the first help they had received,” he said. “It blew me away because we went three and a half weeks after the earthquake. It really touched us to know that if we hadn’t jumped to the plate, a lot of people would’ve been hindered or hurt even worse.”

Ihedigbo said that even a small effort could make a big difference.

“You never know the impact that our trip might have had on a little child,” he said. “That child may grow up and be a physician. You never know. And it’s things like that that are priceless.”

Thomas’s experience was different, though equally invaluable. He found inspiration in a war zone by traveling to Forward Operating Base Bostick. That is where he met Harder of the 3rd Squadron, 61st Cavalry Regiment and learned of his heroism during a 12-hour battle against the Taliban during which eight United States soldiers were killed at Combat Outpost Keating last October.

Aside from earning a Purple Heart for being wounded in the fighting, Harder has been recommended for a Silver Star.

“That was one of the big moments of the trip and one of the most humbling moments,” Thomas recalled. “Just hearing him talk so humbly about it, and talking about it like it’s just an everyday thing, it really makes you feel bad you have it so good and so easy back home.”

The trip was so memorable for Thomas that, upon returning home, he began reading and following on television as much as he could about the war effort in Afghanistan. During his research, he came upon Harder’s mother, Mary Henry, and sent an e-mail message praising him.

“I am sure he had no idea what an impact it would have on me, but it was huge,” Henry said. “There are those in the spotlight that make sure that no act of kindness goes unnoticed. Not Joe. He wrote me an e-mail with absolutely no expectation to bring glory back to himself. He actually seemed uncomfortable with any praise coming his way.”

For Thomas, who has invited Harder to a Browns game this season, it was the least he — or any N.F.L. player — could do.

“There’s no doubt that so many guys in the N.F.L. are giving back,” Thomas said. “It’s so much a part of what we do and who we are. And we get just as much satisfaction of giving back in any little way we can, whether it’s Afghanistan, Uganda, Cape Town or maybe it’s just in Berea, Ohio.”

Fitzgerald can still envision children in India begging for a T-shirt, a pair of socks or even a stick of gum.

“It humbles you,” Fitzgerald said. “Any time you go over there and do things like that, that means a heck of a lot more than scoring touchdowns.”
101 2010-07-04 The State Department grew used to a bitter separation in the early years of the Iraq war. Back then, civilian-military collaboration meant sidelining the diplomats, starving the State Department of funds, and marginalizing the secretary of state, Colin Powell, in White House debates.

But by 2007, when the American troop surge was in full swing, the State Department — then under Condoleezza Rice — had managed to achieve a respectable supporting role on the ground, deploying some 700 civilians in provincial reconstruction teams that helped fix sewage systems and train Iraqi judges.

No one was more responsible for that change than General Petraeus. As overseer of the team that wrote the Army’s field manual on counterinsurgency strategy, he stressed the necessity of civilian participation. And as the commander in Iraq, he made the American ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker, his Sancho Panza, bringing him along on tours of Iraq and testifying with him on Capitol Hill.

With the change in administrations in 2009, the State Department’s role seemed destined to expand further. President Obama chose a political star, Hillary Rodham Clinton, as secretary of state, and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates called on Congress to increase her department’s funding, so it could do more to help the Pentagon. During the White House policy debate on Afghanistan, Mrs. Clinton went toe-to-toe with the Defense Department, producing color-coded maps that showed how a “civilian surge” would unfurl across Afghanistan.

Mr. Holbrooke built a high-powered shop inside the State Department, drawing experts from nine other agencies, from the Agriculture Department to the Central Intelligence Agency. As a young diplomat, Mr. Holbrooke had seen firsthand a failed strategy, dominated by the military, in Vietnam. Still, the interwoven nature of military and civilian goals in Afghanistan was plain. Ambassador Eikenberry was given oversight of more than 1,000 civilians on the ground, triple the number in January 2009. But he came to the job as a retired lieutenant general, who himself was once the commander in Afghanistan.

Yet critical problems remained: Military officials expressed frustration at how long it was taking civilians to move aid into the field, and some critics blamed the civilian leadership for mishandling Afghanistan’s elections last year, which President Hamid Karzai is widely believed to have rigged.

“It’s very ironic that two military commanders have already been fired when the military has performed relatively well, while no one has been fired on the civilian side, when its major achievement so far has been the fiasco of the Afghan election,” said Bruce Riedel, a former intelligence official who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and who helped the administration devise its initial war strategy.

It is tempting to conclude that the arrival of General Petraeus will consolidate the supremacy of the Pentagon in the war effort. He certainly starts out with great prestige in Washington, drawn from his performance in Iraq, and his status as the intellectual father of the strategy.

But there are reasons to believe that the State Department will continue to play a substantial role, if only because that is what General Petraeus wants. He has pledged a “unity of effort” between the civilian and military operations, and he met with Ambassador Eikenberry at a NATO meeting in Brussels so the two of them could fly into Kabul together on Friday.

For all the parallels between Afghanistan and Iraq, there are key differences that will require robust diplomacy. In Iraq, General Petraeus was able to turn the tide by peeling away Sunni leaders who were willing to work with American forces against jihadi extremists. But in Afghanistan, any similar process requires Pakistan’s cooperation. Afghanistan’s neighbor has influence over powerful players like the Haqqani network, which is closely allied with the Taliban, and it is a sanctuary for leaders of the Afghan Taliban.

Officials say that General Petraeus plans to shuttle between Kabul and Islamabad, conferring on issues like reintegrating Taliban fighters into Afghan society. But it easy to imagine that in the negotiations for a broader political settlement between Mr. Karzai and the Taliban, the general could turn to Mr. Holbrooke, whom he described last week as his “wingman.” Mr. Holbrooke, after all, played a central role in the Dayton peace accords, which ended the war in Bosnia.

“One of the reasons the selection of General Petraeus was such a masterstroke was that he understands the importance of a civilian-military effort,” said John A. Nagl, a retired Army officer who is now president of the Center for a New American Security, a Washington research group, and who helped write the counterinsurgency handbook under General Petraeus. “He’ll bend over backwards to make it work.”
102 2010-07-04 BEIJING, July 3 (Reuters) - A Chinese court on Saturday sentenced a Tibetan environmentalist who organized villagers to pick up litter and plant trees to five years in jail for inciting to split the nation, his lawyer said.

The environmentalist, Rinchen Samdrup, is the third brother in his family to be jailed. Mr. Samdrup ran an environmental group in the Tibet Autonomous Region near Sichuan Province that organized about 1,700 local villagers to reforest the area and report poaching, and also ran a small magazine. His group worked with international conservation groups and was praised by Chinese media.

Exile Tibetan groups say Mr. Samdrup ran afoul of powerful local interests after accusing a local police officer of poaching.

Mr. Samdrup was accused of posting a favorable article about the Dalai Lama on his website, his lawyer, Xia Jun, said. He pleaded not guilty But the Chamdo prefecture court convicted him of incitement to split the country, the lawyer said, and deprived him of his political rights for three years. He has 10 days to appeal.

Late last year, Mr. Samdrup’s youngest brother, Jigme Namgyal, was sentenced to 21 months of re-education through labor for endangering state security for assisting Mr. Samdrup in running his environmental group. The court found he had helped compile three audio-visual disks on the ecology of the region, possessed materials regarding the Dalai Lama, incited locals to interfere with government work and tried to register the group with the government.

In June, Mr. Samdrup’s other brother Karma Samdrup, a wealthy collector of antique black-and-white Tibetan amulet beads who had tried to defent his brothers, was sentenced to 15 years in jail by a court in neighbouring Xinjiang for excavating and robbing ancient tombs, a charge originally brought and dropped in 1998.
103 2010-07-04 The lenses give wearers a childlike, doe-eyed appearance. The look is characteristic of Japanese anime and is also popular in Korea. Fame-seekers there called “ulzzang girls” post cute but sexy head shots of themselves online, nearly always wearing circle lenses to accentuate their eyes. (“Ulzzang” means “best face” in Korean, but it is also shorthand for “pretty.”)

Now that circle lenses have gone mainstream in , and , they are turning up in American high schools and on college campuses. “In the past year, there’s been a sharp increase in interest here in the U.S.,” said Joyce Kim, a founder of , an Asian pop fan site with a forum devoted to circle lenses. “Once early adopters have adequately posted about it, discussed it and reviewed them, it’s now available to everyone.”

Ms. Kim, who lives in and is 31, said that some friends her age wear circle lenses almost every day. “It’s like wearing mascara or eyeliner,” she said.

Sites that sell contact lenses approved by the are supposed to verify customers’ with their eye doctors. By contrast, circle lens Web sites allow customers to choose the strength of their lenses as freely as their color.

Kristin Rowland, a college senior from Shirley, N.Y., has several pairs of circle lenses, including purple ones that are prescription strength and lime green ones that she wears behind her glasses. Without them, she said, her eyes look “really tiny”; the lenses “make them look like they exist.”

Ms. Rowland has a part-time job at a Waldbaum’s supermarket, where customers sometimes tell her, “Your eyes look huge today,” she said. Even her manager expressed curiosity, asking, “Where did you get those things?” she said.

Karen Riley, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., was a bit surprised, too. When first contacted last month, she did not know what circle lenses were or the extent to which they had caught on. Soon after, she wrote in an e-mail message, “Consumers risk significant eye injuries — even ” when they buy contact lenses without a valid prescription or help from an eye professional.

Dr. S. Barry Eiden, an optometrist in Deerfield, Ill., who is chairman of the contact lens and cornea section of the American Optometric Association, said that people selling circle lenses online “are encouraging the avoidance of professional care.” He warned that ill-fitting contact lenses could deprive the eye of oxygen and cause serious .

Nina Nguyen, a 19-year-old Rutgers student from Bridgewater, N.J., said she was wary at first. “Our eyes are precious,” she said. “I wasn’t going to put any type of thing in my eyes.”

But after she saw how many students at Rutgers had circle lenses — and the groundswell of users online — she relented. Now she describes herself as “a circle lens addict.”

“What made me comfortable is so many girls out there wearing them,” Ms. Nguyen said.

A makeup artist named Michelle Phan introduced many Americans to circle lenses through a video tutorial on YouTube, where she demonstrates how to get “crazy, googly Lady Gaga eyes.” Ms. Phan’s video, called “Lady Gaga Bad Romance Look,” has been viewed more than 9.4 million times.

“In Asia, it’s all about the eyes in makeup,” said Ms. Phan, a Vietnamese-American blogger who is now Lancôme’s first video makeup artist. “They like the whole innocent doll-like look, almost like anime.”

These days girls of many races are embracing the look. “Circle lenses are not just for Asian people,” said Crystal Ezeoke, 17, a second-generation Nigerian from Lewisville, Tex. In videos she posts to YouTube, Ms. Ezeoke’s gray lenses make her eyes look an otherworldly blue.

At , which is based in , most of the customers are Americans, ages 15 to 25, who heard about circle lenses through YouTube reviewers, said Alfred Wong, 25, the site’s founder. “A lot of people like the dolly-eyed look, because it’s cute,” he said. “It’s still an emerging trend” in America, he added, but “it’s getting more and more popular.”

Jason Aw, an owner of , a site based in , is well aware that his shipments to the United States are illegal. But he is convinced that his circle lenses are “safe; that is why a lot of customers will recommend” them to others.

His “job,” he wrote in an e-mail message, is “to provide a platform” for people who want to buy the lenses but cannot do so locally.

Girls like Ms. Vue, the 16-year-old in , help steer customers to sites where circle lenses are sold. She has posted 13 reviews of circle lenses on YouTube, enough to merit her a coupon code at , which gives her viewers 10 percent off. “I have been getting tons of messages asking where to get circle lenses, so this is finally a legitimate answer for you,” she said in a recent video.

Ms. Vue was 14 when she begged her parents to get her first pair, she said. These days, however, she is having second thoughts about them — but not for health or safety reasons.

Circle lenses have just grown too popular, Ms. Vue said. “It kind of makes me not want to wear them anymore, because everyone is wearing them,” she said.
104 2010-07-04 ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands — In the toughest, most varied Tour de France in recent history, the 198 riders do not have to be the best in every stage to pedal into Paris on July 25. But they do have to survive the hard days. There are plenty of them in this year’s Tour.

Here are a few stages that will excite some riders and challenge others — and make for must-watch cycling:

If the riders were not already nervous to start this 21-day race, Stage 1 will give them a reason to fret. The peloton will head right into one of the trickiest stages of the Tour after Saturday’s prologue in Rotterdam. What will cause the trouble are the unpredictable crosswinds as the course hugs the North Sea. The riders will traverse bridges and ride past tens of thousands of raucous spectators along the way. A similar stage of this year’s Giro d’Italia, one of cycling’s other Grand Tours, resulted in the mayhem of riders crashing left and right. During this stage, big pileups will also be a possibility.

The top riders must also be on the lookout for possible splits in the peloton. Alberto Contador will probably be on guard at all times after crosswinds in one stage of last year’s Tour caused the peloton to split. The front-running riders took off, leaving Contador and others behind.

Among riders and team officials, this is the most talked-about stage of the 2010 Tour, hands down. After Lance Armstrong checked out the stage route, he posted this on his Twitter account: “Going. To. Be. Carnage.”

This stage features 7 sections and 8.2 miles of rough, bone-rattling cobblestones. To say the least, that has made some of the race favorites uneasy. They know what could happen — and fear it. The last time cobblestones were included in the Tour was in 2004. One of the race favorites, Iban Mayo, crashed before one cobblestone section, ending his Tour hopes. Other times, riders have hit the pavement on the cobblestones, breaking collarbones, arms and even legs.

Riders who succeed on this terrain are able to manhandle their bike as it rattles over the bumps — but must also be race savvy. Top riders need to be near the front as the pack hits the cobblestone sections, lest they end up at the back of the pack, possibly minutes back. Those bumpy roads are often narrow, so riders caught unaware could find themselves at the end of a long train as the pack hits the cobblestones and is strung out into a line of riders that seems miles long. The fight to be at the front causes many of the crashes, with riders doing anything and everything to stay at the head of the race.
105 2010-07-04 Lauren Elizabeth Sasser and Scott Kurtis McCulloch were married Saturday at the Beaver Creek Chapel in Avon, Colo. Msgr. Robert J. Kinkel performed the ceremony.

Mrs. McCulloch, 29, is an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell, the New York law firm. Next month, she is to become a clerk for Judge Denny Chin of the Federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York. She graduated from Brown and received a law degree, cum laude, from Fordham.

The bride is the daughter of Tobie Hayes Sasser and Stephen A. Sasser, who live and work in Raleigh, N.C. Her father is a founder and the chief executive of Merlin Technologies, a software development company. Her mother is a guardian ad litem in the Wake County courts.

Mr. McCulloch, 30, is an associate at Kobre & Kim, a New York law firm. He graduated from Dartmouth and received a law degree, cum laude, and a master’s in public administration from Harvard.

The bridegroom is a son of Mary A. McCulloch and Kurt D. McCulloch of Germantown, Tenn. His father is a captain and flight instructor for Federal Express in Memphis.
106 2010-07-04 Emily Hsiu-Ching Chang and Jonathan DeWees Stull are to be married Sunday at the Loulu Palm Estate in Haleiwa, Hawaii. Marion Lyman-Mersereau, a Universal Life minister, is to perform the ceremony.

The bride, 29, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a correspondent for CNN in Beijing and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard.

She is a daughter of Sandra Galeone Chang of Kailua, Hawaii, and the late Laban Lee Bun Chang.

Until April, Mr. Stull, 30, was an associate in the Beijing office of Actis, a British private investment firm. He helped formulate strategy and make investments in industrials and business services companies. In August, he is to begin studying for an M.B.A. at the University of California, Berkeley. He graduated from Stanford.

He is the son of Jill DeWees Stull and Mark J. Stull of San Diego.
107 2010-07-04 THE American silent cinema of the 1920s gave us three great comedians: Harold Lloyd, whose hyperkinetic optimism seemed the perfect embodiment of his epoch; Charles Chaplin, whose Victorian sentimentality was just a touching bit behind it; and Buster Keaton, who was so far ahead of his time that we’re still running to catch up with him.

Two new releases from Kino add substantially to our understanding of Keaton’s remote, introverted, often enigmatic art. A new, double-disc edition (also available as a single Blu-ray disc) of Keaton’s 1928 “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” presents both the familiar, public domain print that has been a staple of film societies and television screenings for decades, and an alternate version, newly discovered in the Keaton estate archive, that uses different takes or different angles for many shots and is cleaner and sharper than the standard print. (It was common in the silent era to produce two different negatives, one for domestic and one for export use; in this case, it isn’t clear which is which.)

And a second two-disc set, titled “Lost Keaton,” brings together all 16 of the short comedies that he made from 1934 to 1937 for Educational Pictures, a Poverty Row operation that picked up Keaton’s contract after he was dropped by MGM. Visibly struggling with his alcoholism, and working with budgets that would barely have covered a day’s shooting on one of his 1920s features, Keaton still managed to snatch a few moments of poetry from the meager materials he was given to work with. As cheap as the Educational two-reelers were, they allowed him a certain degree of creative freedom — something he would not know at his next studio, Columbia, where his work was supervised by the producer of the Three Stooges shorts.

After “The General” (1926) and “College” (1927), “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” was Keaton’s third costly failure in a row, and would prove to be the last film he would make for his own independent production company. Audiences had turned their back on him (In The New York Times the reviewer Mordaunt Hall described “Steamboat Bill” as “a sorry affair”), just as Keaton had turned his back on them, quite literally, at times, given his penchant for shooting himself from behind. Keaton invited neither the audience’s identification, as Lloyd did, nor its sympathy, as Chaplin did. He presented a closed-off, self-sufficient figure, his emotions, if any, hidden behind his famous stone face.

Again and again he returns to the same composition: his small figure, isolated in the center of a vast, empty space — the desert, the ocean, the bare stage of a theater. When other people enter the frame, they provide no companionship. The male characters in his films tend to be hulking authoritarians, like the father — a tough-as-nails riverboat captain — played by Ernest Torrence in “Steamboat Bill,” and his women are either implacably angry or doll-like and ineffectual. (Marion Byron, in “Steamboat Bill,” falls into that second category.) Machinery often fills the emotional void left by people in Keaton’s world (his affection for his locomotive in “The General” runs far deeper than his interest in his bubbleheaded fiancée), and the one force that can be counted on is not love or friendship, but simple Newtonian physics. What goes up, must come down.

A lot of things come down during the climax of “Steamboat Bill, Jr.,” including most of the Mississippi river town (actually Sacramento) where the story is set. Struck by a cyclone, the buildings around Keaton collapse or are torn away, yet he remains strangely unmoved, even when, in one of the most astonishing sight gags ever filmed, the entire facade of a two-story house hinges away from its framework and falls right on top of him. When the dust clears, Keaton is still standing there, spared by a window frame that has passed directly over him. His miraculous salvation seems a matter of utmost indifference to him.
108 2010-07-04 For the new generation of bartenders, paper umbrellas, blenders, generic booze and canned juices have all been sent down the drain in favor of refined glassware, uncommon spirits and a dedication to hand-crafting syrups, infusions and fruit mixers from scratch, often using local ingredients. Menu selections change regularly, and attending bartending seminars and cocktail conventions abroad is almost de rigueur. Cool interiors and sartorial style are no less important, with many of the bartenders revealing a fondness for the Prohibition-era vintage vests and long white jackets common to cocktail revivalists around the world.

Ruby, which opened in 2007, was another of the pioneers of the new Copenhagen cocktail scene, and remains an exemplar. In addition to boasting an impeccable location — an airy 18th-century town house outfitted with oriental rugs, chandeliers and fresh flowers — the bar has an innovative cocktail list that changes four times a year and is filled with exotic alcohols and housemade mixers.

“We’re based on a seasonal menu, like a gourmet restaurant,” explained the manager Nick Kobbernagel Hovind, a Dane, as he laid out a list of springtime drinks that included the Primavera (white grapefruit juice, Galliano L’Autentico herbal liqueur, Campari, and Agrapart & Fils Champagne) and the Ruby Daiquiri (rhubarb jam shaken with vanilla syrup, lime juice and Angostura rum from Trinidad). With his thin moustache and striped vest, he looked like a character from a 1920s silent film. “It’s all about getting fresh ingredients,” he said.

To help introduce Copenhageners to the finer points of cocktails, the bar holds periodic “Spirit Sessions” in its basement lounge, a plush retreat of Chesterfield couches and gilt-edged mirrors. The sessions are the boozehound’s answer to wine tastings. “It’s a chance to learn some cocktail history and taste some different products,” Mr. Hovind said.

For a further education, you can simply slap together your own makeshift cocktail crawl. There’s a plush new liquor lab for nearly every taste or mood. Drinkers thirsting for some old-time Americana should knock on the unmarked door of The Union, which was opened last year by another English bartender, Paul Muldowney. Inside, you’ll find a darkened speakeasy-style space where Cab Calloway rules the sound system and Depression-era slang fills the drinks card: the Bootleg (gunpowder tea infused with bourbon and Champagne), the Double-Cross (Cognac, apricot brandy, amaretto, lemon), the Hooch (applejack, Chartreuse, elderflower liqueur, lemon and bitters).

Umami, a sleek and chic restaurant that last year added a cocktail bar, is one of the few places in town to combine high-end drinks with food. Japanophiles can sink into the orange banquettes and sip drinks infused with Far Eastern flavors like sake, green tea, cherry blossom liqueur and shiso leaves. The adjacent dining room serves up equally innovative Sino-European concoctions, like seared foie gras with eel, pear, black beans and seaweed salad, and sea bream with white soy sauce and coriander.

Riding the cocktail wave, the city last year held a competition to create its namesake drink. Under the scrutiny of a panel of judges, bartenders from five top cocktail lounges — 1105, Ruby, The Union, K Bar and MASH (the last owned by the same folks behind Umami) — squared off before hundreds of spectators. The winning recipe was a blend of Cherry Heering liqueur, genever (a Dutch precursor to gin), lime juice, sugar syrup, bitters, salt and pepper. The winning mixologist? Mr. Eduardsen, representing 1105.

The victory was a measure of vindication for Mr. Eduardsen — and proof of the evolution of the city’s cocktail culture since his arrival several years ago.

“Now people see bartenders as the animators of the evening, as the creators of the atmosphere,” he said. “They’re much more respected. People drink less than they ever used to these days, but they look more for quality. Now, when they choose to get drunk, they like to do it with a little bit of style.”

IF YOU GO

1105, Kristen Bernikows Gade 4; (45-33) 93-11-05; 1105.dk. Cocktails are 90 to 110 kroner, about $15 to $19 at 5.89 kroner to the dollar.

The Union, Storstrandstraede 18; (45-41) 19-69-76; theunionbar.dk. All cocktails are 95 kroner.
109 2010-07-04 ''Blood. Sweat. Tears.'' That's how Robin Placke of Staten Island described her photograph of a friend wiping his brow as he tended rows of kebabs, top right. ''This was captured at a friend's barbecue,'' Ms. Placke wrote in submitting the picture...
110 2010-07-04 In the wake of the Deepwater Horizon spill, hotels and travel sites been steadily offering oil-free guarantees to encourage tourists to plan vacations to Gulf Coast states.     One of the latest comes from Marriott, which announced on Thursday tha...
111 2010-07-05 The referees for the semifinals were announced today, and the full list of candidates to officiate the final four games was posted....
112 2010-07-05 Protests against a recent increase in fuel prices shut down markets, schools, airports and businesses across India, and thousands of people were arrested as violence flared in some cities....
113 2010-07-05 If Amar'e Stoudemire comes to the Knicks, David Lee most likely will go. Is it the right move?...
114 2010-07-05 Three years on, Blackstone may finally be worth a look from bargain-hunting investors. In June 2007, Steve Schwarzman and Pete Peterson shook up the private equity world by taking their firm public. They landed a market valuation of some $30 billion, which appeared too rich even during those heady days. Times have changed.

Blackstone’s shrewd partners knew the top of a cycle when they saw one. They locked in permanent capital provided by lesser mortals, while Mr. Schwarzman and Mr. Peterson together pocketed more than $2.5 billion.

Those who had hoped to capture some Blackstone magic have been sorely disappointed. The firm’s listed units have tumbled 70 percent since the initial stock offering against a 32 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Timing may at last be on the side of investors. A simple way to value Blackstone is to separate its two broad categories of income. A portion of the firm’s earnings is relatively predictable, made up of fees charged to manage assets and to advise companies on restructuring and deals. After deducting base compensation and operating expenses, Blackstone generated some $420 million of these in the 12 months to March 31. Apply a multiple of 15, the same as some other big fund managers, and they’re worth $6.3 billion.

Second, there are performance-based fees and the firm’s slice of profit from the funds it manages and invests in. These came to about $747 million. Blackstone has cleaned up some of its peak-of-the-market investments, like Hilton Hotels, and may be poised to sell others, like Nielsen. But this valuation-dependent income stream is much lumpier. Put it on a lower multiple of nine, and it’s worth about $6.7 billion.
115 2010-07-05 “The importance of his work can’t really be overstated. He is writing about good versus evil, right and wrong.”

Much has been made of the pullback in foreign bureaus by American news organizations, leaving brutal regimes uncovered and third-world corruption unchecked. But there are many domestic instances in which a police force or local government has turned on people in inappropriate ways and, given the growing gaps in accountability reporting, no one will be the wiser as time goes on.

Mr. Conroy’s work reflects constancy rare in an industry now stripped of years of institutional knowledge.

“Back when this all started, John took all of the evidence from the first trials and wrote a story called ‘House of Screams,’ about the screaming that was coming out of the interrogation room of Area 2 headquarters,” recalled G. Flint Taylor, a lawyer who represented victims of the police tactics.

After dozens of groundbreaking articles, a book and a play based on the reporting, Mr. Conroy would seem to have earned a measure of satisfaction, but he said what he felt most was worry, for himself and for a criminal justice system that was often inadequately covered by the press.

“This story is far from over,” Mr. Conroy said last week. “There are 20 men in prison who are there on the basis of suspect confessions, and no one is paying attention to them because investigative reporting is time-consuming and expensive and no one wants to pay for it. I’m not paying attention because I can’t afford to.

“Right now, there are a very large number of cases that have never been written about, cases in which detectives have grossly abused witnesses, framed suspects and taken confessions from people that have later been discounted by physical evidence,” he said.

Mr. Burge was fired from the force in 1993, although the city of Chicago has continued to pay his legal fees. In 2000, a special prosecutor was appointed and eventually reviewed 148 cases, and more than half of the cases were deemed credible. But because the statute of limitations had run out, Mr. Burge could be prosecuted only for lying and covering up the torture, not the acts themselves.

In 2000, George Ryan, then the governor, halted executions in Illinois after courts found 13 death row inmates had been wrongfully convicted, some of them based on confessions that, some say, took place after torture by the police.

Rob Warden, director of the Center on Wrongful Convictions, at the Northwestern School of Law, said it was not just a Chicago problem. Two years ago, he put together an anthology called “True Stories of False Confessions” that contained 29 investigative articles.

He said that half the people who wrote those pieces were no longer in the business.

“All the reporting, all that knowledge, now gone,” he said. “It’s a pretty sad commentary on the state of American journalism.”

In one of his last posts from the trial, Mr. Conroy described the jury selection in a way that seemed to get at the heart of the issue.

“Before trial, when potential jurors were called in and quizzed one by one about prejudices they might have, one African-American woman was disqualified after she said she’d been reading about the torture for years and had strong opinions about it. One white man, the trustee of a Chicago suburb who was ultimately selected, said he had no knowledge at all of Burge or the accusations. The judge asked if he read the newspapers. ‘No,’ he said, ‘but my wife does.’ ”
116 2010-07-05 The Wimbledon runner-up Tomas Berdych ruled himself out of the Czech Republic’s Davis Cup quarterfinal against Chile from July 9 to 11 because of an abdominal muscle injury. The Czech team said Berdych would take a three-week rest after his first Grand Slam final.

The Czech Republic’s No. 2, Radek Stepanek, was also ruled out of the match in Chile because of a left knee injury. The Czechs said Ivo Minar, ranked 255th, would replace Berdych to join No. 90 Jan Hajek in the singles. Berdych and Stepanek helped the Czechs reach last year’s final, which they lost to Spain, 5-0. ¶Leander Paes of India and Cara Black of Zimbabwe beat Wesley Moodie of South Africa and the American Lisa Raymond, 6-4, 7-6 (5), to win Wimbledon’s mixed doubles title for their third Grand Slam championship. Mixed (AP)
117 2010-07-05 Part of its problem may be that its ability to intrigue and attract software developers is also waning, which threatens its ability to steer markets over the long term. When it comes to electronic devices, people writing software have turned their attention to platforms from Apple and Google.

Meanwhile, young technology companies today rely on free, open-source business software rather than Microsoft’s products, so young students, soon to be looking for jobs, have embraced open-source software as well.

“Microsoft is totally off the radar of the cool, hip, cutting-edge software developers,” said Tim O’Reilly, who publishes a popular line of software development guides.

“And they are largely out of the consciousness of your average developer.”

The Xbox 360 gaming console and its complementary online services have been a rare hit with consumers. Still, being hip matters only so much for Microsoft, whose profits remain the envy of the business world. Microsoft’s software like Windows and Office remain the dominant standard around the world and afford the company an ability to experiment wherever it pleases.

“When you look at the overall numbers and who buys and uses our products, I think our track record is pretty good with all demographics,” said Frank X. Shaw, Microsoft’s head of communications. “We really do think about serving billions of people and are on a playing field that nobody else in the industry is.”

In May, Microsoft announced a shake-up of its consumer and entertainment division with the retirement this fall of the group’s head, Robert J. Bach, and the departure of an important designer, J Allard.

Steven A. Ballmer, the company’s chief executive, now has the heads of the main consumer and entertainment-oriented products reporting directly to him. While Mr. Ballmer has been praised for increasing Microsoft’s main, old-line businesses, he has come under increasing fire for failing to read changing trends in the market and capitalize on them.

Nowhere is that more apparent than in Microsoft’s come-from-behind strategy in the consumer device market.

In 2008, Microsoft acquired a start-up, Danger, that had built popular mobile phone software, hoping that technology would revitalize its waning phone software business. But Microsoft stumbled as it took longer than expected to create a new product with the technology. In April, Microsoft finally introduced the fruits of this labor when it unveiled the Kin phones.

In contrast, Google, a chief Microsoft rival, also bought a mobile technology start-up — Android. Both Android and Danger were co-founded by Andy Rubin, who joined Google.

Google has since turned the Android software into the foundation of a fast-growing mobile phone empire with carriers all over the world releasing products that use the technology.

Microsoft, however, has reassigned the Kin development team and put them to work on Windows Phone 7, yet another mobile phone platform, expected later this year.

“For developers, mobile is what’s hip now, and there are two platforms that matter — Apple and Android,” Mr. O’Reilly said.

The list of Microsoft’s consumer product slip-ups grows each year. Its line of intelligent watches — come and gone — often ends up as the butt of jokes, as do its tablet PC software products, the poor-selling Windows Vista operating system and the ignored Zune music player. The company also canceled its Courier tablet PC project shortly after the Apple iPad tablet went into stores.

Microsoft employees were dismayed when they anonymously visited Verizon stores and discovered that employees for the carrier were reluctant to sell the Kin, said a Microsoft executive close to the Kin project. Verizon, the only carrier behind the Kin, tended to promote phones running Google’s Android software.

“It was killed abruptly because no one was buying it and there no was no credible reason to believe anyone would,” this person said.

Mr. O’Reilly said the quick cancellation of the Kin may demonstrate that Microsoft has finally seen the depth of its woes when it comes to attracting consumers and younger audiences.

“This should be seen as a success for them,” Mr. O’Reilly said. “They grew fat and happy, but are now waking up to their different competitive position.”

Mr. O’Reilly traces part of the problem back to the company’s developers. Microsoft spends a great deal of time and money shepherding a vast network of partner companies and people that base their livelihoods on improving and supporting Microsoft’s products.

These software developers and technicians have bet their careers on Microsoft and largely benefited from that choice. In addition, they have helped keep Microsoft relevant during the various ups and downs in the technology market.

But the recent crops of computer science graduates and start-ups have tended to move far afield from Microsoft, Mr. O’Reilly said.

The vast majority of technology start-ups today rely on open-source software, distributed by Microsoft competitors, for the core parts of their technology infrastructure.

And so the technology-minded people coming out of college have started learning their craft on free software and betting their careers on non-Microsoft wares.

“We did not get access to kids as they were going through college,” acknowledged Bob Muglia, the president of Microsoft’s business software group, in an interview last year. “And then, when people, particularly younger people, wanted to build a start-up, and they were generally under-capitalized, the idea of buying Microsoft software was a really problematic idea for them.”

The loss of access to start-ups has already proved damaging to Microsoft as companies like Facebook and Twitter that rely on free software have grown from fledgling operations to Silicon Valley’s latest booming enterprises.

Microsoft has tried to court young developers and young companies. In November 2008, it created a pair of programs that give students free access to Microsoft’s business and developer software. In addition, Microsoft allows some start-ups to run their operations on its software at no cost over a limited period.

About 35,000 start-ups have been involved in the program since it began, the company said.

“For the most part, Microsoft has been great to work with,” said Mark Davis, the chief executive of Virsto, a software start-up that received aid from Microsoft. “It’s funny to be in Silicon Valley and say that.”

Others, however, laugh at the idea that Microsoft requires the start-ups to meet certain guidelines and jump through hoops to receive software, when its free software competitors simply allow anyone to download products off a Web site with the click of a button.

“We got introduced to Microsoft through our investors,” Mr. Davis said. “They don’t do this for just anybody.”
118 2010-07-05 PIRATES WIN WITH 6-RUN INNING Garrett Jones and Delwyn Young drove in two runs each during Pittsburgh’s six-run seventh inning, and the last-place Pirates beat the visiting Philadelphia Phillies for the third time in four games, 8-5.

KEMP’S HOMER LIFTS DODGERS Matt Kemp hit a two-run homer off reliever Aaron Heilman in the eighth inning, and the Los Angeles Dodgers went on to beat host Arizona, 3-1, to take two of three games from the Diamondbacks.

WAINWRIGHT STIFLES BREWERS Adam Wainwright (12-5) threw a five-hitter and hit a three-run double off his fellow first-time All-Star Yovani Gallardo (8-4), who left in the third inning with a muscle injury on his left side, and the host St. Louis Cardinals beat the Milwaukee Brewers, 7-1.

HUNTER HAS 7 R.B.I. FOR ANGELS Torii Hunter hit two homers and tied a career high with seven runs batted in to lead the Los Angeles Angels to an 11-0 rout of the visiting Kansas City Royals. The series was the 78th in a row at home in which the Angels were not swept, the longest stretch by any team since the Atlanta Braves’ streak of 84 in 2005-6.

SINGLE IN NINTH LIFTS PADRES Tony Gwynn Jr. hit a bases-loaded single up the middle with one out in the ninth inning, and the San Diego Padres beat the visiting Houston Astros, 3-2, to win for the third time in the four-game series.

RAYS TAKE SERIES Evan Longoria had three hits and three R.B.I., and Sean Rodriguez had three hits including a home run, leading the Tampa Bay Rays to a 7-4 win over the host Minnesota Twins. The Rays won a series for the first time in nearly a month.

HOME RUN LIFTS WHITE SOX Alexei Ramirez hit a go-ahead, two-run homer in the sixth inning to lead the Chicago White Sox to a 5-3 victory over the host Texas Rangers.

ORIOLES SILENCE RED SOX BATS Brian Matusz (3-9) pitched shutout ball for seven innings, and the Baltimore Orioles won at Fenway Park for the third time in their last 20 games there, beating the Boston Red Sox, 6-1.

ATHLETICS DEFEAT INDIANS Vin Mazzaro (4-2) pitched into the eighth inning and upstaged the Cleveland All-Star Fausto Carmona, leading the visiting Oakland Athletics to a 3-1 victory.

LEE AND MARINERS BEAT TIGERS Russell Branyan and Casey Kotchman each hit a three-run homer, Cliff Lee matched a career high with 11 strikeouts, and the Seattle Mariners beat the host Detroit Tigers, 8-1.

WILLIS EXPERIMENT ENDS Arizona designated left-hander Dontrelle Willis for assignment. The Diamondbacks acquired Willis from Detroit on June 1, with the Tigers picking up most of Willis’s $12 million salary. In six games with Arizona, five as a starter, Willis was 1-1 with a 6.85 earned run average. ... Cleveland outfielder Shin-Soo Choo went to the 15-day disabled list with a sprained right thumb.
119 2010-07-05 Michael Mendel, the secretary of the United Federation of Teachers, the union representing teachers, said he was loath to criticize the substance of the policy changes and voiced support for any effort by the city’s Department of Education to improve the program.

But the process was flawed, he said.

In particular, he said the timing of the announcement, with the news circulating at the close of the school year, was jarring to many educators who did not see it coming.

The teachers, who are part of the staff of roughly 200 serving both schools, were notified of the planned merger last Monday, after administrators were told the preceding weekend, Mr. Mendel said.

“It is irresponsible to do this the last day of school,” Mr. Mendel said. “They did not wake up and decide these programs were no good in June.”

Consequently, he said, teachers will have to reapply for their positions on Rikers Island, and there will be a hectic time over the summer to prepare for the new system.

Also, the consolidated classroom space and academic curriculum will require a smaller staff, so some teachers will have to move to other schools within the district, officials said. While Mr. Lisante said there would be an effort to staff the new programs with as many current educators as possible, he said, “We want the best and brightest teachers.”

Mr. Lisante defended the timing of the announcement, saying it was meant to minimize distractions and to “keep the focus on the students and use the summer to plan the redesign.”

Dora B. Schriro, the commissioner of the Department of Correction, said a better educated population in the jail contributes to the “day-to-day safety and security of the correctional system.”

While head of corrections in Arizona, she said, she found higher educational achievement linked to less recidivism.

She said the new city program would offer a “richer and more sophisticated set” of academic offerings. Longer school days are being contemplated, she said.

When Island Academy opened in 1986, it was in response to parents who did not want jail to derail the high school education of children sent there, Mr. Lisante said. That program serves students 16 to 19. The Horizon Academy was set up for 19-to-21-year-olds, with an emphasis on equivalency diplomas.

Under one combined program, all students, regardless of age, will have more seamless experiences during usually brief incarcerations, he said. Credits will be earned in a more concentrated period, he said. And admissions will be more tightly controlled, to assess individual inmates’ language, academic and other needs.

Jessica Scaperotti, a spokeswoman for the Bloomberg administration, hailed the collaboration by officials from the city’s education and correction departments to revamp a school system she characterized as not working properly.

“What the city was looking to do was overhaul the system so that we could bring together the expertise of educators, youth development specialists and correction professionals so they can better support the distinctive academic and social needs of students that are incarcerated,” Ms. Scaperroti said.
120 2010-07-05 GUANGZHOU, China — Workers at the vast Guangzhou Steel mill here poured molten metal for the Great Leap Forward in the late 1950s, fought street battles during the Cultural Revolution a decade later and made many of the steel reinforcing bars used to build China’s export factories over the next 30 years. But as part of a national energy-efficiency mandate, the historic mill is to be closed, starting in stages later this year.

Government agencies in Guangdong Province, where Guangzhou is the capital, portray it as a tough but necessary measure intended to not only improve energy efficiency but also to reduce toxic air pollution from the mill.

“Our province is forthrightly in step with the national aim to get rid of outdated production capacity,” said a recent statement to announce the shuttering of the mill.

But closing Guangzhou’s famous mill may yield only modest benefits. And it is not necessarily a triumph of political will. Because of heavy investments in recent years to upgrade the current mill, it could meet the national target of a five-year 20 percent efficiency improvement by the end of this year, said Yang Yao Xing, the mill’s general secretary.

Moreover, Guangzhou Steel is building a new mill with almost the same capacity in another city to replace the one here, Mr. Yang said. But it will use scarcely less energy than the old one.

That is because the new mill will do more processing than the current mill, producing top-quality steel suitable for cars and appliances instead of the rough steel bars now made to reinforce concrete. China’s evolving consumer economy demands more high-quality steel, but producing it requires extra steps that require additional energy.
121 2010-07-05 TOKYO — Japan’s national sport of sumo ejected a top wrestler and a coach on Sunday and slapped punishments on nearly two dozen others for their involvement in gambling run by organized crime.

The Japan Sumo Association, the sport’s governing body, decided at an emergency meeting to issue a lifetime ban from the sport on the wrestler, Keiji Tamiya, 34, for betting tens of thousands of dollars on professional baseball games, and for paying $35,000 to a mobster who blackmailed him.

Mr. Tamiya held the second-highest rank of ozeki and wrestled under the name Kotomitsuki.

The association also barred the coach, Tadashige Naya, 42, master of the Otake stable, for his involvement in the gambling ring.

The revelations have further tarnished an ancient sport that has already declined in popularity after scandals over drug use and match-rigging.

In May, sumo was also shaken by a scandal over the sale of front-row seats to gangsters, apparently so they would be visible during television broadcasts to a crime boss watching from prison.

While sumo’s ties to the underworld have long been a poorly kept secret here, the recent scandals have stirred public anger by appearing to show that the links were larger than thought.
122 2010-07-05 A wave of critical hatred greeted the release of “The Last Airbender.” Roger Ebert called it “an agonizing experience in every category I can think of and others still waiting to be invented.” But the movie has earned $70.6 million at the North American box office in its first five days, according to Paramount. The movie will be released overseas in the coming weeks, and pre-release surveys indicate global audience interest is strong.

“Now that we have something, let’s keep it going,” said Cyma Zarghami, the president of Nickelodeon who also heads up MTV Networks’ Kids and Family Group. “There’s no reason this can’t be the first of many successful movies built around our television properties.”

The model is Walt Disney Studios, which has successfully moved Disney Channel programming like “Hannah Montana” to the big screen. Adam Goodman, president of the Paramount Film Group, said he wanted to stretch the Nickelodeon brand to include racier content — just as Disney did with PG-13-rated movies like “Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.”

“These are going to be broad, family movies,” Mr. Goodman said. “We’re not interested in properties that are confined to just little kids.” (One example of what Paramount is trying to avoid: “The Princess and the Frog,” the Disney animated movie that fizzled at the box office in part because of cool interest from older children and adults.)

Family movies, whether live action or animated, are hotter than ever across Hollywood. They come with ancillary merchandising businesses, rarely rely on stars (who are expensive) and can be pumped full of the kind of special effects that propel people off their sofas and into theaters. To date, the top five movies of 2010 are all in the family genre, from “Alice in Wonderland” to “Toy Story 3.”

Nickelodeon, which is experiencing a ratings boom on TV, has a tortured history at the multiplex. An early effort, “The Rugrats Movie,” was box office gold in 1998 and spawned sequels. But “The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie” in 2004 was commercially weak. Also that year, an expensive effort, “Lemony Snicket’s A Series of Unfortunate Events,” failed to spawn a franchise. Suddenly, the label was all but moribund.

Behind Paramount’s renewed push is Philippe P. Dauman, Viacom’s chief executive, who has been promising Wall Street for years that the movie studio will begin aggressively mining Nickelodeon Movies (and its corollary, MTV Films).

“We’re going to create that branded image, again tie it into our promotional machine on our networks, on the Internet and elsewhere,” Mr. Dauman said at an investor conference in 2007. “And that is our creative edge.” The interdepartmental bickering that stalled the effort — a previous regime at Nickelodeon strongly resisted Paramount’s involvement — appears to have evaporated. Rising internal confidence in Paramount has helped, in particular the studio’s successful reboot of “Star Trek” and strong marketing of DreamWorks Animation films like “Kung Fu Panda.”

Rob Moore, Paramount’s vice chairman, said Ms. Zarghami and her team had been “wildly supportive” with marketing for “The Last Airbender.” One of Ms. Zarghami’s networks, Nicktoons, has been running marathons of “Avatar: The Last Airbender,” and the movie was interwoven with promotions for Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards. Another promotional effort was tied to “Victorious,” a successful new Nick comedy.

“Everyone has an interest in making this work,” Mr. Moore said.
123 2010-07-05 Re “Study Says Natural Gas Use Likely to Double” (Business Day, June 25):

M.I.T.’s new study forecasting a doubling of natural gas consumption in the United States over the next few decades revives the old “good news, bad news” paradox, and this time with enormous implications for our global climate.

The good news is that the resource is readily available, is less polluting than other power plant fuels, especially coal, and may be a real boon to the transportation sector. But the bad news out of Cambridge is that combustion of natural gas also yields huge amounts of greenhouse gases, further worsening global warming, pushing the planet past tipping points toward the worst effects of global climate change.

Additionally, significant amounts of methane, the primary component of natural gas, are vented and leaked directly into the atmosphere when the resource is harvested, and the climate-forcing effects of methane are, pound for pound, dozens of times that of carbon dioxide.

Clearly, new natural gas-fired power plants must be required to capture carbon emissions and permanently store them in deep geologic strata, just as coal-fired power plants must be.

Clean Air Task Force is working in the United States and China on bringing this nascent yet promising carbon capture and storage technology to scale, and is aggressively advocating for President Obama and the Environmental Protection Agency to impose robust, declining limits on the greenhouse gas emissions from both natural gas and coal-fired plants. Otherwise, it’s only going to be very bad news for our climate, and for our species.
124 2010-07-05 Twice in two days, you had it right when you noted how strong lobbies can override sound science (“Antibiotics and Agriculture,” editorial, June 30; “Antibiotics in Animals Need Limits, F.D.A. Says,” news article, June 29).

For 30 years, the Food and Drug Administration has flirted with attempts to curtail the overuse of lifesaving antibiotics in food animal production. And for 30 years, special interests have managed to block progress, while antibiotics become less and less effective in saving lives.

The F.D.A. correctly calls for eliminating the use of antibiotics for growth promotion. The agency also calls for “judicious” use in preventing sickness. Up to 70 percent of antibiotics sold in the United States are fed to animals that are not sick. Yet under the F.D.A.’s proposed guidelines, agribusiness could continue to routinely feed antibiotics to entire flocks or herds to prevent illnesses they may never encounter. This approach to prevention would never be allowed in human medicine, and it should not be allowed in animals.

The F.D.A. has finally acknowledged the problem of overuse of antibiotics in industrial farming as an urgent public health issue. Now the agency must come up with effective, mandatory solutions to this threat to human health. In addition, Congress must act on the Preservation of Antibiotics for Medical Treatment Act, which would finally phase out nontherapeutic use of medically important antibiotics in farming.
125 2010-07-05 BEIJING (AP) — China’s economic health still faces threats from the halting global recovery, but Beijing has no plans to make major changes to its economic policies, Premier Wen Jiabao said in a report posted on the central government’s Web site on Sunday.

China rebounded quickly from the global crisis on the strength of a huge stimulus spending plan and record bank lending. But government leaders, who expect Europe’s debt crisis to hurt demand for Chinese goods, say the recovery is still vulnerable to a downturn in trade.

“Right now our economic situation is good,” Mr. Wen was quoted as saying in the report, “but the domestic and international economic environment is very complicated.”

China must “work to promote stable and relatively fast domestic economic growth, restructure the economy and manage inflation expectations to ensure the government’s goals for 2010 are met.”

Beijing is trying to pump up domestic demand to reduce reliance on investment and exports to drive growth.

Retail spending is rising, but millions of jobs still depend on export industries.

“The severity of the international financial crisis and the difficulties of economic recovery have surpassed people’s expectations,” Mr. Wen said.
126 2010-07-05 “The Cove,” the Oscar-winning documentary that revealed the clandestine killing of dolphins in Taiji, Japan, has finally had its first showing in that country, The Associated Press reported. Theaters in Tokyo and Osaka canceled opening screenings earlier this summer because theater owners said they feared for the safety of moviegoers after receiving threats from protest groups who considered the movie to be “anti-Japan.” The documentary, directed by the photographer Louie Psihoyos, opened to full houses in six small cinemas around Japan on Saturday with a significant amount of protesting from both sides of the issue. (Pro-whaling protesters in Tokyo, left.) Aside from police officers ending a few altercations between supporters of the film and angry nationalists, the protests proved to be no deterrent for moviegoers. “I didn’t know about dolphin hunting,” Tomokazu Toshinai said as he entered a theater. “Whether it’s TV or movies, Japanese have a right to know these things.” A theater in Nagoya said that it would show “The Cove” along with “Whalers and the Sea,” a documentary sympathetic to the Japanese whaling industry. Another 18 theaters plan to screen “The Cove” later this year.
127 2010-07-05 Swiss officials said this weekend that they were close to deciding whether to extradite Roman Polanski to the United States, The Associated Press reported. The justice ministry spokesman, Folco Galli, said that “it won’t be long” before a decision was made, but would not give further details. In 1977, after being arrested in California, Mr. Polanski, above, pleaded guilty to having unlawful sex with a minor, but he fled the United States in 1978 before sentencing. He was arrested in Switzerland on Sept. 26 and has been under house arrest there since.
128 2010-07-05 With six players each on the A.L. roster, the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox will send the most players to the All-Star Game.

Derek Jeter and Robinson Cano will represent the Yankees as part of the A.L.’s starting lineup, and Phil Hughes, Mariano Rivera, Alex Rodriguez and C. C. Sabathia were also named to the team.

But the Yankees will probably send a seventh player. Andy Pettitte, who has not been to the All-Star Game since 2001, will probably replace Sabathia, who is scheduled to pitch Sunday against the Seattle Mariners.

“I thought C. C. was very deserving, as well as Andy,” Girardi said. “So I would hate that one guy wouldn’t make it because he was pitching on Sunday. So this way we could have a couple of left-handers.”

Pettitte said that he understood Girardi’s decision and that he was told about the plans recently. “Hopefully it works, and I’ll get to go,” Pettitte said.

David Wright of the Mets will start at third base for the N.L. Although it will be his fifth straight All-Star appearance, Wright said that “it never gets old.”

Jose Reyes was named to his third All-Star team, this time as a substitute for Colorado Rockies shortstop Troy Tulowitzki. Reyes, who has battled injuries, said he was happy to be returning to the All-Star Game.

“I feel good about it,” he said. “All the things I’ve been through in the last year and a half, and now to go to the All-Star Game one more time, that’s huge for me.”

Stephen Strasburg, the 21-year-old rookie phenom for the Washington Nationals, was left off the N.L. staff. In six starts, he is 2-2 with a 2.45 E.R.A.

The surprising omissions included Tampa Bay closer Rafael Soriano and Cincinnati Reds first baseman Joey Votto, who is one of five players who can be added as the final player on the N.L. team in an online vote. The vote concludes Thursday.

On Sunday, Nick Swisher appealed to fans in a video message at Yankee Stadium to vote to make him the final addition to the A.L. roster. There was also a “Send Swisher” graphic on the screen.

Girardi said he gave special consideration to his players when creating the team.

“The good thing about being the manager of the All-Star Game is you get a couple of picks,” said Girardi, who earned the spot by leading the Yankees to the American League pennant last year. “Obviously, you’re going to look at your guys first.”

Girardi’s preference for his players falls in line with Joe Torre’s practices in the six All-Star Games he managed while with the Yankees, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. In 2004, Torre sent eight Yankees players, and in 2001 he sent seven. Torre sent as few as four, in 1999 and 2000.

“I’m very pleased that they’re recognized by the fans, some of them possibly recognized by their peers in different votes,” Girardi said. “I’m very pleased with what our guys have accomplished.”

Pelfrey said he was hoping to go to the All-Star Game but was not upset by Manuel’s decision.

“Leading up to it, I thought it was kind of going to be a tough decision anyway,” Pelfrey said. “It was going to be pretty hard because a lot of guys were having good years. But it gives me a chance to go home to Wichita and see my house, which I miss a lot.”
129 2010-07-05 After the injection into my leg and before I passed out, I remember two things: the scratchy blanket against my face and the faint scent of perfume.

Waking up, I wondered why I didn’t feel my dog beside me. Then I opened my eyes and saw a white pillowcase. Mine were yellow.

I sat up so fast I almost blacked out. My head spun and I wanted to throw up. With my eyes wide open and my ears straining to hear every sound, I scanned my surroundings. I was in a log cabin, six hundred square feet or so, and I could see most of it from the bed. He wasn’t there. My relief only lasted a few seconds. If he wasn’t here, where was he?

I could see part of a kitchen area. In front of me was a wood stove and to its left, a door. I thought it was night but I wasn’t sure. The two windows on the right side of the bed had shutters on them or were boarded up. A couple of ceiling lights were on and another mounted to the wall by the bed. My first impulse was to run to the kitchen to look for some kind of weapon. But whatever he’d injected me with hadn’t worn off. My legs turned to jelly, and I nailed the floor.

I lay there for a few minutes, then crawled, then pulled myself up. Most of the drawers and cupboards — even the fridge — had padlocks on them. Leaning heavily on the counter, I rifled through the one drawer I could open but couldn’t find anything more lethal than a tea towel. I took a few deep breaths and tried to come up with some clue as to where I was.

My watch was missing and there were no clocks or windows, so I couldn’t even guess at the time of day. I had no idea how far away from home I was, because I had no idea how long I’d been unconscious. My head felt like someone was squeezing it in a vise. I made my way to the furthest corner in between the bed and the wall, put my back into it as far as I could, and stared at the door.



I crouched in the corner of that cabin for what seemed like hours. I felt cold all over and couldn’t stop shaking.

Was Luke pulling into my driveway, calling my cell, paging me? What if he thought I was working late again and forgot to cancel, so he just went home? Had they found my car? What if I’d been gone for hours and nobody had even started looking for me? Had anybody even called the cops? And what about my dog? I imagined Emma all alone in my house, hungry, wanting her walk, and whimpering.

The crime shows I’ve watched on TV cycled through my mind. CSI — the one set in Las Vegas — was my favorite. Grissom would’ve just gone to the house where I was abducted and by taking close-ups inside and analyzing a speck of dirt outside he’d know exactly what happened and where I was. I wondered if Clayton Falls even had a CSI unit. The only time I ever saw the Royal Canadian Mounted Police on TV was when they rode their horses in a parade or busted another marijuana grow-op.

Every second The Freak — that’s what I called him in my mind — left me alone, I imagined more and more brutal deaths. Who would tell my mom when they found my mangled body? What if my body was never found?

I still remember her screams when the phone call came about the accident, and from then on it was rare to see her without a glass of vodka. I only recall a few times when I saw her outright drunk, though. Generally she was just “blurry.” She’s still beautiful, but she seems, to me anyway, like a once vibrant painting whose colors have bled into each other.

I replayed what might be the last conversation we’d ever have, an argument about a cappuccino machine. Why didn’t I just give her the damn thing? I was so [expletive] at her, and now I’d do anything to have that moment back.



My legs were cramped from holding one position too long, Time to get up and explore the cabin.

It looked old, like those fire ranger cabins you see up in the mountains, but it had been customized. The Freak had thought of everything. There were no springs in the bed. It was only two soft mattresses made from some kind of foam, lying on a solid wood frame. A large wooden wardrobe stood on the right side of the bed. It had a keyhole, but when I tried to pull on the doors they wouldn’t budge. The wood stove and its rock hearth were behind a padlocked screen. The drawers and all the cupboards were made of some kind of metal, finished to look like wood. I couldn’t even kick my way in.

There was no crawlspace or attic and the cabin door was steel. I tried to turn the handle, but it was locked from the outside. I felt along its edges for brackets, hinges, anything that could be undone, but there was nothing. I pressed my ear to the ground, but not one sliver of light came through the bottom, and when I ran my fingers along the base I couldn’t feel any cool air. There had to be one hell of a weather stripping around that thing.

When I rapped on the window shutters they sounded like metal, and I couldn’t see any locks or hinges on them. I felt all around the logs for signs of rot, but they were in good shape. Under the window sill in the bathroom, I felt coolness on my fingers in one spot. I managed to remove a few pieces of insulation, then pressed my eye to the pencil-sized hole. I could see a blur of hazy green and figured it was early evening. I stuffed the insulation back in and made sure there were no remnants anywhere on the floor.

At first the bathroom with its older white tub and toilet seemed standard, but then I realized there was no mirror, and when I tried to lift up the lid on the toilet tank it wouldn’t move. I looked at the back and discovered a bar wrapped around the lid and bolted to the wall. A hard plastic rod ran through the fabric hoops of a pink shower curtain with little roses all over it. I gave the rod a good tug, but it was bolted in place. The bathroom had a door on it. No lock.

An island in the middle of the kitchen had two bar stools bolted to the floor on either side of it. The appliances were stainless steel — those aren’t cheap — and they looked brand new. The white of the double enamel sinks and countertops sparkled and the air smelled of bleach.

When I tried one of the burners on what appeared to be a gas or propane stove, all I heard was a clicking sound. He must have disconnected the gas. I wondered if I could get any pieces of the stove apart, but I couldn’t lift up the burners, and when I looked inside the oven I discovered the racks had been taken out. The drawer underneath the oven was padlocked.

There was no way I could protect myself, and no way out. I needed to prepare for the worst, but I didn’t even know what the worst might be.



I realized I was shaking again. I took a few deep breaths and tried to focus on the facts. He wasn’t there and I was still alive. Somebody had to find me soon. I walked to the sink and put my head under the tap for some water. Before I’d even taken a mouthful I heard a key in the lock — or at least what I thought was the lock. My heart lurched as the door slowly opened.

His baseball cap was off, revealing wavy blond hair and a face devoid of all expression. I studied his features. How had he made me like him? His bottom lip was fuller than the top, giving him a slight pout, but other than that all I saw was vacant blue eyes and a nice-looking face but not the kind of face you’d notice at first glance, let alone remember.

He stood there as his eyes landed on me and his whole face broke into a smile. Now I was looking at a completely different man. And I got it. He was the kind of guy who could choose whether he was noticed or not.

“Good, you’re up! I was beginning to think I’d given you too much.”

With a bounce in his step, he walked towards me. I ran back to the furthest corner of the cabin, by the bed, and pressed myself into it. He stopped abruptly.

“Why are you hiding in the corner?”

“I realize you probably aren’t feeling a hundred percent, but there’s no swearing here.” He walked to the sink.

“I was looking forward to our first meal together, but you slept past dinnertime, I’m afraid.” He took a key chain out of his pocket, unlocked one of the cupboards, and picked up a glass. “Hope you’re not too hungry.” He ran the water for a while, then filled the glass. He shut the tap off and turned to face me, his back against the counter.

“I can’t break the dinnertime rule, but I’m willing to bend things a little today.” He held the glass out. “Your mouth must be so dry.”

Sandpaper was smoother than my throat right now, but I wasn’t taking anything from him. He jiggled the glass. “Can’t beat cold mountain water.”

He waited a couple of seconds, an eyebrow raised in question, then shrugged and turned slightly to dump the water in the sink. He rinsed the glass out, then held it up and rapped his knuckle on it. “Isn’t it amazing how real this plastic looks? Things aren’t always as they seem, are they?”

He carefully dried it and put it back in the cupboard, which he locked. Then, with a sigh, he sat down on one of the barstools at the island and stretched his hands over his head.

“Wow, does it ever feel good to finally relax.” Relax? I’d hate to see what he did for excitement. “How’s your leg? Sore from the needle?”

“Ah. She speaks.” He rested his elbows on the island and steepled his fingers under his chin. “That’s a great question, Annie. To put it simply, you’re a very lucky girl.”

“I don’t consider being abducted and drugged lucky.”

“You don’t think it’s possible that people can sometimes come to realize what they thought was a bad event in their life was actually an extremely good event, if they knew the alternative?”

“Anything would be a better alternative than this.”

“Anything, Annie? Even if the alternative to spending some time with a nice guy like me was getting into an accident when you drove away from the open house — say, with a young mother coming home from the grocery store — and killing a whole family? Or maybe just one of the children, her favorite?” My mind flashed to Mom sobbing Daisy’s name at the funeral. Was this creep from Clayton Falls?

“That’s not a fair comparison. You don’t know what might have happened to me.”

“See, there’s where you’re wrong. I do. I know exactly what happens to women like you.”

This was good, I should keep him talking. If I could figure out what made him tick, I could figure out how to get away from him.

“Women like me? Did you know someone like me before?”

“Have you had a chance to look around yet?” He glanced around the cabin with a smile. “I think it turned out rather well.”

“If some other girl hurt you, then I’m truly sorry — I am — but it’s not fair to punish me, I’ve never done anything to you.”

“You think this is punishment?” His eyes widened in surprise.

“You can’t abduct someone and take them to…wherever. You just can’t do that.”

He smiled. “I hate to point out the obvious, but I just did. Look, how about I solve some of the mystery for you. We’re on a mountain, in a cabin I hand-picked for us. I’ve taken care of every detail so you’ll be safe here.” The guy [expletive] abducted me and he’s telling me I’m safe?

“It took a little longer than I wanted — but while I was preparing, I got to know you better. Time well spent, I think.”

“Got to — I’ve never even met you. Is David your real name?”

“Don’t you think David is a nice name?” It was my father’s name, but I wasn’t about to tell him that.

I tried to speak in a calm, pleasant voice. “David’s a great name, but I think you’ve got me confused with some other girl, so how about you just let me go, okay?”

He slowly shook his head. “I’m not the one who’s confused, Annie. In fact, I’ve never been more sure of anything in my life.”

He pulled a huge key chain out of his pocket, unlocked a cupboard in the kitchen, grabbed a big box labeled “Annie” on the side, and brought it over to the bed. He pulled flyers out of the box, all from houses I’d sold. He even had some of my newspaper ads. He held one up. It was the ad for the open house.

“This one’s my favorite. The address matches up perfectly with the date of the first time I saw you.”

And then he handed me a stack of photos.

There I was, walking Emma in the morning, going into my office, getting a coffee at the corner store. In one photo my hair was longer — I didn’t even have the shirt I was wearing in it any more. Had he swiped the photo from my house? No way he could have gotten past Emma, he must have stolen it from my office. He took the photos out of my hands, stretched out on the bed propped on one elbow, and spread them out.

“How long have you been stalking me?”

“I wouldn’t call it stalking. Observing, maybe. I certainly haven’t deluded myself into thinking you’re in love with me, if that’s what you’re wondering.”

“I’m sure you’re a really nice guy, but I already have a boyfriend. I’m sorry if I unintentionally did something that confused you, but I don’t feel the same way you do. Maybe we can be friends — ”

He smiled kindly at me. “You’re making me repeat myself here. I’m not confused. I know women like you don’t get romantic feelings for men like me — women like you don’t even see me.”

“I see you, I just think you deserve someone who — ”

“Someone who what? Is willing to settle? Maybe a tubby librarian? That’s the best I can expect, right?”

“That’s not what I meant. I’m sure you have lots to offer — ”

“I’m not the problem. Women like to say they want someone who’s always there for them — a lover, a friend, an equal. But once they have it, they’ll throw it all way away for the first man who treats them like a piece of garbage, and no matter what he does to them, they’ll just keep coming back for more.”

“Some women are like that, but lots aren’t. My boyfriend is my equal and I love him.”

“Luke?” His eyebrows shot up. “You think Luke is your equal?” He gave a small laugh and shook his head. “He would have been disposed of as soon as a real man came along. You were already growing bored.”

“How do you know Luke’s name? And why are you using past tense? Did you do something to him?”

“Luke’s fine. What he’s going through now is nothing compared to what you’d have put him through. You didn’t respect him. Not that I blame you — you could have done so much better.” He laughed. “Oh, wait, you just did.”

“Well, I respect you, because I know you’re a special guy who doesn’t really want to do this, and if you just let me go, we — ”

“Then what is it you want? You still haven’t told me why I’m here.”

He began to sing, “Tiiiime is on my side,” then hummed the next few bars of the Rolling Stones song.

“You want time? Time with me? Time to talk?” Time to rape me, time to kill me?

When something doesn’t work, you try something else. I left the safety of my corner, got up and stood next to him.

“Listen, David — or whatever your name is — you have to let me go.” He swung his legs over the side of the bed and sat on the edge, facing me. I leaned over right in his face.

“People are going to be looking for me — lots of people. It would be a hell of a lot better for you if you let me go now.” I pointed my finger at him. “I don’t want to be part of your sick game. This is crazy. You have to see — ”

His hand shot out and grabbed my face so hard it felt like all my teeth were ground together. Inch by inch, he pulled me close. I lost my balance and was practically in his lap. The only thing holding me up was his hand on my jaw.

Voice vibrating with rage he said, “Don’t ever talk to me like that again, understand?” He forced my face up and down, tightening his grip with each down. My jaw felt like it was coming apart.

He let go.

“Look around, do you think something like this was easy to create? Do you think I just snapped my fingers and it all came together?”

With his free hand gripping the front of my suit jacket, he pulled me over him and pressed me back on the bed. The veins in his forehead had popped out and his face was flushed. Lying partly on top of me, he gripped my jaw again and squeezed. His eyes stared down at me, glittering. They were going to be the last thing I saw before I died. Everything was turning black —

Then all the anger left his face. He let go and kissed my jaw line, where his fingers had been digging in seconds ago.

“Now, why did you go and make me do that? I’m trying here, Annie, I really am, but my patience has limits.” He stroked my hair and smiled.

He left the bed. I heard water running in the bathroom. With my photos spread around me I stared at the ceiling. My jaw throbbed. Tears trickled out of the corners of my eyes, but I didn’t even wipe them away.
130 2010-07-05 KABUL, Afghanistan — Gen. David H. Petraeus took command of the troubled Afghan war on Sunday, warning of hard days to come but promising to persevere until the government and army here are strong enough to stand on their own.

“We are engaged in a tough fight,” he told a gathering of Afghan leaders and American and NATO officers at a ceremony here. “After years of war, we have arrived at a critical moment.”

“We must demonstrate to the people and to the Taliban that Afghan and I.S.A.F. forces are here to safeguard the Afghan people, and that we are in this to win,” he said, referring to the American-led coalition. “That is our clear objective.”

The ceremony, at NATO headquarters in central Kabul, had a subdued air, coming only days after the previous commander, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, was fired by President Obama for remarks he made to a magazine reporter. General Petraeus paid tribute to his predecessor, and many of General McChrystal’s senior officers attended, still in their jobs.

General Petraeus, who arrived in Kabul on Friday after his confirmation by the Senate, came to the ceremony dressed in camouflage fatigues.

General Petraeus is taking command at what appears to be a critical, perhaps even decisive, moment in the war, which began in 2001 after the Sept. 11 attacks. The 30,000 additional troops sent by President Obama are still arriving, gearing up for an offensive intended to reverse the momentum of the Taliban insurgency. Once they take their places, General Petraeus will have about 100,000 American troops at his disposal and 50,000 from European and other countries.
131 2010-07-05 Knock, Knock. Who's there? Apple TV? Apple TV who?     In September 2006, Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced news of the company's latest offering: the Apple TV. Mr. Jobs had high hopes for his latest creation, so high that he told...
132 2010-07-05 WEISS--Sheldon, 72 years old, died on July 3, 2010. Beloved husband of Judy. Devoted father of Deborah and Howard Shlafmitz, David and Karen Weiss, Jonathan and Suzanne Siegel and Craig Siegel. Cherished grandfather of Sarah, Corey, Emily, Andrew,...
133 2010-07-06 The culinary fame of Peru's second city, where I traveled by bus from Bolivia last Friday night, goes way beyond sweets....
134 2010-07-06 “The Choir” was so popular and acclaimed when it was first broadcast in Britain, three years ago, that a certain conventional wisdom has fomented around its debut here — a sense that we ought to be as grateful for its arrival as we are for Joshua Reynolds portraits or wellies. The series (beginning Wednesday on BBC America) is virtuous reality television, a kind of “Pygmalion” meets “Glee,” conceived not so much to lift the spirits as to bench press them from the basement of Selfridges to the top of Big Ben. This is precisely the kind of project that excels at making you feel bad if you don’t like it.

The series follows the efforts of a 30-ish choral director, Gareth Malone, to develop impressive choirs in two British schools and then, during the final episodes, among residents of the working-class community of South Oxhey in Hertfordshire. “The Choir” predates “Glee,” so any attempts to call it out for thematic plagiarism are misplaced, and tonally the two series could not be mistaken for each other. Regarding Mr. Malone’s work as missionary, “The Choir” is self-serious and almost clinical in its narration, using a voice-over during the first cycle of episodes that sounds borrowed from a documentary on the puku antelope of Namibia.

Mr. Malone, a graduate of the Royal Academy of Music, brings with him a magnanimous snobbery wherever he goes — he’s semi-horrified, for instance, at the lack of a “choral tradition” at a racially and ethnically diverse state-run high school in Middlesex. The school is Northolt High, and it is the first stop on his noble tour of good works to bring some semblance of a classical education to the masses. At Northolt Mr. Malone hopes to assemble a group good enough to compete in the World Choir Games in China, an event that puts thousands of choirs from around the world in contest with one another. And needless to say, this is considered awfully ambitious of him.

The inherent class condescension of “The Choir” would not feel so pronounced if Mr. Malone weren’t himself quite so bespectacled and prim. The sense of divide is further heightened by the series’s insistence on reminding us just how steep a challenge he is facing. During the auditions at Northolt, one girl does a fairly terrible rendition of “Tainted Love”; another student sings badly in Hindi. Failing to subscribe to the rule of show-don’t-tell, both Mr. Malone and our disembodied narrator go on to tell us repeatedly what a big problem he has on his hands.

To be fair, some of what might strike us as Mr. Malone’s lack of perspective may simply be a consequence of cultural nuances lost in translation. Remarking on the relative absence of men in one choir, Mr. Malone at a certain point explains that “somewhere in their teens, men fall out of love with singing, when their voice breaks and they just don’t want to be in a choir, and nationally it’s a really big problem.” This is less out of touch than it might seem on the surface, given that choral singing is its own kind of patriotism in Britain (as the BBC reality series “The Last Choir Standing” has shown).

The combination of Mr. Malone’s passion and intelligence keeps the lens too tightly focused on him when it ought to be roving with greater intensity into the worlds Mr. Malone is penetrating. In an effort to restrain sentimentality, the series gives us his image over and over at the expense of illuminating the lives of the children he is instructing. The point is to assure us that we are watching something infinitely more high-minded than “American Idol.” The result was to make me check the TV listings for re-runs of “The Real Housewives”— and to feel guiltier than usual about it.

Jamie Isaacs, executive producer. Produced for the BBC by Twenty Twenty Television.
135 2010-07-06 Putting idle cash to work....
136 2010-07-06 He finished in clear first ahead of an impressive field that included many of the world's best players....
137 2010-07-06 The letter, signed by more than 30 female staffers at the Comedy Central satirical newscast, said that "while rampant sexism at a well-respected show makes for a great story," the description does not apply to their workplace....
138 2010-07-06 Shares in BP on both sides of the Atlantic rose on Tuesday following the oil giant's insistence that it will not issue massive new amounts of stock in an attempt to cover the costs of its massive Gulf of Mexico oil spill....
139 2010-07-06 New York Online: the dog versus the co-op board; streets clogged with bicycle billboards; and Prince's disdain for the Internet....
140 2010-07-06 Nancy Bush of NAB Research upgraded Bank of America's stock from "Hold" to "Buy," saying that the bank's stock looks inexpensive compared to its peers....
141 2010-07-06 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
142 2010-07-06 HarperOne said it would release a graphic-novel adaptation of Paulo Coelho's allusive work of fiction in December....
143 2010-07-06 An electronics trade group and a lobbying firm have been pushing separate efforts to broaden the debate's focus to cover all in-car distractions, angering the Transportation Secretary....
144 2010-07-06 An electronics trade group and a lobbying firm have been pushing separate efforts to broaden the debate's focus to cover all in-car distractions, angering the Transportation Secretary....
145 2010-07-06 The federal government has just finished construction on a zero-energy office building, the nation's largest, and is hoping that commercial developers will follow its lead....
146 2010-07-06 Nokia said Tuesday it would sell its wireless modem business, which has been hurt by Chinese competition, to Renesas Electronics of Japan for $200 million, The New York Times's Kevin J. O'Brien reports....
147 2010-07-06 British fund firm Gartmore said clients were returning to its European hedge funds after big withdrawals following the March suspension of star fund manager Guillaume Rambourg, Reuters reported....
148 2010-07-06 Agricultural Bank of China, the country's third-largest bank by assets, is set to price its dual Hong Kong and Shanghai initial public offering late on Tuesday, determining whether it will become world's largest ever share offer....
149 2010-07-06 Seven out of 10 hedge fund managers said they expect a "trying" year as the industry faces regulatory oversight and competition picks up with more funds likely chasing investment dollars, according to a survey by accounting and audit firm Rothstei...
150 2010-07-06 The sale of the French e-commerce company PriceMinister to Rakuten shows that the French, often maligned for a supposed lack of entrepreneurial drive, can create competitive businesses in even the most dynamic sectors of the economy, like the Inte...
151 2010-07-06 Claude Picasso, above right, a son of Pablo Picasso, and Alexander Klee, left, the grandson of Paul Klee, have met for the first time, Agence France-Presse reported. The Zentrum Paul Klee in Bern, Switzerland, is currently hosting an exhibition, on view until Sept. 26, exploring the relationship between the artists’ work, and their descendants met there last week. Paul Klee met Pablo Picasso, who was two years his junior but the more famous of the pair, only twice. Klee responded strongly to Picasso’s work, while maintaining his individual style, his grandson told the news agency. “It’s thought he was slightly afraid of Picasso’s influence,” Alexander Klee said.
152 2010-07-06 Russian government auditors said the country’s flop at the Vancouver Winter Olympics followed widespread misspending by sports officials and a dysfunctional bureaucracy. The audit put Russia’s spending for the Games, including preparations, at $186 million; Russia won 3 gold and 15 total medals. Russia spent one-fifth of that amount in 2006 for the Turin Games, where it won eight golds.
153 2010-07-06 Vande Velde, who entered the Tour nursing three broken ribs, was forced to pull out of the race. The top American sprinter, Tyler Farrar of Garmin-Transitions, also took a nasty fall, sustaining a sprained left elbow and a broken left wrist. Farrar is expected to start in Tuesday’s third stage.

Chavanel, of the Quick Step team, was probably the only competitor to cross the finish line smiling. He had been part of a breakaway that the pack could not chase down. As France rarely sees its countrymen win at the Tour, he became a national hero.

“I don’t think I’ve ever been so happy,” Chavanel said, choking back tears. He won the stage by nearly four minutes, more than enough to clinch the leader’s yellow jersey. He holds a 2:57 lead over Fabian Cancellara of Switzerland in the overall standings.

Tony Martin of Germany is in third, 3:07 behind Chavanel. Lance Armstrong, who bruised his thigh and elbow in a fall, is in fifth, 3:19 back. Alberto Contador, the defending champion, is seventh, 3:24 back. Andy Schleck, the runner-up last year, is 85th, 4:06 back, after falling about halfway through the stage.

Many of those riders had tumbled on a particularly tricky descent that some said was slick with oil. But even a skating-rink-slippery road is no match for the cobblestones that loom, in terms of potential hazards, some said.

Cobblestone roads are common in races called spring classics, like Paris-Roubaix, which are held mainly in northern Europe. But they are rare in the Tour. The last time cobblestones were included in the event was in 2004. That year, Iban Mayo of Spain, a race favorite, fell before one cobblestone section. His Tour chances vanished.

On the cobbles, riders travel over sections of uneven, often oddly spaced granite stones, some placed more than 200 years ago. Over time, some of those stones have gone askew, turning into particularly formidable foes for cyclists and their equipment. Riders describe it as riding over railroad tracks with only inches to maneuver.

“I don’t want to do it,” Martin, of HTC-Columbia, said. “I am not looking forward to it. I can’t understand why anybody would like it. I’m just afraid for my future.”

On the cobblestones, a rider’s body is tossed around as he struggles to wrestle control of his bike. Bigger riders with upper-body strength, like George Hincapie of BMC Racing or Cancellara, have an easier time. They are heavier and stronger than smaller riders like Contador whose arms are as thin as reeds.

Equipment failure also can ruin anyone’s day. Flat tires are common, and disasters are not unheard of. Hincapie recalled riding Paris-Roubaix once when his bike’s fork broke, causing him to smack the ground and fracture his shoulder.

“All of a sudden, I didn’t have any handlebars to hold on to,” he said, adding that he still enjoyed cobblestones. “You can’t win the Tour de France there,” he said. “But I think some of the favorites will lose the Tour that day.”

Team mechanics have prepared long and hard for Tuesday. Some will place extra tape on riders’ handlebars to absorb the shock of the continual vibration.

The route is often so bumpy that regular bikes just will not do. So bikes are often tweaked to have more tire clearance to compensate for the bumps, thicker tires and less air pressure in those tires. Aluminum wheels are sometimes better than carbon ones because they have more give, said Ian Sherburne, the head mechanic for BMC Racing.

“A wheel that sticks to the ground goes forward faster than when it’s bouncing up and down, but that also adds a little more resistance for the riders and takes more energy,” Sherburne said. “You don’t want your riders expending 5 percent more energy than everyone else, but it’s also not good if he finds that he cannot control his bike.”

Many times, though, the most terrifying part of such a stage is not the cobblestones themselves. It is the lead-up to them. The road often goes from wide to very narrow — maybe five feet wide in some places, some riders say. So riders fight to be in the lead pack of 10 to 20 entering the cobbles, lest they find themselves funneled to the back as the group is strung out.

Once riders are on the cobblestones, other obstacles — like holes, rocks, and intoxicated fans — only add to the stress.

“If there’s a crash, then it generally blocks the road completely,” David Millar of Garmin-Transitions said, adding that he often had “lost the will to live” by the cobbles’ end. “There are guys getting off the bikes, running around in the field next to the road,” he said. “It’s bananas.”

Voigt, 38, has seen that happen plenty of times. Once, he recalled, he had to avoid smashing into a rider who had fallen and broken his femur. Such bedlam is good for the fans, though, Voigt said.

“Remember in ancient Rome, the gladiator fights they had?” he said. “It’s going to be awesome; it’s spectacular for the people on the sofa, having a little Bud Light on the side. But for us poor fellows on the road there? For us, it’s terrible.”
154 2010-07-06 OTTAWA — The director of Canada’s intelligence service told a committee in Parliament on Monday that he thinks two provincial cabinet ministers, as well as some municipal politicians and public servants, are under the influence of foreign governments.

Richard B. Fadden, the director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, was summoned to an unusual summer hearing after making similar accusations during an interview with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that was broadcast two weeks ago. Those comments provoked widespread criticism, particularly from the Chinese-Canadians.

While Mr. Fadden had initially issued a statement in which he appeared to backtrack from his claim, he repeated the accusation on Monday and said that his agency planned to file a report with the government about the situation “within weeks.”

As he had before, Mr. Fadden cited national security laws in declining to identify the elected officials who he thought were under the influence of foreign governments. And while he did not explicitly name a country, he again broadly suggested that it was China.

While some members of the committee on public safety and national security asked Mr. Fadden to resign and questioned his judgment in making the remarks, he offered no apologies.
155 2010-07-06 A best-selling author and fierce critic of the Communist Party was taken into custody by the police on Monday for reasons that were unclear, his wife said. Liu Min said her husband, Yu Jue, left, reported that five police officers came to their home with a warrant that said he would be questioned at the Dou Ge Zhuang police station in Chaoyang district. Mr. Yu. had been taken away before, usually for questioning sessions that lasted 12 hours, his wife said. An officer at the Dou Ge Zhuang police station said he had no knowledge of the whereabouts of Mr. Yu, who helped found the Independent PEN Center in China, which fights for freedom of expression and publication, and is a vocal Christian advocate whose defense of religious freedom has run afoul of the Chinese authorities.
156 2010-07-06 It takes an elephant much longer to notice a fly and flick it away than it takes a shrew, and the reason is not that the elephant’s great brain is too busy with philosophy, or that it simply does not concern itself with flies.

It’s a matter of round-trip travel time — in the nervous system. The trip from the elephant’s skin to the brain and back again to the muscles to flick the tail is 100 times as long as the same trip in a shrew, according to a new study published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B.

The nervous system acts like an information superhighway, sending messages back and forth from the brain throughout the body. The bigger the animal, the greater the distance traveled.

Nerves have a maximum speed limit of about 180 feet per second, said Maxwell Donelan, the study’s lead author.

“It makes sense that in a large animal, like an elephant, messages have a longer way to travel,” he said.

Dr. Donelan believes that large animals may have to compensate for this handicap by thinking ahead, and avoiding risky situations. “That’s what we want to study next,” he said. “It could be that the nervous systems of large animals have evolved to become excellent predictive machines.”
157 2010-07-06 Re “Doctor, Please Carve Out the Time to Heal Thyself” (Cases, June 29): Dr. Shannon Gulliver’s personal story should serve as a wake-up call for many of resident physicians who are neglecting their own health while they work marathon shifts caring for patients. It should also alert those overseeing graduate medical education to the risks resident physicians are exposed to when they’re scheduled to work beyond the point of exhaustion.

In addition to compromised immune systems, many of my colleagues have had car accidents or needle-stick injuries, especially when they are at the end of a 24- or 30-hour shift. I hope this doctor’s story will encourage residents to speak up before they are seriously ill, and I hope it will motivate residency programs to cultivate a healthier environment where physicians are taught that caring for patients shouldn’t come at the expense of their own health.

Could many months at a time of keeping “unhealthy schedules, working 27 hours at a stretch, eating out of vending machines and delaying bathroom breaks for hours” — plus investing emotionally in patients — possibly cause enough chronic physical and emotional stress to erode the immune system? Do you think?

Perhaps you have your hand on a stick that might finally convince the medical profession to completely rethink how its scions get trained. Or so one might hope.
158 2010-07-06 A federally financed study to see if testosterone gel helps frail elderly men build muscle and strength was abruptly halted late last year after participants taking it suffered a disproportionate number of heart attacks and other serious cardiac problems, and one died of what was apparently a heart attack.

Ten men taking testosterone suffered serious cardiac problems, compared with only one in a control group of elderly men who were applying a fake placebo gel, according to a paper published in The New England Journal of Medicine. The journal disclosed details of the trial’s premature termination for the first time last week.

Researchers were taken aback by the high rate of adverse heart problems. Some experts called it an anomaly, and pointed to the fact that the trial’s participants were sicker than patients in earlier testosterone studies and were treated with a relatively high dose of the hormone. Still, investigators about to begin a much larger set of testosterone trials immediately modified their study protocols, developing new inclusion criteria and agreeing to additional safety monitoring steps.

“There was a great deal of consternation and deliberation,” said Dr. Shalender Bhasin, a professor at Boston University School of Medicine and the senior author on the paper about the trial. “The lesson to be learned here is that physicians and patients, especially older men who are considering testosterone therapy, should weigh these findings of adverse events in their decision making.”

Dr. Evan Hadley, director of the division of geriatrics and clinical gerontology at the National Institute on Aging, which financed the study, said it would continue to study the hormone’s effects. “It’s important to look at all the evidence about testosterone treatment,” Dr. Hadley said. “Other studies in older men haven’t seen this pattern.”

Testosterone is not approved for use in older men whose testosterone levels have declined with age. The Food and Drug Administration has approved it for use only in men with hypogonadism, whose sex glands produce extremely low amounts of testosterone or none at all because of an underlying disorder. But the use of testosterone for other purposes, known as off-label use, has increased in recent years, with many older men taking it because of a belief it can counter or reverse the effects of aging.
159 2010-07-06 “The best thing about him is he will accept the challenge, and he will not shy away from it,” said Coach Mike D’Antoni, who coached Stoudemire for five seasons in Phoenix.

The other best thing about Stoudemire, Knicks officials hope, is his ability to recruit elite free agents. The Knicks are courting LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who are expected to make a decision in the next few days.

James made no public statements Monday as he attended a basketball clinic in his hometown, at the University of Akron. He is weighing offers from six teams. Wade met Monday with the Miami Heat owner, Micky Arison.

The Knicks have generally been viewed as a long shot to sign either player, because their roster is young, thin and generally unproven. Stoudemire’s presence means that Wade and James would no longer have to worry about lifting the Knicks back to respectability alone.

“This could help get the dominoes falling,” D’Antoni said. “He’ll be a great teammate for somebody.”

Stoudemire is friendly with both James and Wade, and said he would be recruiting both of them.

“Both guys, Dwyane and LeBron, I’m pretty sure would love to play with me,” Stoudemire said, “and vice versa. So hopefully, we can get one of those guys to join me here this year.”

As Stoudemire spoke, a series of beaming Garden officials circulated through the room, including James L. Dolan, the Garden chairman; Hank Ratner, the Garden chief executive; and Scott O’Neil, the MSG Sports president. Also circulating was the film director Spike Lee, who signaled his approval with raised eyebrows and a big smile.

Three decorated former Knicks — Allan Houston, John Starks and Larry Johnson — were also there for the occasion, unofficial as it might have been.

Technically, there is no binding agreement between Stoudemire and the team until the contract is signed Thursday, and salary figures could change slightly. Everyone present flirted mightily with the league’s rules on announcing deals during the moratorium. Team officials spoke in conditional terms about the contract, trying hard to use “ifs.”

The deal had effectively been in place since late last week, when the Knicks and Stoudemire’s agent agreed to a basic outline, pending in-person discussions. It was first reported by Yahoo Sports.

There was not much to negotiate. Stoudemire wanted a maximum contract, and the Knicks said they were willing to give him one. Once he broke off talks with the Suns, his path became clear.

Despite Stoudemire’s proven talent, there is risk in the deal. He had major knee surgery in 2005 and eye surgery in 2009, rendering his contract in Phoenix uninsurable. Donnie Walsh, the Knicks’ president, said he was uncertain about insurance for the new deal but said, “I guess because we don’t know, we’re willing to take that risk.”

Chris Bosh, the Toronto Raptors power forward, was slightly ahead of Stoudemire on the Knicks’ big-man wish list. But Bosh, like Wade and James, is dithering about a decision and seems determined to join one of those two players somewhere.

Stoudemire made a quick commitment to the Knicks, which made their decision easier.

“I just love the city of New York, the state of New York,” Stoudemire said, “and being a part of a great organization is the ultimate goal for a player, and to ultimately win a championship.”

Once the Knicks sign Stoudemire, they will have about $17 million of salary-cap room left, enough for one more max contract. If they miss on James and Wade, they could split that sum among several role players and make Stoudemire the centerpiece. They have been aggressively pursuing the sharpshooter Mike Miller and are interested in point guards Raymond Felton and Luke Ridnour.

“It’s the first step — it’s a big step,” said Walsh, who worked feverishly for two years to create the cap room for this heralded free-agent class. “I think we’re further along, that’s for sure.”

Stoudemire was undaunted by the possibility of being the Knicks’ sole star player.

“Totally comfortable, totally confident,” he said. “And my leadership qualities will uplift all of us.”

Stoudemire’s arrival probably spells the end of David Lee’s career in New York. Although D’Antoni said the two could play together, the Knicks have a much greater need now for a point guard and a true center. Lee is being pursued by Chicago, Miami, Minnesota and the Nets, as well as several teams without cap space that want to acquire him in a sign-and-trade deal.

“I don’t really say never to anything,” said Lee’s agent, Mark Bartelstein, when asked if Lee’s tenure had just ended. “Stuff goes on every day. We’ll just see what happens.”
160 2010-07-06 KATONAH, N.Y. — It’s easy to imagine the Punch Brothers as a rock band. I mean, what’s rock and who cares, but I’m talking about materials: electric guitars and digital distortion and drums, rather than the untreated sounds of mandolin, fiddle, banjo, acoustic guitar and double bass.

Under the tent of the Venetian Theater at the Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts on Saturday night, they played about three songs that more or less held to the tradition of bluegrass, the music that brought the five of them individually to contendership; most of the rest was essentially acoustic prog-rock, cleverly splintered and episodic, with touches of breathless emotion and goofy humor. The disjunction between big ambition and small sound is what drives the project. At its most intense, the band’s music suggests prairie landscapes redone by a supremely confident illustrator, trippy with a common touch: Peter Sis, or Remy Charlip.

In rock, though, the last refinement is feigning indifference, and it’s not easy to imagine this group doing that now. The Punch Brothers, who write their songs collectively but organize themselves around the charisma of the singer and mandolinist Chris Thile, can’t stop showing you what they know.

Their music is full of trapdoors: weird harmony, dynamic shifts, staggered riffs, beats flipped over. This disposition has a lineage in 40 years of progressive bluegrass, and Saturday’s three-band minifestival at Caramoor, “New Shoots,” the first of a projected series, was showing you where the superlearned end of traditional American music has come to. It included Sandra Wong playing string music from around the world; and a Boston nouveau-bluegrass band, Crooked Still, pulled along by Aoife O’Donovan’s Alison Krauss-like singing and the virtuosic cellist Tristan Clarridge, with implicit funk and conservatory training everywhere.

But the Punch Brothers seem determined to move bluegrass furthest. Mr. Thile contains multitudes: he connects the full-hearted yodel of Jimmie Rodgers and the insecure falsetto of Thom Yorke; he looks a bit like Robert Pattinson, and talks in manic raps of hyper self-consciousness. (“I’m having an absurd amount of fun,” he announced, eyeing his audience hungrily.)
161 2010-07-06 That would be a rarity in the city, where the temperature has reached triple digits on just 55 days in the last 129 years, said Joe Pollina, a meteorologist with the weather service in Upton, N.Y. The last time it was hotter in Central Park than it was on Monday afternoon was on Aug. 9, 2001, Mr. Pollina said.

Just about the time the thermometer in Central Park topped out, the air inside the meat locker in the Fairway in Harlem was about 60 degrees cooler.

Luis Jimenez, a butcher from Washington Heights who works in the locker, said he would not leave the store during his shift, not even for breaks.

“Outside feels like an oven,” Mr. Jimenez said. “It’s too dangerous to be outside. Where I live, we went two nights with no A.C. Some guy had a heat stroke in his house.”

Fairway’s customers often don insulated gray coats before venturing into the 10,000-square-foot cold room to browse its stacks of yogurt, meats, pasta and milk. But on Monday, Lindsay Sarnoff wore just a tank top as she wheeled her 11-month-old son, Brody, through for the first time. Brody, still pink-cheeked from the heat outside, his hair wet from sweat, had only a T-shirt.

“If I was prepared, I would have brought him a sweatshirt,” Ms. Sarnoff said.

But who thinks of extra layers when the pavement on city streets is starting to soften underfoot?

Julio Cabrera left home, where he has no air-conditioning, and headed to the store with one item on his mental checklist: relief from the heat. He stood before an array of oven-roasted turkey, his eyes glazed over.

“If I can find something, good; if not, I cooled off,” Mr. Cabrera said. “I came in with this in mind. It was a conscious decision.”

At the ice-skating rink at Chelsea Piers, Paul Myers said he was glad to have a job for which a sweatshirt was a necessity. “It’s nice,” Mr. Myers, 26, said as he headed toward the Zamboni to clean the ice for a hockey camp. “I don’t get much of a tan, though.”

Tamer Abdo, 19, was working Monday at the other end of the comfort spectrum as he manned a food cart on Fifth Avenue next to Madison Square Park. He cooked hot dogs, kebabs and pretzels over a charcoal flame, periodically turning his cart to shield himself from the sun.

“The fire is right in your face,” said Mr. Abdo, a student at LaGuardia Community College who lives in Astoria, Queens.

By 4 p.m., he was ready to pack it in for the day. “Sometimes if business is bad and it’s really hot, I’ll go back into air-conditioning,” Mr. Abdo said.

According to Mr. Pollina, the meteorologist, those New Yorkers who had not fled the city for beaches and lakes on the extended Fourth of July weekend had less to complain about than they may have recognized. Mr. Pollina said that the humidity was so low that it actually felt cooler outside than the thermometer suggested. At 2 p.m., the relative humidity was just 24 percent, making the air feel as if it was just 94 degrees. In Newark, when the temperature hit 102 on Monday, the unseasonal dryness made it feel at least a few degrees cooler, he said.

Still, even those who like it hot found Monday’s weather to be too much of a good thing.

Outside Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, modern dancers from the Gallim Dance company ate sandwiches, drank water and squeezed into tutus for a rehearsal for a sneak preview of a dance called “Wonderland.”

“Heat is good for the body,” said Andrea Miller, the company’s choreographer and founder. “Air-conditioning can be a big problem for us. At performances indoors, we’ve asked to have the A.C. turned off because it’s bad for the muscles.”

The dancers had adjusted for the heat by wearing colorful Keds and Converse All-Stars on their usually bare feet, and the young men had stripped down to their pants. But once they made contact with the scalding, makeshift stage, their love of the heat flagged, and Ms. Miller had to modify the choreography so that the performers would not burn their backs on the pavement.
162 2010-07-06 A woman in her 20s from Washington State was infected with the vaccinia virus used in smallpox vaccines earlier this year after sexual contact with her boyfriend, a member of the military who had been vaccinated five days earlier, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports.

The man had removed a bandage covering his vaccination site earlier that day, the report said.

It is one of five known cases in the past 12 months of women from four states who got vaccinia through sexual contact with a member of the military, the July 2 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report said.

The Washington woman sought medical treatment in late February for a painful, ring-shaped vaginal swelling, returning several days later complaining of increased pain, new sores and a swollen lymph node. She expressed concern about the smallpox vaccination, but health care providers initially tested her only for gonorrhea, chlamydia and herpes virus; an infectious disease specialist who examined her later tested her for vaccinia, and the lab results were positive.

Most healthy people do not generally face serious risks from the vaccinia virus but it poses dangers to anyone who has a compromised immune system, has eczema or is pregnant, said Andrea McCollum, a C.D.C. epidemiologist and M.M.W.R. author.
163 2010-07-06 Patrick Quinn, chief executive of PQ Media, said that revenue from product placement in music videos totaled $15 million to $20 million last year, more than double the amount in 2000, and he expected that to grow again this year.

“That real estate — getting into the content itself — has become that much more valuable,” Mr. Quinn said.

“There’s an opportunity there to make money and charge for that real estate.”

For years, the opportunities for product placement — advertisers like to call it “integration” — in music videos were limited. MTV was the dominant outlet for videos, and its policy prohibited blatant plugs in videos, so the network would often blur brand labels or ask for a new version without the placement.

But the airtime MTV devotes to music videos has decreased sharply, and the Web emerged as a preferred destination for fans, opening the door for labels and advertisers.

Rio Caraeff, the chief executive of Vevo, the music video network started late last year in partnership with YouTube, said the company aimed to enable product placement in videos.

The company “works as a conduit between the world’s largest music companies and brand marketers,” Mr. Caraeff said in an e-mail message.

The Lady Gaga video, which has been viewed 62 million times on YouTube, included product placements from Miracle Whip and Virgin Mobile.

The phone company, Mr. Caraeff said, has a “strong relationship” with Vevo, which is partly owned by Universal Music, the parent of Lady Gaga’s label.

Mr. Caraeff said the placement demonstrated “how complementary our relationships with brands and music companies are and how we can bring them together for successful partnerships in the future.”

Jonathan Feldman, vice president for brand partnerships at Atlantic Records, said his label valued videos differently than it did five or 10 years ago, seeing them as more than marketing provided free to television outlets.

“Before, video was definitely to showcase creativity and content,” Mr. Feldman said.

“It was promotional, and today we look at video as another piece of pie and a way to generate venue.”

Part of the pitch to advertisers, Mr. Feldman said, is that the product in a video always remains there, unlike most other advertising opportunities around music videos, for instance a 15-second ad before the music that is bought for a specific amount of time or number of views.

“It’s not going to disappear,” he says.

Atlantic’s video for “Billionaire,” the hit song by Travie McCoy that features Bruno Mars, includes a paid placement of a Mini Cooper. The two artists ride in the car and then Bruno Mars gives it away to a man looking for a ride. The video has been viewed more than nine million times on YouTube.

But the number of views of any one video remains unpredictable, and that’s one reason Kathy Findling, president of Creative Entertainment Services, a marketing firm that specializes in product placement, said that her company did few music video deals. It’s easier to estimate the number of viewers of a coming television show, she said.

The music video deals often develop because a brand is already associated with an artist — by sponsoring a concert tour, for example. Each deal comes with a degree of risk, though.

Mr. Feldman said it was important to the label and its artists that the video avoided being seen as a commercial for any product (aside from the artists themselves, of course).

In the case of the “Billionaire” video, Mr. Feldman said the Mini Cooper placement worked because a car was needed, and while it was in several shots, the car itself was not the main attraction.

The musicians have the final say over whether a product can be included, he said, and Atlantic has turned down opportunities because the placement would not have appeared to be natural.

Owen Shively, who handles the music deals for UPP Entertainment Marketing, a product placement firm in California, said it was in the brand’s interest to make the placement look as seamless as possible, too.

“There aren’t the same restrictions anymore, but you don’t want to do something blatant or overt,” Mr. Shively said. “You don’t want to do something where the viewer says, ‘That doesn’t make sense.’ ”
164 2010-07-06 My colleague Jeffrey Marcus drove expertly from Johannesburg yesterday, negotiating the toll road, with two lanes in each direction, often nothing but a yellow line between us and oncoming traffic, closing speed of, well, never mind.

Coming out of the mountains, there was fog, and then the litter of four or five cars, one of them mashed in on the driver’s side. We exhaled and rolled downhill to the sea. Instead of my posh hotel in suburban Johannesburg, which I had come to think of as the Walled-Off Astoria, I am now ensconced in a pleasant old hotel on a strip that reminds me of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., or Santa Monica, Calif.

Of course, my wife, if she were here, would compare it to Juhu Beach outside Mumbai, 4,275 miles across the sea. She has described walking on Juhu Beach at dawn, with thousands of others. I am feeling very guilty at deciding the dicey logistics made it impossible to share this World Cup, as we have done in Rome, Paris, Seoul and all over Germany. She would love Durban.

I loved it as soon as I had dinner in the Balmoral Hotel on Sunday night, chatting with the restaurant manager, Wayne, who was wearing a Man U jersey. He touted me onto a spicy chicken tikka, excellent, and we talked about the changes in South Africa in his lifetime, the rise in expectations for people of African and Indian ancestry, like himself. Wayne also knew his soccer. I felt I was chatting with friends in Pune, India; or Jackson Heights in Queens; or Hicksville on Long Island. Home.

Durban was also home to Mahatma Gandhi, where he began his activism, where some of his ashes were spread in January in a gesture of solidarity between India and South Africa.

This morning, after two weeks of being cooped up, I was finally able to take a proper walk, several miles along the vibrant strand. I walked out a pier and saw sand sculptures made by Sanele Zwame, 23 — a lion gnawing on a stag, a snakelike beast devouring the upper torso of a woman in a thong, a little weird. He had a sign: Support the Arts. So I did, with 10 rand (about $1.29).

There were dozens of surfers in the roiling waves, most of them white. But wait. Along came a white guy and a black guy, who tossed their boards into the deep water and jumped off the pier like Newman and Redford (“Who are those guys?”) in the movie “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.” They retrieved their boards and started splashing.

To the south, I could see sailboats tacking, dwarfed by a giant freighter heading into the harbor. To the north, I could see Moses Mabhida Stadium, with its graceful arch overhead, looking like a high-tech teapot or steam iron.

I continued my walk, moving faster to the gentle beat from a xylophone-like percussion. Not a vuvuzela to be heard. Black and white children played cricket on a strip of artificial turf placed on the sand. People jogged. Geezers whizzed past on bikes, making me homesick for mine. Women in saris. Women in headscarves. Women in bikinis. Women in robes at dozens of souvenir stands, proffering bracelets, statues, caps, special price, special price. Just looking, I said. First day. I’ll be back. Warm smiles.

A group of young black children headed toward the beach, expectant smiles, the way children always look when approaching the beach. This is their beach, in the infancy of this new country. I decided to head back to the hotel to see what kind of spicy dishes Wayne was offering for lunch.

I was wishing my wife were here with me instead of home in New York. I called the other day, and she was raving about Schweinsteiger and Özil — “Did you see how they keep running?” she asked. (Our World Cup tour of Germany in 2006 made us both just a little bit German, too.)

My wife likes to tell me about dawn at Juhu Beach. I’ll have to tell her about Durban.
165 2010-07-06 “The Endangered Species Act requires caution, but federal wildlife agencies allowed offshore oil drilling to play Russian roulette with endangered species in the gulf,” said Daniel J. Rohlf, the clinical director of the Pacific Environmental Advocacy Center at Lewis & Clark Law School.

“Would people get on a plane if they knew it had a one in four chance of a major mechanical problem?” Mr. Rohlf asked, adding, “Federal wildlife agencies made conscious choices — under the guise of science — to allow offshore oil drilling with an identical risk of serious harm to endangered species.”

Deborah Fuller, the endangered species program coordinator for the Fish and Wildlife Service’s office in , La., led the team that reviewed the minerals service’s biological assessment. She said that her office recognized that a big spill would be disastrous to wildlife and that it made suggestions for increasing preparedness for the cleanup of a spill as part of an informal consultation on the biological review.

But she said her office did not challenge the minerals service’s assessment of the risk.

“We all know an oil spill is catastrophic, but what is the likelihood it will happen?” Ms. Fuller asked. She said her office had considered that any likelihood under 50 percent would not be enough to require the protections of her office.

“Obviously, we are going to relook at all these numbers for upcoming consultations,” she said.

In considering earlier plans by the minerals service to sell oil leases in the gulf, the Fish and Wildlife Service had decided to conduct its own biological assessment, using its own scientists. But in 2007, the office chose to write only an informal letter of concurrence with the minerals service’s assessment, the agency’s lowest level of review. While the wildlife agency could not stop a lease sale, formally disagreeing with an assessment by the minerals service could deter buyers worried about possible litigation by environmental groups.

In its 71-page biological assessment, the Minerals Management Service concluded that the chances of oil from a spill larger than 1,000 barrels reaching critical habitat within 10 days could be more than 1 in 4 for the piping plover and the bald eagle, as high as 1 in 6 for the brown pelican and almost 1 in 10 for the Kemp’s ridley sea turtle. When the model was extended to 30 days, the assessment predicted even higher likelihoods of habitat pollution.

The report described in detail the severe consequences for a variety of species if they were to be affected by oil.

“Heavily oiled are likely to be killed,” the assessment said, adding that if the birds did not die, they might suffer from or infection.

Stacy Small, a scientist with the , reviewed the biological assessment prepared by the minerals service and the letter in which the wildlife service concurred with the evaluation. “The wildlife risk models apparently weren’t based on large oil volumes and didn’t estimate risk for a worst case, or even really bad case, oil disaster scenario,” she said.

“If they had looked at a 30-day time span for oil reaching shore, the risk would probably have looked a lot higher and maybe triggered a more stringent review under the Endangered Species Act,” Dr. Small said. “Unfortunately, it doesn’t look like anyone at the agencies asked for that.”
166 2010-07-06 DURBAN, South Africa -- The referees for the semifinals were announced today, and the full list of candidates to officiate the final four games was posted.     Ravshan Irmatov of Uzbekistan, who refereed the opening game of the World Cup, will try...
167 2010-07-07 Meg Mallon, 47, withdrew from this week's event at storied Oakmont County Club after abruptly retiring from the L.P.G.A. Tour....
168 2010-07-07 Juli Inkster is back at Oakmont as indignant as ever about a ruling that contributed to her defeat in the 1992 U.S. Women's Open....
169 2010-07-07 History tells us that combinations like Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh -- featuring two players who had each been go-to guys the year before -- rarely result in a championship....
170 2010-07-07 The Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria will open its expanded and redesigned home - featuring a new glass entrance, grand staircase and lobby video wall - on January 15....
171 2010-07-07 Vacancies, vacancies everywhere....
172 2010-07-07 STA Travel is offering a tour of global destinations associated with Michael Jackson....
173 2010-07-07 Jenna Lee is moving from Fox Business Network to the Fox News Channel....
174 2010-07-07 For seven summers, a group of college counselors from across the country have climbed on bicycles to travel from college to college on an informal, saddle-bound fact-finding mission, a kind of Tour d'Admission. This summer, the group has set its t...
175 2010-07-07 The advice from even the best financial gurus may not apply to your particular situation....
176 2010-07-07 He stays at No. 1 despite a big drop in sales....
177 2010-07-07 Intel's event recorder for automobiles would use GPS, sensors and video cameras to recreate accidents....
178 2010-07-07 A Russian scientist convicted of passing military secrets to the West may soon be released from a Moscow jail in exchange for one of the Russian spy suspects arrested last month in the United States....
179 2010-07-07 Maven Research, an online micro-consulting platform, announced that it has landed $1 million in seed funding from a group of investors including Accel Partners....
180 2010-07-07 Your Jokes | Kim Kardashian is getting her own wax figure at Madame Tussauds in New York. Now patrons can experience exactly would it would be like if they ever met her in person. -- Israel Carrasco, Anaheim, Calif....
181 2010-07-07 Robert Moffat, the former I.B.M. executive who admitted to charges of insider trading in the Galleon hedge fund probe, told Fortune that his affair with co-defendant Danielle Chiesi was more about business than sex....
182 2010-07-07 European Union bank regulators were expected to reveal on Wednesday how tough their health checks of the region's banks will be, in the hope of restoring confidence to markets worried about ballooning public debt, Reuters reported....
183 2010-07-07 Steel Development, the U.S. Steel firm, on Tuesday dismissed concerns raised by lawmakers over an investment from China's state-owned Anshan Iron and Steel Group in one of its steel mills, Reuters reported....
184 2010-07-07 Shares of the high-end electric carmaker Tesla Motors fell on Tuesday beneath the stock's initial public offering price after a stunning run-up last week, The Associated Press reported....
185 2010-07-07 Banks committed as much as 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion) in loans to fund the acquisition of Spain's Abertis Infraestructuras SA as lenders boost financing for takeovers and shrug off concern that a slowing economy will weaken credit markets, acc...
186 2010-07-07 “It intrigues him,” Governor Nixon said last month, ticking off by memory the visits Mr. Obama has made. “I think the complexity of the state intrigues him, too, as a microcosm of the country.”

Mr. Nixon said he could not recall any particular conversations with Mr. Obama about his re-election hopes, but he described the president this way: “I do know he’s a competitive chap.”

The state — with its distinctive mix of agricultural and industrial, urban and deeply rural, rich and poor — is often seen as a mini-America, but many here say Mr. Obama’s popularity has fallen since 2008 amid policies like his health care overhaul. And that has left some questioning whether Mr. Obama’s effect on the midterm elections here — in particular, a fight to fill the Senate seat of Christopher S. Bond, a Republican who is retiring — will help or harm the Democrats.

“President Obama has alienated a lot of the swing voters in Missouri and done nothing to ingratiate himself with the right-of-center voters,” said John Hancock, a longtime Republican consultant and former director of the state party. If the 2008 election could somehow be done all over — right this instant — Mr. Hancock said, Mr. Obama would lose by a far wider margin.

Both parties have been watching carefully in recent months to see how closely Robin Carnahan, the Democratic candidate for the Senate seat, will tie herself to the president. Ms. Carnahan, the secretary of state whose family is a political dynasty here, is expected to ultimately face Representative Roy Blunt, a Republican with similarly deep political roots. (Mr. Blunt’s son Matt is a former Missouri governor, as was Ms. Carnahan’s father, Mel, who was also elected, posthumously, to the Senate.)

The race is one of only a handful this fall involving Republican Senate seats seen as having reasonable chances of being taken by Democrats (as opposed to the more numerous Democratic seats seen as vulnerable to Republicans).

Some people — especially Republicans — took special note of Ms. Carnahan’s absence when the president visited in March. Republican consultants say Ms. Carnahan would like nothing better than to avoid being seen with President Obama, and avoid being linked to policies that have not gone over well with middle-of-the road voters here.

"Robin Carnahan can physically run from President Obama while he’s in Missouri, but she can’t run from her support of Obama’s unpopular and costly health care bill, his massive stimulus debacle and his tax-and-spend economic agenda in Washington," Amber Marchand, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said at the time. Ms. Carnahan blamed a planned trip to Washington for missing an event in which Mr. Obama raised money in the St. Louis area for Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat who is not up for re-election this year.

But, at least publicly, Democrats here dismiss the notion that Ms. Carnahan was trying to steer clear of the president. In April, they point out, Ms. Carnahan appeared with Mr. Obama in Macon, Mo. And Mr. Obama’s trip here on Thursday (when he will tour an electric vehicle company and discuss the economy with workers there) is being promoted by her campaign as a fund-raising tool; he will take part in a “grass-roots reception” on her behalf, as well as a luncheon at the downtown Marriott, where general seating will require a $1,000 donation to Ms. Carnahan.

“He’s still an extremely popular president,” said Michael Kelley, a Democratic consultant, who estimated that Mr. Obama’s support in Missouri was probably now about “the same to maybe just a little bit worse” compared with 2008. “The people who were out and supportive of President Obama are still out and supportive of him. Why run away from it?”

Ms. Carnahan’s campaign was upbeat. Linden Zakula, a spokesman, issued a statement about the visit, saying, “The president is always welcome, and we are pleased to have his support on the campaign trail.”

But Democrats have been hopeful about Missouri before only to be disappointed. Mr. Obama returned twice in the final weekend of his 2008 campaign, long past the point when most recent Democratic presidential candidates have focused on the state. In fact, in the final two weeks, Mr. Obama drew thousands of supporters to rallies on the state’s edges in St. Louis and Kansas City, then to the state’s center, in Columbia, and to Springfield in the conservative southwestern corner. Still, he lost.

Now, the state’s leading Democratic politicians seem to disagree over how much Mr. Obama is pondering Missouri and his chances of winning here in 2012. Senator McCaskill, an ally of the president, said she does not see him “sitting around with a napkin right now plotting electoral strategy,” but concentrating on pressing tasks like fixing the economy and stopping the oil spill. “I just don’t see him hyperfocusing on his re-elect,” she said.

But at least some party leaders are thinking about Missouri. Last week, St. Louis was named as one of four finalists to host the Democratic National Convention in 2012.

Governor Nixon sounds a confident note about an Obama re-election bid. “I think this is going to be a really nice blue state for him,” Mr. Nixon said. “I think we’ll get it done.”

Of the White House, he added, “They’ll keep their attention here.”

He noted visits from administration officials, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who, Mr. Nixon joked, “may have an apartment here.” (As it happens, the White House says Mr. Biden has visited only twice.)

Still, in Mr. Obama’s trip to northeast Missouri in April, when he visited an ethanol refinery, stopped at a small-town diner and met with a family farmer, the president sounded like someone who might recall that the only other time Missouri voted against a winning presidential candidate since 1904 was 1956. That year, while the nation chose Dwight D. Eisenhower, Missouri picked Adlai E. Stevenson, who hailed from neighboring Illinois, also Mr. Obama’s home state.

“It is wonderful to be in Missouri,” Mr. Obama told the crowd gathered at the refinery. “It is wonderful to be this close to my house.” He added later: “I may be the president these days, but I want to remind everybody I was the senator from Illinois. I didn’t just discover the merits of biofuels like ethanol when I first hopped on the campaign bus.”
187 2010-07-07 “It’s a situation where no one wanted to make the first move,” Stoudemire said Monday. “And I feel confident enough to take that first step.”

To be sure, the Knicks are at least one star shy of becoming legitimate contenders in the Eastern Conference. At the moment, they are seven players shy of a complete roster. They need a starting point guard, a reliable shooting guard and a defensive-minded center, among other things.

But the summer is young and the possibilities are many. For the first time in a long time, the Knicks have a true franchise player to build around, and the payroll flexibility to do it right.

Once Stoudemire signs his contract Thursday, the Knicks will have an estimated $16 million left to spend. They are in the mix for Mike Miller, a dependable 3-point shooter, and are pursuing several point guards, including Raymond Felton and Luke Ridnour. They will also entertain sign-and-trade deals with David Lee, who is unlikely to return. Everything, however, is in limbo until James and Wade decide their futures. As long as the Knicks are still in the running — and team officials think they are — they cannot commit their salary-cap room to another free agent.

The Knicks are essentially frozen. But then, so are dozens of players, agents and team executives around the country.

“We are in the same holding pattern,” Tony Dutt, the agent for Felton, said in an e-mail message.

Eventually, the dominoes will begin to fall and the Knicks will resume spending. Regardless of who accepts their millions, they will emerge as a vastly improved team, and one of the winners of the 2010 free-agent bonanza.

Stoudemire can step in as the offensive leader from Day 1. He was the Phoenix Suns’ leading scorer in his last five full seasons. He averaged 29.9 points in their storied 2005 playoff run, and 37 per game in the Western Conference finals, against the San Antonio Spurs’ Tim Duncan.

With his move to New York from Phoenix, Stoudemire instantly becomes one of the top power forwards in the East. He is quicker than the Boston Celtics’ Kevin Garnett, stronger than Orlando’s Rashard Lewis and more skilled than anyone else he will line up against.

The Knicks have not had a big man of Stoudemire’s caliber — or a player at any position who could routinely dominate opponents — since Patrick Ewing was in his prime. Stoudemire will command defensive attention and keep the floor spaced for the Knicks’ shooters, Danilo Gallinari, Wilson Chandler and perhaps Miller.

Although Lee is an emerging talent and averaged 20 points last season, he could not create the sort of havoc for opponents that Stoudemire does. He became their leading scorer out of sheer necessity, mostly because no one else was worthy of the role. For the last several years, the Knicks have handed the offense to volume shooters and inefficient scorers, who filled the box score but not the win column: Al Harrington, Jamal Crawford, Zach Randolph, Stephon Marbury, Eddy Curry.

In the player-efficiency ratings developed by ESPN’s John Hollinger, Stoudemire scored a 22.69 last season, the 11th-best mark among all players and fourth among power forwards. He has consistently earned a rating of 20 or higher when healthy. (The PER system rates productivity on a per-minute basis. The league average is 15.)

The doubts about Stoudemire are mostly about his defensive conscience and his health. But he is older (27) and more mature than the player who clashed at times with D’Antoni and his staff in Phoenix. He made progress as a defender this past season and seems serious about continuing that growth. There will always be concerns about his left knee, but Stoudemire’s microfracture surgery was nearly five years ago. He has averaged 23.4 points over the past three seasons and remains one of the most ferocious dunkersin the league.

Undoubtedly, Stoudemire will miss Steve Nash’s timely, well-placed passes. But as Stoudemire noted, he averaged a stout 20.6 points a game in 2003-4, when his point guard was Marbury. He has only improved since, developing a solid midrange jumper to complement his inside game.

With the rim in his sights and the ball in his hands, Stoudemire will always be a threat to score. All the Knicks need now is someone to get the ball in his hands.
188 2010-07-07 Britain’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter, helped by growth in manufacturing.

Persistently higher inflation rates could limit the Bank of England’s ability to keep interest rates low to allow for a more stable recovery, some economists said. The bank, which has a mandate to keep inflation low, is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent on Thursday.

The bank previously said that it was “very concerned about what’s been happening to inflation” and “how resilient inflation has been,” especially against the background of a recession.

It named three main factors as causing the higher rate: Oil prices were on average nearly 80 percent higher than at the beginning of 2009; the government restored a 17.5 percent sales tax in January after cutting it to help consumers; and a 26 percent drop in the pound against the dollar in 2008 drove prices higher.

Some economists disagreed, however. Higher commodity prices were not unique to Britain, and the euro also slumped against major currencies, albeit recently. Economists also pointed out that price increases were especially strong in the service sector, pushing up the cost of items like insurance, which are not directly related to currency exchange rates.

“The inflation issue recently has been higher levels of service sector inflation,” Stuart Green, chief British economist at HSBC in London, said. “That’s very unique to the U.K.”

The inflation rate also generated a debate within the Bank of England. Charles Bean, the deputy governor, said a lack of lending by banks might have made companies more concerned about cash flow and less willing to cut prices than in previous economic downturns.

Another member of the monetary policy committee, Adam Posen, in a speech last month blamed expectations of inflation for rising consumer prices. Mr. Posen argued that the Bank of England’s previous decisions to keep interest rates at a record low even as inflation crept up led consumers to expect that inflation would remain high for a while.

Expectations of higher inflation usually prompt companies to increase prices and workers to push for higher wages.

“The most logical and empirically reasonable explanation for inflation creep is some unanchoring of inflation expectations caused by a series of above-target outcomes for U.K. inflation in recent years,” Mr. Posen said.

But Hetal Mehta, an economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM Club economic forecasting group, said that while there was evidence that some companies had increased prices or kept them steady, there was little indication that workers were asking for higher pay. Since 610,000 public-sector jobs are to be cut by 2016 under the government’s austerity program, that is not likely to change.

Still, concern among some economists is mounting that Bank of England policy makers might feel pressed to raise interest rates because of inflation, even if the economy has not recovered fully. Those economists fear that increasing rates too soon could push the economy back into a recession.

Andrew Sentance on June 10 became the first committee member to vote for a rate increase in almost two years. Dr. Sentance later told Reuters that he was concerned about inflation expectations and said he would prefer “gradual” interest rate increases.

Mr. Sentance also raised doubts about the strength of existing deflationary pressures, hinting that prices might continue to rise because more companies than initially thought went bankrupt and the supply of products suffered.

Despite disagreements about the roots of higher consumer prices, many economists expect the Bank of England to keep interest rates unchanged until at least next year. The government’s austerity program, which includes a sales tax increase to 20 percent next January, means inflation could remain volatile.

“They should sound worried about inflation but also be mindful that there is a bigger danger, and that’s to increase rates when the economy is still low,” Mr. Gabay said. “If both consumers and the government save, things can turn ugly very quickly.”
189 2010-07-07 Apple said that it had banished a developer and his applications from the company’s online store after he breached the accounts of users and engaged in fraudulent purchases.

Apple gave few details about the type of fraudulent iTunes purchases it had detected. But late on Monday the company said it had removed the developer, Thuat Nguyen, and his applications from the App Store after some users complained that their accounts had been used to buy his applications without permission. According to various technology blogs, 42 of Mr. Nguyen’s applications were among the top 50 titles in the App Store’s book category.

Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, said late Tuesday that about 400 users had been affected. She declined to say how their accounts had been compromised, but said that Apple’s servers, which hold credit card data on millions of customers, had not been touched.

“There was no hack into iTunes,” she said.

Ms. Muller also said that Apple had decided to bolster security on iTunes after the incident. For example, users will now have to enter their credit card security code more frequently. She also said that developers did not receive any confidential personal information from the users who downloaded their applications. She recommended that users whose accounts had been misused dispute the charges with their card companies.

There are more than 225,000 applications in the App Store, with more than five billion downloaded, according to Apple.
190 2010-07-07 Credit: Erik Refner for The New York Times
191 2010-07-07 Nokia said on Tuesday that it would sell its wireless modem business, which has been hurt by Chinese competition, to Renesas Electronics of Japan for $200 million.

Prices for the devices have plunged over the last three years amid competition from Huawei and ZTE, both based in China.

Pal Zarandy, a senior partner at Rewheel, a mobile industry analysis firm in Helsinki, Finland, said the average price for wireless broadband modems was about 30 euros, or $38, down from 120 euros in 2007. Most mobile operators in Europe give away wireless broadband modems, which are typically plug-in U.S.B. sticks, to attract new mobile broadband customers.

“The U.S.B. market has become a very low-margin business,” Mr. Zarandy said. “Nokia has apparently decided it is better to concentrate on more profitable aspects of the business.”

As part of the transaction, Nokia said it would transfer 1,100 employees in Finland, Denmark, India and Britain to Renesas, a maker of handset components based in Tokyo. Nokia said it expected to complete the deal in the fourth quarter.
192 2010-07-07 Often the tales are personal, speaking to a player’s standing in the game or marking a chapter in his career.

As for the jerseys themselves, sometimes they are washed, sometimes not. Sometimes they end up being given away, auctioned off, framed for display in a player’s home, boxed up in storage, or — as Berhalter learned — who knows where?

“It’s just a sign of respect,” said Clint Mathis, who scored for the United States in the 2002 World Cup. “You’re out there trying to kick each other and kill each other, but when the game’s said and done, it’s back to being friends.”

The gentlemanly ritual is believed to have begun in 1931, when France beat England for the first time. The French players were so ecstatic they asked the English players if they could have their jerseys as keepsakes. The English obliged.

It was not until 1954 that exchanges took place at a World Cup, according to FIFA.com, but one of the more memorable moments in the ritual was an exchange that did not take place.

In 1966, England defeated Argentina, 1-0, in the quarterfinals, but the play was so vicious that when England’s manager, Alf Ramsey, who had referred to Argentina’s players as animals, spotted one of his players exchanging jerseys with an Argentine, he stepped in and yanked the jersey away.

That image remains as much a part of the rivalry between the countries as Diego Maradona’s Hand of God goal and David Beckham’s red card in 1998.

“Ramsey’s intervention was hugely symbolic,” said Ellis Cashmore, a professor of sociology, media and sport at England’s Staffordshire University. “Exchange rituals are freighted with cultural functions, such as reinforcing social solidarity, affirming friendships and perpetuating economic partnerships.”

There are few friendships affirmed when the United States and Mexico play, which explains why jerseys are rarely exchanged in that rivalry. In the 2002 World Cup, the United States shocked Mexico, knocking it out of the tournament in a rough-and-tumble match.

“Especially after that game — I don’t think one jersey was exchanged,” Berhalter said. “There was a lot of bad blood in that game. That was one time when sportsmanship really didn’t take a priority.”

Cashmore compared the exchanges to kula, a system of ceremonial gift exchange that he said precedes formal trading in the Trobriand Islands in the Southwest Pacific. Kula “kept what might otherwise have been fractious relations peaceful,” Cashmore said. “Shirt exchanges have comparable functions.”

Over the last two decades, soccer has evolved from strictly sport to, Cashmore said, a division of the entertainment industry. Players like Beckham, Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney and Ronaldinho are worldwide brands as much as they are soccer stars.

Thus, some jerseys can be more than keepsakes — they can be commodities. The Brazil jersey worn by Pelé in the 1970 World Cup was sold in 2002 by the family of the Italian player he had traded with for $310,000.

Nigel Spill, a sports memorabilia dealer in Los Angeles, said a game-worn jersey of a player like Messi, the reigning world player of the year, would be comparable to what a Derek Jeter jersey would fetch, easily into five figures. “It’s not an innocent jersey swap anymore,” Spill said.

Indeed, when Nadir Haroub of Tanzania received what could be a valuable jersey when he traded with the Cameroon star Samuel Eto’o after a World Cup qualifier in 2008, the Tanzania Football Federation threatened to force Haroub to pay for a replacement jersey because it could not afford one. Eventually, the federation relented.

When the Los Angeles Galaxy played Barcelona and A. C. Milan in exhibitions last summer, many of the Galaxy’s younger and less-well-compensated players schemed about trying to get the jerseys of Ronaldinho and Messi. Similar conversations took place among players on the United States team in South Africa, the American left back Jonathan Bornstein said.

Still, there is an etiquette to the jersey swap. Typically, players who trade either know each other — perhaps they are club teammates — have battled over the same area of turf or just happen to be near each other when the game ends. Even those who are eager to snag a particular shirt try to be discreet.

To Bornstein, all the accounting that takes place in shirt swaps also affirms where a player fits in the increasingly global game. “There’s definitely a totem pole of status,” Bornstein said. “It lets you know where you are on the totem pole.”

In South Africa, Bornstein was a rather anonymous player, one from Major League Soccer rather than one of the top European leagues, and participating in his first World Cup.

But when the United States played Honduras earlier this year in an exhibition, several Honduran players sought him out afterward to trade jerseys. His last-minute goal against Costa Rica last November clinched a rare World Cup berth for Honduras, and he remains popular in the country.

“On the other hand, there are a lot of players around the world whose jerseys I would like to have, but maybe they don’t know who I am,” Bornstein said.

Chris Birchall, who played for Trinidad and Tobago in the 2006 World Cup, exchanged jerseys with the well-known players Roque Santa Cruz of Paraguay and Kim Kallstrom of Sweden. But when his tiny nation played England — where Birchall was born and raised — there were few players willing to trade, he said. Instead, he kept his jersey and had his teammates sign it.

“I don’t know whether it was to give it to friends or family or if they thought it might be worth something if they won the World Cup,” Birchall said. “I come from England, so it would be nice to have one from the Gerrards or Rooneys.”

But as players climb the totem pole, or simply age, it seems as if the jerseys themselves mean less.

Eddie Lewis, a former United States midfielder, had a Ronaldinho jersey, which he picked up during the 1999 Confederations Cup. But he had forgotten about it until he was going through boxes when his family moved.

Bornstein, 25, is not yet cool to collecting. He kept his jersey from the Algeria game, the first he played at the World Cup, and had it signed by all his teammates. He has jerseys dating to high school. In all, he has close to 30 jerseys he has traded for since he turned pro.

Where does he keep them?

“A space saver bag,” Bornstein said, though one day he hopes to frame them and decorate the man cave in his house. “I do wash them. I don’t want the stench of the other player. Actually, I thought about that this morning. I have to wash the Australia jersey.”

A fine idea, as long as he remembers not to send the laundry out.
193 2010-07-07 Glass vases are piled with truffles in the windows of the sleek new American headquarters of Urbani Truffles. It’s a combination showroom, demonstration kitchen and sales office, like the one Urbani runs in Umbria, Italy, near Spoleto. And it is open to shoppers, who will find an array of truffles. The only fresh ones in season now are the big summer truffles on display, black outside, taupe inside, with a scent like white truffles. There are truffle products of all kinds, including oils and paste. A delightful newcomer is a line of truffle sauces in eight combinations: white truffles with white mushrooms or porcini; and summer truffles with artichokes, tomatoes, mushrooms, cream or red or green pesto. Though a mere six ounces, each can provides enough deeply flavorful sauce for two to four servings of pasta. The sauces can also be stirred into risotto or served with grilled meats, fish or eggs.

Urbani Truffles, 10 West End Avenue (60th Street), (212) 247-8800, urbanitrufflesonline.com. Summer truffles are $115 for 8 ounces; Truffle Thrills pasta sauces are $9.95 for 6.1 ounces.
194 2010-07-07 “Oftentimes, smaller marketers look at this as a chance to legitimize their brand by coming on to center stage: ‘I’m in the big leagues, I’m in the big time,’ ” he said. “It creates a great story to tell back home and it can be very motivating internally at the company.”

At Super Bowl XLIV in February, the less-known sponsors that joined the ranks of household names like Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola, Honda and Volkswagen included Flo TV, a new mobile television service, and HomeAway, which offers vacation-rental listings.

The effort has had mixed success through the years. For every advertiser like GoDaddy that made its brand known through expensive Super Bowl commercials, there have been others like Lifeminders, Netpliance and Pets.com, which had little to show for their moment in the sun.

Yingli, needless to say, is anticipating that it will be rewarded for its risk-taking.

As “by far, the largest sporting event in the world,” the World Cup is “a fantastic platform to get our name out,” said Robert Petrina, managing director for the Yingli Green Energy Americas division of Yingli.

Mr. Petrina, who divides his time between the New York and San Francisco offices of the division, likened the growing interest in soccer in the United States to the growing interest in sources of renewable energy like solar panels.

Yingli pondered its investment in the World Cup sponsorship “profoundly, deeply,” Mr. Petrina said, adding: “Our company is well-known in the industry we’re in and has grown to be one of the best-known brands in the space. But to move to the global stage is a massive step.”

The decision was made “with the input of all the various offices around the world,” he added, which include Madrid, Munich and Rome — located in three soccer-mad nations, it should be noted.

Yingli is not buying commercial time during the televised coverage of the 64 World Cup matches, unlike many of the brands with which it is sharing the billboards.

“For us, this was the first step,” Mr. Petrina said, adding, “We wanted to see how successful it would be” before proceeding further.

Helena Kimball, head of marketing communications at the San Francisco office of Yingli Green Energy Americas, said the company planned “to do a complete analysis” after the World Cup to determine whether the sponsorship achieved its goals.

Already, there is at least one noticeable effect, Ms. Kimball said: Traffic to the Yingli Web site (yinglisolar.com) has increased to the point where “the site did end up crashing a few times.”

In addition to the presence on the billboards, the sponsorship entitles Yingli to set up displays of its products at the Soccer City Stadium in Johannesburg.

Among the ways that Yingli is promoting the sponsorship, Ms. Kimball and Mr. Petrina said, are ads on the Yingli Web site; television commercials on flights of Chinese airlines like Air China; ads in Chinese and South African airports; and banner ads on Chinese Web sites like sina.com and sohu.com.

Yingli Solar is one of eight World Cup sponsors, which represents the second-highest tier of marketing support offered by FIFA, the world soccer federation. The others, in addition to Budweiser, Castrol and McDonald’s, are Continental, the German tire company; Mahindra Satyam, the new brand name of Satyam Computer Services, an Indian company; the MTN Group, a South African telecommunications company; and Seara Alimentos, a Brazilian food brand owned by the Marfrig Group.

Six companies take part in the highest sponsorship level, known as partners: Adidas, Coca-Cola, the airline Emirates, Hyundai and Kia Motors, Sony and Visa.

Six marketers are in the third tier, called national supporters. They include Prasa, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, and the Telkom Group, another South African telecommunications company.
195 2010-07-07 “This is attempting to give people cleaner air to breathe,” Ms. McCarthy said.

The proposed regulation will require utilities operating coal-burning plants to install scrubbers and other technology to reduce emissions of the pollutants. Some companies may decide to retire older plants rather than invest in new control measures because other new rules under the Clean Air Act are expected in the coming years.

A spokesman for the utility industry said companies had already achieved large reductions in the pollutants since 1990.

“E.P.A.’s new proposal would require dramatic reductions in power-sector emissions, on top of major reductions to date, on a very short timeline,” said Dan Riedinger of the Edison Electric Institute, the main lobby for the utilities.

The companies were grateful, Mr. Riedinger said, that they would be allowed to trade emissions permits, but the prospect of tougher standards on other pollutants beginning in 2012 created “a great deal of regulatory uncertainty.”

Environmental advocates welcomed the new rules, saying they were better than those proposed by the Bush administration and more likely to survive legal challenge. But they also said that the E.P.A. still had a lot of work to do.

“The E.P.A. proposal is a big step in the right direction,” said Frank O’Donnell of Clean Air Watch, an advocacy group. “It’s a step toward taming the environmental beast known as the coal-fired power plant. But it is only a first step. E.P.A. still needs to move ahead with plans next year to limit power plant emissions of toxic mercury and other hazardous air pollutants.”

The new rules do not address power plant emissions of carbon dioxide and five other pollutants that contribute to global warming. The Obama administration is moving forward with a plan to phase in regulation of such heat-trapping gases, a move that is being challenged in Congress and in the courts.

The pollutants being singled out in the new rule making — sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides — react in the atmosphere to form fine particles (soot) and ground-level ozone (smog). They are easily carried by the wind and affect states and cities far downwind from the plants where they are produced. The proposed regulation, called a transport rule, would apply to power plants in 31 states east of the Rockies, with the exception of the Dakotas, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine.

The agency will hold hearings in the coming months.
196 2010-07-07 Since “The Alchemist” was first published in 1988, that quasi-mystical novel by Paulo Coelho, left, has inspired countless band names and vision quests, and has been translated into more than 60 languages. There has been perhaps one significant omission, however, which its publisher now intends to remedy. On Tuesday HarperOne, the HarperCollins imprint that releases Mr. Coelho’s novels in the United States, said it would publish a graphic-novel adaptation of “The Alchemist” in December. The adaptation will be produced by Sea Lion Books, a Georgia-based publisher, with art by Daniel Sampere. Though an illustrated version of “The Alchemist” was previously produced, HarperOne said it had been unable to persuade Mr. Coelho to consent to the full graphic-novel treatment until he saw a presentation from Sea Lion Books. “They basically sent some preliminary artwork to Paulo with a passionate letter, and that struck him,” Gideon Weil, executive editor of HarperOne, said in a telephone interview. “He’s like, ‘These guys get it.’ ”
197 2010-07-07 WASHINGTON (AP) — The post office wants to increase the price of a stamp by 2 cents, to 46 cents, starting in January. The agency has been battered by losses and declining mail volume.

Postal officials announced a series of proposed price increases Tuesday, averaging about 5 percent, and covering first class, advertising mail, periodicals, packages and other services.

The request now goes to the independent Postal Regulatory Commission, which has 90 days to respond. If approved, the increase would take effect Jan. 2.

“The Postal Service faces a serious risk of financial insolvency,” a postal vice president, Stephen M. Kearney, said.

Mr. Kearney said the agency was facing a $7 billion loss in 2011. The rate increase will bring in an additional $2.5 billion, meaning it still faces a $4.7 billion loss.
198 2010-07-07 Homemade coleslaw and sausages on ciabatta with provolone....
199 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur D. It is with sorrow we mourn the death of our cherished member and express our sincere condolences to his family. Congregation Emanu-El Of the City of New York...
200 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur D. We mourn the passing of Arthur D. Emil, a dear friend, a partner and a mentor for over four decades. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his dear wife, Lydia, to his children, David Emil, Jennie Emil Deutschman, Suzanne Emil Pleskun...
201 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur. A creative visionary always there for his friends and family. He will be missed. Barbara and Donald Jonas...
202 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur D.,died peacefully on July 6, 2010. Active and vigorous throughout his life, Arthur had joined a new law firm just after his 85th birthday, played in a golf tournament with his daughter and sister three weeks ago, and spent the weeken...
203 2010-07-07 Tiger Woods's quick turnaround trip across the Atlantic to a pro-am in Ireland did not end well. His spotty play, a less-than-cordial interview session and his abrupt departure Tuesday from the town of Adare to fly to Florida less than a week befo...
204 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur D. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center and the entire Montefiore family are deeply saddened by the death of our very valued, long-time Board member and friend, Arthur D. Emil. Arthur served on the Montefio...
205 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur. Oded Aboodi, his family and colleagues mourn the passing of Arthur D. Emil beloved husband, father and grandfather. A true friend and gentleman, he will be remembered as an honorable person by everyone he touched personally and profe...
206 2010-07-07 EMIL--Arthur D. A dear family friend and highly respected business colleague for many years. We will miss his perceptive mind and delightful sense of humor. Our deep condolences go to his wife Lydia, sister Judy Tenney and children David, Jenny an...
207 2010-07-07 McCARTHY--Jacqueline, on July 5, 2010. Beloved daughter of the late Jack and Mickey McCarthy. Loving sister of Michaele McCarthy Gorman (Neil). Dear aunt of Kelli Gorman. Retired as the Commanding Officer of the Counseling Services Unit New York P...
208 2010-07-08 Paula Creamer, on the mend after thumb surgery, is in contention after the first round of the U.S. Women's Open....
209 2010-07-08 In an Allen & Company conference chock-full of assorted media moguls, it seems there's one thread unifying them all: Google....
210 2010-07-08 The microchip start-up has taken in about $1 million in seed money this year....
211 2010-07-08 The Russian media is no longer as tightly controlled as in Soviet days, but its downplaying of the Russian spy case suggests that the Kremlin still exerts considerable sway over what the public knows....
212 2010-07-08 A number of free Web sites can help people sort out their Medicare coverage options....
213 2010-07-08 All the stores that must pay up were given warnings last year. The first fines are $200, rising to $400 for subsequent infractions....
214 2010-07-08 Because of budget pressures, the newspaper chain will conduct its last poll this month....
215 2010-07-08 The Pasadena Playhouse has emerged from Chapter 11 and plans to mount a production this fall, the theater announced on Thursday....
216 2010-07-08 The layoffs are the result of the company's merger with Schering-Plough. It will also close research and manufacturing sites around the world....
217 2010-07-08 Nick Fitzhugh and Pete Muller share their stories as they work on their documentary series about the cultural importance and significance of soccer in black South Africa....
218 2010-07-08 "The Social Network," directed by David Fincher tells how Mark Zuckerberg helped hatch an idea that became the wildly popular Facebook Web site - and the complications that its success quickly yielded....
219 2010-07-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
220 2010-07-08 Slow play marked early play at the United States Women's Open, and the U.S.G.A. may not have much patience if players continue at a snail's pace....
221 2010-07-08 Natural gas might emerge as a "bridge" fuel in controlling carbon dioxide emissions, but switching from coal would cost hundreds of billions of dollars -- not even counting the cost of the gas, according to a study....
222 2010-07-08 An exchange of Russian and United States spy suspects could happen today, as President Obama travels to Missouri to speak about the economy and stump for the state's Democratic Senate candidate....
223 2010-07-08 The 2010 Emmy Awards will be broadcast live on NBC on August 29....
224 2010-07-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
225 2010-07-08 Wall Street's bulls are betting that LeBron James ends up playing basketball in New York, not Chicago, sending up shares in Madison Square Garden, the owners of the New York Knicks....
226 2010-07-08 A surge on Wall Street swept into Asia on Thursday, sending indexes across most of the region markedly higher, as investors took heart, for now at least, about the state of the U.S. economy....
227 2010-07-08 In what could be a first step toward restoring confidence in the health of European banks, a panel coordinating stress tests of major institutions said Wednesday that its findings will be disclosed on July 23 and cover institutions representing mo...
228 2010-07-08 Reeling from the worst second-quarter performance in a decade, hedge funds have scaled back trading as they struggle to figure out where markets are headed amid sometimes vicious crosscurrents in stock, commodities and other markets....
229 2010-07-08 Wells Fargo said Wednesday that it would no longer make subprime mortgages and as a result would close a 100-year-old finance division that specialized in those loans....
230 2010-07-08 West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin on Wednesday put off naming a successor to the late Senator Robert Byrd, which could further complicate passage of financial reform legislation in the U.S. Senate, Reuters reported....
231 2010-07-08 The U.S. stock market staged its biggest rally since May on Wednesday, driving the Dow Jones industrial average above 10,000, as investors rushed to buy blue-chip shares near their lowest levels this year, and those gains continued into Asian mark...
232 2010-07-08 The top U.S. securities regulator wants more feedback on its nearly year-old proposal to ban "flash orders," and has asked additional questions about the wisdom of the ban in the options market, Reuters reported....
233 2010-07-08 This word has appeared in six Times articles over the past year....
234 2010-07-08 HARTFORD (AP) — Emilio Q. Daddario, who represented central Connecticut in Congress for 12 years and ran unsuccessfully for governor in 1970, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 91.

The cause was heart failure, according to an announcement by the New York Police Department. One of Mr. Daddario’s three sons, Richard, a former federal prosecutor, will begin serving as the department’s deputy commissioner for counterterrorism in August.

Mr. Daddario, a Democrat, defeated Representative Edwin H. May Jr. in 1958 to win Connecticut’s First Congressional District seat. He did not seek re-election in 1970, choosing to run for governor against another congressman, Thomas J. Meskill, who was elected.

Emilio Quincy Daddario was born in Newton Center, Mass., on Sept. 24, 1918. He graduated from Wesleyan University and the University of Connecticut School of Law and started a law practice. He later enlisted in the Army and served in the Mediterranean.

Mr. Daddario was elected mayor of Middletown, Conn., at 28 and served from 1946 to 1948.

Mr. Daddario’s wife of 67 years, Berenice, died in 2007. Besides his son Richard, he leaves two other sons, Anthony and Stephen; a sister; and seven grandchildren.
235 2010-07-08 A former Michigan congressman accused of accepting stolen funds to lobby on behalf of a charity suspected of having ties to terrorism pleaded guilty in federal court in Kansas City on Wednesday to obstruction of justice and acting as an unregistered foreign agent. But prosecutors said more serious charges of money laundering were likely to be dropped against the man, Mark Deli Siljander, who served in Congress from 1981 until 1987 and as a United Nations delegate for a year. Prosecutors said he lied to the F.B.I. about receiving $75,000 from the Islamic American Relief Agency to lobby for its removal from a Senate list of charities suspected of having terrorist ties. He told investigators that the money he received was a donation to help him write a book about Islam and Christianity. He could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison.
236 2010-07-08 Europe listed 91 banks on Wednesday that were participating in financial stress tests as it sought to restore confidence in the sector.

Providing some, but not nearly all, the details of the tests that markets have been seeking for weeks, a regulatory committee said it would test how banks would hold up if the economy and financial markets deteriorated.

The banks being tested include many regional banks, where weak spots are suspected.

“The exercise is being conducted on a bank-by-bank basis using commonly agreed macroeconomic scenarios,” the Committee of European Banking Supervisors said. The test also “envisages adverse conditions in financial markets and a shock on interest rates,” the committee said.

The situations would show a different impact on the various member states in the union, according to the committee, a little-known group of Europe’s national finance regulators.

The banks, including giants like Deutsche Bank in Germany and smaller institutions like Bank of Valletta in Malta, make up 65 percent of the European banking sector, the group said.

Most of Europe’s large banks that operate in more than one country were on the list, which also showed many German and Spanish regional banks, which are thought to be among the weakest.
237 2010-07-08 The differences, Davis added, were in the details.

“You’ve got to have the golf course shorter because they can’t hit as far,” he said. “And you can’t have the greens as firm because they can’t spin the ball quite as much. And with the women not being quite as strong and not having the clubhead speed of men, the rough is less.”

The sloping fairways, the punitive bunkers and the large lightning-fast greens that make the 107-year-old course a national treasure are intact, which is why this site is at once a dream and a nightmare for the women.

Although they appreciate the opportunity to test themselves on one of America’s most venerable courses, some may remember that talented players like Aaron Baddeley and Chad Campbell failed to break 80 in the final round in 2007. “Everybody knows this golf course is hard,” Paula Creamer said, adding, “You have to kind of be less aggressive. You can’t be a hero.”

Worth Blackwelder, the caddie for Sandra Gal of Germany, collapsed into a seat on a shuttle bus after a practice round in the 90-degree heat and predicted, “The winning score is going to be eight over par, the cut will be 12 over and someone is going to shoot 100.” If the scores soar, will women’s golf be the ultimate loser? Davis said the men were worried about their product being similarly tarnished in 2007.

“We had a lot of comments saying, ‘If they get this course any harder, no one’s going to break 75,’ ” he said. “You know, some of the players that maybe don’t play championship golf on a regular basis, you may see scores up in the 90s. My sense is this golf course is very much the same right now as it was in 2007.”

Juli Inkster, a two-time Open champion, laughed when Blackwelder’s prediction was relayed to her. “I have to say that caddies are usually pretty close,” she said, adding, “I don’t know if I’d take eight over, but I’d probably take four over and sit in the clubhouse.”

The first and only other time the Women’s Open was held here, in 1992, Inkster finished tied at four under with her former San Jose State teammate, Patty Sheehan, who won the 18-hole playoff. The waterlogged course played longer, and its greens were slower and more receptive because of heavy rain the previous week.

“It just played a lot different,” Inkster said. “This is playing firm and fast. You know, it’s going to be tough. But in the Open, it’s a grind.”

Inkster was one of four players who competed here in 1992. She was told that 10 over made the cut and that five over won.

“I bet you we’re as good or better than that,” Inkster said. “I mean, we’ve got a lot of great golfers here, and a lot of good young golfers that hit the ball in the fairways and can putt. So, you know, I just think we’re going to do O.K. We’re going to have our occasional high score here and there. That’s golf.”

For the first time in 23 years, Meg Mallon is not competing in the United States Women’s Open. Mallon, 47, withdrew after abruptly retiring from the L.P.G.A. Tour. In a telephone interview on Wednesday, Mallon described an epiphany she had at the L.P.G.A. Championship last month outside Rochester. Paired the first two rounds with Karrie Webb and Angela Stanford, Mallon shot rounds of 81 and 78 and realized that what was missing from her game was her partners’ palpable anger over their bad shots. “That’s when I realized my heart’s not into grinding out getting the ball into the hole,” said Mallon, who won Open titles in 1991 and 2004. “And that’s the difference between someone who’s competitive and someone who’s going through the motions.”
238 2010-07-08 A CENTURY ago, Cambodia’s rice fields were filled with majestic, elevated wooden houses. Today, few noteworthy examples remain, largely because of the cost of maintaining them and the near-universal desire for air-conditioned Western-style homes.

So when Darryl Collins, an Australian art historian who has lived in the country since 1994, had the opportunity to buy one four years ago, he couldn’t pass it up.

Built in 1915 by a wealthy Chinese-Khmer timber merchant on a remote island in the Mekong River, the house was set on stilts, nine feet off the ground, to protect it from floods and to maximize air circulation. It was built with at least five types of Cambodian hardwood, and the interior woodwork was decorated with ornate carvings of phoenixes, plum blossoms and fruit — symbols of success, abundance and wealth.

“When I walked in, I was amazed,” said Mr. Collins, 63, who had heard about the house from an architect documenting the country’s historic wooden structures. At the time, he was facing the prospect of turning 60 and was looking to make a dramatic change from his life in Phnom Penh.

But the elderly owners had no plans to sell the house — because of its isolated location and the general lack of interest in old homes, they assumed it would be more profitable to dismantle it and sell off the decorative elements. To prevent that, Mr. Collins wrote a contract on the spot, agreeing to buy the house for $6,400, a figure the sellers deemed auspicious for its square eights (eight and nine are considered lucky numbers in Asia) and its amount. Antiques dealers, Mr. Collins said, would have driven “a harder bargain.”
239 2010-07-08 A majestic 1915 wooden house, once the home of a wealthy timber merchant, was moved from a remote island to Siem Reap, Cambodia....
240 2010-07-08 Eminem maintained his dominance of the Billboard album sales chart for a second week as his latest release, “Recovery” (Aftermath/Interscope), sold 313,000 copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan. The album, which was Eminem’s sixth straight studio record to make its debut at No. 1, sold 58 percent fewer copies than last week but had no stiff competition for the top spot. Drake’s “Thank Me Later” (Aspire/Young Money/Cash Money), came in a distant No. 2 for a second straight week, with sales of 105,000, down from 157,000. The top debut album, The-Dream’s “Love King” (Def Jam), reached the No. 4 spot on the chart, with sales of 58,000. The soundtrack to “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” (Chop Shop/Atlantic), rose seven slots to No. 3, with sales of 65,000, thanks to the release of the film. The 34th volume of “Now That’s What I Call Music!” held the fifth spot for the second straight week, with sales of 45,000.
241 2010-07-08 Kickstarter is a concept: a Web site that puts together creative types seeking money with backers willing to chip in micro- and macro-payments, a way to crowd-source the financing of ideas. Started last year, the company has become an unexpected influence on indie culture, a new model for a D.I.Y. generation.

And on Friday Kickstarter will also become a curator, when it hosts the first Kickstarter Film Festival. The event, part of the Rooftop Films series, will present some of the projects that patrons of the site have financed, from features and animation to quirkier stuff like a video of a dance anthropology performance piece.

“For a lot of these things there isn’t a clear place for their work to be shared, especially for some that have never gotten theatrical distribution or were never intended for that,” said Yancey Strickler, a founder of Kickstarter, a start-up, which has 10 employees, eight of whom operate out of a walk-up apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. “Some of these projects are just bedroom kind of things, so I really like the idea of giving that a forum.”

Among the works to be shown, drawn from the more than 1,500 projects that Kickstarter has financed to date, are “Jens Pulver: Driven,” a documentary about an ultimate fighter; “Staring Into the Sun,” an ethnomusicology inquiry into Ethiopian tribes; “A Short Lecture of a Different Time,” a theatrical work that, according to its author, combines “Nintendo graphics, gameboy music, theoretical physics, spoken word and shadow puppetry”; “The Dancing Ecologist,” in which an artist studying neuroscience interprets the lives of plants and animals as movements; and “The Woods,” a cinéma-vérité-style feature made when the director and two dozen of his closest friends moved into a house in rural Oregon.

The 90-minute program will offer snippets from each piece, many of them debut films. The brief spotlight is meant to drive interest and build audiences, which is especially crucial for aspiring directors. Musicians can busk; artists can sell sketches. But filmmakers have a harder time underwriting their projects as they go. (The company charges a fee of 5 percent of a project’s total financing, but only if the goal is reached.)

The company “is definitely a force,” said Dan Nuxoll, the program director at Rooftop Films. “Almost every filmmaker I know who’s self-funding their project does a Kickstarter at this point.” (Sure sign of making an impact: becoming a term of art.) In the indie film world, Mr. Nuxoll said, “it’s changed things.”

That’s true even for people who are not novices. Matthew Lessner, the director of “The Woods,” made his directorial debut with a viral video starring Michael Cera and has worked on videos for of-the-moment bands like Dirty Projectors and Fools Gold. He had already shot the film, his first feature, financing it on credit cards two years ago. But then the economy collapsed, and Mr. Lessner, 26, was left without money to finish it.

Enter Kickstarter, where Mr. Lessner was able to raise more than $11,000 from 95 backers to complete the film. “One of the things that’s most exciting about Kickstarter to me, it really provides an opportunity for films that otherwise would not have a chance,” Mr. Lessner said.

Because he wanted to shoot and edit in an unconventional way, “I thought from the outset this was not a film that we could get traditional funding for,” he said. Having the support of dozens of strangers  the most generous backer got an executive producer credit  “helps give it an extra push for getting it done,” he said. He hopes to begin submitting his film to festivals later this summer.

Kickstarter’s appeal isn’t limited to movies, so the festival, to be held on the roof of the Old American Can Factory in Gowanus, Brooklyn, will also feature a menu of Kickstarter-backed snacks: artisanal drinks from Brooklyn Soda Works, homemade desserts from the Ice Cream Club and Cakestarter, and vegetables from the Brooklyn Grange farm. There will also be music from the Zlatne Uste Balkan Brass Band, the focus of the Kickstarter-financed documentary “Brasslands.”

Presumably some financiers will turn up at the Can Factory to see the work they have endowed. What if they don’t like the finished product? The filmmakers and organizers shrugged off that concern. They noted that the payback is not meant to be financial.

“One of the things that’s nice about Kickstarter is that it’s not people investing,” Mr. Nuxoll of Rooftop said. “There’s no return beyond your involvement in the project. The idea is to support these artists on what they’re doing on the level they’re doing it.”

But Olivia Wyatt, the director of “Staring Into the Sun,” has already dealt with a version of backer’s remorse, from the indie film world’s original kickstarters: parents. After she showed her father a clip of her project, which follows the music and dance of 13 tribes in Southern Ethiopia, his response was: “ ‘Oh, I can’t stand the music,’ ” Ms. Wyatt, 27, recalled, audibly deflated.

“And I was like, this is going to be terrible because the whole film is about the music. And my mom writes back, ‘I think you should use something more jazzy.’ ” (On viewing the completed film, Ms. Wyatt happily reported, her mother was “mesmerized.”)

For the Kickstarter crew, the mere fact of having a real live event is reward enough. The exciting part is bringing “Kickstarter into the real world,” said Mr. Strickler, who has personally put money into 216 projects so far. “Those of us who work here, we spend all day just going through the site and honestly marveling at what people are doing. We’re really creating a kind of Kickstarter universe for this one night.”
242 2010-07-08 Wells Fargo said Wednesday that it would no longer make subprime mortgages and as a result would close a 100-year-old finance division that specialized in those loans.

The bank has a reputation as a conservative lender, but it has been battling heavy losses amid the financial crisis on its own subprime mortgages as well as on the loan portfolios it acquired when it bought the Wachovia Corporation.

Wells Fargo said its 638 Wells Fargo Financial offices were no longer necessary after its 2008 acquisition of Wachovia, which increased its number of branches across the United States to 6,600. The bank also has 2,200 Wells Fargo Home Mortgage offices.

Wells Fargo will cut about 2,800 employees from its 14,000-person Wells Fargo Financial unit and it will most likely cut a further 1,000 in the next 12 months, the bank said in a statement.

Wells Fargo is now able to originate direct auto loans and credit cards through its bank branches, said Dave Kvamme, chief executive of Wells Fargo Financial in Des Moines.
243 2010-07-08 But on a cloudless, nearly windless afternoon that was without the demons of the past few stages — like slick roads, cobblestones and anxiety-fueled crashes — it was Petacchi who won the day. The 95.4-mile route was dry, relatively short, nearly straight and nearly flat, and he took advantage of it.

“In the press, I heard that they were calling me an old sprinter, an old man, and saying that I’m not good anymore,” said Petacchi, who is 36. “But I proved them wrong.”

Petacchi said his Lampre-Farnese team was already content with his results at this Tour, a victory in Stage 1. He could go home and celebrate, he recalled the team telling him. Yet he wanted to stay. There were stages to win, he said.

In Stage 4, other riders shared that mind-set — even the injured ones. In Tour history, injured riders have often remained in the race, despite their and others’ better judgment.

In 1920, the Frenchman Honoré Barthelemy rode the Tour with a broken shoulder, a dislocated wrist and an injured eye that left him nearly sightless yet finished eighth. In 1975, Eddy Merckx of Belgium finished second with a broken jaw that was wired shut. In 1985, Bernard Hinault of France won with a broken nose.

At this Tour, some riders are continuing that legacy of masochism.

The Dutch rider Robert Gesink, of Rabobank, started Stage 4 with a fractured forearm. Tyler Farrar, of Garmin-Transitions, rode with an injured wrist and an elbow that continued to bleed though bandages.

Farrar, the best American sprinter in at least two decades, has a small bone fragment in his left wrist, most likely caused by a crash in Stage 2. Though the injury has made it painful to hold the handlebars — he rode the cobblestones of Stage 3 barely gripping with his left hand — he said he did not want to quit.

Farrar, who won two stages of this year’s Giro d’Italia, had been having a spectacular year before Stage 2 ruined it for him. After falling for the second time in that stage, he said he “lost it,” shouting and crying because he thought his Tour was over.

Yet he is back on his bike, smiling as usual. He is hoping his wrist will heal quickly enough for him to contest at least one sprint here.

“I want to see whether I can survive here until I feel better, because this is not the way I want to leave the Tour de France,” Farrar said, before laughing. “Or, I don’t know, maybe I’m just doing this because I’m just stupid.”

Farrar’s team doctors say that it is possible the bone fragment in his wrist is from an old injury and that his pain might be coming from an injured tendon or other soft tissue. It is possible he could bounce back before the Tour ends July 25 in Paris, the doctors say.

Rolf Aldag, a director on the HTC-Columbia team and a former ProTour rider, said a cyclist’s psyche makes him want to keep going, even when the pain is excruciating. He recalled the 1999 Tour of Germany when, though his arm was clearly broken, he stayed in the race to hold on to the leader’s jersey. Aldag recalled lifting his arm over his head to assess the injury, and his forearm flopped onto his head.

“You just don’t want to realize the race is over; you just can’t accept it,” Aldag said. “Every pedal stroke you did in the fall and in the winter, the 28,000 kilometers you rode in preparation for the Tour in July, it crosses your mind. Sometimes somebody has to step in and tell you to stop.”

Last Sunday, the HTC-Columbia rider Adam Hansen crashed in Stage 1, breaking his sternum and making it dangerous for him to continue because of that bone’s proximity to his heart. Yet he wanted to stay, Aldag said. He did not want to let down his teammates, though he did abandon the race.

On the Garmin-Transitions team, injured riders did not want to quit the race, either.

Nearly every rider on the team crashed in Stage 2 — including Dean, who sustained a large, deep and painful bruise along his spine. Since then, he said, he has slept two to four hours less than usual each night because it is so painful to shift in bed.

As he headed to the start Wednesday, Dean walked stiffly to his bike. During the stage, he said, a sharp pain shot through his back whenever he took a sharp corner or accelerated from a low speed. That made the final sprint, which he nearly won, especially uncomfortable.

“So I just try not to think about it,” he said. “Because you just want to win.”
244 2010-07-08 “It was either this way or they would create a life like hell for him,” she said. “He was thinking of his relatives, of his children — he has two daughters. And that is why he accepted the offer.”

An exchange would have some advantages for the Obama administration, avoiding costly trials that could be an irritant for months or years in American-Russian relations. But the White House might be reluctant to give up the accused agents, who were the targets of a decade-long F.B.I. investigation, without getting prisoners that the United States valued in return.

The potential exchange could also fuel accusations that the administration was being soft on Russia. Conservatives, including , the former governor and a possible Republican presidential candidate, have urged the Senate to reject the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty agreed to by and President of Russia.

An exchange could prove awkward for both sides in other ways. Mr. Sutyagin’s innocence has been championed by human rights activists, for instance, and his family said he would prefer to remain in Russia. And John M. Rodriguez, a lawyer for one of the federal court defendants, Vicky Peláez, a veteran columnist for a Spanish-language newspaper in New York, said he believed that she would not want to move to Russia.

But a chance to escape prison appeared to be a powerful motivator in both countries. Mr. Sutyagin agreed to sign a confession, his family said, after being told it was necessary to be part of the exchange. And a lawyer for one of the defendants who had lived in , known as Donald Heathfield, said his client’s greatest concern was for his two sons. The man’s wife, Tracey Lee Ann Foley, was also indicted as a member of the ring.

Mr. Heathfield’s lawyer, Peter B. Krupp, said the children had been “the No. 1 one priority and concern for my client and his wife since this whole ordeal started.”

He added, “If this case can be advanced or resolved more quickly and it helps them help their kids, they’re interested.”

The reports of a pending exchange, like the spy ring itself, seemed to have the accouterments of cold war espionage without the high stakes for national security. The accused Russian agents were described by American officials as using high-tech methods but acquiring no real secrets. A swap — in Vienna, a favorite rendezvous for 20th-century spies — would serve as a colorful final chapter for the espionage-novel plot.

No American accused of spying is known to be in Russian custody. But Mr. Sutyagin, who is serving a 14-year term, is one of a number of Russian scientists imprisoned after being accused of revealing secrets to the West. His family told reporters that the list of 11 prisoners he saw included Sergei Skripal, a colonel in Russian military intelligence sentenced in 2006 to 13 years for spying for .

Jeffrey H. Smith, a former general counsel who negotiated a number of spy trades as a State Department lawyer in the 1970s and ’80s, said that during the cold war the United States almost never brokered swaps before people suspected of being Soviet spies had been convicted and spent time in prison.

“It would have been considered unseemly to make a trade right after they were captured,” he said. “It was believed that these were serious offenses and they needed to pay a price.”

Mr. Smith said that he did not know the details of the current case but that if Washington was indeed in the midst of a hasty prisoner exchange, “it’s fair to infer that these charges are not at the same level of seriousness.”

Mr. Sutyagin’s case resembled in one respect that of the 10 accused Russian agents. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan did not charge them with espionage because F.B.I. investigators apparently found no evidence that they had acquired classified information. And Mr. Sutyagin, an arms control researcher who worked for the Institute for the U.S. and Canadian Studies, a Moscow research organization, argued during his trial that he had no access to state secrets.

A physicist by training, Mr. Sutyagin was arrested in 1999 and accused of passing secrets about nuclear submarines to a British company that prosecutors claimed was a front for the C.I.A. He was convicted in 2004 and sentenced to 15 years in prison.

Human rights organizations at the time criticized Mr. Sutyagin’s prosecution, saying it suggested a Soviet-style wariness of contacts between Russian scientists and foreigners.

In an interview, Mr. Sutyagin’s mother, Svetlana E. Sutyagina, said that he had been transferred from a prison colony in northern Russia to Moscow, and that she had met with him on Wednesday morning.

Once in Lefortovo Prison in Moscow, she said, her son met with American officials in the presence of Russian security service officers. “The conversation was with our generals,” she said. “The Americans weren’t deciding anything.”

Ms. Sutyagina said the authorities had tried for 11 years to compel her son to confess to being an American spy. He signed the confession this week, she said, in part to help the suspects in the United States avoid prison time.

“He knows what it is to be in prison,” she said. “He doesn’t want to accept responsibility for letting those people go to prison.”

F.B.I. officials, who saw the long investigation as a triumph for the bureau, declined to comment on Wednesday. But John P. Slattery, a former top F.B.I. counterintelligence official, said investigators might be disappointed to see it end with an exchange.

“The individuals who ran the wires and did the surveillance may feel some frustration,” said Mr. Slattery, now with BAE Systems Intelligence and Security. “There would be some heartache in not seeing these guys do some jail time. But there are larger U.S. intelligence equities and policy considerations at stake, and they would understand that.”
245 2010-07-08 And so a few hard numbers — and a lot of hope — sent the market soaring. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which only two days ago had sunk to a 10-month low, rose 32.31 points, or 3.13 percent, to 1,060.27. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 274.66 points to 10,018.28, its first close above 10,000 since June 28. The Nasdaq composite index rose 65.59 points to 2,159.47. In Asia Thursday, the Nikkei index rose more than 2 percent by midday as markets there took their cues from Wall Street.

Financial shares paced Wednesday’s gains in the U.S. after the State Street Corporation, the big custody bank, posted stronger-than-expected second-quarter profits. The results — 93 cents a share, excluding one-time items — raised hopes that other big banks would report similarly robust results over the next two weeks.

Shares of State Street rose 9.9 percent. JPMorgan Chase, which reports second-quarter results next week, increased 5 percent. American Express and Bank of America each rose more than 4 percent. Small and midsize regional banks posted even bigger gains.

Retailers also gained on the news from the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. Thirty of the 31 stocks in the S.& P. retail industry index advanced.

But beyond the outlook for a particular company or industry was a sense that investors were regaining their nerve after a dismal first half for the stock market. Treasury securities, which had soared in recent weeks, driving the yield on benchmark 10-year Treasuries below 3 percent, abruptly reversed course and tumbled. The 10-year Treasury fell 14/32 to 104 13/32. Its yield rose to 2.98 percent from 2.93 percent. The euro rallied to a six-week high against the dollar.

“It looks like the ‘re-risking’ trade is coming back on,” said Matthew S. Rothman, global head of quantitative equities strategy at Barclays Capital.

Analysts said the prospect of authorities in Europe releasing details this week of so-called stress tests of some of the Continent’s banks also fueled the day’s optimism. Even if the tests identified problems within some of Europe’s banks, at least they would end the uncertainty about the state of the financial system that had been weighing on world markets, analysts said.

“The market is just happy the tests are coming out,” said Win Thin, currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. “There has always been this suspicion about whether they are hiding something or not.”

After the broad stock market lost about 7 percent during the first six months of the year, various market indicators started to suggest that the market had fallen too far, too fast. For instance, the so-called relative strength index for the S.& P. 500, which measures the index’s advances and declines, registered just above 30 on Monday. A reading of 20 to 30 is generally considered a sign that the market is oversold.

In a research note, UBS analysts said: “Stock investors were probably looking for a decent excuse to re-enter the market in a new quarter at more attractive levels.”

Mr. Rothman of Barclays Capital said that sentiment had “really just changed on a dime for reasons that are difficult to figure out.” But he said that it was investors’ evolving view about the health of the United States and European economies, rather than news on specific companies or industries, that was driving the market’s moves.

“It’s about the question, are we in an early cyclical recovery, or going back to depression?” he said.
246 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur, father of our dear friends. May love from family and friends comfort you through these times of sadness. Danielle & Raffi...
247 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur. To the loving tribute to Arthur Emil that appeared yesterday, we would like to add one critical fact that did not make it into that first account. Arthur had one request regarding his obituary, that in addition to his many accomplish...
248 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur. The Board of Directors and residents of the Police Building mourn the passing of our dear neighbor, Arthur Emil. It was Mr. Emil's vision and creative mind that is responsible for the wonderful residence and cherished community that ...
249 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D. The Executive Committee, Accounting and Management Divisions of Cassidy Turley New York, Inc. extends to the Emil Family our condolences. Arthur was a friend who we enjoyed working with for the past 17 years. His guidance, thoughtf...
250 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D. A dear family friend and highly respected business colleague for many years. We will miss his perceptive mind and delightful sense of humor. Our deep condolences go to his wife Lydia, sister Judy Tenney and children David, Jennie a...
251 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur. UJA-Federation of New York mourns the passing of Arthur Emil, beloved brother of Judy E. Tenney. Judy and the Emils, long-standing members of UJA-Federation's family, express their love of the Jewish community and devotion to humanit...
252 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D. The Board of Directors, Advisors, Staff, children and families of Northside Center for Child Development mourn with great sadness the passing of Arthur D. Emil. In 2008 Arthur received Northside's highest honor, the Mamie Award, in...
253 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D.,on July 6, 2010. Services Friday July 9, 11am at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street....
254 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur. A creative visionary always there for his friends and family. He will be missed. Barbara and Donald Jonas...
255 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D. The Board of Directors, Advisors, Staff, children and families of Northside Center for Child Development mourn with great sadness the passing of Arthur D. Emil. In 2008 Arthur received Northside's highest honor, the Mamie Award, in...
256 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur D. Margery and I mourn the passing of a dear friend and mentor for his intelligence, warmth, humor and insight to both life and business. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife, Lydia, and his children and grandchildren....
257 2010-07-08 EMIL--Arthur. Oded Aboodi, his family and colleagues mourn the passing of Arthur D. Emil beloved husband, father and grandfather. A true friend and gentleman, he will be remembered as an honorable person by everyone he touched personally and profe...
258 2010-07-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
259 2010-07-09 Wisdom, insights and observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section. (Click on links for complete articles.)...
260 2010-07-09 A Nike store that transforms with the seasons....
261 2010-07-09 The seven-member commission assembled by President Obama to investigate the BP spill has hired Richard A. Sears, a longtime Royal Dutch Shell scientist, engineer and offshore drilling expert, to be its chief technical adviser....
262 2010-07-09 The Old Course at St. Andrews, site of this week's British Open, is hardly a typical golf course, so perhaps it is fitting that "Play Away Please, The Tale of the Sale of Golf's Greatest Icon" (Mainstream Publishing) is not your typical golf book....
263 2010-07-09 Courthouse Confidential: Looking for a low-cost way to open, and run, a law firm....
264 2010-07-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
265 2010-07-09 First-half performance figures are showing the same pattern for hedge funds as for more mainstream investors -- the most successful were in fixed income, the least successful in stocks....
266 2010-07-09 The United States and Russia traded prisoners on a tarmac in Vienna....
267 2010-07-09 How to know if a Web site is having problems and is down, or if it's just you....
268 2010-07-09 The Better Business Bureau warns that scammers are posing as legitimate car dealers on the Internet....
269 2010-07-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
270 2010-07-09 Global macro hedge funds are likely to prosper, while portfolios betting on mergers should profit from a lack of competition, said a fund manager at Oakley Alternative Investment Management, Reuters reported....
271 2010-07-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
272 2010-07-09 The latest weekly jobs report on Thursday propelled stocks for the third day this week, building on gains that analysts hope will be sustained after corporate earnings season begins....
273 2010-07-09 Last week at the 2010 D.F.J.-Cisco Global Business Plan Competition, Ambiq Micro, a microchip technology start-up, won a $250,000 investment from Draper Fisher Jurvetson, the venture capital firm, and Cisco....
274 2010-07-09 This highly unauthorized biography of Walt Disney has to be one of the stranger summer shows around. It’s certainly one of the most entertaining. Carried out by the artists Adam Cvijanovic and David Humphrey, with additional recruits, it combines madcap painting, sculpture and video into Chelsea’s version of a theme park.

Murals by Mr. Cvijanovic, in Flash acrylic paint on Tyvek, create a rolling, scenic backdrop. They move from Disney’s childhood home in Marceline, Mo., through familiar Disneyland attractions, ending at a run-down, weed-strewn Tomorrowland. Mr. Humphrey has superimposed his own, more specific paintings of scenes from Disney’s life on top of Mr. Cvijanovic’s work. In one the young Walt sits astride a pink pig; in another he’s involved in a calamitous polo accident. (You can follow the narrative in a concise text by Mr. Humphrey, printed at the entrance to the gallery.)

Smaller paintings and sculptures by other artists rest on a ramshackle wooden structure that echoes the scaffolding of the Magic Mountain in the murals. It’s topped by Will Cotton’s “Cake for Disney,” an inedible pastel confection that was made with this show in mind. Some of the older pieces, like Joyce Pensato’s charcoal drawing “Erased Mickey” (2004) and John Wesley’s 1970 untitled painting of copulating squirrels, work just as well.

The gallery’s back room has been turned into a crypt; like the show’s title, it alludes to the myth that Disney had himself cryogenically preserved. But the only body here is Mickey’s, sculptured in papier-mâché by Mr. Humphrey.

Why are contemporary artists obsessing about Disney’s life? A clue can be found in another work in the back room, a video by David Herbert. It’s a lo-fi recreation of the early Disney cartoon “Steamboat Willie,” made with three-dimensional cardboard figures and a night-vision camera. The original cartoon, from 1928, is the subject of controversial legislation that extended its copyright. So this show isn’t really about mice or men; it’s about intellectual property. KAREN ROSENBERG
275 2010-07-09 With Apple set to open a flagship showroom on Saturday in Shanghai -- one of its largest stores in Asia -- the company is making a new push to tap into the world's biggest mobile phone market and grab a bigger share of China's fast-growing consume...
276 2010-07-09 The United States Open will offer the richest purse in tennis history, with its singles champions each earning $1.7 million. The United States Tennis Association said the purse would be more than $22.6 million, an increase of $1 million.
277 2010-07-09 Mr. Sandobal gave two thumbs down when he was asked about the economy. “Everybody is losing money here,” he said.

Mr. Sandobal has been in the same booth for more than 17 years, but his sales have never been so poor. “They are down 80 percent” from two years ago, he said.

The same sentiment could be heard around the mall. Vendors said sales of jewelry and clothing were down 50 percent, electronics 75 percent. The only person who reported rising sales was Mr. Tanchez, who said his airbrushing business had benefited from word-of-mouth and the fact that every T-shirt he paints is a virtual walking billboard.

In operation for nearly two decades, this mall has for years been the subject of a community fight over redevelopment plans: park vs. mall. In 2005, it was shuttered for numerous building code violations, and in 2007, a blaze destroyed a large section, which has not been reopened.

For Jasmine Jimenez, 28, who owns a hot pink, Marilyn Monroe-themed business, the mall was a new beginning after she was denied a small-business loan to open a storefront shop. Ms. Jimenez said she paid $200 a week in cash for her current space. She opened in March after being laid off from her job as a loan officer with Home Depot.

“It’s just a struggle,” Ms. Jimenez said. “No banks are giving out loans, and I get denials right and left.”

The sole customer at ABC Electronics on Monday morning, Luis Rivera, haggled with Scott Chung, the manager. Mr. Rivera, 30, wanted to buy two sets of Kicker audio speakers for his car, and have them installed that day — $300, then $250, sold. The price was a fraction of what a major chain would charge.

As Mr. Rivera waited for his car to be outfitted, he ambled around the mall with his 2-year-old son, Isaiah. At a nearby stall he bought Isaiah a miniature plastic M4 assault rifle for $5, down from $10. Outside, they shared a lemon-flavored ice.

At Kids Clothes #405, Lucas Garban, the 49-year-old owner, pointed toward the empty aisle. “I will wait it out,” he said. “Maybe next year it will be better.”
278 2010-07-09 Mr. Newsom, in an interview earlier this week, denied that politics played a role in his decision. The mayor said that he had tentatively supported the initiative, which would have been put before voters in November, as a “serious shift in the way we deal with affordable housing” but that proponents had failed to generate the kind of broad support necessary to gain approval.

“I’m just a convenient excuse right now,” Mr. Newsom said.

The crumbling of the innovative housing initiative underscores a tumultuous relationship between Mr. Newsom and the Board of Supervisors over several new tax measures its members have proposed — as Mr. Newsom campaigns for a statewide office, according to people who participated in meetings about the deal.

The talks, which were spurred by the recession’s crippling effect on new housing, began in May, several months after Mr. Newsom proposed a stimulus package to get development projects restarted.

Mr. Welch, the housing advocate known for his caustic criticism of gentrification, came to the negotiations seeking a fixed stream of financing for affordable housing, which has largely dried up during the recession.

One of city’s largest nonprofit developers, the Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, has suspended four big projects for low-income families because of a lack of financing.

Oz Erickson, the chief executive of the Emerald Fund, one of the largest developers in San Francisco, came to the negotiations seeking a break from the city’s requirement that developers designate at least 15 percent of all new units to below-market-rate housing.

Mr. Erickson argued that the cost of “inclusionary zoning” — a policy he and Mr. Welch had hammered out in the 1990s, the last time they worked together on legislation — was too burdensome for builders in a recession.

“Right now, it’s terribly difficult to get any financing, and the affordable-housing component is a significant charge,” said Mr. Erickson, whose condominium projects include One Rincon Hill and the Bridgeview Tower.

During the meetings, according to several participants, Mr. Welch thundered about the urgent need for affordable housing, according to participants. As he held forth, Mr. Erickson continually worked his fingers over his ubiquitous HP 12c calculator, crunching the numbers.

Gabriel Metcalf, executive director of the San Francisco Urban Planning and Research Association, a moderate public policy institute, said negotiators reached “an agreement that would’ve solved both problems.”

The complicated deal would have substantially raised the transfer tax — the tax paid when property is bought or sold — for any building over $875,000. For example, the transfer tax on a home sold for $1.1 million is currently $8,250. With the proposed increase, it would have been $12,650.

That money would have gone into a permanent fund dedicated to affordable housing: Half would have been used for affordable-housing projects, and the other half would have gone to ease the burden on developers by subsidizing the affordable-housing requirement.

The mayor said it was a political rarity for these two rival factions to work together.

“These are strange bedfellows, and they don’t always agree,” Mr. Newsom said. “What was intriguing was that there was a willingness to work this through.”

The negotiations took place in the Mayor’s Office of Housing, two blocks from City Hall, and were mediated by Doug Shoemaker, the office’s director.

Mr. Newsom acknowledged that some of his top aides supported the deal. In the end, he said, he did not believe the measure had enough broad support to succeed. Notably, efforts to placate groups representing landlords and Realtors failed.

“Folks were so consumed with getting something on the ballot for November,” Mr. Newsom said. “But in order to do this we have to build a broad coalition, and, with respect to my friends in the room, they’re not the whole city.”

But Mr. Welch and others familiar with the negotiations said the politics of the moment also weighed heavily. Since announcing earlier this year his entry into the race for lieutenant governor, Mr. Newsom has continued to oppose raising taxes, most recently a series of measures put forward by progressive members of the Board of Supervisors.

Mr. Newsom’s electoral success in November — and perhaps beyond — will depend in part on his ability to broaden his appeal to voters outside San Francisco.

“The mayor’s office sponsored the whole thing, and ultimately the mayor could have stepped up to make it happen,” said Lou Vasquez, a developer with Build, Incorporated, who was in the talks.

“The mechanics seemed to be working out,” Mr. Vasquez said, “but the politics seemed to get in the way.”

Last week, with Mr. Newsom still withholding his support, the deadline to place the affordable-housing measure on the November ballot passed quietly — with the public unaware of the potential deal.

There is now one other proposal from the Board of Supervisors intended to raise money for affordable housing, but it does not have the support of the mayor, the developers or their friends. Sponsored by Supervisor Chris Daly, who has been trying for years to get a permanent source of affordable-housing money, the measure is headed for the ballot in November.

Mr. Newsom said he hoped this idea for a permanent source of financing came back — whether or not he was in office.

“We were up against a deadline, and it wasn’t ready,” Mr. Newsom said. “This idea is not dead.”

His hopes were echoed by Mr. Metcalf, Mr. Welch and others who had tried to make the deal. But they said it had been a rare moment when everything seemed aligned: a recession hurting housing activists and developers enough to bring them both to the bargaining table.

“I personally will work to try to put this deal together again,” Mr. Metcalf said, “but you never know when your window of opportunity for social change will open, and you never know when it will close.”
279 2010-07-09 Nine stores in Manhattan and the Bronx have been hit with $200 fines for leaving their doors open on hot days in the hope that the escaping cool air would lure sweaty customers. They are the first to be fined as part of a law enacted in 2008.

Last year, only warnings were given out. So far this year, the city’s Department of Consumer Affairs has inspected 105 stores. Seventy were in compliance, 26 were issued warnings and 9 that had been warned last year were fined, said Kay Sarlin, a department spokeswoman.

Fines start at $200, and go to $400 for any further infractions in the following 18 months. The legislation states that any business larger than 4,000 square feet or part of a chain with five or more stores in the city must keep its doors closed when using air-conditioning.

Ms. Sarlin said four of the stores were in the Bronx: Jeans Plus, 62 East 170th Street; Bronx Kidstown, 4100 East 170th Street; Jimmy Jazz, 101 East 170th Street; and V.I.M., 540 Bergen Avenue.

The other five were in Manhattan: Filene’s Basement and DSW, both on 14th Street facing Union Square; Forever 21, 40 East 14th Street; Armani Exchange, 129 Fifth Avenue; and Brooklyn Industries, 161 Eighth Avenue.
280 2010-07-09 Like most celebrity-fueled minidramas, “LeBron James Free Agency Mania” was played out with maddening thoroughness on Twitter.

You want predictions? They were everywhere, guessing every destination from Cleveland to New York to the University of Miami. You want anger? The Cleveland people, bracing for the worst, were out in force, and most of their posts cannot be printed. Sarcasm? Twitter posters had it in spades.

James himself actually made a brief appearance, adding a post to his two-day-old Twitter page. KingJames wrote: “Good Morning! It’s your chance to ask me a question about my decision, use #lebrondecision to submit and I’ll answer them tonight.”

His friends — at least some of them — also chimed in. Dwyane Wade (dwadeofficial) did not add much insight, other than to let us know that he followed his own free agency decision Wednesday by getting a root canal. His new Miami teammate Chris Bosh (chrisbosh) seemed to be trying to boost ESPN’s ratings by writing, “Good morning. Waking up to more speculation. This makes tonight’s show more interesting.” Bosh should be praised, at least, for proper punctuation.

Shaquille O’Neal (THE_REAL_SHAQ), James’s Cavaliers teammate, was not much help, having written a few days ago, “Ahhhhh shhhh its free agent time.” Charlie Villanueva (CV31), who is not one of James’s teammates, was professing great insight: “I’m just saying ... LeBron will not be going to Chicago or Miami. I’m just saying, word on the streets. LOL. NY vs. NJ vs. CLE. I know where.”
281 2010-07-09 These are the real names of the Russian agents, which they provided to a federal judge in New York on Thursday, and the aliases that they used.

Three agents used their actual names:
282 2010-07-09 Declaring that he intended to “confound the critics and the skeptics,” an upbeat Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel told an audience of foreign policy experts in New York on Thursday that he was ready to begin direct peace talks with the Palestinians “next week” or even sooner. “Just get on with it,” he said.

Mr. Netanyahu acknowledged in an address to the Council on Foreign Relations that “skepticism is warranted,” given the dismal record of such negotiations and the precariousness of his own position at the head of a fractious coalition dominated by pro-settler parties. But he vowed he was “prepared to take risks, political risks,” to achieve peace.

President Obama seemed to offer Mr. Netanyahu some political cover on the issue in a meeting on Tuesday at the White House, widely seen as a attempt to patch relations after public disagreements between the allies about the expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank. Mr. Obama shifted the emphasis from stopping settlements to reinvigorating the peace process, saying he hoped the establishment of direct talks would “create a climate” that would lead to breakthroughs.

In an interview with Israel’s Channel 2 News, Mr. Obama’s first with an Israeli television station since he became president, he continued with that theme, saying he believed that Mr. Netanyahu was well placed to reach a peace deal with the Palestinians. Mr. Obama said that a deal, though wrenching and difficult, could be achieved in his presidential term.

It was unclear whether the upbeat assessments by the two leaders were based mainly on a desire to signal a more cooperative relationship between them, or on genuine optimism that the conditions for negotiating a peace agreement with the Palestinian Authority had improved. Neither mentioned any substantive change in policy, including on the deeply divisive settlements question, which could break the impasse in talks with the Palestinians.
283 2010-07-09 “We view this store as a kind of launching pad,” Ron Johnson, a senior vice president based in California and the head of Apple’s retail operations, said at the preview.

By opening retail outlets in China, Apple is following other global brands eager to market to the growing numbers of increasingly affluent consumers in this country of 1.3 billion people. With retail sales booming in China this year, companies like Best Buy, the Gap, Nike, Starbucks, Zara and most of Europe’s big luxury goods makers are opening stores in China.

Analysts who follow Apple say that China is a potentially huge opportunity for the company because its market share here is tiny — less than 5 percent in big categories like personal computers, music players and mobile phones. But it has been adding authorized Apple dealers in China — expanding those ranks by about 800 in this year’s first quarter, bringing the total to around 2,000 locations.

“Apple plans a major invasion of China over the next 18 months to two years,” said Charles Wolf, an analyst who follows Apple for Needham & Company and credits its retail stores with significantly bolstering Apple’s brand. “To date, Apple has not been a force in China. But it will be.”

Still, other analysts say Apple faces significant hurdles. The challenges of finding Chinese partners has tended to delay product releases. China’s mobile phone market, for example, is tightly regulated and state-owned companies control service contracts.

And sales through official distributors have been weakened by prices that are substantially higher than in the United States (about $864 upfront for the 3GS model with a complicated calling plan requirement of a two-year commitment that involves an additional monthly fee), driving a brisk underground trade in smuggled goods.

The iPhone was not officially released in China until late last year, nearly two years after its introduction in the United States because of what analysts say were long-running negotiations with state-run telecom companies, and restrictions on what kinds of services could be offered.

By then, analysts say, more than one million iPhones had been brought into the country by tourists or smugglers and unlocked by Chinese hackers, enabling use without a long-term contract.

Apple also faces stiff competition from Nokia, Motorola, HTC and other mobile phone brands that use Google’s Android operating system. Those companies have been aggressively marketing their products in China, which has more than 650 million mobile phone users.

Even Lenovo, the Chinese computer maker, has entered the smartphone market by introducing what it calls the LePhone, which is priced at about $400, far below the iPhone in China.

In an interview published in The Financial Times on Monday, Liu Chuanzhi, the head of Lenovo, said Apple was missing a huge opportunity in the Chinese market because the company was spending too little time serving Chinese consumers and understanding their needs.

Apple declined to comment on the Lenovo statements. But Apple executives say they hope that building stores in China will give the company more direct contact with its consumers and duplicate the excitement Apple has generated elsewhere. If Apple opens 25 stores by 2012, analysts say China would very likely become the company’s third-largest market.

Retail stores could also aid Apple’s partner here, China Unicom, a state-owned telecom company that has an exclusive multiyear deal to sell the iPhone in China.

Analysts estimate that China Unicom has sold about one million iPhones since late last year. They say the company had expected to sell far more by now but that the high price of the iPhone has prevented stronger sales.

“The price of the official iPhones is too high compared to that on the gray market,” said Sandy Shen, an analyst at Gartner, the research firm based in Stamford, Conn. “Also, Apple has too few retail stores in China. It is inconvenient for consumers to find one when they want to buy the iPhone, iPod or Mac.”

China Unicom trimmed $147 from the iPhone plan, and analysts say that sales have picked up.

Black market merchants say that even with new Apple stores, they have an advantage.

“They won’t have any impact on our clients,” Yang Zijie, an unauthorized vendor selling smuggled Apple products, said Thursday at an electronics market in Shanghai. “Their price for the iPhone 3GS is much higher. Customers who already got used to the price of smuggled goods won’t turn to them. And they don’t have the iPhone 4 or the iPad at all.”

But many analysts predict that consumers will flock to Apple stores. Apple products are widely and even comically imitated in China — there’s the iPed, iRobot, iOrgane and aPad — and the large number of actual Apple phones smuggled into the country is an indication of pent-up demand.

Apple should get a better sense of that demand on Saturday, when the Shanghai flagship store is set to open in a fashionable mall in the Pudong financial district near some of the city’s gleaming new skyscrapers.

The shop is designed in Apple’s sleek, minimalist style and punctuated by a 40-foot-tall cylindrical glass shell that echoes the company’s glass cube on Fifth Avenue in New York.

The store has about 175 workers. Customers enter through a winding staircase that takes them into an underground area that sells computers, smartphones and accessories. It is outfitted with the company’s usual Genius Bar, where customers can get technical support, as well as a “briefing room” intended for business seminars.

On Thursday, Mr. Johnson was beaming as he introduced the store’s features to about 100 Chinese journalists, saying the shop offered “all the hallmarks of an Apple store experience plus a couple more.”

At the end of his briefing, even the reporters seemed to have been pulled in by Apple’s aura, breaking into loud applause.
284 2010-07-09 Re “Inside the U.S. Bailout of A.I.G.: Extra Forgiveness for Big Banks” (front page, June 30):

I take issue with your article’s characterization of the role that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York played in stabilizing American International Group. The article states that “regulators ignored recommendations from their own advisers” to force A.I.G. counterparties to accept losses on their credit default swap contracts.

We asked our advisers — BlackRock, Morgan Stanley and Ernst & Young — to provide options for our consideration, but the fact that options were provided simply cannot be interpreted as a recommendation that we should or could force concessions. No such recommendation was ever made.

The article suggests that a “legal waiver” clause in the agreement that terminated the credit default swap was unusual; that regulators forced A.I.G. into the agreement; and that it unduly benefited the counterparties. We disagree in every respect. Regulators did not force A.I.G. into the waiver clause. The waiver clause was a standard legal provision. It was a mutual release, by which A.I.G. and the counterparties released each other from liability.

Thomas C. Baxter Jr.

General Counsel and Executive V.P.

Federal Reserve Bank of New York

New York, July 1, 2010
285 2010-07-09 The $41 billion merger last year of the drug giants Merck and Schering-Plough has a human cost for pharmaceutical industry employees.

Merck plans to lay off about 15 percent of its work force — about 15,000 people — over the next two years as part of a global merger restructuring, according to an announcement the company issued on Thursday. Merck said it also planned to close eight research and eight manufacturing sites worldwide.

The restructuring is expected to save $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion in 2012, the company said. Meanwhile, the pretax cost of the initial phase of the cost-cutting program is expected to range from $3.5 billion to $4.3 billion, much of it in severance packages for employees.

“The goal of the restructuring is to create a flexible R.&D. organization that cultivates scientific innovation, facilitates external collaboration and drives pipeline progress and a reliable, more fully utilized and cost-efficient worldwide manufacturing supply chain to support Merck’s broader product portfolio,” the company said in a statement.

Merck makes the osteoporosis medication Fosamax, the allergy and asthma drug Singulair and the Gardasil vaccine for the human papillomavirus. In the merger, Merck acquired popular Schering-Plough brands like the nasal spray Nasonex, the allergy drug Claritin and the Coppertone sunscreen brand.
286 2010-07-09 As a toddler, Shean contracted an illness that left her with severe hearing loss. She took up golf at the age of 14 and a few years later left South Africa to play golf at the University of Arkansas, never imagining she would one day be tied for second after the first day of her first United States Open. Shean is one stroke behind the American Brittany Lang.

“I mean, I don’t know for sure if I am going to win it or not,” Shean said, “but just being able to be here and experience something that Ernie’s experienced is pretty awesome.”

After signing her scorecard, Shean was guided in front of the camera for a television interview. When she finished, she looked wide-eyed at her coaches, her father and her caddie and said, “Did I say the right things?” They assured her she had done fine, and her coach reminded her to call her mother.

Shean’s father, Stephen, traveled here from Cape Town on Saturday, and was easy to pick out in the crowd. He was the one with a tiny paper South Africa flag tucked into his cap.

“I’m over the moon,” he said. “We didn’t expect anything like this.”

When Shean played the course for the first time Monday, she struggled so mightily, “it was ridiculous,” her father said. “At that point we thought if Kelli breaks 90, we’d be happy.”

Shean, a rising college senior, succeeded on a day when some big names failed miserably. Catriona Matthew, the reigning women’s British Open champion, had 37 putts and posted an 80. Helen Alfredsson, one of four women to have competed in the 1992 Women’s Open here, carded an 81. Michelle Wie, who hasn’t recorded a top-10 finish in a major since 2006, three putted four greens on her first nine on the way to an 82.

The Scot Mhairi McKay was in the first group off the 10th tee and established the early lead in the clubhouse with an even-par 71. She said, “It’s quite a beast out there” and added, “The strategy was just to take my medicine when those errors came up and just give myself an opportunity to have a putt for par.”

McKay’s caddie was her husband, Brian Smith, an electrical engineer at Los Alamos National Laboratory. His knowledge of golf is limited, she said, but he knows her better than anyone and their easy rapport helped make the long round fly by.

Shean’s boyfriend, Chandler Rackley, was carrying her bag, and they walked side by side, as carefree as if they were passing time at the mall and not negotiating one of the most renowned courses in America.

“We just kind of have a chemistry that I can’t really explain,” Rackley said.

Shean was able to laugh when her ball found the bunkers on the third hole. She hit a 7-iron short of the green and then got up and down for par. At the ninth, her last hole of the day, Shean’s drive landed in a hazard. She hit out, then three-putted from 100 feet for her second bogey of the round.

“You know, I had a couple of three-putts today out there, and I was expecting that,” she said. “So the whole time I was just trying to have a good time and taking the experience and it worked out. It really did.”
287 2010-07-09 “The Social Network,” David Fincher’s much anticipated movie about the creation of Facebook, has been selected for opening night at the New York Film Festival, the Film Society of Lincoln Center said on Thursday. “The Social Network,” is directed by Mr. Fincher (“Zodiac,” “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button”), left, with a screenplay by Aaron Sorkin (“The West Wing”) adapted from Ben Mezrich’s book “The Accidental Billionaires.” Starting in the long-ago year of 2003, it tells how the Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg (played in the film by Jesse Eisenberg) helped hatch an idea that became the wildly popular Facebook Web site — and the complications that its success quickly yielded. Scott Rudin, a producer of the film, said it was told in an “All About Eve” style, from multiple points of view, including the perspectives of other young entrepreneurs who sued Mr. Zuckerberg, saying the site was their idea. “Everybody believes they’re right,” Mr. Rudin said in a telephone interview. “But the movie leaves you to make up your own mind about what you feel about how Facebook was founded.” The film festival will have the premiere on Sept. 24, before the movie is released Oct. 1. The festival runs through Oct. 10, with additional films to be announced.
288 2010-07-09 But it was James, not Lee, who cast a shadow on Thursday’s proceedings. The Knicks planned for James and courted James and hoped that their handshake agreement with Stoudemire on Monday might entice James to join him. In the end, though, James picked Miami. The Knicks had not been informed officially of James’s decision as of Thursday afternoon, but they conceded the signs were not promising even as the Madison Square Garden stock that had risen more than 6 percent on Wednesday was dropping 5.5 percent. They were right.

“Obviously, I’m a little stunned that we’ve come to this,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said. Team officials held out hope that the indications were wrong or that James might change his mind before his 9 p.m. televised announcement.

“I think we’re under consideration, yeah,” Walsh said just after 1 p.m.

A few days earlier, it was Stoudemire who spoke boldly of recruiting James to New York. On Thursday, he sounded more flat, saying, “I’m not totally sure what LeBron’s going to end up doing.”

Stoudemire’s agent, Happy Walters, was more resigned to James playing elsewhere, saying, “I’d be surprised” if he chose the Knicks. He, too, was right.

Neither Walsh nor Coach Mike D’Antoni said they planned to watch James’s show on ESPN. “I don’t want to jump through one of my windows,” Walsh said with a chuckle. In fact, D’Antoni was headed for the airport, to join the Knicks’ summer-league team in Las Vegas.

Walsh thanked several people, including Isiah Thomas, the controversy-riddled former team president. Thomas, who was fired in 2008, played a small role in recruiting Stoudemire. He was also dispatched on Wednesday to meet with associates of James, a last-gasp attempt that was futile.

As for Stoudemire, the Knicks and Suns provided him with a sign-and-trade deal, which gives the Suns a trade exception — which can be used to balance future trades — worth about $16.5 million. The Knicks gained an extra $800,000 in cap room by starting Stoudemire at a slightly lower salary. His total package remains unchanged.

However, the Knicks still need a starting center and a starting point guard, and even with the Lee trade, have numerous open spots on the roster. They have ample cap room, and they now have Stoudemire. But they don’t have James.

“We’ve taken a big step with Amar’e,” D’Antoni said. “We’ll take another big step, whether that’s today, whether that’s tomorrow or whether that’s six months from now. Everything now is going to be about winning. Before, it was about clearing space.” There was a lot of talk about competing for championships, a goal that would have sounded more realistic if James had been sitting on that dais, too. At times, team officials seemed to be challenging James.

“It takes courage to play where the lights shine the brightest,” the Garden chairman James L. Dolan said in praising Stoudemire’s decision.

D’Antoni seized the theme as well, saying: “I do know that New York probably is not for everybody. It’s a big stage. And you have to show some guts and grit.”

Yet after two years of planning for James and a week of courting him, Walsh seemed ready to move on. “Let’s talk about Amar’e Stoudemire,” he said.
289 2010-07-09 Today Kleenex is the dominant brand, with a 46 percent market share, but it has lost ground during the downturn as consumers have switched to cheaper store brands. Private-label sales over the 52 weeks ending June 13 increased 6.4 percent while Kleenex sales dropped 5.5 percent and Puffs, a Procter & Gamble brand, dropped 3.2 percent, according to SymphonyIRI. Private-label brands account for 23 percent of the market and Puffs accounts for 25 percent.

“Private-label sales continue to grow even as the segment declines as consumers find increased quality among private label,” stated a 2008 report by Mintel, a market research firm. Among consumers who still spring for nationally advertised brands, 15 percent of respondents to a Mintel survey said they did so “because the package or pattern on the product is nicer.”

Kleenex has in recent years paid particular attention to aesthetics, introducing an oval-shaped package in 2005, embossed wallpaperlike patterns in 2006 and, for the 2008 holiday season, an oval carton with a pattern of Christmas lights that actually flickered when a tissue was pulled out.

Today the average home contains four boxes of facial tissue, and users purchase tissues about eight times a year, according to Kleenex research. The most popular room for a box is the bathroom, followed by the home office, bedroom and living room.

While the purpose for most packaging is to grab attention from the shelf and to protect products on their journey from manufacturer to retailer to consumer, the package for facial tissues serves as a dispenser for the life of the product — and is prominently displayed in the home.

“With Kleenex we really consider the package as part of the product we’re providing,” said Christine Mau, brand design director at Kimberly-Clark. “That’s what really sets Kleenex apart.”

In Neenah, Wis., where the Kleenex brand team is based (Kimberly-Clark’s world headquarters are in Dallas), designers occupy a section of the offices called the “trend area,” where new designs are developed.

“Designers bring in rugs, pillows, little girls’ dresses — anything they think is building a story,” Ms. Mau said. “We’re encouraged to play in our work.” Along with subscribing to over 50 home décor and design magazines, the team attends numerous home décor shows internationally.

Last year, the design team was given a challenge that “was less about home décor and more about creating seasonal interest during the summer months,” Ms. Mau said. “We were asking, ‘How do you crack the code and take something that you kind of take for granted and create this consumer delight, this impulse purchase right on the spot?’ ”

The team first settled on a watermelon, because “it was the ubiquitous symbol of summer and of fun and happiness for everyone — you don’t have to have a boat or a summer cottage,” Ms. Mau said. The idea for the wedge-shaped box, and for other fruits, followed.

After their limited introduction in Target last summer, the boxes, which feature illustrations in a photo-realist style by Hiroko Sanders, a Los Angeles illustrator, earned numerous design awards, including best in show from Pentawards, an international package design competition. A member of the Pentawards jury, Lars Wallentin, is quoted on the organization’s Web site saying that the Kleenex package is “very attractive, full of joy and freshness” and “shows great maturity, because the consumer is not bombarded with information that he neither really needs nor wants.”

Another indication that the brand is striking a design chord: consumers are less inclined to shroud tissue boxes with either handmade or store-bought covers. According to Kleenex, which tracks such behavior, today only 12 percent of consumers cover tissue boxes, down from 19 percent in 1986.
290 2010-07-09 Over a 30-year career in public life, Mr. Cuomo has been slow to take on gay-rights battles or display leadership on key issues, advocates for gay rights say. His handling of same-sex marriage, they say, is telling: He did not publicly support it until he ran for attorney general in 2006 — eight years after said he favored it and 12 years after Mr. Paterson did so.

As a result, many gay leaders are quietly expressing skepticism about the depth of his commitment, even as they accept, with lockstep resignation, his likely ascent as governor, and try to ingratiate themselves with his political operation.

“He plays catch-up on our issues,” said Libby Post, who founded Empire State Pride Agenda, the influential gay-rights group that pushed for the same-sex marriage legislation last year. “I don’t think his heart is really there. He does not have a record you can look to.”

Of course, Mr. Cuomo’s approach to gay issues may reflect some simple political realities: Gay groups are unlikely to abandon him for his Republican rival, , who opposes same-sex marriage. And taking a more restrained position on gay issues may help Mr. Cuomo as he seeks to attract independents and voters upstate, where polling shows there is more opposition to allowing gay men and lesbians to wed.

Still, his uneasy history with gay leaders reflects some of the baggage that Mr. Cuomo carries from decades of political battle, even as he seeks to re-introduce himself to the electorate.

Those close to Mr. Cuomo described his support for gay rights as longstanding and genuine, even as they acknowledged that he had kept a low profile on the subject.

In his understated way, aides and friends said, he has advanced gay causes by appointing gay men and lesbians to key positions and, as attorney general, cracking down on two companies accused of discriminating on the basis of sexuality. He has frequently sought the counsel of gay elected officials like Ms. Quinn. And he has made clear, since announcing his candidacy for governor in May, that he supports same-sex marriage.

“Andrew has grown over the years to see the validity of our struggle, and is prepared to be a strong ally,” said M. Apuzzo, a gay adviser to Gov. , Andrew’s father, in the 1980s. The attorney general declined to comment for this article, or to discuss specific incidents from his past, but allowed a few advisers and friends to speak about him.

In interviews, these people pointed to Mr. Cuomo’s personal relationships with gay people as a measure of his understanding of their struggles.

Charles Myers, an banker in the city, who struck up a friendship with him a decade ago, recalled Mr. Cuomo’s enthusiasm — and calls of congratulations — when he learned that Mr. Myers and his partner planned to start a family by adopting children. As Mr. Myers’s family grew to include four children, Mr. Cuomo conveyed his frustration with the legal obstacles that Mr. Myers and his partner faced. “For him, it’s deeply upsetting that friends of his don’t have the same rights as he does,” Mr. Myers said.

Whether his record on gay issues will play a significant role in the coming election is unclear. With voters frustrated about the economy and angry at Albany, the gubernatorial hopefuls are likely to be judged largely on their competence and crisis management.

Part of the complexity of Mr. Cuomo’s relationship with gay men and lesbians stems from his unusual entry into politics.

Unlike the early political experiences of most candidates for office, Mr. Cuomo’s unfolded in public, starting when he was a teenager. He joined his first campaign at age 19, when his father ran for mayor against in the 1977 Democratic primary.

It was a campaign that heavily shaped the younger Mr. Cuomo’s reputation among gay advocates: a bitter, intensely personal race pitting an Italian Catholic from Queens (Mr. Cuomo) against a Greenwich Village Jew (Mr. Koch). Commercials for Mario Cuomo emphasized that he was “a family man,” in contrast to the unmarried Mr. Koch.

As the race entered its final weeks, supporters of the senior Mr. Cuomo plastered predominantly Italian sections of and Queens with posters that declared, “Vote for Cuomo, not the Homo.”

Both Cuomos denied being involved in or aware of the posters’ creation — claims that gay advocates, and Mr. Koch himself, found difficult to believe.

Mr. Koch said he had accepted an apology from the younger Mr. Cuomo for the tone of that race. But asked recently in an interview if he believed that Andrew Cuomo had nothing to do with the homophobic posters, Mr. Koch said: “I honestly don’t know. I’d like to believe it. But I don’t know.”

During his father’s run for governor in 1982, Andrew Cuomo served as campaign manager and participated in tense negotiations with gay advocates, whose support his father was quietly courting.

In return for their endorsement, several gay leaders insisted on publishing a newspaper advertisement trumpeting the commitments that they had extracted from the Cuomo campaign, including his agreement to issue an executive order prohibiting discrimination against gay employees in state government.

Even as the elder Mr. Cuomo said he would issue the order, his son worried that publicizing the deal would alienate more conservative religious voters, those involved in the campaign said.

“We had great difficulty getting the Cuomo campaign to agree on the wording of an ad,” recalled Andrew Humm, a longtime gay-rights advocate. They were told, Mr. Humm said, that “Andrew was the problem.”

When the senior Mr. Cuomo signed the executive order in 1983 — a major milestone for the gay community — Andrew Cuomo seemed intent on playing it down to blunt any backlash.

Allen Roskoff, a gay state employee who pushed for the measure, recalled a telephone conversation at the time with the younger Mr. Cuomo, who asked for his reaction to the executive order. Mr. Roskoff, who did not think the measure went far enough, told him, “It’s terrible — it’s not worth the paper it was written on.”

Mr. Roskoff recalled Mr. Cuomo’s saying. “I’m going to have the Jewish press call you. Say the same thing to them.”

Ms. Apuzzo described Andrew Cuomo as “protective of his father and what it would mean for him to be in dialogue with us.”

“Andrew never stood in the way,” she recalled. “But to be honest, I never felt that he was the best advocate on the issue, at the time.”

The uneasy relationship did not improve in 1984, when Andrew Cuomo oversaw ’s presidential campaign in . Gay voters had rallied around Mr. Mondale, who had signaled his support for allowing gays to serve in the military. Then the Mondale campaign unexpectedly wavered on the issue, infuriating several New York delegates, who threatened to withdraw their support.

Kenneth Sherrill, a Mondale delegate at the time, and now a professor of political science at , recalled that Mr. Cuomo viewed those upset by the issue as a nuisance.

His message, Mr. Sherrill said, was, “ ‘Why the hell are you bothering me with this?’ It was dismissive.” He added: “The most charitable thing you can say is that Andrew viewed it as being a hot-button issue that ought not be engaged for fear of electoral consequence.”

It appears Mr. Cuomo’s most sustained contact with the gay community occurred when he served at the , which had taken a role in providing housing for those dealing with . During the period he was secretary, from 1997 to 2001, the agency more than doubled housing money for people with the disease, to $258 million from $110 million.

At the same time, his staff encouraged gay organizations, which had rarely received federal housing money, to apply for grants to open community centers. One such center, in Greenwich Village, received $75,000 in grants from HUD while Mr. Cuomo was secretary. Julian Potter, a deputy who worked under Mr. Cuomo, called the outreach to gay groups “real and significant.”

Mr. Cuomo’s profile as attorney general has largely been shaped by his efforts in a few areas: his pursuit of corporate crime, the industry and online sex offenders. He is lesser known for his work on civil rights.

In the last two years, however, lawyers on his staff took action against an adoption agency that refused to work with same-sex couples and a major retail chain that showed a pattern of discrimination against transgender job applicants. (The adoption agency stopped operating in New York; the retail chain agreed to a series of reforms.) And after Governor Paterson required state agencies to recognize same-sex marriages performed out of state, the attorney general’s office successfully defended New York against several lawsuits.

Gay advocates praised the office’s handling of the cases, but greeted them with caution: the attorney general’s office is required to defend the state when it is sued. The real question, they said, is how aggressively Mr. Cuomo will defend their right to marry if, as most of them predict, he becomes governor next year.

“People change over 30 years,” said Mr. Roskoff, the president of a gay Democratic political club that has backed Mr. Cuomo for governor. “We anticipate he will follow through with his promises.”

Mr. Cuomo’s aides defended his efforts on behalf of the marriage bill last year, and explained that they were reluctant to involve themselves in a campaign that was largely led by Mr. Paterson, at the time a potential rival in the governor’s race.

Mr. Cuomo seems acutely aware of the some gay leaders are feeling. A few weeks ago, he spoke at a $500-a-person fund-raiser for his campaign held by prominent gay supporters, including Mr. Myers. As the crowd of financial executives and political operatives sipped wine at the St. Regis Hotel, Mr. Cuomo assured them that passing a gay-marriage bill “is a priority for me.”

Unsatisfied, a few guests pressed him for details. Exactly how, one of them asked, would he do it?

But he offered scant detail: “I will get it done,” he said.
291 2010-07-09 Mixed reports among retailers for sales in June also injected a note of caution into the markets. Over all, sales for retailers in June rose 3.1 percent, though disparities were sharp among stores and sectors.

“I think it is a snapback,” said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist for Channel Capital Research Institute. “I think it is too soon to say the correction is over. There was so much negative news, and for the first time you had jobless numbers looking better.”

Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial, said that while the markets have “been begging for a data point signifying that the trajectory on employment is positive,” jobless filings need to establish a pattern of decline to help ease concerns about a double-dip recession.

“Today’s numbers point to a much more cautious consumer who is grappling with a very stubborn employment backdrop,” Ms. Krosby said of the retail sales report.

The market momentum also lifted technology and financial shares, which had been drags on the market for much of the day. Materials, consumer staples, industrials, energy and telecommunications sectors rose more than 1 percent. Eastman Chemical rose $2.07 to $56.24. Reynolds American rose $1.46 to $55.42. McDonald’s rose $1.71 to $69.02.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note returned to 3.03 percent, from 2.98 percent Wednesday. The price fell 14/32, to 103 31/32.

European shares were higher, aided by news from the International Monetary Fund, which increased its 2010 world growth forecast to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent in April and raised its estimates for the United States and China.

The FTSE 100 in London rose 1.8 percent or 90.63 points, while the DAX in Frankfurt was 0.71 percent higher. The CAC-40 in Paris rose 1.57 percent.

At least for the day, European markets appeared to deflect the uncertainty that has been hanging over them from the sovereign debt crisis.

The head of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, expressed cautious optimism that Europe’s debt crisis was easing and that the economy in the euro zone was growing faster than expected.

He spoke at a news conference after the central bank kept its rates steady for another month.

Greece took a major step forward in overhauling its debt-plagued economy by forcing through, in principle, a pension bill that would substantially cut the cost of Greece’s welfare state by increasing the retirement age and slashing benefits. Investors and analysts are looking to the coming earnings reporting period to gauge how major corporations are faring and how they affect their expectations. “Another strong day of gains could probably mean the market has made a bottom,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist for Avalon Partners.

“With the advent of earnings, which I think for the most part will beat market expectations, and guidance remains key as well, I think with that in focus this market certainly could regain the status of a summer rally,” he said.
292 2010-07-09 The Kremlin identified them as Igor V. Sutyagin, an arms control researcher held for 11 years; Sergei Skripal, a colonel in Russia’s military intelligence service sentenced in 2006 to 13 years for spying for Britain; Aleksandr Zaporozhsky, a former agent with Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service who has served seven years of an 18-year sentence; and Gennadi Vasilenko, a former K.G.B. major who was arrested in 1998 for contacts with a C.I.A. officer.

In a statement, the Russian Foreign Ministry attributed the agreement to the warming trend between Washington and Moscow. “This action was carried out in the overall context of improved Russian-American relations,” it said. “This agreement gives reason to hope that the course agreed upon by Russia and the United States will be accordingly realized in practice and that attempts to derail the course will not succeed.”

A White House spokesman, Ben Rhodes, said the episode would not affect the reset and that the two sides would cooperate when possible “even as we will defend our interests when we differ.” Rahm Emanuel, the chief of staff, said the president was fully briefed on the decision. Mr. Emanuel said the case showed that the United States was still watchful even as relations improved. “It sends a clear signal to not only Russia but other countries that will attempt this that we are on to them,” he told the PBS program “NewsHour.”

The sensational case straight out of a spy novel — complete with invisible ink, buried cash and a red-haired beauty whose romantic exploits have been excavated in the tabloids — came to a dramatic denouement in court.

The 10 defendants sat in the jury box, while their lawyers and prosecutors filled the well of the packed courtroom. Some of the Russian agents wore jail garb over orange T-shirts, while others wore civilian clothes. Natalia Pereverzeva, for example, known as Patricia Mills, sat in jeans with a dark sweater.

Few of the defendants conversed with one another. Some looked grim. One, Vicky Peláez, appeared to be weeping as she gestured to her sons at the close of the hearing.

At one point, Judge Kimba M. Wood asked each of the 10 to disclose their true names.

The first to rise was the man known as Richard Murphy, who lived with his wife and two children in Montclair, N.J. He said his name was Vladimir Guryev.

Then his wife rose. “My true name is Lydia Guryev,” she said.

All but three — Anna Chapman, Mikhail Semenko and Ms. Peláez — had assumed false names in the United States.

The 10 each pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to act as an agent of a foreign government without properly registering; the government said it would drop the more serious count of conspiracy to launder money, which eight of the defendants also faced. They had not been charged with espionage, apparently because they did not obtain classified information.

All of them agreed never to return to the United States without permission from the attorney general. They also agreed to turn over any money made from publication of their stories as agents, according to their plea agreements with the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. Several also agreed to forfeit assets, including real estate, in the United States.

At one point, the prosecutor, Michael Farbiarz, told the judge that although Russian officials had met with the defendants, they had done nothing to force them to plead guilty or entice them into doing so. Defense lawyers concurred.

One lawyer, though, John M. Rodriguez, said Russian officials had made promises to his client, Ms. Peláez, but he assured the judge that they were not inducements to make her plead guilty. He said Ms. Peláez was told that upon her arrival in Russia, she could go to Peru or anywhere else; she was promised free housing in Russia and a monthly stipend of $2,000 for life and visas for her two children.

Ms. Peláez was not formally trained as a spy, her lawyer has said. He has also said that she had no desire to go to Russia as part of a swap. “I know we were the last to sign” a plea agreement, Mr. Rodriguez said after the hearing on Thursday.

The defendants included several married couples with children. American officials said after the court hearing that they would be free to leave the United States with their parents.

Perhaps the most recognizable of the agents was Ms. Chapman, who ran her own real estate firm and who had attained a degree of notoriety after tabloid newspapers worldwide chronicled her sex life and reprinted photographs of her in skimpy attire.

Administration officials who insisted on the condition of anonymity to discuss the delicate decision would not say who initially proposed a swap but added that they considered it a fruitful idea because they saw “no significant national security benefits from their continued incarceration,” as one put it. Some of the four Russians to be freed are in ill health, the official added.

Another American official, who was not authorized to speak about the case, said officials of the intelligence agencies were the channel for most of the negotiations, particularly Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A., and Mikhail Y. Fradkov, director of the S.V.R., Russia’s foreign intelligence agency.

The official said the American side decided “we could trade these agents — who really had nothing to tell us that we didn’t already know — for people who had never stopped fighting for their freedom in Russia.”

The spy ring case further fueled debate in Washington about Mr. Obama’s outreach to Russia even as he tries to persuade the Senate to ratify the New Start arms control pact he signed last spring with Mr. Medvedev.

“The lesson here is this administration may be trying to reset the relationship, but I don’t have any confidence that the Russians are,” said Representative Peter Hoekstra of Michigan, the ranking Republican on the House Intelligence Committee. “They got caught.”

David J. Kramer, a former assistant secretary of state under President George W. Bush, wondered whether the administration could have gotten a better deal. “The White House risks appearing overeager to sweep problems under the rug,” he said.

But supporters of the administration said the spy case should not undermine the relationship or support for the treaty. Richard R. Burt, a former arms control negotiator who now heads a pro-disarmament group called Global Zero, pointed out that the United States ratified treaties during the cold war when there was an active espionage campaign waged between the two powers. “No arms treaty, including the New Start agreement, is based on trust,” Mr. Burt said.
293 2010-07-09 PREISS--Byron April 11, 1953 - July 9, 2005 A true visionary; humble; a kind man. Ray Bradbury once said that if you enjoy living, it is not difficult to keep your sense of wonder. You lived these words as a faith and passed them down to us. Life ...
294 2010-07-09 A little more than four months ago, a faulty boiler in a furniture store ignited a fire that raged for hours in Jackson Heights, Queens, destroying eight mom-and-pop shops in a squat landmark building at the corner of 37th Avenue and 84th Street. ...
295 2010-07-09 EMIL--Arthur D.,died peacefully on July 6, 2010. Active and vigorous throughout his life, Arthur had joined a new law firm just after his 85th birthday, played in a golf tournament with his daughter and sister three weeks ago, and spent the weeken...
296 2010-07-09 EMIL--Arthur. To the loving tribute to Arthur Emil that appeared yesterday, we would like to add one critical fact that did not make it into that first account. Arthur had one request regarding his obituary, that in addition to his many accomplish...
297 2010-07-09 EMIL--Arthur D. A dear family friend and highly respected business colleague for many years. We will miss his perceptive mind and delightful sense of humor. Our deep condolences go to his wife Lydia, sister Judy Tenney and children David, Jennie a...
298 2010-07-09 EMIL--Arthur. The Kiam family will miss your thoughtful guidance, wise counsel and loving friendship which we were the beneficiaries of for over 45 years. You were always there for us when we needed you. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Lydia, D...
299 2010-07-09 EMIL--Arthur D.,on July 6, 2010. Services Friday July 9, 11am at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street....
300 2010-07-10 The award-winning director Spike Lee badly wanted LeBron James in New York but said he was fine with the decision. It was the process that bothered him....
301 2010-07-10 The world slump drove the trade contraction rather than the other way around....
302 2010-07-10 Michelle Wie followed her opening round of 11-over-par 82 with a 76, giving her a 36-hole total of plus-16 158, six shots outside the cut line....
303 2010-07-10 Kraft is getting experimental with an application for the Apple iPad....
304 2010-07-10 Fiat will proceed with an investment of 700 million euros ($875 million) to produce its Panda model at a domestic plant, even though it drew opposition from a large union. The chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, clarified Fiat’s plan for the factory, in Pomigliano near Naples, in a letter to company’s employees. “I write to you as a man who has and still believes firmly in the possibility of building together, in Italy, something great, something better and long-lasting,” Mr. Marchionne said in the letter. In a referendum last month about 60 percent of workers at Pomigliano, Fiat’s least productive factory, supported the company’s proposals to add shifts, shorten sick leave and reduce strikes as part of a plan to transfer Panda production from Poland. Four out of five unions representing the 5,000 workers at the site backed Fiat’s plan. Mr. Marchionne wanted support from all five of the labor groups. Fiat currently produces Alfa Romeo models at the Pomigliano plant.
305 2010-07-10 The Regis Corporation, a hair salon operator, reported fourth-quarter revenue that fell short of market expectations, and said quarterly same-store sales slipped 2.7 percent as consumers reduced the frequency of visits. The company, which operates the Sassoon and Supercuts beauty salon chains, said revenue fell 6 percent, to $590 million during the quarter, which ended June 30. The company, based in Minneapolis, plans to report full earnings in August. Stock in Regis fell $1.86, or 12 percent, to $13.87 a share.
306 2010-07-10 SEATTLE — A clear gap already existed between the Yankees and the rest of the American League, and the gulf would have widened Friday had they succeeded in acquiring Cliff Lee. They did not, so they were forced to play the Seattle Mariners with only eight All-Stars in their dugout. Somehow, they managed to win their seventh consecutive game, leaning on seven impressive innings from Phil Hughes and two home runs by Mark Teixeira to defeat the Mariners, 6-1, at Safeco Field.

There are days when the Yankees (55-31) are obviously better than their opponents, and there are days when they merely outlast them. On Friday, it was both. As Lee was flying 30,000 above the Southwest, en route to join the Rangers in Texas, his emergency replacement, David Pauley, was in the middle of retiring 13 straight Yankees through five innings. Then the sixth inning began, and the Yankees sent nine batters to the plate. When Pauley was pulled because of a rising pitch count, the Yankees unloaded on Chad Cordero with Robinson Cano supplying the big hit in the four-run sixth, a two-run triple.

The five-run lead was plenty for Hughes, who ended his first half in esteemed company. In improving to 11-2, Hughes joined Andy Pettitte and C. C. Sabathia to become the first threesome to have at least 11 wins by the All-Star break since Mike Hampton, Jose Lima and Shane Reynolds on the 1999 Houston Astros, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Many teams would adore having their No. 5 starter win 11 games over a full season. Hughes has already exceeded the Yankees’ expectations.

“I don’t think many people expected a ton out of me being a No. 5 starter,” said Hughes, who scattered six hits while striking out five as he finished the first half with a 3.65 earned run average. “All we needed was a solid four guys like we did last year and start three in the playoffs. I really felt a lot of pressure from myself that I could have a good year. So far, so good. I take pride in that.”

Along with Sabathia and Pettitte, Hughes will head south to California after Sunday’s game to join the rest of the American League All-Stars. Hughes, who grew up near Angel Stadium, was planning on going home anyway, never envisioning he would be selected. A few personalized All-Star jerseys arrived Friday, hanging in his locker.
307 2010-07-10 Those four will join Amar’e Stoudemire — who signed on Thursday — as the Knicks’ class of 2010. It is not exactly the transformative summer that Walsh and Coach Mike D’Antoni envisioned. But it is a healthy start.

Stoudemire is one of the top power forwards in the league. Felton is a solid playmaker and a definite upgrade from Chris Duhon. Randolph, who turns 21 next week, has an enticing package of athleticism and size. Azubuike can shoot. Turiaf can defend the paint.

“It gives us the toughness that we think we need,” Walsh said.

It might be enough to get the Knicks in the playoffs for the first time since the 2003-4 season.

The Nets are not so fortunate. Like the Knicks, the Heat and the Chicago Bulls, the Nets furiously purged their payroll to make room for a superstar. They are the only team in that group that failed to land a single top-tier player. (Chicago signed Carlos Boozer on Wednesday.)

The Nets could have salvaged the summer by signing Lee, but the Warriors got him in a sign-and-trade deal that will pay him $80 million over six years. On Friday, the Nets were outbid for Tyrus Thomas, who stayed with the Charlotte Bobcats for a five-year, $40 million contract.

So far, the Nets have made only one addition: Travis Outlaw, a small forward who signed a five-year, $35 million deal on Thursday. They have several holes to fill.

The Knicks are probably done restocking for now. Once Felton signs, they will have 10 players under contract, and three second-round picks who will probably have nonguaranteed deals.

“I think we’re done as far as jumping into the free-agent market,” Walsh said.

Felton’s contract will probably be for three years, with a starting salary around $7 million, though the details were still being worked out. But the Knicks’ payroll should be in good shape regardless. Without Felton, they have about $46 million committed next season, well under the $58 million salary cap, and about $35 million committed for 2011-12, after the contracts of Eddy Curry ($11.3 million) and Azubuike ($3.4 million) come off the books.

That means the Knicks should have room to make another run at a superstar next summer, when Carmelo Anthony could be on the market. Or they could use the cap room this coming season to make an opportunistic trade.

“We will have flexibility next year, and we will have flexibility the year after that,” Walsh said.

Felton, a stocky 6-foot-1 guard who was taken fifth in the 2005 draft, will become Stoudemire’s new pick-and-roll partner. In five seasons with Charlotte, Felton proved reliable but unspectacular, averaging 13.3 points and 6.4 assists, while shooting 41 percent from the field. Last season was his best as a shooter — .459 from the field and .385 from 3-point range.

Azubuike, 26, is an excellent 3-point shooter who will provide depth at shooting guard. Turiaf, 27, is an energetic defender who could be the Knicks’ starting center if Curry is again out of shape. The Knicks also received the Warriors’ second-round pick in 2012.

The most intriguing addition is Randolph, a lanky 6-10 forward who dazzled scouts with his athleticism in his one season at Louisiana State, in 2007-8. The Warriors chose him 14th over all in 2008, but his skinny frame made him a liability, and he fell in and out of favor with the mercurial coach Don Nelson.

Randolph started to emerge as a force last season but played just 33 games because of ankle and back injuries. He is healthy now and will work out with the Knicks’ summer-league team.

Randolph has an inconsistent jump shot, but he can handle the ball, fly on the fast break and finish with flair at the rim. He has the quickness to take most power forwards off the dribble. He is regarded as a good shot blocker, but an average rebounder. He will probably play behind Stoudemire but could play alongside him in a small lineup.

“This is very, very big day for him,” said Randolph’s agent, Bill Duffy. “Honestly, I know everyone in New York was anticipating the possibility of having LeBron James. But I think everyone in New York is going to be very pleasantly surprised at the talent and the upside of Anthony Randolph.”
308 2010-07-10 “I can see the farm yet, with perfect clearness,” he writes. “I can see all its belongings, all its details.” Of slavery, he notes that “color and condition interposed a subtle line” between him and his black playmates, but confesses: “In my schoolboy days, I had no aversion to slavery. I was not aware there was anything wrong about it.”

Versions of the autobiography have been published before, in 1924, 1940 and 1959. But the original editor, Albert Bigelow Paine, was a stickler for propriety, cutting entire sections he thought offensive; his successors imposed a chronological cradle-to-grave narrative that Twain had specifically rejected, altered his distinctive punctuation, struck additional material they considered uninteresting and generally bowed to the desire of Twain’s daughter Clara, who died in 1962, to protect her father’s image.

“Paine was a Victorian editor,” said Robert Hirst, curator and general editor of the Mark Twain Papers and Project at the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley, where Twain’s papers are housed. “He has an exaggerated sense of how dangerous some of Twain’s statements are going to be, which can extend to anything: politics, sexuality, the Bible, anything that’s just a little too radical. This goes on for a good long time, a protective attitude that is very harmful.”

Twain’s opposition to incipient imperialism and American military intervention in Cuba and the Philippines, for example, were well known even in his own time. But the uncensored autobiography makes it clear that those feelings ran very deep and includes remarks that, if made today in the context of Iraq or Afghanistan, would probably lead the right wing to question the patriotism of this most American of American writers.

In a passage removed by Paine, Twain excoriates “the iniquitous Cuban-Spanish War” and Gen. Leonard Wood’s “mephitic record” as governor general in Havana. In writing about an attack on a tribal group in the Philippines, Twain refers to American troops as “our uniformed assassins” and describes their killing of “six hundred helpless and weaponless savages” as “a long and happy picnic with nothing to do but sit in comfort and fire the Golden Rule into those people down there and imagine letters to write home to the admiring families, and pile glory upon glory.”

He is similarly unsparing about the plutocrats and Wall Street luminaries of his day, who he argued had destroyed the innate generosity of Americans and replaced it with greed and selfishness. “The world believes that the elder Rockefeller is worth a billion dollars,” Twain observes. “He pays taxes on two million and a half.”

Justin Kaplan, author of “Mr. Clemens and Mark Twain: A Biography,” said in a telephone interview: “One thing that gets Mark Twain going is his rage and resentment. There are a number of passages where he wants to get even, to settle scores with people whom he really despises. He loved invective.”

The material in Volume 1 that was omitted from previous editions amounts to “maybe as little as 5 percent of the dictations,” said Harriet E. Smith, chief editor of the autobiography. “But there will be a much higher percentage in Volumes 2 and 3,” each expected to be about 600 pages.

By the time all three volumes are available, Mr. Hirst said, “about half will not have ever been in print before.” A digital online edition is also planned, Ms. Smith said, ideally to coincide with publication of Volume 1 of “the complete and authoritative edition,” as the work is being called.

Some of Twain’s most critical remarks about individuals are directed at names that have faded from history. He complains about his lawyer, his publisher, the inventor of a failed typesetting machine who he feels fleeced him, and is especially hard on a countess who owns the villa in which he lived with his family in Florence, Italy, in 1904. He describes her as “excitable, malicious, malignant, vengeful, unforgiving, selfish, stingy, avaricious, coarse, vulgar, profane, obscene, a furious blusterer on the outside and at heart a coward.”

About literary figures of his time, however, Twain has relatively little to say. He dislikes Bret Harte, whom he dismisses as “always bright but never brilliant”; offers a sad portrait of an aged and infirm Harriet Beecher Stowe; and lavishly praises his friend William Dean Howells. He reserved criticism of novelists whose work he disliked (Henry James, George Eliot) for his letters.

Critics, though, are another story. “I believe that the trade of critic, in literature, music, and the drama, is the most degraded of all trades, and that it has no real value,” Twain writes. “However, let it go,” he adds. “It is the will of God that we must have critics, and missionaries, and Congressmen, and humorists, and we must bear the burden.”

As aggrieved as he sometimes appears in the autobiography, the reliable funnyman is in evidence too. Twain recalls being invited to an official White House dinner and being warned by his wife, Olivia, who stayed at home, not to wear his winter galoshes. At the White House, he sought out the first lady, Frances Cleveland, and got her to sign a card on which was written “He didn’t.”

Mr. Hirst said: “I’ve read this manuscript a million times, and it still makes me laugh. This is a guy who made literature out of talk, and the autobiography is the culmination, the pinnacle of that impulse.”
309 2010-07-10 The Pentagon is at odds with gay rights groups after sending out a survey asking troops what they would do if openly gay people were allowed to serve in the military. The Pentagon press secretary, Geoff Morrell, said on Friday that it was “nonsense” to suggest that the 103-question survey was biased. But gay rights groups say the survey assumes that troops do not want to serve with openly gay people and repeatedly uses the term “homosexual,” which they say is derogatory. The survey does not ask troops if they think the current ban is harmful. The survey was prepared by the research company Westat under a $4.5 million contract. Among the questions asked is how a service member would respond if assigned to a room with a gay person.
310 2010-07-10 Another of the four, Sergei V. Skripal, also seems to fit the classic cold war model, though without quite the roller-coaster intrigue of the Zaporozhsky case. A retired colonel in Russia’s military intelligence service, Mr. Skripal was convicted in 2006 of having passed classified information to British intelligence, MI6, for a decade, in return for $100,000 wired to a bank account in Spain.

But there is at least a little post-Communist ambiguity surrounding the two other men in the swap. Gennadi Vasilenko, a former K.G.B. major, was arrested in 1998 for contacts with a C.I.A officer but soon released, only to be arrested again in 2005 and imprisoned not for spying, but for illegal trafficking in weapons and explosives.

And Igor V. Sutyagin, working at a Moscow think tank, did contract research for a British company that may or may not have been a front for Western intelligence. He has maintained his innocence, and human rights activists have defended him.

While all four men signed written confessions to espionage as a condition for their release — and then were immediately pardoned — some of the cases show how the definition of spying has grown murkier since relations have warmed between the United States and Russia. For an arms-control researcher like Mr. Sutyagin to supply information to a British company would have been unacceptable to the Kremlin in the 1970s. In more recent years, boundaries have not been so clear.

But American officials demanded precisely these four Russians as soon as talks about a swap began and valued them enough to make the lopsided trade. That suggests indebtedness on the side of the United States, said David Wise, a Washington author and veteran chronicler of espionage. “We obviously feel some obligation to them,” Mr. Wise said in an interview on Friday. “You don’t leave your men behind on the battlefield.”

The American willingness to quickly release 10 Russian agents operating inside the United States, after huge expenditures of money and manpower on a decade of surveillance, would have been hard to imagine a few decades ago. The stakes for American security seem far lower today, said Steven Aftergood, who studies government secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists. “Now it seems more comical than anything else,” he said.

But the case was never funny from the point of view of the 10 Russians who faced prison sentences here — and certainly not for the four Russians serving time in grim Russian prison camps.

Yelena P. Lebedeva-Romanova, a lawyer for the 59-year-old Mr. Skripal, said his release was especially welcome because he had diabetes and she worried about his health in the prison camp in the central Russian republic of Mordovia, where he was serving his sentence.

The relationship of Mr. Vasilenko, once a top-ranked Soviet volleyball player, with a particular C.I.A. officer, Jack Platt, has been well documented over the years. Mr. Platt has said in interviews that he tried repeatedly to recruit Mr. Vasilenko, who worked for the K.G.B. in Washington and Latin America in the 1970s and 1980s, but was rebuffed.

But in 1988, the K.G.B. learned of the contacts between the men, and Mr. Vasilenko was arrested in Havana and imprisoned in Russia for about six months before the espionage case against him fell apart. Years later, Mr. Vasilenko and Mr. Platt, both retired from their intelligence agencies, went into the private security and investigation business together.

But in 2005, when he was 64, Mr. Vasilenko, then providing security to a Moscow television channel, was rearrested and charged after a search of his home allegedly found pistols and TNT. He was convicted and remained imprisoned until his release for the exchange.

According to Maryland property records, Mr. Zaporozhsky still owns the house on a cul-de-sac in Cockeysville, north of Baltimore, where he lived until 2001 with his wife, Galina, and their three children. No one answered a knock at the door on Friday morning, and one son, Pavel Zaporozhsky, declined to comment by telephone.

Aleksandr Zaporozhsky might not want to risk another trip back to Russia. But he and the other three men who flew west on Friday are free to return when they wish, said Nikolai Kovalyov, a deputy in the State Duma and former director of the F.S.B., the successor to the domestic security operations of the K.G.B.

“There is no formal prohibition on this from the Russian side,” Mr. Kovalyov told RIA-Novosti on Friday.
311 2010-07-10 “They’ve got a duty to their shareholders and others to consider every possibility,” said Samuel J. Gerdano, the executive director of the American Bankruptcy Institute. “It’s not a matter of panic, it’s not a matter of irrationality. It’s a coldhearted and clearheaded consideration of options.”

A BP spokesman, Max McGahan, declined to comment on “hypothetical” questions. The company has said from the start that it has the resources to meet the economic challenge, including strong cash flow and billions of barrels of oil in proven reserves.

A previously unreleased memorandum by the Congressional Research Service outlined ways that a bankruptcy filing by BP could disrupt the cleanup and compensation.

The letter, prepared in response to questions from Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware, stated that economic and environmental claims would fall into line behind the company’s secured creditors as “nonpriority, unsecured claims,” leaving much of the continuing cost of cleanup, in all likelihood, to the federal government. With a judge’s approval, the company’s assets could even be sold and its liabilities left behind.

Government officials are pursuing contingency plans as well. The United States Department of Justice sent a letter to BP last month requesting at least 30 days’ notice of “any planned or contemplated events going forward that may involve substantial transfers of cash or other corporate assets outside of the ordinary course of business” by BP — the kinds of actions that might precede a bankruptcy filing.

The House of Representatives has passed a bill, introduced by Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, that would limit BP’s options in bankruptcy and bolster the rights of those with economic claims.

Under the proposed law, the sale of “significant” assets in bankruptcy related to a maritime incident could take place only with the approval of at least half of those holding claims for economic loss, or a determination by a judge that the company would still be able to pay claims.

Many experts who have looked at the financial strength of BP said its ability to handle enormous liability claims should not be underestimated.

Loretta Cross of the accounting and consulting firm Grant Thornton, who evaluates the assets of energy companies in bankruptcy, noted that the company’s proven oil and gas reserves alone were worth $220 billion at today’s prices, and that assets and equity that could be readily sold added another $40 billion.

“That’s just some of their assets,” she said, adding that the company’s debt is a relatively low $35 billion, leaving plenty of room for borrowing.

Ms. Cross also said BP could not afford the cost to its reputation that it would suffer in bankruptcy.

In the international arena, she said, “it has an implication on how your business partners may treat you, and the credibility they may give you” in future dealings.

If anything, worries that BP might unravel have eased in recent weeks, as the company has made steady progress on relief wells and announced the $20 billion settlement fund.

“Their agreement to do the trust was when I said, ‘There’s not ever going to be a bankruptcy here,’ ” Ms. Cross said, because the fund serves as an alternative to the lawsuits that are massing against the company.

Kenneth R. Feinberg, the administrator of the $20 billion fund to address economic losses from the spill, recently said in an interview on Fox News that a BP bankruptcy would be a “disaster for the people in the gulf” and is “not an option.”

Ian Williams, a bankruptcy lawyer at the firm Bryan Cave in Britain, was adamant that bankruptcy was out of the question.

“BP does not need to reorganize its business because it is solvent,” he said, adding that the global importance of the company and its stock made it “too big to fail.”

A plaintiff’s lawyer in New Orleans, Stuart H. Smith, said he had watched BP carefully for signs that it was moving to protect assets in bankruptcy.

“My concern level is now less than it was,” he said. Along with the creation of the Feinberg fund, which he said showed a commitment to stay the course, he added, “We’ve done more homework — they are a very deep, deep company.”

Still, he said, the main concern remained the well itself.

“Until it stops leaking,” he said, “nobody knows what the damages are.”
312 2010-07-10 “We would have preferred to bring back more,” Mr. Fera told reporters after announcing the ratification vote result. “But after 12 months, it’s a very difficult decision to hold out longer.”

He added: “Our membership decided to go on with their lives.”

Until its acquisition by Vale in 2006, the 108-year-old operation in Sudbury, which provides about 10 percent of the world’s nickel supply, was owned by Inco, one of Canada’s largest corporations. Sudbury had a history of sometimes fractious labor relations and has long been something of a power base within the steelworkers union. The union’s international president, Leo W. Gerard, who is based in Washington, joined while he was an Inco employee.

In the past, a strike in Sudbury crippled Inco. But the operation is far less critical to Vale, which is mainly an iron ore producer. Nickel accounts for about 15 percent of its revenue.

In the end, the union yielded on two of the main issues that provoked the walkout. Payments from a profit-sharing plan that was tied to the price of nickel will now be capped at 25 percent of workers’ wages. When nickel prices were at record levels in 2007, workers earning 29.40 Canadian dollars an hour also received bonus payments equal to about 20 Canadian dollars an hour.

The market price that will initiate the bonus will rise to $3.75 a pound, from $2.25 a pound under the new agreement.

Union negotiators managed to maintain, and improve, a pension plan with defined pension benefits for current workers, but new employees will receive only variable benefit pensions.

The contract also includes incremental raises, gives Vale the right to permanently lay off 113 workers and ends the bitter legal challenges often pursued by both sides.

Cory McPhee, a spokesman for Vale in Toronto, said that while the company was “very happy” with the contract, managers were “very sensitive to the fact that we’re going to have to rebuild relationships with employees.”

The steelworkers, and others, have long argued that the Canadian government should have blocked the sale of Inco under its foreign investment laws.

Anil Verma, who heads the center for industrial relations at the University of Toronto’s Rotman School of Management, blamed the strike’s length on misconceptions held by both parties. Mr. Verma also said that the union must accept that the aging Sudbury operation was in decline and that foreign ownership had diminished labor’s power.

“People have to realize that the Sudbury of 2010 is not the Sudbury of 1910,” he said.

On Thursday, Mr. Fera glared at a reporter who asked if the prolonged strike had been worthwhile.

“I don’t think that’s a fair question,” he said. “So I’m not going to answer it.”
313 2010-07-10 The fifth seed Mardy Fish defeated Frank Dancevic of Canada, 6-7 (6), 6-4, 6-4, on Friday to reach the semifinals at the Hall of Fame Tennis Championships in Newport, R.I. Fish, the highest-seeded American remaining in the grass-court tournament, reached his fifth ATP semifinal. He will play Richard Bloomfield of Britain, a 5-7, 7-6 (3), 7-5 winner over Ryan Harrison, an 18-year-old American.

Bloomfield, a qualifier from England ranked No. 552 entering the week, will be making his first ATP semifinal appearance. His first-round victory over Christophe Rochus of Belgium was being scrutinized by tennis officials after the online gambling exchange Betfair reported that the match attracted unusual action.
314 2010-07-10 Tennessee Coach Derek Dooley dismissed the sophomore Darren Myles Jr. and indefinitely suspended the sophomores Greg King and Marlon Walls after a brawl early Friday at a bar where at least six other Volunteers players were present. The University of Tennessee police charged Myles with assault, resisting arrest and evading arrest after he was said to have run from the police and elbowed an officer in the face. It was his second off-season arrest. An off-duty officer who was a patron sustained a head injury trying to break up the fight.
315 2010-07-10 The diagrammed deal, Board 110, is the second big-swing slam deal from the final of the open trial held last month. As with Board 99, described in Thursday’s column, the pair for the John Diamond team reached a small slam that was not bid by Bobby Levin and Steve Weinstein for the Martin Fleisher team.

When Levin (South) opened one spade, Brad Moss (West for the Diamond team) interestingly passed. His partner had passed, and he hoped that not bidding would result in declarer’s misjudging the distribution, which North or South would not do after a revealing heart pre-empt. Weinstein (North) responded two diamonds, and the uncontested auction continued three clubs-three diamonds-four clubs-four spades-pass. Playing carefully, declarer took 10 tricks.

In the given auction, Geoff Hampson (South) opened one spade; Lew Stansby (West) made a three-heart weak jump overcall; Eric Greco (North) responded three no-trump, hoping that if it were passed out, his diamond suit would run; South showed his second suit; and North gave delayed preference to spades. Now South decided that he was going to bid a slam, so he threw in a fake five-heart control-bid (cue-bid), which in principle guaranteed first-round heart control (the heart ace or a heart void). Five no-trump was “pick a slam,” and North-South came to rest in six spades.

West led the heart ace. If he had shifted to a diamond, the slam would have been defeated. West, though, now knew that South’s five-heart control-bid had been a bluff. But had South bluffed with a singleton or a doubleton heart? Worried that it had been with a doubleton, West tried to cash the heart king, ruffed by declarer.

Hampson, who is usually a fast player, now spent nearly five minutes deciding how to continue.

He had 11 top tricks: six spades, one heart, two diamonds and two clubs. One possibility was to run all of the trumps, then take dummy’s three red-suit winners. This would have worked because East would have been squeezed in the minor suits.

Instead, declarer cashed his two top clubs and led another club, which West ruffed with the spade nine and dummy overruffed with the queen.
316 2010-07-10 WASHINGTON — As Boeing filed its bid on Friday for a $35 billion Air Force tanker contract, the company said it was changing the production line of its 767 jets to cut costs and better compete with a rival bid.

Boeing’s bid was submitted a day after the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the parent of Airbus, filed its paperwork for what could be the largest military contract awarded over the next several years.

Both bids come slightly more than a week after a panel of the World Trade Organization ruled that Airbus, which is owned by EADS, had received government subsidies to build its commercial planes. Boeing has complained that European support could help EADS undercut Boeing’s price on the aerial refueling tankers even though Boeing’s plane is smaller and would be expected to cost less.

As a result, Boeing executives said they were reshaping the final assembly line for the 767, the model on which its tanker entry is based, to cut costs and speed production. The EADS tanker is a variant of Airbus’s A330-200 jet. The cost-cutting will help ensure that the Pentagon pays the lowest price for the tankers no matter which company wins the contract.

“We are deeply concerned about the ability of Airbus and EADS to be able to accept the financial risk that a commercial company like Boeing cannot,” Jean Chamberlin, a Boeing vice president who manages its tanker program, said in an interview Friday.

Ms. Chamberlin said Boeing feared that EADS could accept lower returns on the tanker contract and “turn in a proposal that we would have a difficult time matching.”
317 2010-07-10 MILAN (AP) — Fiat, the Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler, said Friday that it would spend 700 million euros ($886 million) to move production of its new Panda compact from Poland to a plant near Naples despite an unresolved labor dispute.

Still, the project was a gamble because of resistance from one union to conditions set by the automaker, including more flexible work hours and new mechanisms for resolving labor disputes at a Italian plant plagued by absenteeism and low production.

Even an endorsement of the plan by 62 percent of the plant’s 5,200 employees was not enough to guarantee a deal, because of the threat of disruption posed by dissenting workers.

But Fiat confirmed that it was going ahead after the chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, met Friday with the consenting unions. Those unions, which represent 83 percent of the Pomigliano workers, signed a deal in June backing Fiat’s plans, with only the one union holding out. Among the concessions sought by Fiat was the possibility to operate three shifts, six days a week.

The alternative would have been to close the plant, a politically difficult choice given Fiat’s decision to close Termini Imeresi plant in Sicily next year.
318 2010-07-10 A somber pregame turned into a joyous celebration when Piazza hit a dramatic two-run home run with one out in the bottom of the eighth inning to lead the Mets to a 3-2 victory.

Mets right fielder Jeff Francoeur, who grew up in Georgia and later played for the Braves, watched that game at home as a high school senior and called it the best regular-season game of all time.

“You know how competitive Bobby Cox is,” Francoeur said. “He told me once that was the only time he was ever glad he lost a game. He said New York needed to win that night.”

Cox’s benevolence did not last long. The Braves went on to win that division title, crushing the Mets’ hopes during a Saturday afternoon game at Turner Field (Brian Jordan hit a two-out grand slam off John Franco in the ninth inning), and would win four more division titles after that before the Mets finally won in 2006.

Now, in Cox’s final year, and with Jones likely to join him in retirement, it is on again.

“This is going to be huge,” Francoeur said. “It’s been a while since it really meant something to both teams, and it could be the last chapter with Bobby and Chipper.”

The early stages of the Mets-Braves rivalry can be traced back to a contentious series at Turner Field just before the All-Star break in 1998, when the Braves were the dominant force in the realigned N.L. East and the Mets were the cocky upstarts scrapping for a morsel of respect from the champions.

The Braves were working on their seventh of 14 division crowns, and the Mets were nine and a half games behind them in the standings, but only three games behind the San Francisco Giants in the wild-card race.

The first half of the season ended on a close play at home plate when the umpire Angel Hernandez ruled that Michael Tucker, despite strafing Piazza’s leg with his spikes, had arrived safely at home under Piazza’s tag in the 11th inning, setting off a wild argument that resulted in a three-game suspension for Franco.

But the Mets, who missed the playoffs by one game that year, were starting to show some fight. In 1999, they won the wild card, and in the National League Championship Series against Atlanta they nearly forced a Game 7 after falling behind three games to none.

In 2000, the Mets missed the Braves in the playoffs on their way to the World Series. From 2002 to 2005 the Mets were either bad or rebuilding, and when they finally became contenders in 2006, the Braves were bad.

“We were awful,” Francoeur said of that Braves team. “But now it’s two good teams again, just like the old days.”
319 2010-07-10 The stock market ended its best week in a year with another gain on Friday as investors placed their last bets before the start of second-quarter earnings reports.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 59 points, or 0.6 percent. That gave the Dow its biggest weekly advance in a year, 5.3 percent. Broader indexes posted bigger gains. Trading volume was light, signaling that many investors were staying out of the market. But those who were trading appeared optimistic about the company reports that would be announced starting next week.

Stocks also got a lift from news that China renewed Google’s license to operate in the country. The renewal was in doubt because of a strained relationship between the company and China’s government over censorship of search results. Shares of Google rose 2.4 percent.

News on the economy was not as upbeat. Inventories held by wholesalers rose in May for a fifth consecutive month, although sales dropped for the first time in more than a year. The government said wholesale inventories rose 0.5 percent and sales dropped 0.3 percent. It was the first drop since March 2009, when major stock indexes hit a 12-year low.

But investors did not appear fazed by the inventories report. Instead, the market appeared to hold on to optimism fed by Thursday’s report of a drop in the number of newly laid-off people seeking unemployment benefits. That report ended a string of bad news about the job market.
320 2010-07-10 A year before the 2008 scandal, pet foods contaminated with Chinese-supplied melamine killed dozens of dogs in the United States and Africa and forced recalls of nearly 90 brands.

In January, inspectors in southern China’s Guizhou Province pulled dairy products out of local stores after discovering melamine in products shipped there from Shanghai and three other provinces. Xinhua reported on Friday that officials in Jilin Province, in northeastern China, had confiscated more than 1,000 packages of milk powder after finding tainted products in a market on June 22. Officials have since begun inspecting dairy plants across the region.

In all the recent cases, the contaminated products appear to be leftovers from the 2008 recall. Inspections at that time found excessive melamine in the products of 22 dairy companies, or one in five dairy manufacturers.

Government officials here vowed to crack down on food-safety violations in the wake of the 2007 and 2008 melamine cases, which damaged the reputation of Chinese food exports worldwide. The government ordered sweeping changes in food inspection last year, writing new rules and placing the existing patchwork of food regulatory bodies under a single authority, the National Ministry of Health.

But food safety procedures still need improvement, and corrupt manufacturers and growers still use bribery and corruption to escape scrutiny.

“The Chinese government has enormously and effectively responded with new laws and new regulations, and tries to implement this as soon as it can,” Rio Praaning Prawira Adiningrat, secretary general of the Public Advice International Foundation, said in a telephone interview. But the sheer size of the Chinese economy and the number of people “makes it virtually impossible to check everything,” he said. The foundation works in China on food safety issues.

Mr. Praaning praised the government’s commitment and willingness to discuss its problems, adding, “I think they are absolutely doing the best they can.”

The melamine scandal erupted in late 2008, however, only after government officials suppressed word of widespread poisonings so as to avoid sullying China’s international image during the Beijing Summer Olympics.

On Wednesday, a newspaper in southern China reported that one father who started an online crusade for food safety after his child died from melamine poisoning had been sentenced to one year in a labor camp for “re-education,” a form of punishment often handed out to dissidents.

The newspaper, the Guangzhou-based Southern Metropolis Daily, said that the father, Tang Lin, lost his 1-year-old son in August 2008 after the boy was poisoned by tainted infant formula made by the Sanlu Group, then China’s biggest dairy products company. The company went bankrupt after the poisonings became public.
321 2010-07-10 WASHINGTON — On a Friday afternoon in mid-June, President Obama sat down with advisers in the Oval Office and learned that the F.B.I. planned to round up the largest ring of Russian sleeper agents since the cold war. After discussion about what the agents had done, the conversation turned to the fallout: what to do after the arrests?

In that moment was born a back-to-the-future plan that would play out four weeks later, a prisoner exchange with surreal and even cinematic overtones as Russian and American airplanes met on a sunny tarmac in the heart of Europe on Friday to trade agents and spies much as had been done during a more hostile era.

From the first time the president was told about the case on June 11 — 16 days before the Russian agents were actually arrested — a swap emerged as an option that could resolve a potentially volatile situation without undercutting Mr. Obama’s effort to rebuild Russian-American relations. The Russian spy ring would be broken, the Americans would secure the release of four Russian prisoners and both sides could then put the episode behind them.

Administration officials said Friday that the arrests were not made for the purpose of making a deal and that no decision about a swap was made until after the agents were in custody. But they described a fast-moving sequence of events after the arrests in which both sides scrambled to reach an agreement, even to the point of Russian officials’ offering money and other benefits to encourage one of their sleeper agents to consider the deal.

The officials described the episode as perhaps the most serious test yet of the new relationship, as well as a sign of its enduring complexity.

By Friday afternoon, the 10 Russian sleeper agents arrested in American cities and suburbs were flown back to Moscow, while four men released from Russian prisons were taken from the transfer point in Vienna to London. Two of them, Igor V. Sutyagin and Sergei Skripal, got off there, and the remaining two, Aleksandr Zaporozhsky and Gennadi Vasilenko, flew on to Dulles International Airport just outside Washington. The children of the sleeper agents all left with their parents or were preparing to join them, officials said.

The lawyer for one of the freed Russians called it “a historic moment” that she had long suspected would come. “It has to do with the relations between the two countries, and with political games going on at the top,” said the lawyer, Maria A. Veselova, who represented Mr. Zaporozhsky, a former Russian intelligence agent. “It is always connected with these chess games.”

The games have been played for years, and this one was no exception. The F.B.I. had been monitoring the Russian sleeper agents as far back as a decade, and along with the C.I.A. and the Justice Department, gave the first detailed briefing to the White House in February, American officials said.

By late May and early June, counterespionage officials grew concerned that several of the agents were planning to leave the country this summer and concluded that they would have to arrest them.

At the Southern District of New York, prosecutors pulled out files on the case and completed a 37-page complaint, describing the agents’ activities, the sophisticated intelligence technology they used, and the F.B.I.’s extensive and long-term surveillance in unusual detail. A version of the document sat for years in a classified safe in New York, updated and rewritten by Michael Farbiarz, the lead prosecutor, as new evidence was developed, ready to be used whenever necessary.

“The value of a complaint like that is that you show immediately that you’ve got them dead to rights,” said David S. Kris, assistant attorney general for national security. “It showed the defendants and the Russians that we’ve got the goods. We’re not bluffing here. We’ve had you under investigation for quite a while. We’ve been in your houses, we’ve done surveillance and we have got plenty. That obviously helps things move quickly.”

Before they moved on the arrests, though, they had to tell the president. Mr. Obama was preparing to host the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, at the White House on June 24, so any arrests were bound to be politically explosive. The president’s homeland security and counterterrorism adviser, John Brennan, led the June 11 Oval Office briefing, at which officials described who the agents were, what would be in the complaint and what they would be charged with.

“There was a full discussion about what was going to happen on the day after,” said one senior White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal discussions. Mr. Obama then had a meeting on the case with his National Security Council on June 18, just six days before Mr. Medvedev’s visit.

The visit went off without any discussion of the case, White House officials said, but three days later, the F.B.I. arrested 10 agents, a sweep that made headlines as a relic of the cold war. The administration moved quickly to keep the arrests from provoking the traditional volley of angry denunciations and retaliations, contacting Moscow to indicate the depth of the evidence and its willingness to resolve the situation.

Russian officials responded by removing an initial statement calling the charges “baseless” from the Foreign Ministry Web site and issuing a new one acknowledging that some of those arrested were Russian citizens. American officials were struck by the tempered remarks by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, a former K.G.B. colonel, during a meeting with former President Bill Clinton.
322 2010-07-10 EMIL--Arthur. Valued friend, colleague, mentor, "Father of Imaginary Forces" forever. With deepest gratitude and love, Chip and Peter...
323 2010-07-11 When visiting a private club for the first time, don't be afraid to ask about tipping policies and other things you may not know....
324 2010-07-11 Stop, Question and Frisk in New York Neighborhoods

New York City’s police force, in its fight against crime, has increasingly used a strategy known as “stop, question and frisk,” which allows officers to stop someone based on a reasonable suspicion of crime. One expert has estimated New Yorkers are stopped at twice the national rate. The impact on crime is much debated, and critics contend disproportionate stopping of minorities is a result of racial profiling, which police officials dispute.
325 2010-07-11 The first couple of Spanish soccer, goalkeeper Iker Casillas and his sideline reporter Sara Carbonero, celebrated Spain's World Cup victory with an on-air kiss....
326 2010-07-11 Brownsville, Brooklyn, is ground zero in the New York Police Department's controversial crime fighting strategy known as stop, question and frisk.
327 2010-07-11 A look at the transformation of a sculpture of a naked woman’s back....
328 2010-07-11 Are we there yet? Almost, by some measures....
329 2010-07-11 Emily Ruth Giske and Anne Elizabeth Washburn were married Saturday in Provincetown, Mass. The ceremony, at the Red Inn, was led by Sarah Peake, a state representative from Provincetown who was designated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a temporary officiant for this event.

Ms. Giske (left), 50, is a partner in Bolton-St. John’s, a lobbying firm in Albany. She graduated from George Washington University and received a master’s degree in public policy from the New School for Social Research. She is a daughter of Blanche E. Sklar of Manhattan and the late Martin Giske. Her father was the president of Hygrade Knitting Mills, a sweater distributor that was in Brooklyn.

Ms. Washburn, 34, is the executive director of the Meatpacking District Initiative, a neighborhood business association in Manhattan. She graduated from Barnard.

She is a daughter of Constance J. Washburn and Thomas E. Washburn, both of Miami. Ms. Washburn’s father is an owner of Wilson Washburn Forster Insurance, a property and casualty insurance agency in Miami. Her mother, who is retired, was a fourth-grade teacher at Howard Drive Elementary School in Miami, and is now the president of Friends of the Everglades, an environmental advocacy organization in South Miami, Fla.

The couple met in June 2006 at the gay pride parade in Manhattan. Both attended as members of the retinue of that year’s grand marshals, Christine C. Quinn, the New York City Council speaker, and Florent Morellet, the restaurateur.
330 2010-07-11 Unfortunately, public health advocates say, the consequences of rejecting vaccination are not strictly personal. Widespread vaccinations not only make disease outbreaks less likely, but they also help protect vulnerable populations like newborns who are too young to get shots.

“Anything that leaves people unimmunized and unprotected, thereby reducing the overall rate of protection in the community, would be a contributing factor when you have an outbreak,” said Dr. Fred Schwartz, Marin County’s public health officer.

Parents who do have their children vaccinated are troubled by others opting out, fearing outbreaks of disease.

“This is the first one to hit us, but how long until we have a chicken pox outbreak, or mumps or polio?” said Sara Sonnet of San Rafael, a mother of two young girls who are both fully immunized. “We take it for granted.”

Whooping cough, or pertussis, is a highly contagious infection of the respiratory tract, and is among the most common vaccine-preventable diseases in the United States, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It is caused by the Bordetella pertussis bacterium.

The disease is cyclical, with more cases typically popping up every three to five years. The last major outbreak in California was in 2005. The vaccine is not a cure-all; it does not always prevent the disease, and booster shots are needed to retain immunity.

In California, five infants have died from whooping cough this year. In the first six months of the year, 1,337 cases of the illness were reported to the California Department of Public Health, a fivefold increase from the same period last year. The state is on track for its worst outbreak of the disease in 50 years.

As of July 7, Marin had 209 pertussis cases, , most among children. The county lags behind state averages when it comes to vaccinations, including students entering school with up-to-date pertussis immunizations, according to the California Department of Public Health. In 2009, 437 kindergartners in the county, or 13 percent, had not had the required shots for whooping cough.

“It’s not a question of access to vaccines,” said Larry Meredith, director of the Marin County Department of Health and Human Services. “There’s a diversity of belief here.”

Ms. Lawson and her husband, Jeffrey Lawson, elected not to give their daughter the DTaP vaccine because it also includes immunizations against tetanus and diphtheria.

“I think it would be horrible if my baby got whooping cough,” said Ms. Lawson, a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who works in finance. “Honestly, if there was a stand-alone pertussis vaccine, I probably would have given it to my daughter. That’s really the only thing that I think that she’s at risk of contracting in the first two years.”

This spring, Ali Long of Mill Valley and her two sons became ill with whooping cough. Her son Zachary, 2 1/2, had not yet received all his pertussis shots and was the sickest.

“I really thought my child was going to die,” Ms. Long said. “He would just turn purple and gasp for air. It was the worst experience I have ever had.”

Zachary’s 6-year-old brother fared better. “I am glad that Quincy, my older son, had been vaccinated, because he got a much milder case,” said Ms. Long, who is president of a small foundation in Corte Madera.

Ms. Long had chosen not to follow the standard immunization schedule proscribed by the disease-control centers. Instead, she staggered her children’s shots, even electing not to have some vaccines administered.

In her home, Ms. Long treated whooping cough with herbs, homeopathic remedies and craniosacral therapy, as well as antibiotics. Recovering, but still occasionally coughing, she remains ambivalent about vaccines. “They’re not a panacea,” she said. “They’re putting very strong chemicals into a child’s body that may or may not work.”

Beginning in the late 1940s when a vaccine became widely available, the number of cases of whooping cough in the United States sharply declined. But since the 1980s there has been a slow increase, said Stacey Martin, a staff epidemiologist at the disease-control agency.

The vaccine is about 80 percent effective, said Linda Metz, a public-health nurse for Marin County, which means that people who are immunized may still get sick, but are likely to suffer lighter cases.

“The vaccine is not perfect, but it’s kind of the only protection that we have, and it’s not a fun disease,” said Dr. Sarabenet Sequeira, a pediatrician and homeopath in Mill Valley, who years ago coughed so hard when she had whooping cough that she cracked a rib.

In Dr. Sequeira’s practice, most parents who choose to selectively vaccinate still give the DTaP vaccine to their children.

Even children who are fully vaccinated for whooping cough before kindergarten see their immunity wane over time, and that has also been a factor in the Marin outbreak. The disease-control agency recommends that pre-teen pupils get a booster shot.

Unlike most other states, California does not require that booster shot for schoolchildren. A State Senate committee is considering a bill that would require it before seventh grade.

When Heather Chapman of Larkspur got notices from her children’s schools this spring about the whooping cough outbreak, she got her four children immunized.

Others remain unconvinced. Ms. Lawson now avoids taking her daughter to the pediatrician, taking her to see a chiropractor instead.

“My feeling is that the pediatrician’s office is full of sick kids,” she said, “and she’s not sick, so there’s really no point in going and exposing her to sick kids.”
331 2010-07-11 WGN’s 2009 advertising revenue was $36.5 million, compared with $44.5 million in 2008, an 18 percent decline in a year when the overall market was down.

Ratings drive billings, and for WGN, the ratings for the three-month period ending in March were flat. In May, they were up slightly mainly due to excitement surrounding the Blackhawks playoff run, which was carried on the station.

Stations around the city will await July ratings to show a truer picture of the effects of the WGN changes. So far, the ratings picture has not reflected the anger from listeners on blogs and chat rooms around the city.

The upheaval comes at a crucial time for executives at the Tribune Company, which is hoping to exit bankruptcy later this year. Management teams are usually risk averse when it comes to major operational changes during bankruptcy, fearing the loss of even more revenue.

But the Tribune Company has taken a different tack under Randy Michaels, the chief executive. A former Clear Channel Radio executive, Mr. Michaels had helped Sam Zell, the Tribune Company’s chairman, sell a radio group to Clear Channel for a premium during a wave of consolidation in the 1990s. Mr. Michaels has brought in several executives from his radio past to help with WGN operations, including Kevin Metheny, who was named WGN program director in late 2008. Howard Stern dubbed Mr. Metheny “Pig Virus” in his book “Private Parts,” after battling with him earlier in Mr. Stern’s career.

Asked about the strategy and the anger that the changes have elicited, Tom Langmyer, the station’s vice president and general manager, said that one of the things often overlooked is the overall performance of the station. “The station was getting down to 30th place in key day parts with 25 to 54 year olds,” he said. “Those people who are listening are going to be upset. They’re upset that their favorite radio station is changing.

“Any time you have a heritage brand like WGN, any time you make changes, you are going to have people who are going to be upset. You have to have the courage to do the things that make sense. That is the reason for it. I don’t think the typical listener has as much information on the business side. And some of the changes we’ve made have helped.”

Mr. Langmyer said that changes have been calculated and based on audience feedback. “There is a need to make a change to keep the station strong and viable,” he said. “The advertising market and the economy in general have changed dramatically, along with the company restructuring. We have to change more rapidly than we normally would.”

Over the past several months, management at WGN parted ways with longtime hosts, like Kathy O’Malley and Judy Markey, and mothballed its evening “Sports Central” show. To fill the sports show’s slot, the station hired Jim Laski, a former Chicago politician and felon who had not done radio before — a move that stunned insiders at the station as well as listeners. “Laski has done more time in jail than on the air,” Ms. Hambrick said.

In the coveted morning slot, traditionally filled by a host who had spent years getting comfortable with the audience in one of the station’s other slots, WGN introduced Greg Jarrett, who was brought in from San Francisco last year. Ms. Hambrick said that Mr. Jarrett has so far not caught fire with listeners, although Mr. Langmyer said that Mr. Jarrett has had “the highest ratings in that morning show slot since 2003.” Another outsider, Mike McConnell, a personality from Mr. Michaels’s former station in Cincinnati, WLW-AM, is expected to join the station next month in an undetermined role.

The most public change was that of Steve Cochran, the midday host who teed off on management after he was shown the door last month, another move that shocked listeners who were not accustomed to sudden dislocation at the station.

“I was literally dismissed while I was walking out of the men’s room,” Mr. Cochran said. “There was no explanation given.”

Behind the scenes, other staff members have also departed over the past several months, including Wendi Power, the station’s well-respected top advertising sales executive, who left to run a smaller radio station group in Tampa, Fla.

Stacked against the station is history: Chicago tends to be unforgiving to newcomers. And with WGN pulling in the second- most radio revenue in the market behind WBBM, its moves are fraught with risk.

“It was always difficult to bring someone in from out of town,” said Bob Sirott, a longtime Chicago broadcaster who recently rejoined WFLD-Channel 32 as its evening anchor and who still fills in at WGN. “If you’re new coming in, it’s a little more difficult to be accepted.”

Mr. Sirott said it often took years before radio and television personalities were embraced by Chicago audiences. “Now with so many more channels and more fragmented audiences, it’s next to impossible,” he said. “In today’s media landscape, to try to establish someone is risky.”

WGN executives had a shot at going after a well-known personality like Jonathon Brandmeier, the former WLUP-FM 97.9 personality, but passed. Richard Roeper, the Chicago Sun-Times columnist who is also a familiar local television and radio presence, was picked up by rival WLS-AM 890.

Any time a station undergoes major changes, there is a risk that listeners will begin sampling other outlets and never return, executives say. Stations like WLS and WBEZ-FM 91.5, the public radio station, are probably beneficiaries of any sampling by WGN listeners. The “Eric and Kathy” morning show on WTMX-FM 101.9 could benefit from more female listeners from WGN, if they decide to look elsewhere.

Ms. Hambrick, the advertising buyer, said WGN had put at risk a unique cachet in the market: its singular relationship with loyal listeners.

The station “sold on results for clients and being the absolute voice of Chicago,” Ms. Hambrick said. “It always had a special place with listeners and advertisers. Advertisers didn’t feel they had a complete campaign unless they were on WGN.”
332 2010-07-11 He aggravated church officials during the American tour of Pope John Paul II in 1979 by imploring priests to refuse to help the pope in celebrating Mass. Father Callahan’s hope was that more lay women would then have to be enlisted to assist at the services.

When the pope that year insisted that barring women from becoming priests was not a human rights issue, Father Callahan replied, “Perhaps this is not a human rights issue because women are not human or they do not have rights.”

He told The Washington Post in 1989 that he was simply “following the example of Jesus, who was never willing to shut up.”

In 1971, Father Callahan helped found the Center of Concern, an organization devoted to social justice issues. In 1975 he started Priests for Equality, to work for the ordination of women. He started the Quixote Center in 1976 with Dolly Pomerleau, who became a work partner of his for many years. They married days before he died.

The Quixote Center achieved particular prominence in its support of the leftist government of Nicaragua in the 1980s, a stance directly at odds with that of the Reagan administration. It raised more than $100 million in humanitarian aid for the Nicaraguan government.

Other projects included printing religious books in which language it viewed as sexist, racist and homophobic was expunged. Father Callahan himself wrote “Noisy Contemplation: Deep Prayer for Busy People” (1982), which called God a “merry” sort who viewed humans as entertainment.

In 1979, Jesuit leaders rebuked Father Callahan for his defiance of dogma, and by 1989 his Nicaraguan activities and liberal initiatives in the church, including a ministry for gay Catholics, had set off calls for his expulsion from the Jesuit order. He unsuccessfully fought the action, which he claimed was never explained.

Father Callahan remained active at Quixote and continued to preach to informal gatherings of dissident Catholics.

William Reed Callahan was born on Sept. 5, 1931, in Scituate, Mass. His mother was a Unitarian and his father a Catholic. His mother died when he was 6 months old, and he was raised by paternal grandparents as a Catholic, Ms. Pomerleau said.

He attended the Jesuit-run Boston College High School and after graduating joined the New England Province of the Society of Jesuits in 1948. He had hoped to be an agronomist, but the Jesuits asked him to study physics because they needed physics professors in their universities.

Father Callahan earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Boston College and a Ph.D. in physics from Johns Hopkins University in 1962. While pursuing the degree, he worked for NASA on weather satellites. He then moved to Connecticut to teach physics at Fairfield University, a Jesuit institution. He was ordained as a priest in 1965.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by three brothers, Larry, John and Bob; and three sisters, Polly Alonso, Helen Demers and Christine DeVelis.

Father Callahan mourned the waning of optimism among his generation of Catholic reformers as the church hierarchy grew increasingly conservative. In an interview with The Post in 2006, he said he drew inspiration from Don Quixote.

“He dreams, he has visions, but he’s basically a silly old man,” Father Callahan said.

“When people work on social justice issues, they don’t win much and wind up dropping out. To laugh at oneself from the beginning is essential.”
333 2010-07-11 “It became a litmus test of fidelity to free enterprise principles,” said Representative Bob Inglis, a South Carolina Republican who was crushed in a primary last month partly because of his vote in favor of the plan.

While banks have paid back most of the money, and the bailout is widely credited with having helped to prevent a financial calamity, support for it has become among the biggest issues in the 2010 midterm elections, a powerful if simplistic way to attack what some see as government excess, misplaced priorities and a loss of trust between voters and elected officials.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, is facing a Democratic challenger who is trying to link Mr. Grassley’s vote for the bailout to a pattern of support for bigger budget deficits. Senator Arlen Specter’s support for the plan was one of the issues that helped drive him out of the Republican Party and into a Democratic primary in Pennsylvania that he lost this spring to Representative Joe Sestak — whose own vote for the rescue is now under attack from the Republican candidate, Pat Toomey.

And in his own primary, Mr. McCain has been pilloried over his support for TARP by his conservative challenger, former Representative J. D. Hayworth.

“It is part of a bigger narrative,” said Nathan L. Gonzales, a nonpartisan analyst for the Rothenberg Political Report. “I don’t think a general election is going to be won or lost based on that one vote, but I think it will be part of a bigger argument that candidates are going to make against those incumbents who voted for it. It has had more staying power than most votes.”

Support of the bailout is a thread running through the campaigns of Republican Congressional incumbents who have lost in primaries so far this election cycle, and was also a factor in the defeats of three members of Congress in primaries for governor, including that of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas.

Across the country, House and Senate challengers are hammering incumbents in both parties who voted for the bailout, in many cases lumping it together with the $787 billion economic stimulus plan passed months later under President Obama, as well as federal aid to automakers.

In Texas, Representative Chet Edwards, a 10-term Democrat, is facing a stiff challenge by Bill Flores, the former chief executive of an oil and gas company, who has assailed Mr. Edwards for his support of the bailout and also the continuing taxpayer subsidies for the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

“Chet Edwards votes for every bailout and against ending any bailout!” Mr. Flores wrote in an e-mail message to supporters, saying Mr. Edwards’s position runs counter to his efforts to convince voters that he is a “really a fiscal conservative.”

Megan Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Mr. Edwards, dismissed the attacks. Referring to the Federal Reserve chairman, she said, “Given Ben Bernanke’s recent statement that TARP helped prevent our country from falling into a second Great Depression, if Mr. Flores wants to put sound-bite politics above the good of our country, that’s a bad choice that will not work in Texas.”

But the bailout issue is not a weapon just for Republicans taking on Democrats. On Thursday Robin Carnahan, the Democratic Senate hopeful in Missouri, criticized her Republican rival, Representative Roy Blunt, a former member of the House leadership, for his vote, calling him “Mr. Bailout.” She took the swipe at Mr. Blunt during her introduction of Mr. Obama at a fund-raiser, not mentioning that Mr. Obama also backed the plan when he was a senator and presidential candidate, as did her brother, Russ, a Democratic House member.

In Utah, Mr. Bennett, who was denied his party’s Senate nomination in his bid for a fourth term, was branded “Bailout Bob.” “People would walk by my booth and say ‘TARP, TARP, TARP, TARP!’ But when you tried to talk to them about it, they did not know any of the details,” he said in an interview. “They confused TARP and the stimulus plan. They confused TARP and the omnibus bill. They confused TARP and the president’s budget.”

Mr. Bennett said he had had little luck trying to explain the details: that economists generally agreed that the rescue plan worked; that he voted only for the first $350 billion installment and not for the second half; that just $475 billion was disbursed and that most of that has already been repaid, plus interest.

The Senate approved the bailout measure on Oct. 1, 2008, on a bipartisan vote of 74 to 25. The House initially rejected the proposal, but under prodding from the White House and leading members of both parties, House members ultimately voted 263 to 171 for the bill, with 91 Republicans joining 172 Democrats in backing it; 108 Republicans and 63 Democrats voted no.

Several of the House Democrats considered most vulnerable this year opposed the plan, sparing them from attacks over the bailout though they are still criticized for being part of the Congress that approved it.

In Iowa, the Democratic Senate challenger, Roxanne Conlin, said that voters resented the government aid to big banks, and that she was working to portray Mr. Grassley as having supported big increases in the deficit, including the Bush tax cuts and the Medicare prescription drug benefit as well as TARP.

“I did a 99-county tour, and in every single county the bailout came up,” Ms. Conlin said.

Eric Woolson, a spokesman for the Grassley campaign, said Ms. Conlin’s criticism was falling flat because the rescue plan proved successful and Iowa voters knew Mr. Grassley to be a fierce guardian of taxpayer money.

Looking back, Mr. Bennett of Utah said he had no regrets. “Knowing what I know now, absolutely I would vote for it again, even if I knew it was going to end my political career,” he said.

Mr. Inglis said he realized it was a treacherous vote. “I knew when I was voting for TARP that it could cost me the seat,” he said, “but you have to be willing to die on some political hill.”
334 2010-07-11 Like that of any agent, the core of Mr. Limato’s job involved lining up work. Mr. Gere recalled that Mr. Limato “bamboozled” him into accepting the role of Billy Flynn in the film version of “Chicago” by telling him that the director desperately wanted him. (Not exactly true.) At the same time he told the director, Rob Marshall, that Mr. Gere desperately wanted the part. (Not true.)

“Ed was a master at orchestrating all of the feelings correctly,” Mr. Gere said. “He had a rare ability to read a script and see what could be.”

But what truly set Mr. Limato apart from other agents was his constant hand-holding. No client’s need was too small, which was one reason he required three assistants (whom he referred to as No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3). Is the air-conditioning working in the dressing room? Do any prescriptions need to be filled? What publicity stills are being sent out?

Today most stars rely on personal assistants, managers and squadrons of publicists to handle all of that. Many of Mr. Limato’s clients had only him. “Many agents tend to look at talent as a commodity today, to help their own career,” he told Variety in 2005. “I still think of talent as something to be served.”

Mr. Gibson in particular benefited from Mr. Limato’s attention. After a drunken-driving arrest led to an anti-Semitic tirade by Mr. Gibson in 2006, Mr. Limato pushed studios to continue to hire him and defended him to the news media, going so far as to throw a drink in the face of a Page Six reporter for The New York Post.

“Never in your life have you heard somebody scream louder than Ed Limato,” said Andrew Finkelstein, a William Morris Endeavor agent.

Edward Frank Limato was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., worked briefly as a disc jockey in Panama City, Fla., and by the early 1970s had taken a job in the mail room of the Ashley-Famous Agency in Manhattan.

Mr. Limato eventually hopped to International Creative Management in Los Angeles and suggested Ms. Pfeiffer for the “Scarface” role that made her a star. After a stint at William Morris, he returned to I.C.M., where he rose to co-president.

In 2007, after I.C.M.’s new owners tried to shift him into an emeritus-type position, Mr. Limato sued to be released from his contract. He won and rejoined William Morris, taking his clients with him.

Despite his ties with so many stars, Mr. Limato had no illusions about fame. “Great legends,” he is quoted as saying in the book “Chasing Cool” by Noah Kerner and Gene Pressman, “are usually people who die young because they didn’t live long enough to spoil their image.”
335 2010-07-11 The finding on the extent of plutonium waste signals that the cleanup, still in its early stages, will be more complex, perhaps requiring technologies that do not yet exist. But more than 20 years after the Energy Department vowed to embark on a cleanup, it still has not “characterized,” or determined the exact nature of, the contaminated soil.

The department has been weighing whether to try to clean up 90 percent, 99 percent or 99.9 percent of the waste, but because the extent of contamination is unclear, so is the relative cost of the options. For now, the preferred option is 99 percent.

Government officials recognize that they still have a weak grasp of how much plutonium is contaminating the environment. “The numbers are changing,” said Ron Skinnarland, a radiation expert at the Washington State Department of Ecology, which is trying to enforce an agreement it reached with the Energy Department in 1989 for the federal government to clean up Hanford.

So far, the cleanup, which began in the 1990s, has involved moving some contaminated material near the banks of the Columbia to drier locations. (In fact, the Energy Department’s cleanup office is called the Office of River Protection.) The office has begun building a factory that would take the most highly radioactive liquids and sludges from decaying storage tanks and solidify them in glass.

That would not make them any less radioactive, but it would increase the likelihood that they stay put for the next few thousand years.

In 1996, the department released an official inventory of plutonium production and disposal. But Mr. Alvarez analyzed later Energy Department reports and concluded that there was substantially more plutonium in waste tanks and in the environment.

The biggest issue is the amount of plutonium that has leaked from the tanks, was intentionally dumped in the dirt or was pumped into the ground.

Mr. Skinnarland said much of the waste was 90 or 100 feet underground, too deep to dig out. Some contaminants can be pumped out, but that does not work well for materials that contain low concentrations of plutonium.

The Energy Department has researched the possibility of shooting electric currents through the soil to create glasslike materials that would lock up contaminants, but it has not analyzed whether the technique would work at those depths.

Inés R. Triay, the assistant secretary of energy for environmental management, did not dispute Mr. Alvarez’s new analysis of department figures. She said that decisions on the long-term cleanup would rely not on the 1996 inventory but on a systematic sampling of the waste, which she said had yet to begin.

Mr. Alvarez’s report has been accepted for publication later this year by Science and Global Security, a peer-reviewed journal published by Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.

Another problem raised by the inaccuracies in the 1996 figures is that they could complicate the negotiation of new agreements with Russia or other countries about destroying bomb fuel, said Frank N. von Hippel, a professor of public and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School and a co-chairman of the journal’s board of editors.

Gerry Pollet, executive director of the environmental group Heart of America Northwest, said the government should embrace a cleanup plan that assures that even thousands of years into the future, an unsuspecting public will not be overexposed.

“What is reasonably foreseeable is that there are people who will be drinking the water in the ground at Hanford at some point in the next few hundred years,” Mr. Pollet said. “We’re going to be killing people, pure and simple.”

Plutonium was first manufactured in World War II for use in bombs. (The one that destroyed Nagasaki in 1945 originated with plutonium made at Hanford.) For decades, the government produced it in military reactors by bombarding a natural element, uranium, with subatomic particles called neutrons, converting uranium to plutonium, and then using chemical processes to harvest the plutonium.

The new analysis indicates that the chemical separation process was not nearly as efficient as the government claimed and that a lot of the plutonium was left behind in various stages.

It also suggests that estimates of plutonium production by the Energy Department and its predecessors, including the Atomic Energy Commission and the Manhattan Project, were not nearly as accurate as scientists and bureaucrats said they were.

Releasing declassified figures in 1996, the Department of Energy said that 111,400 kilograms (about 123 tons) of plutonium had been produced at Hanford or taken there from civilian reactors or foreign sources.

Of that, 12,000 kilograms were “removed,” the department said. Some of that plutonium was consumed in weapons tests or in bomb attacks like the one on Nagasaki, but 3,919 kilograms of plutonium were stored as waste at Hanford, it reported.

However, Mr. Alvarez’s analysis, based entirely on Energy Department documents, shows that the amount discarded as waste was actually 11,655 kilograms, nearly three times as much, and that the total inventory of plutonium produced and acquired was closer to 120,000 kilograms, not 111,400.

Mr. Alvarez’s estimate indicates that enough plutonium is buried at Hanford to create 1,800 Nagasaki-size bombs, he said, but he played down any possibility of a weapons threat. “I don’t think anybody stole anything,” he said.
336 2010-07-11 Lawmakers said they had learned of tensions between Mr. Goss, a civil servant who has worked at Social Security for 37 years, and Michael J. Astrue, the commissioner of Social Security, who was appointed by President George W. Bush to a six-year term that ends on Jan. 19, 2013.

People close to Mr. Goss and Mr. Astrue said the disagreements involved personal chemistry, Social Security policy and the technical quality of Mr. Goss’s work on disability programs — not political ideology.

Relations have been strained since late 2008, when the two men clashed over the scope of the actuary’s independence. Basically, aides said, the commissioner views Mr. Goss as a conscientious employee and agrees that he is free to make calculations and use data as he sees fit.

But, they said, in an effort to keep the agency out of politics, Mr. Astrue has sometimes tried to limit what Mr. Goss can say publicly about Social Security, and Mr. Goss has sometimes bridled at the restraints.

By expressing confidence in Mr. Goss, lawmakers said, they hope to protect him.

Representative Earl Pomeroy, a Democrat from North Dakota and chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, said: “Steve Goss personifies the meaning of public service. He is viewed broadly in the halls of Congress as a vital asset — a trustworthy source for confidential and honest analysis on which Congress relies to make sound policy decisions.

“While the recession has had devastating effects on other sources of retirement income, like private savings, investments and employer-provided pensions, Social Security remains strong,” Mr. Pomeroy said, in part because lawmakers have relied on Mr. Goss’s projections.

Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, said: “The Social Security actuary plays the critical role of providing the real numbers and straight facts about the program and its trust fund, which is why it’s so critical for the actuary to be independent. For more than 30 years, Mr. Goss has produced valuable work trusted by members of Congress on both sides of the aisle.”

Representative David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said he shared that view.

In an interview, Mr. Goss said: “My goal is to maintain the absolute independence and integrity of the actuary’s office. We don’t countenance any influence of any type on our assumptions or our prognostications. Our estimates may not always be right, but they will never be biased.”

Mr. Astrue has expressed reservations about Mr. Goss’s performance in annual evaluations that could be used to justify action against him, lawmakers said.

The commissioner has complained, on occasion, of insubordinate conduct by Mr. Goss, who insists that he is simply trying to preserve the independence and integrity of the actuary’s office.

Mark Lassiter, a spokesman for Social Security, said he could not discuss confidential personnel matters. In a written statement, he said, “Everyone, including the commissioner, appreciates the work Steve and his office do for the agency.”

Like partners in a bad marriage, Mr. Goss and Mr. Astrue may be stuck with each other for a while. Under federal law, the chief actuary has an unusual degree of autonomy. The law says he shall perform his duties “in accordance with professional standards of actuarial independence” and can be removed from office “only for cause.”

The commissioner can be removed before his term ends only if the president finds “neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.”

The guarantees have never been tested. The degree of White House authority over the agency is also unclear, even to some government lawyers.

Actuaries often run into difficulty because they can deliver an unwelcome analysis that carries great weight.

In 2004, a furor erupted when lawmakers learned that a Bush administration official had threatened to fire the chief Medicare actuary if he provided Democrats with details of his cost estimates for a new prescription drug benefit.

Besides measuring the solvency of Social Security, Mr. Goss analyzes the cost of regulations developed by the Social Security Administration and legislative proposals drafted by the White House and members of Congress.
337 2010-07-11 ON this Pacific outpost, 2,200 miles west of the South American coast, hundreds of us have gathered, exchanging warm greetings and catching up on life since we last saw one another — in the Galápagos five years ago, or in Zambia nine years ago, or in Papua New Guinea 16 years ago. We are umbraphiles: having once stood in the umbra, the Moon’s shadow, during a solar eclipse, we are driven to do so again and again, whenever the Moon moves between the Earth and the Sun. In 1959, I saw my first eclipse. Sunday afternoon, I’ll see my 51st.

Some highlights from my log:

Eclipse No. 1, 1959: Aboard an airplane flying over the Massachusetts coast. As the full Moon covered the Sun and the sky darkened to black, the Sun’s corona outlined the Moon in white. I was hooked.

No. 3, 1970: In a cloudless sky over Miahuatlán, Mexico, south of Oaxaca. As eclipse darkness fell, the stars and planets came into view.

No. 5, 1973: An extraordinary seven-minute eclipse north of Timbuktu, Mali. In Kenya, where we observed, it lasted five minutes.

No. 19, 1992: I chartered a jet to fly an hour south of Cape Town, South Africa, and the view was clear and spectacular.
338 2010-07-11 WALKING through the stifling heat on Thursday night, just after LeBron James announced he was leaving Cleveland for Miami, I passed smokers in the parking lot of a sports bar, the sort of place where the beers are cheap, the televisions are enormous and there are plenty of both.

The smokers were jabbing their cigarette-laden hands into the humid air, cursing LeBron, a once-favorite son — he’s from nearby Akron — and now, in their eyes, a traitor. This wasn’t mere sports-fan ire; they were mourning their city. “Cleveland will never recover from this,” lamented one woman.

I wanted to reassure her, tell her we’ve survived worse. I’ve lived in Cleveland my whole life, and I’ve seen the city tie itself to one mercurial athlete after another. I remember blinking at the screen in disbelief when Earnest Byner made his famous fumble, losing the 1988 American Football Conference championship. The Browns’ head coach, Bill Belichick, could never push Cleveland to a Super Bowl, but he later led the New England Patriots to that hallowed match four times.

This is not to say that the LeBron experience didn’t come with an extra element of pain. LeBron James isn’t just another local athlete. He’s a hometown boy from the projects who made it big, and he made Cleveland feel big. With him on the court, every game was an event. He drove our economy, and we were proud of it: a huge billboard with an image of LeBron looking much like Jesus on the cross holds court above the intersection of West Huron Road and Ontario Street, the gateway to downtown.

It’s no wonder, then, that Clevelanders held out hope, right to the end. “I think he will stay,” David Lee Morgan, author of “LeBron James: The Rise of a Star,” told me before the announcement. “He could win championships and be God, or he could be a great loser. We’re used to losers here.”

Nor is it any wonder that, when he left, we turned on him. The only thing on the front page of Friday’s “LeBron James Edition” of The Cleveland Plain Dealer was a giant photo of him walking away, the word “Gone” to his right — and in a much smaller font, “7 years in Cleveland. No rings,” with an arrow pointing to his right hand.

The lack of a championship: if only he’d won a title for us, folks say, then it wouldn’t be so bad. It always comes down to that one breathless moment in Cleveland, with a fickle superstar putting a lump in everyone’s throat. Then the ball goes south, the screen goes black and the thrill is replaced with that familiar feeling of being let down.
339 2010-07-11 “I haven’t allowed myself to think about how close I am,” said the 39-year-old Larsen, who embarked on his adventure by departing for the South Pole on Nov. 16. He hopes to scale Everest by mid-October. “It’s a trick I learned from polar travel — focus only on the moment.”

For Larsen, the mission is not so much about glory as it is about raising awareness of global warming and the effects it is having on melting ice caps.

That includes educating people through social media as much as possible.

After each 11-hour day spent clomping over harsh terrain — pulling a sled loaded with 125 pounds of food, fuel and supplies — Larsen logged on to his solar-charged computer and recorded his thoughts.

He blogged, posted pictures and narrated podcasts, just to open a window into his world of ice.

“We get people to connect with these places, which many think are blank wastelands,” Larsen said.

He might have been the first person to send a Twitter message from the North Pole, typing into his mobile device upon arrival: “Standing on top of the world. Getting to the North Pole is the same as stopping Global Warming. Begin with one step.”

Larsen’s odyssey began when he was a hired guide leading a small outfit to the South Pole. He had hoped to finance his own crew, but given the tight economy, this was the only way to complete the first leg, which he estimated would have cost $200,000.

The trip took 48 days and covered roughly 750 miles with temperatures consistently around 15 below zero. The intense headwinds were the biggest hindrance, howling at 25 miles per hour and kicking up dangerous whiteouts.

“Traveling through the Antarctic is a combination of the hardest thing I ever did and watching paint dry,” Larsen said. “It’s not action-packed.”

On Jan. 2, his group reached the South Pole, too wiped out to really celebrate. The team members took photographs, gobbled down a quick breakfast and went to bed.

After that, Larsen returned home to unwind, throwing in a quick vacation to Mexico to lay on the beach before beginning his next stage.

“Just wanted to soak up the sun,” said Larsen, who splits time between Boulder and Grand Marais, Minn., when he is not off on expeditions. “I didn’t realize how worn out I was.”

To conquer the North Pole, Larsen enlisted the help of Darcy St. Laurent, a search-and-rescue technician for the Canadian Air Force, and Antony Jinman, a British explorer.

They arrived in the area of northern Ellesmere Island on March 2 for a trip that was supposed to cover 490 miles but actually wound up being closer to 550.

Unlike the South Pole, which is on a continent, the North Pole is reached by crossing the frozen Arctic Ocean. Larsen and his companions often lost up to two miles a day because of the movement of the ice.

The temperatures turned out to be cooler in the Arctic, too, regularly plunging to 30 below zero.

Sometimes they had to hop on floating chunks of ice in order to reach larger drifts.

And sometimes, they would even step into the bone-chilling water while skiing across the top of the ice.

Breaking through the ice — even bundled up in numerous base layers — meant having to abruptly stop and build camp to avoid hypothermia and frostbite.

For all the worries over weather and fretting over frostbite, there were also awe-inspiring moments when all the grinding work took a back seat.

Like when the three men heard a melodic humming rising up from below them as chunks of ice underneath the ocean collided.

It was a sound they will not soon forget.

“It was like a symphony,” St. Laurent said. “We just sat there and listened to this incredibly rhythmic music. With open water nearby, it was like you were at a cottage by the lake.

“Of course, it was a lot colder.”

The team reached the North Pole on April 22 — Earth Day.

Again, there was another muted celebration. They were just too cold, too wiped out.

“Getting to the North Pole is 10 times more difficult than the South,” said Larsen, who spent about $155,000 to reach his second goal. “The weather conditions were so sporadic — we would have snowstorms and then it would suddenly clear. But the icescape — it was just so beautiful.”

To prepare for his Everest excursion, Larsen has been climbing peaks such as Mount Rainier and going on five-mile hikes with a 50-pound pack.

His partner for this portion of the journey was going to be Aron Ralston, the adventurer renowned for amputating his right arm with a dull blade in 2003 after it was pinned by a half-ton boulder at the bottom of a canyon in Utah.

However, Ralston will not make the trek because he is getting ready to promote a movie based on his ordeal.

Instead, Larsen will enlist the help of local Sherpa guides.

In addition to training, Larsen also is giving presentations to corporations, trying to raise last-minute funds for a trip to Everest he estimates will cost nearly $100,000.

“I have a very meager life with terrible health insurance and no amenities whatsoever,” Larsen said, grinning. “But I’ve gotten to go on these expeditions, tell cool stories and connect people with these places.
340 2010-07-11 France defeated two-time defending Davis Cup champion Spain for the first time since 1923 when Michael Llodra and Julien Benneteau topped Fernando Verdasco and Feliciano López, 6-1, 6-2, 6-7 (6), 7-6 (5), to secure a 3-0 lead in the best-of-five quarterfinals Saturday in Clermont-Ferrand, France.

“It’s magical,” the French captain, Guy Forget, said. “I hope it’s just the start of a long story.”

Even without top-ranked Rafael Nadal, who sat out with sore knees, Spain arrived in France packed with players in the top 25, three of whom had played in the last two finals.

But after a first day in which Gaël Monfils and Llodra produced stunning singles wins, France kept on surprising when Llodra and Benneteau — playing only their second cup doubles together — humbled Verdasco and López in the first two sets and edged them in the fourth.

In the final tie breaker, Verdasco double-faulted at 3-2 to hand France a minibreak. Llodra slammed a service winner for a 6-3 lead and three match points. He converted France’s fourth match point with a volley.
341 2010-07-11 Edoardo Molinari of Italy shot an eight-under 63 to take a one-stroke lead into the final round of the Scottish Open at Loch Lomond.

Molinari was at 15-under 198 after an eagle and seven birdies. Darren Clarke of Northern Ireland was a shot back after a 67.

Molinari’s younger brother, Francesco, had a 67 and was tied for third with Peter Hedblom of Sweden (69) seven shots back. John Daly was in a three-way tie for ninth at four under after a 69.
342 2010-07-11 A top receiver and a starting linebacker are among three Southern Mississippi players arrested after reportedly refusing to leave when a police officer tried to disperse a large crowd at a pool party. The Hattiesburg American said that receivers DeAndre Brown (who had nine touchdown catches last season) and Johdrick Morris and linebacker Martez Smith were arrested Thursday. The Hattiesburg police spokesman Sgt. Allen Murray said they were booked for disorderly conduct, a misdemeanor.
343 2010-07-11 “We view frontier markets as attractively valued compared with emerging markets,” said Constantine Papageorgiou, a senior portfolio manager at Acadian Asset Management in Boston. “They didn’t participate in the huge run-up in 2009 that you saw in the emerging markets.”

Frontier investing is a new-enough phenomenon that professionals disagree on which countries make up the sector. Different managers and index providers include different names. The Claymore E.T.F., for example, has Chile and Poland among its top five holdings, though neither is part of the MSCI Frontier Index. The index includes such diverse countries as Argentina, Romania, Kenya and Kazakhstan. It rose 0.66 percent, including dividends, in the first six months this year, compared with a negative total return of 7.57 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. The frontier index has been helped along by positive returns in three of its important markets — Nigeria, Kuwait and Qatar.

Almost everyone, including MSCI, puts Nigeria in the frontier category. “I get people asking, ‘Who’s the next Brazil?’ ” said Adam J. Kutas, manager of the Fidelity Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa fund. “I answer without hesitation that it’s Nigeria,” because it also has a large population and a huge base of natural resources.

Nigeria holds hefty oil reserves — the world’s 10th largest, according to the Central Intelligence Agency. For years, its riches produced unrest, as residents of the oil-producing Niger Delta rebelled against what they saw as too small a share of the profits. Lately, the delta has stabilized, and the country, formerly a military dictatorship, has had several democratic transitions.

Rising commodity prices have helped Nigeria and several of the leading African economies, which tend to be resource-rich, says Paul Collier, director of the Center for the Study of African Economies at Oxford University. “These countries are the last frontier for natural resource discovery,” Professor Collier said. “With high commodity prices, it’ll all get discovered. ”

At the same time, policy makers in places like Nigeria have tamed hyperinflation and liberalized trade, he said. That combination of resource wealth and macro stability is attracting investors.

Many but not all of the frontier countries are richly endowed with commodities. As expected from economies on four continents, they’re diverse. Kazakhstan, for example, unearths oil, metals and mineral, while Argentina sells soybeans, corn and wheat. Vietnam excels at manufacturing.

Because of this diversity, their stock returns tend not to move in lock step with those in developed and emerging markets, Mr. Papageorgiou of Acadian said. They can zig when the developed world zags. And returns in the frontier regions even tend not to track one another.

“Eastern European markets will trade in line with each other but very differently from the African countries,” Mr. Papageorgiou said. Thus, a small frontier allocation can provide diversification in a portfolio.

All of this does not mean that these locales have become low-risk. “Some people think that noncorrelation means that frontier markets always will be up when everything else is down,” said Gregg I. Wolper, a senior fund analyst with Morningstar. “That’s not true. They’re not a miracle drug. In the bear market, they got hit hard, so it’s not that they’re protected.”

Some frontier countries remain more vulnerable to corruption and political crises than the typical developed market, said Darrell S. Zechman, a Chicago-based consultant with Towers Watson Investment Services. “They’re highly volatile, so you need a very long time horizon,” Mr. Zechman said.

Even so, he said he agreed with arguments for investing in them. “They’re relatively diverse, populous and growing fast,” he said. “They’re not fully established, but they do merit consideration. People were saying the same kinds of things about emerging markets 15 years ago.”

So what might be an appropriate frontier allocation for a long-term investor who already has a diversified portfolio and can tolerate the risks? Estimates from money managers who operate in the sector range from 2 to 5 percent.

But Mr. Wolper of Morningstar was skeptical about investing anything at all. “International funds and emerging market funds put very little money in frontier markets,” he said. “You can build a nice international portfolio without a frontier markets fund.”

Even if you believe that frontier countries will grow far faster than the developed world, you have to deal with the practicalities, including cost, of investing in them, he said. Frontier funds tend to be more expensive than average and have short records. “They could have great potential, but you can’t simply assume that you’ll get great returns,” Mr. Wolper said.

ANYONE who believes that frontier markets will rise relentlessly should recall 1978, said Mr. Kutas at Fidelity. That was when Time magazine named Deng Xiaoping, who led the overhaul of China’s economy, as its Man of the Year.

“That’s when the world came to the idea that China was opening, and that’s quite a few years ago,” Mr. Kutas said. Since then, the economy has boomed, but the stock market has been on a roller coaster — sagging, for example, during and after the Asian financial crisis that began in 1997. “What I’m saying is that a lot of these trends are true, but you can go through periods of sharp volatility.”
344 2010-07-11 AS the world economy struggles to recover from its various ailments, the international financial order is coming under increased scrutiny. Currencies and exchange rates, in particular, are getting a hard look.

Various pundits and politicians, including President Obama himself, have complained that the Chinese renminbi is undervalued and impeding a global recovery. The problems in Greece have caused many people to wonder whether the euro is a failed experiment and whether Europe’s nations would have been better off maintaining their own currencies.

In thinking about these issues, the place to start is what economists call the fundamental trilemma of international finance. Yes, trilemma really is a word. It has been a term of art for logicians since the 17th century, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, and it describes a situation in which someone faces a choice among three options, each of which comes with some inevitable problems.

What is the trilemma in international finance? It stems from the fact that, in most nations, economic policy makers would like to achieve these three goals:

Make the country’s economy open to international flows of capital. Capital mobility lets a nation’s citizens diversify their holdings by investing abroad. It also encourages foreign investors to bring their resources and expertise into the country.

Use monetary policy as a tool to help stabilize the economy. The central bank can then increase the money supply and reduce interest rates when the economy is depressed, and reduce money growth and raise interest rates when it is overheated.

Maintain stability in the currency exchange rate. A volatile exchange rate, at times driven by speculation, can be a source of broader economic volatility. Moreover, a stable rate makes it easier for households and businesses to engage in the world economy and plan for the future.

But here’s the rub: You can’t get all three. If you pick two of these goals, the inexorable logic of economics forces you to forgo the third.

In the United States, we have picked the first two. Any American can easily invest abroad, simply by sending cash to an international mutual fund, and foreigners are free to buy stocks and bonds on domestic exchanges. Moreover, the Federal Reserve sets monetary policy to try to maintain full employment and price stability. But a result of this decision is volatility in the value of the dollar in foreign exchange markets.

By contrast, China has chosen a different response to the trilemma. Its central bank conducts monetary policy and maintains tight control over the exchange value of its currency. But to accomplish these two goals, it has to restrict the international flow of capital, including the ability of Chinese citizens to move their wealth abroad. Without such restrictions, money would flow into and out of the country, forcing the domestic interest rate to match those set by foreign central banks.

Most of Europe’s nations have chosen the third way. By using the euro to replace the French franc, the German mark, the Italian lira, the Greek drachma and other currencies, these countries have eliminated all exchange-rate movements within their zone. In addition, capital is free to move among nations. Yet the cost of making these choices has been to give up the possibility of national monetary policy.

The European Central Bank sets interest rates for Europe as a whole. But if the situation in one country — Greece, for example — differs from that in the rest of Europe, that country no longer has its own monetary policy to address national problems.

Is there a best way to deal with this trilemma? Perhaps not surprisingly, many American economists argue for the American system of floating exchange rates determined by market forces. This preference underlies much of the criticism of China’s financial policy. It also led to skepticism when Europe started down the path toward a common currency in the early 1990s. Today, those euro skeptics feel vindicated by the problems in Greece.

But economists should be cautious when recommending exchange-rate policy, because it is far from obvious what is best. In fact, Americans’ embrace of floating exchange rates is relatively recent. From World War II to the early 1970s, the United States participated in the Bretton Woods system, which fixed exchange rates among the major currencies. Moreover, in 1998, as much of Asia was engulfed in a financial crisis, Robert E. Rubin, then the Treasury secretary, praised China’s exchange-rate policy as an “island of stability” in a turbulent world.

Even the euro experiment is based in part on an American model. Anyone taking a trip across the United States doesn’t need to change money with every crossing of a state border. A common currency among the 50 states has served Americans well. Europeans were aspiring for similar benefits.

TO be sure, Europe is different from the United States, which has a large central government that can redistribute resources among regions as needed. More important, our common language and heritage allow labor to move freely among regions in a way that will always be harder in Europe. The United States of Europe may have been too much to hope for.

Without doubt, the world financial system presents policy makers with difficult tradeoffs. Americans shouldn’t be too harsh when other nations facing the trilemma reach conclusions different from ours. In this area of economic policy, as well as many others, there is room for reasonable nations to disagree.
345 2010-07-11 “So I thought why not?” she said.

Nause, 55, paid the $150 entry fee for last month’s 18-hole event. When she appeared on the first tee, her playing partner asked why she was not competing in the Women’s Senior Open.

Because there isn’t one, she told him. His reply, Nause said, was, “Well, there ought to be,” which did not come across as magnanimous as it sounds.

“I kind of sensed that he thought there should be one so I wouldn’t be out there trying to take one of their spots,” she said.

Nause shot a 79 and missed qualifying by seven strokes.

“I didn’t come very close,” she said, “but I didn’t come in last.”

Nause, the men’s and women’s golf coach at Division III Macalester College in St. Paul, was the oldest competitor in this weekend’s United States Women’s Open at Oakmont Country Club, and to her great relief she did not come in last.

Joining her in the 156-player field were five other women who are at least 45, the minimum age for Legends Tour membership: Helen Alfredsson, Juli Inkster, Lorie Kane, Michele Redman and Sherri Steinhauer.

They continue to compete against players young enough to be their daughters because it beats trying to compete against men their age. And if they want to test themselves in a United States Golf Association competition, those are their only options.

The first time Amy Alcott, a member of the L.P.G.A. Tour and the World Golf Hall of Fame, broached the subject of a Women’s Senior Open with a U.S.G.A. official, she said she was told there were not enough older golfers for a competitive field.

Alcott, 54, laughed. “That was many, many years ago,” she said in a telephone interview. “A lot of us are now plenty old enough.”

The men’s United States Senior Open was first played in 1980, the same year the senior circuit now known as the Champions Tour was established. The success of that tour, fueled by the 51-year-old Arnold Palmer’s arrival in 1981, has extended the careers of marquee players while launching the professional golf careers of a host of middle-aged Walter Mittys.

Alcott, who won the United States Girls Junior Amateur and the United States Women’s Open, said a Women’s Senior Open would increase the Legends Tour’s visibility and provide middle-aged women with an incentive to keep their games sharp.

“You have to have a place to play,” Alcott said. “The players of my generation still want to play. The guys I grew up with, they’ve had a place to continue their careers. Why shouldn’t we have the same opportunity?”

She added: “I understand that in this economy getting the support and sponsorship is not an easy thing. But the U.S.G.A. is the watchdog of golf. They need to do the right thing.”

David Fay, the executive director of the U.S.G.A., said the organization had talked about adding a Senior Women’s Open.

“It’s been discussed formally most every year,” he said, adding: “I imagine there will be one at some point, but there are a lot of factors to consider. We have a certain standard for our championships in terms of the quality of the course, in terms of a meaningful purse, in terms of presenting it properly. So you factor in all of that. Right now we’re not there.”

He added, “You don’t want to have a standalone event like having Bjorn Borg and Jimmy Connors go out and bat it around using vintage rackets.”

Fay pointed out that the PGA had its senior championship decades before the U.S.G.A. introduced the Senior Open.

“The PGA Tour was fully supportive of this because that was in the genesis of creating what’s now known as the Champions Tour,” he said, adding, “Right now, the environment for women’s professional golf at the older level, it’s not truly a tour.”

The Legends Tour, which Jane Blalock, a 27-time winner on the L.P.G.A. Tour, founded in 2001, runs from August to November. There are six tournaments on this year’s schedule and Blalock, the tour’s chief executive and president, said she was in discussions to add events and sponsors.

Blalock said she knew there was an audience for older women golfers because of the number of fans at a one-day event in Rochester — featuring former greats like herself, Nancy Lopez, Sandra Haynie, Pat Bradley and Kathy Whitworth — that was held the week of the 2006 Wegmans Rochester L.P.G.A.

“They had 26,000 people show up,” Blalock said. “That was more than they had during the weekend.”

More recently, at the L.P.G.A. Championship near Rochester last month, Lopez, 53, the Palmer of women’s golf, attracted the largest galleries. With the youngest of her three daughters entering college this fall, Lopez is free, for the first time in two decades, to devote all her energies to golf. The desire is there, she said, but the opportunities are lacking.

“I’ve been working my butt off hitting balls and working on my swing a little bit,” she said.

Just think, Blalock said; if there were a Women’s Senior Open, Lopez could be crowned champion by the U.S.G.A., a professional coronation that eluded her in 25 Women’s Open appearances.

“There’s no doubt in my mind there will be a U.S. Women’s Senior Open,” Alcott said, “because Michelle Wie is going to be 45 someday and it might tickle her fancy, like it would mine, to have an event to play.”

In 2006, Wie made it to the final round of qualifying for the men’s United States Open. Four years later, Nause tried to blaze her own trail. What if it hadn’t grown cold and she had qualified?

“I don’t know if I actually would have played, to be honest with you,” she said, sheepishly, adding, “I’m not a rabble-rouser.”
346 2010-07-11 After he fainted on an escalator at the Madrid airport on Oct. 5, 2008, doctors discovered a malignant brain tumor above his right temple. He needed three operations, a dozen chemotherapy treatments, three weeks of intensive care and 12 weeks in the hospital plus two months of radiation late last year. He has been at home in Pedrena, on Spain’s northern coast where he grew up, for more than a year. Despite the loss of 75 percent of the vision in his left eye, he plays nine holes at nearby Royal Pedrena and at the nine-hole pitch-and-putt course on his 17-acre property.

Originally, he hoped to play in the 150th anniversary of the British Open that begins Thursday at St. Andrews. When he realized that wasn’t practical, he vowed to join the Champions Challenge on Wednesday when more than two dozen previous winners, including Arnold Palmer, Watson, Gary Player and Lee Trevino, will tee off in a four-hole event over the first, second, 17th and 18th holes. But late last month, Ballesteros decided not to go.

“I very much wanted to be at The British Open in St Andrews next month to personally thank all the golf fans and friends who have given me their support, not only during these two years, when I have been recovering from my illness but also to thank them for the affection they have shown me during my golf career,” he said in a statement. “I am aware that there might be people who have been preparing their trip to encourage and cheer me up. I do not want to disappoint anyone at the last minute and after listening to my doctors’ advice, I have taken the difficult decision not to travel to St. Andrews.”

It would not have been an easy trip; he is partially paralyzed on his left side.

“I don’t have very good balance because my left leg has lost some feeling,” he told Jaime Diaz of Golf Digest recently. “My left hand is worse. When I have something in the hand, the keys or a glass of water, I don’t know if I have it or not. Some of it might come back a little bit, but not like before.”

Yes, like before. When he was the Arnold Palmer of European golf, when he lifted the European Ryder Cup team to victories over the United States pros who for decades had dominated the matches. Especially when, as captain of the European team at the 1997 matches at Valderrama on the Costa del Sol, he was here, there and everywhere in his golf cart, exhorting his players and finally raising his right arm in triumph — the same right arm that he famously pumped on the final green at St. Andrews when he holed a 15-foot birdie putt to win the 1984 British Open. Ballesteros considers that putt and his reaction “the greatest moment” of his career. He made it his business logo. It’s on the front door of his home. It’s tattooed on his left forearm.

And maybe someday Seve Ballesteros will return to St. Andrews for the Champions Challenge, pump his right arm when a putt falls, and play four holes in another burst of genius.
347 2010-07-11 The failure to disclose that relationship before the trial “provides an overriding reason why the convictions should be set aside,” Myron Beldock, the lawyer who is leading Mr. Wagstaffe’s appeal, wrote in a court filing earlier this year.

The Brooklyn district attorney’s office, which brought the charges and is now defending the conviction, said in its court papers that the witness’s history showed that she “had a track record of providing accurate information to police in other cases.” Joyce Slevin, an assistant district attorney, argued that the information would not have helped the defense anyway. She also said the witness, Brunhilda Capella, got no favors from the authorities.

The trial was delayed for three days while detectives hunted for Ms. Capella, who was going through heroin withdrawal. When she was found, she was held as a material witness.

The case began around dawn on Jan. 1, 1992, with the discovery of the body of Jennifer Negron, 16, on a street in East New York, Brooklyn. Ms. Capella testified that at 3:15 a.m. she had seen Mr. Wagstaffe open a car door and throw Ms. Negron into the front seat, next to Mr. Connor. She did not report the abduction, but said that she later led detectives to the place where the car was parked.

Inside the car was a glove with a spot of blood and a headband that appeared similar to one that was worn by Ms. Negron. At the trial, the prosecution said that Ms. Capella’s identification of the car, and what appeared to be Ms. Negron’s headband, were proof that Ms. Capella was telling the truth.

Neither of the lawyers representing Mr. Wagstaffe or Mr. Connor spoke with the owner of the car, a middle-aged woman who years later said that on the night of the killing she had used her car to drive to a New Year’s church service, where it was blocked in by double parkers. Had the defense lawyers spoken with her, they might have argued that it could not have been used in the abduction, and therefore did not corroborate Ms. Capella’s testimony. Ultimately, a judge said there was no evidence connecting Mr. Wagstaffe and Mr. Connor to the murder of Ms. Negron, but both men were convicted of kidnapping.

In 2004, Mr. Wagstaffe asked that the physical evidence collected from the body of Ms. Negron — fingernail scrapings, blood and hair — be tested to see if any trace of his DNA could be found. Five years later, some of the tests excluded Mr. Wagstaffe and Mr. Connor, and pointed to another person as the source. The prosecution said that the other material had degraded too much to say with certainty that the two men were not involved.

Mr. Wagstaffe, in the meantime, has tried without success to have the authorities locate the headband from the car and the victim’s bloody clothing.

“I want them to find every article of clothing and test every last thing,” Mr. Wagstaffe said. “It will show that I had nothing to do with it.”
348 2010-07-11 Anyone who has ever used a Ped Egg to battle a callus or cleared a car’s glass with the Windshield Wonder has contributed to A. J. Khubani’s self-proclaimed status as the “infomercial king.” Mr. Khubani, 50, is the president of TeleBrands, a New Jersey-based telemarketing Goliath that he conjured in 1983 after seeing a magazine advertisement for a cheap but functional digital watch. He lives in Saddle River, N.J., with his wife, Poonam, and two of their three children. ROBIN FINN

COFFEE, MAIL, SHAKE I sleep in a little, until about 8, and then I have a cup of coffee, read the paper, go through the mail, and prepare for my workout with a protein shake. My coffee is Dunkin’ Donuts. Three mediums with milk every day. I tried Starbucks when it was the big new deal, but I went back to Dunkin’.

TRAINING, BRAINSTORMING These days I’ve been spending my Sunday mornings with some people who are trying to develop a new fitness program based on diet and exercise. Right now, it’s just called “the program.” I’m trying to figure out a way to market it. From 10 to 11, the program people come here to train me and my wife; it’s like they’re trying the exercises out on us. From 11 to 12 we sit around and do some brainstorming.

DRIVE TIME The rest of the afternoon I probably spend doing something with the kids; the oldest is 23 and lives in the city, so we might go in and have brunch at Pastis in the meatpacking district, or go to Harry Cipriani by Central Park and take a walk in the park if it’s nice weather. Sometimes my son, Jahan, who’s 15, may just want to go for a drive with me in one of my cars. I’ve got four. My wife has her own.

SELL LOW-TECH, BUY HIGH-TECH In business, I’d say I’m in a pretty low-tech niche. The products I sell need to deliver on the promise of being simple solutions for everyday problems. When I get pitched a product, I like to be able to understand it in the first five seconds. Like the Windshield Wonder: What could be more low-tech than a 16-inch plastic rod with microcloth on the end? We’ve sold seven million. But my favorite car, and definitely Jahan’s favorite, is my Lamborghini. Not a low-tech machine. The rearview visibility is a challenge; whenever I back out of a parking space, I just go really slow and hope that if anyone’s coming they’ll beep their horn.

GREEK FOR DINNER We usually have dinner in the city on Friday and Saturday nights, so on Sundays we go out locally for a light dinner at Varka: fresh seafood, Greek salads, no drinks or desserts. Why is it that when you reach a certain age, you can eat one five-ounce dessert and put on two pounds? It shouldn’t be true, but it is.

HOMEWORK AND A DOCUMENTARY My wife reviews my son’s homework; our two daughters never needed it, but we have to hold his hand a little bit to be sure the homework is done. Depending on the season, I might watch a little sports: the Giants, Yankees or Devils. I like to watch news programs; the special documentaries CNBC did on businesses like Apple and McDonald’s were really interesting to me. Anyway, I guess you could say our Sundays are boring, but for us, it’s a recharging day. And at 10, it’s over.
349 2010-07-11 After half a century of distrust and outright enmity, Cuba and the United States are separated by perhaps the widest 90 miles on earth. Our near-but-far, far-but-near relationship comes through repeatedly in the striking paintings, photographs and sculptures that make up “Cuba Avant-Garde,” the new show at the Katonah Museum of Art.

Subtitled “Contemporary Cuban Art From the Farber Collection,” this lively, wide-ranging exhibition bristles with artistic energy and cultural contradictions.

Equally exposed to the iconography of the Soviet Union and the United States, Cuban artists borrow freely from both. Eduardo Ponjuán González and René Francisco Rodríguez Hérnandez, who work in tandem as Ponjuán-René Francisco, illustrate this tension in “Outside Cuba Inside,” a 1993 oil painting that juxtaposes bright propaganda images from Russia (a cheery peasant woman from a Malevich painting) and America (Norman Rockwell’s Rosie the Riveter), with Cuba symbolically caught in the middle.

Irony would seem to be a birthright for artists who, steeped in a communitarian island culture, have become global art celebrities. On the one hand, they live under a repressive Communist dictatorship — see the images Ángel Delgado inked onto handkerchiefs in the 1990s, after being jailed for a scatological work of performance art. On the other, they currently operate in a kind of alternate economy, free to earn dollars by selling their work abroad.

The pieces in “Cuba Avant-Garde” were made between 1983 and 2004, a period of ferment not just in Cuban art but in Cuba. The flowering of an avant-garde scene in the early ’80s was followed by the “special period,” the economic crisis — and crackdown — resulting from the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989. Many artists fled; many artists stayed. In both cases, the work in this show often reflects an almost obsessive investigation into what the exhibition catalog calls “Cubanidad.”

Evidence of Cuba’s folk art traditions can be seen in the simple forms, basic colors and rural subject matter of Manuel Mendive Hoyo’s “The Sons of Water, Talking to a Fish” (“Los Hijos del Agua, Conversando con un Pez”), a 2001 sculpture whose charmingly polka-dotted fisherman and huge open-mouthed fish commune in a small boat atop a rippling blue sea. For an American, it calls to mind Ernest Hemingway’s Cuba-set novella “The Old Man and the Sea,” but in fact the work references the animism of an African-based religion to which Mr. Mendive adheres.

Fernando Rodríguez Falcón taps into the same traditions and naïve style, but to more mordant and ironic ends. In “Nuptial Dream” (“Sueño Nupcial”), his 1994 series of carved and painted wood panels, a young Fidel Castro marries Our Lady of Charity of El Cobre, Cuba’s patron saint. But the wedding is presented not as fact or myth but as the dream of Mr. Rodriguez’s alter ego, a blind Cuban peasant who, like Mr. Mendive, lived through Mr. Castro’s revolution. To Mr. Rodriguez, born in 1970, the revolution is ancient history, subject to re-evaluation.
350 2010-07-11 ANDREW GRABOWSKI, 20, and his brother, Nick, 18, both of Centerport, have iPods. But when they get bored, they do what generations of music fans did before them: “It’s like, ‘Let’s go to the record store!’ ” Andrew said last month at the Long Island Vinyl Exchange here. Behind him was an eight-foot-high wall of shelves running the length of the store and filled with thousands of albums — not CDs, but vinyl LPs arranged with their jacket spines showing, like books in a library.

“You come here, and you look at the old stuff, and it’s like looking at a piece of history,” Andrew said.

Nick was nearby, holding a 1981 copy of Ozzy Osbourne’s “Blizzard of Ozz,” one of three albums he bought that day. They’re “a work of art,” Nick said. “They have this beautiful cover art, and they play at a much higher quality than your iPod.”

Sentiments like the Grabowskis’ reflect a resurgence of interest in vinyl recordings, those big, cumbersome things once banished to dusty attics by all but audiophile diehards. Though a tiny fraction of the total music market, vinyl album sales were up 33 percent in 2009 over the previous year, to 2.5 million, according to Nielsen Soundscan.

Taking advantage of this heightened interest, as well as the recession-prompted decline in commercial rents, the Long Island Vinyl Exchange opened last November, joining the ranks of stores specializing in the format. Before then, “we wanted to open a shop, but the rents were astronomical,” said John DeSimone, 46, who runs the store with his wife, Jessica, 24.

Once a month, the DeSimones host “Live at L.I.V.E,” a rock and pop concert series. The May concert, for example, drew an intergenerational crowd that sat on folding chairs and a large couch, listening to four acts from the metropolitan area, ranging from alternative country to pop-rock and bluesy folk. Mr. DeSimone, a man of high-octane energy, was shepherding the artists, ringing up some sales and even sending out for emergency plastic cutlery for the pasta buffet.
351 2010-07-11 Over the course of eight years Henri Matisse worked on the painting “Bathers by a River.” Carol Vogel writes: Until recently art historians had no clear idea of exactly how changes in a work were developed. Now those mysteries have been largely solved, thanks to an extraordinary array of technologies deployed in putting together “Matisse: Radical Invention, 1913-1917,” an exhibition that opens next week at the Museum of Modern Art, and which was organized by John Elderfield, chief curator emeritus at the Museum of Modern Art, and Stephanie d’Alessandro, the curator of modern art at the Art Institute of Chicago. The show offers a rare opportunity to look beneath the surface of Matisse’s work to see a creative evolution that until now only his eyes had witnessed. Exhibition Web Site
352 2010-07-11 They had 428 square feet, Dr. Ryan said. The bedroom, a rectangle of 8 by 10 feet, was so small they had to place the bed against a wall.

As one of 11 siblings, Dr. Ryan had shared a bedroom with two brothers, but even he thought the bedroom was tight. If the couple rose at different times, one would have to crawl over the other. Retrieving an earring dropped under the bed was a project, and changing the sheets a chore. Their dog, Jojo, couldn’t turn around in the cramped bedroom. Every morning, Jojo would walk in, lick them, back out, turn and “hit me across the face with his tail,” Dr. Ryan said.

The Ryans were unhappy renters. In Dayton, Dr. Ryan’s one-bedroom had cost $300 a month. “So,” he said, “paying $1,600 a month for a one-bedroom and getting gouged on everything else, it upset me. I felt I was constantly being ripped off — buying groceries, buying flowers for my wife, buying dog food.”

The couple soon began hunting for a home to buy, one with space for guests, Jojo and a bed that they could get out of easily.

Dr. Ryan was preapproved for a mortgage under a physician loan program, which allowed for a minimal down payment and took into account his large student loan balances.

As for price, the lower the better. They didn’t mind a commute. Dr. Ryan said he preferred “to sleep on a train as opposed to renting for another year.”

Last November, the Ryans saw a two-bedroom co-op in a walkup building on West 134th Street for $199,000. The place was in such disrepair that they barely made it past the doorway. It was advertised as being in Morningside Heights near Columbia University’s new Manhattanville campus. But this didn’t seem to be the Morningside Heights they had read about.

They were confused by the loose definition of neighborhoods, as when West Harlem was called Morningside Heights and Bushwick referred to as East Williamsburg. Agents often told them, “You can be pioneers here,” Dr. Ryan said. “But we didn’t want to be pioneers. We just wanted to buy a home.”

Their financing fell through when their bank stopped lending in the New York area. Other lenders turned them down because of his student loans. Dr. Ryan eventually found a mortgage, and the two raised their price to the low $300,000s from the $200,000s.

Visiting open houses “was like exploring the city,” Ms. Ryan said. It could have been fun, except for the weather. It was her first experience of North American winter. No matter how much she bundled up, she was always freezing.

In February they found a one-bedroom place at Ishi Living in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, for around $330,000. But they soon heard the developer of the condominiums was being sued by investors. (The case has now been settled.)

Ms. Ryan, thinking of applying to graduate school, scheduled the Test of English as a Foreign Language. The testing center was near Journal Square in Jersey City. The Ryans had no idea where that was. They looked it up on Google Maps.

The PATH train trip was quick, and the area felt “not fancy or glamorous, but normal,” Ms. Ryan said. “This is like the United States. We joke about how New York is not the United States — it is totally different.”

They immediately checked it out. Online, they found plenty of information about Jersey City and neighboring Hoboken, “so every question we had was answered nicely,” Dr. Ryan said. They scheduled some appointments and, after walking around Hoboken, “I knew this is where we wanted to be,” he said.

They soon found a newly remodeled one-bedroom in a small prewar building. Listed at $344,000, it included a back deck and a yard for Jojo, something they “didn’t even think would be a possibility,” Dr. Ryan said. After months of paperwork and several rescheduled closing dates, they bought it for $327,000. The monthly charge is less than $250.

The Ryans arrived in early May. Now, “we have a bed with two sides,” Ms. Ryan said. Jojo romps in the yard with such enthusiasm that he has torn up the grass.

They never knew there were options besides Manhattan or the other boroughs. “Nobody told us about this place on the other side of the river,” Ms. Ryan said. “This is like a life lesson — we need to see the big map.”

Though sirens blare on their way to Hoboken University Medical Center, the Ryans mask the noise with air conditioning. Dr. Ryan’s attitude: “If I’m in the ambulance, I want the sirens on.”

They enjoy the hominess of their new neighborhood which, despite its small scale, has everything they need. They liked the variety of restaurants on the Upper East Side, and “it is the same here,” Ms. Ryan said. “You can’t find 10 different Thai restaurants but you can find two, and this is enough.”
353 2010-07-11 AROUND 1913 seemed to be at the top of his game. In his mid-40s he was, at last, an international star, despite American critics who pronounced his new brand of modernism coarse or vulgar because, they said, he made naked women seem beastly.

Having returned to from in the spring of 1913, he began creating paintings that were simpler and more layered than the boldly colorful, sun-filled canvases that had been his signature. At the same time he started dipping his toe into Cubism, which was in full flower with younger artists like Juan Gris, Georges Braque and, of course, , whom Matisse began to see a lot during those years.

While he admired Cubism for its inventivness, the more instinctive Matisse was also suspicious of its intellectual emphasis. At the same time he also admired the work of — in particular his carefully constructed compositions — as Matisse began to reconsider his own working methods and fundamental ideas about making .

The years that followed proved to be a time of enormous change for Matisse. With life in Paris made difficult by World War I, he started experimenting with neutral shades, in particular blacks and grays, as well as with geometric shapes and daringly austere compositions. By 1917, however, he had moved to Nice and re-emerged as another kind of painter, abandoning the Cubist approach and adopting a style closer to Impressionism, painting soft women in cozy interiors as well as smaller, almost romantic canvases, now rendered through a harder, more modernist and reductive lens.

“He felt he’d done what he set out to do and thought it was crucial to keep changing,” said John Elderfield, chief curator emeritus at the . “He didn’t want to become a prisoner of that style.”

Although art historians could always track the changes of that period by studying his paintings in progression, one by one, until recently they had no clear idea of exactly how those changes were developed: how much hands-on experimenting went into the new work and what formal processes of study, revision and rejection were involved. Now those mysteries have been largely solved, thanks to an extraordinary array of technologies deployed in putting together “Matisse: Radical Invention, 1913-1917,” an exhibition that opens next week at the Museum of Modern Art. The show offers a rare opportunity to look beneath the surface of Matisse’s work to see a creative evolution that until now only his eyes had witnessed.
354 2010-07-11 Brenda Wineapple has spent much of her own literary career writing about writers: from her first book, “Genêt: A Biography of Janet Flanner,” published in 1989, to her most recent, “White Heat: The Friendship of Emily Dickinson and Thomas Wentworth Higginson,” which was a finalist for the 2008 National Book Critics Circle award for biography. Now director of the Leon Levy Center for Biography at the Graduate School of the City University of New York, Wineapple has written about a diverse array of poets from John Greenleaf Whittier to Gertrude Stein.

But has she ever been tempted to give herself the freer hand of fiction, as Michael Sledge does in “The More I Owe You,” the novel about Elizabeth Bishop that she reviews in this issue.

Turning the friendship of Dickinson and Higginson into a novel “did occur to me,” she confessed in a recent e-mail message. “But I soon came to my senses. For me, the excitement in writing about a life lies in discovering what’s completely unpredictable and yet true. Although I’ve chosen a different route, I still admire the magical ventriloquism of historical novels. Think how hard it must be to write a novel about a poet, of all people — since poets already live in their own language.”
355 2010-07-11 COPENHAGEN is making news these days. Beyond clichéd tourist sites like the Little Mermaid and Tivoli amusement park, the Danish capital has emerged as one of the most eco-minded and creative cities in Northern Europe. Top-notch contemporary art is proliferating, and a fledgling fashion scene is starting to take off. After dark, a bevy of innovative restaurants has burnished Scandinavia’s gastronomic credentials, most notably Noma, which in April was ranked first on the S. Pellegrino World’s 50 Best Restaurants list. Meanwhile, upstart jazz and world music clubs are creating a night life without borders. And when it’s time to stagger home, Copenhagen finally obliges: the futuristic, driverless Metro is now open all day and night.

No neighborhood shows off Copenhagen’s new sheen and ambition more impressively than Orestad. Five years ago, it was basically a barren flatland on the route to the airport. Today the district is a futuristic, master-planned community of state-of-the-art architecture. The elevated Metro whisks you past the soaring blue tower of the Cabinn Metro Hotel designed by Daniel Libeskind; the solar-panel-clad Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers; and, perhaps most notable, the Copenhagen Concert Hall (Emil Holms Kanal 20; 45-35-20-30-40; dr.dk/koncerthuset) designed by Jean Nouvel. The glowing blue cubelike exterior contains several concert spaces, including an auditorium with a jagged, orange interior that looks carved from desert rock.

Young chefs are championing Nordic ingredients, pushing Copenhagen to the forefront of Northern European gastronomy. If you can’t get into Noma, the only new restaurant in town to get a Michelin star this year was A.O.C. (2 Dronningens Tvaergade; 45-33-11-11-45; restaurantaoc.dk), where the chef Ronny Emborg, a veteran of El Bulli, jazzes up rustic Danish ingredients like lumpfish roe, veal and cranberries. Highlights include roasted lamb served in walnut oil with crunchy razor-thin apple slices and tiny forest mushrooms. For dessert, try the red beetroot ice cream, which comes on a bed of black licorice pellets. Four courses are 550 kroner, or about $92 at 6 Danish kroner to the dollar. The curvy, cavernous white complex of rooms is filled nightly with black-clad couples and suited businessmen.

Grow your goatee and don your beret: a jazz legend has returned to Copenhagen. During the 1960s and early ’70s, the Jazzhus Montmartre club was one of the high temples of the European jazz scene, drawing legendary talents like Miles Davis and Dexter Gordon for extended stays. The club closed in 1976, then made periodic efforts to reopen in other locations but eventually fell silent in the 1990s. It’s now back in its original location (Store Regnegade 19A; 45-70-15-65-65; jazzhusmontmartre.dk), and its comeback has been greeted with great fanfare. The stage in the revamped airy, white space has already attracted marquee names like the saxophonist Bill Evans and the pianist Abdullah Ibrahim.

With 9 in 10 Danish adults owning a bike, according to the Cycling Embassy of Denmark, an organization that promotes biking, Copenhagen is among the most bicycle-crazy cities on the planet. That means sightseeing on the saddle is a snap. Pedal to the lush and grassy Assistens Kirkegaard cemetery (burial place of Hans Christian Andersen and Soren Kierkegaard), where many Danes picnic and lie out under the summer sun. Or cruise to the city center to admire the exterior of the stately Amalienborg Palace (Slotsplads; 45-33-40-10-10; www.ses.dk/en.aspx), where Queen Margrethe II lives, and the Dutch Renaissance-style stock exchange (Borsen), with its dragon-tail spire. For a knockout view of the city’s orange-tile roofs and green copper domes, climb up the gilded candy-twist spire of Vor Frelsers Kirke (Sankt Annae Gade 29; www.vorfrelserskirke.dk/english), a 17th-century church in the historical Christianshavn district. Baisikeli (Turesensgade 10; 45-26-70-02-29; cph-bike-rental.dk) has rentals from 50 kroner for a half-day.
356 2010-07-11 She declined to reveal those feelings but said that her Stage Manager’s bonds with the other women onstage “adds a new, and I think interesting, resonance” to the play, particularly in Act III, when Emily turns to the Stage Manager for help in understanding the living and the dead.

“I have a place to draw on for that conversation with Emily, a real authority I think, as a woman speaking to another woman about looking back on life. And also because I’m an actor with a longstanding date with this play.”

Put another way, Ms. Hunt is perhaps the only Stage Manager who has ever also been Emily. At the age of 25 she replaced Penelope Ann Miller in the role for the Lincoln Center Theater production on Broadway during the 1988-89 season, which starred Spalding Gray as the Stage Manager. She recalled the experience fondly, though her voice halted with emotion when she described her experience during her Act III conversations with Gray, who died by suicide in 2004.

As a result of the Broadway production, Ms. Hunt said, the rhythms of the play felt like second nature when she began rehearsals with the director, David Cromer, who also was the first Stage Manager in the production. They worked together for several days in a rehearsal room at the Goodman Theater in Chicago, where Mr. Cromer lives, sometimes bringing in an actress for Ms. Hunt to play off. They moved fairly quickly through the practical aspects of Act I, where the Stage Manager essentially takes the audience on a tour of the setting, Grover’s Corners, N.H., and then bore down on the more emotionally intense second and third acts.

If Ms. Hunt had any struggles with the role during rehearsals, Mr. Cromer said, he did not see them.

“What’s most required for the part is a confidence to just say the words as written, plainly and forcefully, and not try to twist the words into sounding part of some deeply thought-out performance,” Mr. Cromer said. “I’ve long admired Helen as an actor who seems kind of warm but kind of dark, kind of wry and mischievous but also kind of somber, and who can swing back and forth between those places.”

Casting a movie and television star like Ms. Hunt, especially one with an Oscar (for “As Good As It Gets”) and four Emmy Awards (for the 1990s series “Mad About You”), is fashionable in today’s Hollywood-driven Broadway culture, but it might seem at first to be out of sync with Mr. Cromer’s no-frills, fuss-free “Our Town.” The production has its actors wear regular clothes, uses little in the way of a set and leaves the lights at normal level through most of the play.

But those qualities were what captivated Ms. Hunt, who last appeared on a New York stage in “Life x 3” on Broadway in 2003 and who saw “Our Town” last year at the behest of her friend Bill Gerber, one of its producers. Mr. Cromer was still playing the Stage Manager then; Jason Butler Harner, Michael Shannon and Michael McKean have subsequently had extended runs in the part, with understudies briefly filling in between recastings.

Ms. Hunt’s career has quieted over the last decade after a burst of films, like “What Women Want,” “Cast Away,” and “Pay It Forward.” Motherhood has dominated, she said, and she also spent several years developing the film “Then She Found Me” (2007), her directorial debut, which drew mixed reviews and did little business. Loath to spend time away from her daughter, she said, she was “increasingly picky about choosing work with good writing” and cited the Stage Manager as a role that met that high bar.

“I’m not joining this production because I saw a huge career move in spending the summer in July doing this play — though I did want to play Portia in ‘The Merchant of Venice’ in the park but couldn’t get them interested,” she said, referring to the Public Theater’s current Central Park production, which features Lily Rabe as Portia. “But this production is my kind of production, the way it strips away everything and just leaves the audience with these actors and the story.”

Jean Doumanian, another “Our Town” producer, said that she had wanted to cast a woman as the Stage Manager for some time, simply because the part was so well known as a male role. She and Mr. Cromer both noted that the Wilder estate and the text of the play are open to interpretive casting for that central role, and Mr. Cromer said he was instantly excited by the idea of Ms. Hunt when she was among several men and women batted around as future Stage Managers.

“I’ve seen women in the part before, so I didn’t think of it as a stunt,” he said. “And with Helen I knew we weren’t doing a stunt or casting someone just to sell a lot of tickets. I knew she had this role in her bones.”

Ms. Hunt, who is scheduled to appear in “Our Town” through Aug. 1, said she felt the time was especially right for her to do the play because she was starting to notice the way that life’s distractions were beginning to creep into her daughter’s world.

“We don’t let her watch TV, and she’s in a school that’s all about crayons and imagination, but I can feel that life is beginning to land on her, beginning to intrude, and I’ll have less and less control over what she experiences,” Ms. Hunt said. “A lot of this reminds me of ‘Our Town.’ There’s heartbreak, fear, relationships that are unsatisfying, and people will let you down. And you wake up and make coffee and iron clothes and get through the day. And then, if all goes well, you grow old and, by the way, you die.”

“I played Emily as a young woman, and now I’m playing the Stage Manager in my 40s, when the play has resonance with my relationship with my daughter,” she added. “In 20 years I’ll probably be playing the undertaker.”
357 2010-07-11 To the Sports Editor:     The definition of a LeBron: a mega-unit of media saturation from which not even the nonobserver may escape. Also, a nearly infinite positive value inversely proportional to the unimportance of the displayed entertainment....
358 2010-07-12 The Yankees signed well over 100 free agents during George Steinbrenner's tenure. Here are some of the notable signings and how well they did for the Yankees based on the wins-above-replacement statistic. It measures the number of wins the player added to a team above what a replacement player (bench or class AAA player) would add.

Chart shows each player’s wins-above-replacement,

a metric used to gauge a players overall effectiveness.
359 2010-07-12 With three Republicans on board, Democrats have the votes they need to pass legislation....
360 2010-07-12 Not letting a column disappear....
361 2010-07-12 It's not about inflation....
362 2010-07-12 Our 180 mile tour of 11 colleges and universities this first week of this counselor bike reinforced our belief that there are numerous colleges and universities from which to choose, any one of which could be a great fit for our students....
363 2010-07-12 Senator Scott Brown's statement means that Democrats may be able to finish the bill this week....
364 2010-07-12 A watchdog group finds that many aid groups soliciting aid for Haiti are slow to describe their work on the ground....
365 2010-07-12 Johnson & Johnson said Monday that it would buy the medical device maker Micrus Endovascular Corporation for about $480 million in cash....
366 2010-07-12 The inattentiveness of those engrossed with MP3 players, cell phones and other similar devices....
367 2010-07-12 The market for treating strokes has grown hotter in recent months....
368 2010-07-12 A federal judge has slashed damages in a closely watched music downloading case, to $67,500 from $675,000....
369 2010-07-12 The new Republican senator from Massachusetts says he is ready to vote yes on financial regulation....
370 2010-07-12 Marvel Studios said it needed "an actor who embodies the creativity and collaborative spirit of our other talented cast members" for "The Avengers."...
371 2010-07-12 Why shopping for luxury brands online is getting easier, advice for playing at a private golf club and other consumer-focused items from Monday's Times....
372 2010-07-12 A commission on nuclear waste established to seek alternatives to Yucca Mountain will hold two days of hearings this week....
373 2010-07-12 The heart of stop-and-frisk city, a new burger joint, those vanishing cigarette machines and more....
374 2010-07-12 The Swiss justice ministry said "it was not possible to exclude with the necessary certainty a fault" in the extradition request from the United States....
375 2010-07-12 Since the start of the year, our inquiry stream has been more than I can handle. This looks like a real recovery to me....
376 2010-07-12 Banco Santander of Spain announced Monday that it has agreed to buy SEB's German retail banking business to in a deal worth 555 million euros ($702 million)....
377 2010-07-12 How to use a real keyboard with an iPod Touch....
378 2010-07-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
379 2010-07-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
380 2010-07-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
381 2010-07-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
382 2010-07-12 Argentina and Serbia wrapped up Davis Cup quarterfinal victories on the road Sunday to join France and the Czech Republic in the tournament’s last four.

David Nalbandian beat Mikhail Youzhny, 7-6 (5), 6-4, 6-3, in the deciding match in Moscow to clinch Argentina’s 3-2 win over Russia, which lost at home for the first time since 1996. Argentina will travel to France, which completed a 5-0 victory against defending champion Spain. The French, who have won the Davis Cup nine times, dealt Spain its first 5-0 Davis Cup loss since 1957, when the team lost to South Africa.

In Split, Croatia, second-ranked Novak Djokovic defeated Marin Cilic, 6-3, 6-3, 6-2, to give Serbia an unassailable 3-1 lead. Janko Tipsarevic then beat Antonio Veic, 6-2, 7-6 (5), to complete the victory, which advanced Serbia to its first Davis Cup semifinal. The Serbs will host the Czech Republic in September. Chile won one of the reverse singles matches in a 4-1 loss to the Czech Republic, which had secured the victory by surging to a 3-0 lead Saturday.
383 2010-07-12 ¶Family Dollar Stores, Matthews, N.C., which operates more than 6,700 stores in 44 states, chose Bernstein-Rein Advertising, Kansas City, Mo., as its first agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. Bernstein-Rein, which is a former creative agency for Wal-Mart Stores, will handle tasks for Family Dollar like creative, media planning and buying, and digital work.

¶Easton Sports, Van Nuys, Calif., which sells baseball, softball, hockey and lacrosse equipment, named Agency Two Fifteen, San Francisco, as its agency for branding work. Billings were not disclosed. Easton previously worked with various agencies on projects and other assignments. Agency Two Fifteen was recently formed by the reorganization of T.A.G., a unit of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and operates as an autonomous unit of Interpublic, working with the McCann Worldgroup on assignments that need an international presence.

¶Rob Palmer joined Razorfish West, part of the Razorfish unit of the Publicis Groupe, as a creative director. He had most recently run his own agency, Mitchell & Palmer, Boise, Idaho, and before that worked for agencies like Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, and Wieden & Kennedy. Mr. Palmer will remain in Boise and also work from the Razorfish offices in Portland, Ore., and Seattle.

¶Rebecca Moody, senior planner at the London office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas, was promoted to head of planning. She succeeds Alison Ashworth, who left to pursue other interests, the agency said.

¶The New York office of Framestore opened a film division, with its first major project the movie “Salt” with Angelina Jolie. Sarah Dowland, visual effects executive producer at Framestore New York, will oversee the new division.

¶The Maiden Media Group, Princeton, N.J., a digital marketing agency, was opened by Tusar Barik, Kevin Barnes, Zain Haseeb and Amol Waishampayan.
384 2010-07-12 WASHINGTON (AP) — Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Sunday that the Obama administration was still working through a number of issues in determining a site for the trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the self-described mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, and four co-defendants.

Mr. Holder said administration officials were taking into account the need for Congress to approve financing and were trying to address concerns expressed by local officials. Last year, Mr. Holder proposed trying Mr. Mohammed and the four people suspected of being his accomplices in federal civilian courts in New York City, but that generated a storm of controversy.

As soon as the administration can resolve the outstanding issues, Mr. Holder said in an interview on “Face the Nation” on CBS, “we will make a decision as to where that trial will occur.”

He added that “the politicization of this issue, when we’re dealing with ultimate national security issues, is something that disturbs me a great deal.”

Mr. Holder said questions remained about whether terrorism suspects could face the death penalty if they entered a guilty plea before a military commission.
385 2010-07-12 The Federal Trade Commission has an opportunity to reach a settlement in the litigation over Intel’s dominance in the microchip industry, an important sector of the American economy. It has until July 22 to do so. It is crucial that the agency get it right.

Merely forcing Intel to stop behavior that has hindered competition in the industry will not do. The F.T.C. must close off Intel’s ability to leverage its near monopoly in C.P.U. chips to foreclose competition in other fast-developing technologies. While the agency cannot foresee every tactic that might smother competition, its objective should be to lower the barriers to entry for new competitors.

Such a deal, however, would probably require imposing structural changes, like forcing Intel to license the technology to its x86 chips — the cornerstone of the computer architecture — on reasonable terms so rivals can design processors that will operate smoothly on Intel’s platform. Intel may resist, but there is no point reaching a settlement if it cannot protect future innovation. If the company will not agree to these changes, the F.T.C. should not settle.

The F.T.C.’s suit is the latest in a series of legal challenges to Intel’s practices around the world. Antitrust authorities in Japan and South Korea have accused the company of using illegal tactics. The European Commission fined Intel $1.5 billion for abuse of monopoly power. Last year, Intel paid $1.25 billion to its smaller rival Advanced Micro Devices to settle charges that it used illegal tactics to shut A.M.D. out of computer markets.

But the challenges have mostly been narrow, centered on the C.P.U. market — where Intel has an 80 percent market share. They revolve around its practice of offering rebates and other incentives to reward computer makers that used only Intel chips and punish those that used A.M.D. processors. As part of its settlement with A.M.D., Intel agreed not to use such tactics.

The F.T.C. said Intel’s abuses extend to graphics processors, which are faster and can handle more data than standard chips and have been taking over many tasks formerly done by C.P.U.’s. Intel’s graphics chips are technologically behind those of cutting-edge rivals like Nvidia, but have about a 50 percent market share.

According to the F.T.C., Intel corrupted its chips so rival processors would not run smoothly with them. It misled Nvidia about technical specs — leading it to waste time and money. It charged more for its C.P.U.’s to computer makers that used rival processors for graphics. Intel should probably commit to some standard of inter-operability or at least guarantee it will not to do anything to degrade the operation of rival processors.
386 2010-07-12 “If the Castro tyranny really would like to make a good faith gesture, it ought to liberate all those prisoners in its dungeons,” said Miguel Sigler Amaya, an activist now based in Miami who spent two years in a Cuban prison for “disobedience” and “resistance,” and contends that thousands of fellow Cubans are detained on similarly nebulous charges. One of his brothers, Ariel, a political prisoner, was released last month after suffering health problems in prison, and another, Guido, is among those expected to be released.

The brothers were among the activists and journalists rounded up by the government in March 2003 in a mass crackdown on dissent known as Black Spring. Those detainees were arrested on various charges and convicted after brief, closed trials. Their sentences ranged from six years to 28 years.

For its part, the Cuban government puts the number of political prisoners that it is holding at zero. Fidel Castro, the ailing former president, acknowledged holding thousands of prisoners of conscience decades ago, but in recent years he has said that Cuban jails hold only common criminals and those who illegally acted as paid agents of the United States.

One reason for the varying figures is the definition of who, exactly, is a political prisoner. Another is that the Cuban government has not allowed the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit its prisons.

Agreement on a precise figure is unlikely, as is determining why President Castro chose to make his drastic announcement now. Another looming question is how the United States, which has long called for the release of Cuba’s political prisoners and has welcomed those released in the past, will respond to President Castro’s overture.

“It’s something that is overdue but nevertheless very welcome.” Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told reporters last week.

Acknowledging that its figure is on the low side, Amnesty International defines prisoners of conscience as those inmates jailed for their beliefs who have been found not to have used or advocated violence.

“Some other ones may not be on our radar,” said a spokeswoman for the group, Guadalupe Marengo, who noted that Amnesty had not been permitted to visit Cuba to conduct research in more than two decades.

Amnesty International said Mr. Posada, the one remaining Cuban inmate it considers a prisoner of conscience and thus entitled to immediate release, was given a 12-year sentence in 2003 for “disrespecting authority and revealing secrets about state security police,” after he participated in a peaceful demonstration calling attention to the plight of political prisoners.

Human Rights Watch, which conducted a surreptitious study inside Cuba last year, documented more than 40 cases of people imprisoned for “dangerousness” since Raúl Castro replaced his brother in 2006, as well as scores of other people sentenced for violating laws that criminalize free expression and association.

Noting that Cuba has conducted prisoner releases in the past and then gone on to fill its jails with even more political dissidents, Human Rights Watch said that the country’s judicial system clearly needed an overhaul.

“The international community needs to pressure Cuba to go beyond the periodic release of jailed dissidents and instead dismantle the repressive laws, courts and security forces that put them in prison in the first place,” said José Miguel Vivanco, Americas director at Human Rights Watch, who secured the release of six prisoners from Cuba in 1995.

One aspect of the planned release that has critics of the Cuban government upset are reports that once the prisoners are liberated, they are to be flown out of the country, and thus will be far less able to continue their activism and hold the government accountable.

But Cardinal Jaime Ortega, Havana’s Roman Catholic archbishop, who played a critical role in negotiating the releases, suggested that leaving Cuba would be an option, not a requirement, for the former prisoners. The first 17 are expected to travel to Spain as early as Monday, church officials said. Others may choose other countries or decide to stay in Cuba, they said.

The decision, which was first reported by the Roman Catholic Church but later appeared in the Communist Party newspaper Granma, although with no mention that the inmates to be released were political prisoners, prompted the activist Guillermo Fariñas to end the hunger strike he had begun in February to press the government to release ailing prisoners.

But Mr. Fariñas would not take credit for the planned release. A statement that his supporters pressed up to a window in the hospital where he remained Sunday said, “Only Cuba, our nation, has won.”
387 2010-07-12 LENOX, Mass. — Michael Tilson Thomas was on the podium for the opening concert of the Boston Symphony Orchestra’s summer season here at Tanglewood on Friday night, conducting an incisive, engrossing and triumphant performance of Mahler’s “Resurrection” Symphony. Despite the hot, humid weather, Mr. Thomas drew brilliant playing from the orchestra, magisterial singing from the Tanglewood Festival Chorus and inspired performances from the two vocal soloists: the luminous soprano Layla Claire and the extraordinary mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe.

Hovering over the performance, however, was the Boston Symphony’s missing music director, James Levine, who continues to recuperate from back surgery and has withdrawn from all his Tanglewood commitments this summer. On this night Mr. Levine was to have conducted his first performance of the “Resurrection” (Symphony No. 2 in C minor) with the Boston players. Unfair as it may have been, it was impossible to avoid comparing the ageless, vibrant Mr. Thomas with the ailing, absent Mr. Levine.

The two are close in age. At 65, Mr. Thomas is still limber, trim and kinetic. Although his youthful energy enlivens his conducting, his music making is driven by deep insight, commanding technique and decades of experience.

Vim and vigor, though a bonus, are not part of the job requirement for a music director. Several of the greatest performances I have heard were conducted by eminent, very elderly maestros. Still, simply being there is essential to a music director’s success. The Boston Symphony cannot continue much longer with promises from Mr. Levine’s camp that he will be ready to go for this engagement or that: he has a history of pushing back his return dates.

There are naturally similar concerns at the Metropolitan Opera. As of now Mr. Levine, who turned 67 last month, is to conduct the new production of Wagner’s “Rheingold,” which opens the Met’s season on Sept. 27, and a Wagner program with the bass-baritone Bryn Terfel (the Met’s Wotan) for the opening night of the Boston Symphony on Oct. 2. Mr. Levine’s countless admirers, I among them, can only wish him well. But you have to feel for the leaders of both institutions as they calculate risks and make contingency plans.

Hand it to the Boston Symphony for attracting major conductors to fill in for Mr. Levine at Tanglewood, notably the towering Christoph von Dohnanyi. Mr. Thomas was an ideal choice for the Mahler Second. He has made award-winning recordings of the complete Mahler symphonies with his own San Francisco Symphony, drawn from exciting live performances.
388 2010-07-12 Johannes Caspar, a data protection supervisor in Hamburg who is conducting the investigations into Google and Facebook, said his agency was trying to protect consumers from themselves. “The problem is that many people are unaware what is being done with their data,” he said.

Strict privacy laws are a product of the post-World War II reconstruction, when German lawmakers restricted the use of personal information to prevent the government from singling out citizens and persecuting them.

It is illegal, for example, to publish the image or name of any private person without permission. This includes felons, who are usually identified in the media by the initial of their last name only, like Klaus P.

That has not stopped Germans from flocking to a social networking site or downloading the latest smartphone applications.

As of May, Google controlled 92 percent of the online search market in Germany, compared with 65 percent in the United States, according to comScore, a research firm in Reston, Va.

Facebook has about 7.7 million users in Germany (which has a population of about 82 million), according to Inside Network, a research group in Palo Alto, Calif. All versions of the iPhone, including the iPhone 4, which went on sale in Germany in June, have sold out within days. Apple does not provide specific sales figures in Germany.

“What I think we have in Germany is a big disconnect between data privacy laws and consumer sentiment toward privacy,” said Felix Haas, the chief executive and founder of Amiando, a company in Munich that is the largest online event registration platform in Europe.

Amiando is a case in point. Its software is used by the concert promoters of German entertainers like Lena Meyer-Landrut, the winner of the Eurovision song contest this year, and even by the country’s own data protection officials, who registered online to attend their annual convention.

The regulators typed their names, addresses and other details into Amiando’s registration form and — if they wanted to receive offers on related events — checked a box authorizing the mailings. Amiando, like most German online businesses, does not sell its data to third parties, but it makes its list available for focused mailings.

The American practice of selling customer names and details, Mr. Haas said, is legal in Germany but almost never used because “it would erode the trust we have built up.”

Yet more and more Germans are disclosing personal details if they can save money doing so. A retail bonus card, called Payback, has 19.4 million subscribers. In exchange for discounts at retailers, cardholders give Payback’s operator, Loyalty Partner of Munich, permission to send them offers.

The company scored a legal victory in August 2008 when the German supreme court, the Bundesgerichtshof, rejected a complaint from consumer protection officials who had claimed that Payback did not tell consumers enough about how it used their personal information in marketing efforts.

Dieter Weng, the president of the German Dialogue Marketing Association, a group of 800 businesses that includes online marketers, said Germany was unlikely to loosen its privacy restrictions.

But the need to encourage the growth of the Internet economy, Mr. Weng said, could help lower barriers for online marketing.

“I think Germans are concerned about personal data being misused by government or law enforcement,” Mr. Weng said. “But for behavioral or attitudinal data about customer preferences, people are more willing to share if they see an advantage in it for them.”

Peter Barron, a Google spokesman in London, said the challenge for regulators was to strike a balance between data protection and nurturing Internet businesses.

“If that balance isn’t right,” Mr. Barron said, “then users and businesses will lose out.”
389 2010-07-12 You have been invited to play golf at your friend's private club.     Oh, no....
390 2010-07-12 New York City's police force, in its fight against crime, has increasingly used a strategy known as ''stop, question and frisk,'' which allows officers to stop someone based on a reasonable suspicion of crime. One expert has estimated New Yorkers ...
391 2010-07-13 For when you want your clams on the half shell at home....
392 2010-07-13 Live updates from Anaheim as the National League hopes to end its losing streak against the American League....
393 2010-07-13 Randazzo's Clam Bar in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, has been in Paul Randazzo's family for four generations.
394 2010-07-13 Wall Street's largest dealers eased credit terms during the spring to hedge funds and private equity firms that borrow against securities and trade over-the-counter derivatives, the Federal Reserve reports....
395 2010-07-13 The former Cuban leader explained in his regular newspaper column why his prediction last month that America would attack Iran during the World Cup was wrong....
396 2010-07-13 Senate Democrats say they have cobbled together the minimum 60 votes needed to close off debate on the financial bill and advance to a final vote later this week....
397 2010-07-13 After the Tiger Woods sex scandals, it seems that gossip is becoming increasingly acceptable for men....
398 2010-07-13 The regulator of savings and loan associations is following the industry, once dominant in mortgages, into oblivion....
399 2010-07-13 Have things gotten better? Yes, to some degree, but this recovery is slow and sporadic....
400 2010-07-13 The number of unemployed workers in May outnumbered job openings in America by a ratio of 4.67 to 1, according to data released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics....
401 2010-07-13 Portugal's credit rating was cut two notches on Tuesday by Moody's Investors' Service, lending urgency to the discussions of European Union finance ministers about how banks would be affected if a government were to default on its debts....
402 2010-07-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
403 2010-07-13 The chairman of the Federal Reserve urged banks and regulators on Monday to help the nation's small businesses get the loans they needed to create jobs....
404 2010-07-13 A half a century after losing its status as Brazil's capital, Rio de Janeiro is becoming an engine of Latin America's largest economy. The city lured at least two dozen hedge funds in the past decade as well as the nation's leading oil producers, ...
405 2010-07-13 Federal bank regulators have agreed to give the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation unlimited authority to investigate banks, clarifying the agency's power, which was in question during the financial crisis....
406 2010-07-13 The aluminum producer Alcoa posted a stronger-than-expected second-quarter profit Monday and raised its estimate for global aluminum consumption, sending its shares up 3 percent in after-hours trading, Reuters reported....
407 2010-07-13 Warren Buffett, the billionaire chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, may be ordered to submit to questioning under oath in a wrongful- dismissal lawsuit, according to Bloomberg News....
408 2010-07-13 But Mr. Christie dropped his insistence on a constitutional amendment and agreed to some of the exemptions sought by the Democrats, in exchange for lowering the basic cap to 2 percent.

Irked that the issue had been identified with the governor, Democrats noted that in 2007, when their party was in sole control in Trenton, they enacted a 4 percent cap, and that many of them called for stricter controls since then. The 4 percent law helped hold average property tax increases statewide to 3.3 percent this year from 7 percent before the cap.

“This was a Democratic proposal going back three years ago and it worked, and this is an expansion on it,” said Assemblyman John F. McKeon, a Democrat from Essex County.

Mr. Christie released a statement calling the law “the substantial and sustainable reform New Jersey needs.”

The law, combined with cuts in school aid in the state budget, could squeeze school districts as they draft their budgets next year — especially those districts that are locked into multi-year labor contracts. Barbara Keshishian, president of the New Jersey Education Association, the teachers’ union, called the tax cap “an ill-conceived and shortsighted policy” that will damage schools.

Statewide, property taxes rose about 70 percent over the last decade, and New Jersey has the highest in the country: more than $2,600 per person. In public opinion polls, property taxes often top the list of state residents’ concerns.

The new law exempts cost increases for health care, pensions, debt service, states of emergency and increased school enrollment. It also considers increases over three years, so that a local government that raises taxes by less than 2 percent in one year can “bank” the difference and exceed the cap over the following two years. Otherwise, the government would need voter approval to exceed the limit.

And the law actually makes it easier for voters to exceed the cap; under the 2007 law, a 60 percent vote was needed, but the new measure requires a simple majority.

Yet even with such loopholes, “this is going to have a major, discernible impact for local taxpayers,” said Douglas Doyle, a partner at the law firm Decotiis, FitzPatrick & Cole, which represents a number of local governments.

The way the deal came about reflected some of the dynamic in a year when the state has a new governor and each legislative house has a new leader. Mr. Christie worked out the agreement with the Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, a sign of the on-again, off-again alliance they have forged. The Assembly speaker, Sheila Y. Oliver, did not take part in the negotiations, but felt compelled to bring the compromise to a vote, reflecting what some lawmakers say is her limited influence.
409 2010-07-13 Suzann Pettersen of Norway, a one-time major winner, was paired with Thompson in the final round.

“God, she hits it a long way,” said Pettersen, who finished tied for second. “She’s the best 15-year-old I’ve ever seen.”

That was high praise considering Pettersen made the cut at the 2005 L.P.G.A. Championship, in which Michelle Wie, then 15, finished tied for third. The comparisons to Wie, who turned pro before her 16th birthday, are unavoidable and, for Thompson, not altogether welcome.

Like Wie, Thompson had instant success in the marketplace upon turning pro, her endorsement portfolio including Puma, Cobra and Red Bull. Of course, Wie, 20, took a long time to achieve success on the golf course. She won an L.P.G.A. event for the first time last year, her path to victory obstructed by injuries and expectations.

Thompson dismissed any comparisons to Wie, saying: “I’m my own person. A whole different person.”

In at least one respect, she is right. Wie completed high school in Honolulu and is taking classes at Stanford. Thompson has been home-schooled in Coral Springs, Fla., since middle school so she can spend more time on the golf course.

Asked last week if she had any concerns about forsaking a normal life for the nomadic existence of a pro golfer, Thompson replied, “I haven’t given up anything. I’m home-schooled. That’s the only thing I’ve given up. I go out with my friends. I go bowling, movies, Ping-Pong. I do all the normal stuff.”

At 6 feet, Thompson is about as tall as her father, Scott, who is caddying for her while she settles in to what amounts to a part-time job.

The L.P.G.A. has rules restricting the number of events a golfer younger than 18 can enter. Thompson is limited to six sponsor exemptions a year, excluding the United States Women’s Open and the Women’s British Open, which are not operated by the L.P.G.A. She also can compete on the Ladies’ European Tour and on the Japan Ladies’ Tour.

Asked last month if she intended to petition the L.P.G.A. commissioner, Mike Whan, to join the tour full-time before her 18th birthday, Thompson said: “At some point, yes, but I haven’t really thought about it. I’m just taking one tournament at a time so far.”

It would be a difficult call for Whan, who would have to ask himself if the L.P.G.A. wanted to establish a precedent for players dropping out of high school to join the tour.

“There’s been no formal request from Lexi or anybody in her group,” Whan said. “I’m kind of like everybody else right now. I’m just watching as a fan.”

In the first two rounds here, Thompson was paired with Stacy Lewis, who was a four-time all-American at Arkansas before earning her L.P.G.A. playing privileges at the 2008 qualifying school. Like seemingly everyone else, Lewis is impressed by Thompson’s game.

“Her game’s more mature than her age, for sure,” Lewis said.

But life on the tour is not all birdies and bogeys. The travel is onerous and it can be isolating, especially when one is surrounded by players who are considerably older. Also, players have responsibilities outside the course that are part and parcel of being, in essence, chief executives of their own business.

“I would encourage everyone to go to school,” Lewis said, referring to college. “I think it’s a time where you get to grow up and you can make mistakes and it’s out of the public spotlight. You can just be a kid. It’s just an easier life, I think. I don’t know why people pass it up.”

Thompson and her parents seem unfazed by those second-guessing her decision.

“I don’t really take it personal,” Thompson said. “It was my decision, and I felt really good about my game and I wanted to take it to the next level.”

Her father said, “Everybody says she’ll get burned out, but Lexi’s playing less now than she did before as a junior, as an amateur.” He paused, then said, “Just playing at a higher level it might be a little higher stress factor.”

On Saturday morning, between the end of the rain-delayed second round and the start of the third, there was only one person on the practice green. It was Thompson, stroking putt after putt as if she had nowhere to go but up.
410 2010-07-13 He had also found notoriety as the inspiration for a character in Allen Ginsberg’s poem “Howl.” As Ginsberg and Mr. Kupferberg acknowledged, he was the one who “jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge this actually happened and walked away unknown and forgotten,” a reference to a 1945 suicide attempt (off the Manhattan Bridge, not Brooklyn) that had been precipitated by what he called a nervous breakdown.

The fame that episode earned him caused Mr. Kupferberg a lifetime of chagrin and embarrassment. “Throughout the years,” he later said, “I have been annoyed many times by, ‘Oh, did you really jump off the Brooklyn Bridge?,’ as if it was a great accomplishment.”

The Fugs’ first album, “The Village Fugs Sing Ballads of Contemporary Protest, Points of View and General Dissatisfaction,” was released in 1965. The band became a staple of underground galleries and theaters, as well as antiwar rallies. In concert Mr. Kupferberg was often the group’s mascot or harlequin, acting out satirical pantomimes — an American soldier who turns into a Nazi, for example — or sometimes not singing at all.

On subsequent albums the band changed its lineup many times and acquired a more professional sound, though its scatological themes got it kicked off at least one major record label.

With his bushy beard and wild hair, Mr. Kupferberg embodied the hippie aesthetic. But the term he preferred was bohemian, which to him signified a commitment to art as well as a rejection of restrictive bourgeois values, and as a scholar of the counterculture he traced the term back to an early use by students at the University of Paris. Among his books were “1,001 Ways to Live Without Working” — and for decades he was a frequent sight in Lower Manhattan, selling his cartoons on the street and serving as a grandfather figure for generations of nonconformists.

Beneath Mr. Kupferberg’s antics, however, was a keen poetic and musical intelligence that drew on his Jewish and Eastern European roots. He specialized in what he called “parasongs,” which adapted and sometimes satirized old songs with new words. And some of his Fugs songs, like the gentle “Morning, Morning,” had their origins in Jewish religious melodies.

Naphtali Kupferberg was born in New York on Sept. 28, 1923. He grew up on the Lower East Side and became a jazz fan and leftist activist while still a teenager. He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1944 and got a job as a medical librarian.

“I had intended to be a doctor at one point, like any good Jewish boy,” he recalled to Mr. Sanders in an audio interview in 2003. Instead he began to write topical poems and humor pieces, contributing to The Village Voice and other publications.

After the Fugs broke up, in 1969, Mr. Kupferberg performed with two groups, the Revolting Theater and the Fuxxons, and continued writing. The Fugs reunited periodically, first in 1984. Recently, Mr. Sanders said, Mr. Kupferberg had completed his parts for a new album, “Be Free: The Fugs Final CD (Part Two),” and had also been posting ribald “perverbs” — brief videos punning on well-known aphorisms — on YouTube.

Mr. Kupferberg is survived by his wife, Sylvia Topp; three children, Joseph Sacks, Noah Kupferberg and Samara Kupferberg; and three grandchildren.
411 2010-07-13 Given the more elaborate dining options at these and other new ballparks, hot dogs may even end up being a default for diet-conscious fans.

“From a calorie perspective, a hot dog and a light beer might be one of the better options,” said Brian Elbel, an assistant professor of medicine and health policy at New York University, who conducted a study that showed that posting calorie counts in restaurants did little to change consumer eating habits. The introduction of veggie dogs, with one-third the calories and almost no fat, have failed to unseat the all-beef or beef-pork frank.

There is no shortage of theories on why the hot dog remains the top-selling food item at ballparks, and books and scholarly articles have even been written on the topic. Hot dogs can be boiled, steamed, grilled or barbecued, and filled with beef, pork, turkey and a variety of spices. They can be tailored to suit one’s taste with mustard, relish, onions, sauerkraut and any number of other toppings.

The all-American hot dog is also relatively cheap, can be eaten while watching the game and requires only one hand (leaving the other one free to hold a beer or a cellphone, or to catch a foul ball). For most fans, they are also often the only prepared food served at their seats.

Hot dogs are also among the most profitable foods served at ballparks. They are precooked and need only to be steamed or caramelized, keeping the preparation time brief and the turnover high. They take up half as much space as a hamburger on a grill and require less ventilation when cooking. Fans apply their own condiments, reducing labor costs.

“We believe in hot dogs, they’re our bread and butter,” said Rick Abramson, the president of sport service at the Delaware North Companies, which handles the concessions at nine major league ballparks.

Hot dogs and baseball have a long history, though the details of their relationship are as murky as the hot water that dirty dogs are cooked in. Harry M. Stevens, a vendor at the old Polo Grounds in New York, is widely credited with marrying the dog, the bun and baseball when, in 1901, he started serving “dachshund sausages” on rolls.

Thomas Aloysius Dorgan, a cartoonist, was supposedly at the game and could not spell dachshund, so instead wrote “hot dog.” Researchers later found that Dorgan was not at the Polo Grounds in 1901, and discovered references in The Yale Record from 1895 to students who “contentedly munched on hot dogs.”

Babe Ruth’s hot-dog-eating binges were so extreme, they sidelined him from games.

“The traditional American hot dog has not taken a back seat to designer food,” said Becky Mercuri, who wrote “The Great American Hot Dog Book.” “They’ve introduced everything from salad to sushi, but frankly speaking, the hot dog is still king.”

The oldest parks happen to sell the most dogs per fan. Red Sox fans down about 2 million hot dogs and sausages a year, or 0.64 dogs per fan. Adjusted for attendance, Chicago Cubs fans are the second-biggest hot dog and sausage eaters, with 0.57 dogs and sausages per fan, followed by San Diego Padres fans, Mets fans and Minnesota Twins fans.

Miller Park in Milwaukee is the only park where sausages outsell hot dogs. Tube steaks are so popular there that the Brewers hold a race every game among mascots dressed up as a bratwurst, a Polish sausage, an Italian sausage, a hot dog and a chorizo. (So far this year, the Polish sausage has won the most races.)

In Boston, Rich Roper is in charge of making sure there are enough Fenway Franks to satisfy the Fenway faithful. As the chief of concessions for Aramark, he estimates how many hot dogs need to be cooked and when. Often, the busiest time is from a half-hour before the game until the third inning, by which time fans start searching for dessert. In New England, fans like hot dogs steamed or grilled, and served on a split bun with the edges shaved off. Mustard, relish and diced onions are the favored toppings.

Gary Calkins and Dave Cahill, friends from work, were eating two dogs before the start of a recent game at Fenway.

“The only time you eat one is here because of the atmosphere,” Calkins said. “And don’t underestimate the utility of one-handed food in Boston,” he added, nodding to the beer in his other hand.

Last season, Kayem Foods, from nearby Chelsea, won the exclusive contract to produce and sell Fenway Franks. The company held focus groups in which participants tasted about 30 flavors of franks to help create a new hot dog with more crunch. Kayem also spiced up its marketing. Hot dog vendors at Fenway carry boxes with stickers on the side that read, “Also available in grocery stores except in New York.”

“It’s amazing how many fans have already made their purchase decision before they’ve gone to the park,” said Bob Kufferman, the senior brand manager at Kayem Foods. “Having a chowder or sloppy Joe at your seat isn’t the same.”

Roper of Aramark disputes the notion that hot dogs sell well in Boston because Fenway does not have enough space for other options. Indeed, fans can buy deli sandwiches, steak tips, veggie burgers, pizza, clam chowder, lobster rolls, pulled pork and Cuban sandwiches. Yet hot dogs make up 12 percent of sales at Fenway, easily the top-selling item.

“The hot dog is just an icon,” Roper said. “It’s kept its popularity because there are so many things you can do with it.”

For better or worse, they represent America, too. At Fenway, Adrian Garcia, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ate hot dogs with his father, his sister and his fiancée, who were visiting from Costa Rica. He had already taken them to Maine to eat lobsters.

“I thought, what else could we do that is American?” he said. “The Fenway Frank is the highlight of coming to the stadium.”
412 2010-07-13 I knew Greg was right — at least technically. Sarah and I did load Angus down with a little more in the way of human qualities than he was capable of carrying. But that was what people had always done, right? All you had to do to see that was look in a medieval bestiary, with its wildly unrealistic drawings of animals, accompanied by long lists of their Christian virtues and vices, or open one of the books on mythology that I kept lined up on the floor next to our futon for consultation while writing my book on ancient Mesoamerica. An illustration in one of these books — a translation of the Popol Vuh, the sacred book of the Quiche Maya Indians of Guatemala — always made me think of Angus in particular. The illustration was from an ancient Mayan ceremonial vase, and featured a creature with a rabbit's head and a human body dressed in Maya garb and crouched, pen in hand, over a ceremonial jaguar-skin scroll. "Rabbit scribe," said the caption below this figure — summing up in two words the basic nature of the human attitude toward animals since time immemorial. When they looked at animals, people never saw them as they really and truly were. Whether it be thick or thin, dirty or clean, we humans always looked at animals through a lens: the lens of our humanity. Even scientifically minded people like Greg, I suspected, didn't see the actual animal when they looked at a creature like Angus, but rather a furry little robot: a residue from the early, ultra-mechanistic days of modern science when all of nature was seen as one big, dead, empty machine. From primitive tribes to medieval peasants to modern scientists, no one saw animals with total clarity. So who could blame Sarah and me if we too indulged in a little of this kind of creative license with our curiously personable pet rabbit?

In addition to the other uncertainties in our life, Sarah and I would sometimes argue and break off our relationship for periods. During one of these separations, she moved out to San Diego with Angus while I stayed behind, back East. I was halfway through my book on Mesoamerica when, over the phone, we decided to get back together again. In the spring of 1989, I loaded up my car with my bulky second-rate computer and all my boxes of myth-and-religion books and joined her out West.

By the time I showed up at the ratty if pleasant Pacific Beach apartment Sarah had rented just twelve blocks from the ocean, Angus was having issues with his new place of residence. Specifically, he had developed a flea problem.

"He's so small," Sarah would say as Angus came to an abrupt halt in the middle of the brown shag carpet in the living room and started scratching himself furiously. "It's not a fair fight."

Sarah went to the vet and got some flea shampoo, and from then on Angus received regular baths in our kitchen sink. Angus hated these baths, and Sarah and I didn't like giving them to him, either. There was something about the way the water reduced Angus — taking away his absurdly fluffy, cuddly, children's-book rabbitness and transforming him into a wet, squirming, ungainly creature with oversized back feet and a racing heart — that brought both of us up short. Angus, we'd realize in such moments, was indeed neither a little machine nor a little man in a bunny suit. But he very definitely was a mortal creature — one that was destined to be with us for only a limited amount of time.

So it went for several months. We'd towel Angus off and send him back about his business, and for a while the scratching would stop. But then it would start up again, and we'd have to put him back under the tap for another noxious bath. Sometimes, in addition to the scratching, Angus would be overcome with short but violent fits of sneezing. Other times he'd lie sluggishly, refusing to hop and stomp around for days at a time. We took him to the vet, but other than advising us to keep him extra warm right after his baths, they couldn't tell us anything.

That fall, I finally finished my book on ancient Mesoamerica and sent it off to the publisher. To celebrate, I invited Greg out from the East Coast for a visit. One day during this visit, he, Sarah, and I went down to spend the day just across the border in Tijuana. We got back to the apartment in the early evening and found a cloth draped over Angus's cage. A note from our roommate Cindy, who worked the morning and evening shifts at a restaurant, lay on top.

"Dear Sarah and Ptolemy," the note read, "please prepare yourselves before you look in Angus's cage. When I got home today he was no longer alive."

I lifted the cloth, and there was Sarah's and my little ball of personality lying on his side, stock-still.

In an essay called "Why Look at Animals?" the novelist and critic John Berger quotes a story from the Nuer people of the Southern Sudan about how the present world came into being. All creatures including man, says this story, "originally lived together in fellowship in one camp. Dissension began after Fox persuaded Mongoose to throw a club into Elephant's face. A quarrel ensued and the animals separated; each went its own way and began to live as they now are, and to kill each other. Stomach, which at first lived a life of its own in the bush, entered into man so that now he is always hungry. The sexual organs, which had also been separate, attached themselves to men and women, causing them to desire one another constantly. Elephant taught man how to pound millet so that now he satisfies his hunger only by ceaseless labor. Mouse taught man to beget and woman to bear. And Dog brought fire to man."

Something about this myth of human and animal origins had struck me with particular vividness when I'd first read it several years before — right around the time Angus had come into our lives. I liked the way it described the loss of direct kinship between humans and animals in practically the same breath as it described an implicit drop down out of a world of pure spirit. I also liked the emphasis on the fact that need had entered into the world along with this drop: the need to work and to procreate, the need for one group of animals to prey upon another, the need to kill and to avoid being killed. On the package of Angus's favorite brand of pet snack — a stick made of compressed seeds — there was a cartoon that always amused Sarah and me. A rabbit and a guinea pig were pictured chipping away at one of the snack sticks with pickaxes. "They must work for every bite," said the caption. "That is nature's way." That did indeed seem to sum things up. Struggle and strife, work and death: these were the fundamental realities faced by every creature that was born into this hardscrabble physical world of ours.

Or were they? For though the cartoon suggested that pets like Angus needed to work and struggle to earn their keep just as other animals did, there was no denying that a life like Angus's contained considerably less in this department than it would have if he had been born a wild rabbit. This was, of course, because Angus was a pet, and pets, since the very beginnings of human culture, have lived by a different set of rules than other animals.
413 2010-07-13 Re “Taking the ‘Wild’ in Wildlife Seriously” (Personal Health, July 6): The health issues Jane Brody addresses may all be seriously true. But the greater problem is that if we can’t learn to live with wildlife, do we really think we can live without them?

Man’s presence and interaction with wildlife has been seen again and again to have strong cascading effects that result in vast depletions and extinctions of animal populations. The science of ecology has revealed how thoroughly interdependent and interconnected we are all. Short-term human health concerns need to be evaluated alongside the larger long-term issues of wild life preservation.
414 2010-07-13 Q. YOU’VE DONE AN EXPERIMENT WHERE YOU PLACED LOCUSTS ON A LADDER THAT HAD JIGGLING RUNGS. YOU THEN WATCHED HOW THEY WORKED THEIR WAY ACROSS THIS TRICK LADDER. WHAT WAS THE POINT?

A. I wanted to know how locusts used their vision to coordinate their limbs in a changing situation. This research involved learning how insects combine visual information with decision making and motor patterns.

With locusts, we’ve long thought they used their limbs to feel things gradually or that they used their antennae to sense the environment, much like a blind person with a cane. But with our experiment, we showed they use their vision to make a kind of guesstimate of distance. Then they jump.

Many insects use an approximate approach. So they teach us that many behaviors that a psychologist might describe as very complicated, an insect can do with very few neurons, and by making a few rough guesses.

A. We have not discovered yet the neural circuits in humans that are involved in reaching for objects. However, we might be able to work that out in locusts. We already know that it doesn’t take a huge brain to accurately control the limbs. These insects do it. There are all kinds of possibilities for robotics and for rehabilitative medicine in these studies.

Q. OVER YOUR CAREER, WHAT WOULD YOU SAY HAS BEEN YOUR MOST SIGNIFICANT FINDING?

A. In 2007, we were able to study how much energy neurons used and we quantified it. We studied different types of insect eyes — from tiny fruit fly eyes to huge blowfly eyes. In each creature, we worked out how much energy it takes for neurons in the brain to process information. What we learned was that the more information a fly’s eye needed to process, the more energy each unit of information consumed. That means that it’s bad, in the evolutionary sense, for an animal to have a bigger brain than it needs for survival. It’s like having a gas-eating Ferrari, when what you really need is Honda Civic.

Q. SO BIG BRAINS ARE NOT ALWAYS AN ADVANTAGE?

A. Bigger is better if you want to produce enormously complicated behavior. But in evolution, brains evolve by selection. There always is pressure on animals to produce behaviors for as little energy as possible. And that means for many animals, smaller brains are better because they won’t waste energy.

You know, there’s this pervasive idea in biology that I think is wrong. It goes: we humans are at the pinnacle of the evolutionary tree, and as you get up that tree, brain size must get bigger. But a fly is just as evolved as a human. It’s just evolved to a different niche.

In fact, in evolution there’s no drive towards bigger brains. It’s perfectly possible that under the right circumstances, you could get animals evolving small brains. Indeed, on some islands, where there’s reduced flora and fauna, you’ll see smaller versions of mainland species. I would argue that their brain size has been reduced because it saves energy, which permits them to survive in situations of scarcity. They also might not need big brains because they don’t have natural predators on the islands—and don’t have to be as smart because there’s nothing to avoid.

Q. SPEAKING OF ISLANDS, WHEN AN APELIKE FOSSIL WAS DISCOVERED ON THE INDONESIAN ISLAND OF FLORES IN 2003, A GREAT CONTROVERSY BROKE OUT AMONG ANTHROPOLOGISTS. SOME SAID THIS THREE-FOOT TALL SMALL- BRAINED CREATURE WAS A NEW SPECIES OF HOMINID — A HUMANLIKE PRIMATE. OTHERS CLAIMED IT WAS AN EARLY HUMAN WITH A BRAIN DEFORMITY. WHY DID YOU JUMP INTO THE FRAY?

A. Because I thought it was a hominid. This thing about its being a human ancestor with a diseased brain never made much sense. The people who insisted it was a deformed early human couldn’t believe that it was possible to have such a huge reduction in brain size in any hominid. Yet, it’s possible to get a reduction in brain size of island animals as long as the selection pressure is there. There’s nothing to stop this from happening, even among hominids.

Q. SO WHY WERE OTHER SCIENTISTS INSISTING THAT FLORES MAN WAS A DEFORMED HUMAN?

A. Because there’s this idea that nature moves inexorably towards bigger brains and some people find it very difficult to imagine why if you evolved a big brain — as ancient hominids had — why you would ever go back to a smaller one. But evolution doesn’t really care. This smaller brain could have helped this species survive better than an energy-consuming bigger one. The insects have shown us this.

Q. GETTING BACK TO INSECTS. DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHY PEOPLE DISLIKE THEM SO?

A. I think probably because in the near past, we associated insects with disease. That’s a big part of it. On the other hand, Darwin loved insects. There’s a wonderful quote from him, where he’s talking about the marvelous brains of ants, and he says that they may be more marvelous than the brains of humans or monkeys because they are tiny and to be able to do so much behavior with such tiny brains, I can’t help but agree.
415 2010-07-13 Marvel Entertainment’s decision not to cast Edward Norton as the angry emerald hero the Hulk in a film has touched off an exchange between Marvel and Mr. Norton’s representatives that is almost as heated as a comic-book battle. HitFix.com reported that Marvel was not asking Mr. Norton, who played Bruce Banner and his alter ego in “The Incredible Hulk,” to reprise his role in “The Avengers,” a film planned for 2012 that will unite some of the company’s best-known superheroes. Marvel said its decision “is definitely not one based on monetary factors, but instead rooted in the need for an actor who embodies the creativity and collaborative spirit of our other talented cast members.” In a swift rebuttal, Mr. Norton’s agent Brian Swardstrom wrote to HitFix.com that Marvel’s statement was “a purposefully misleading, inappropriate attempt to paint our client in a negative light.” Marvel cast Mr. Norton to portray the Banner and Hulk characters for a 2008 remake after a 2003 “Hulk” movie was a box office disappointment. Mr. Norton was also allowed to rewrite the script of his film, and there were rumblings that he and the studio clashed over creative decisions in the weeks before “The Incredible Hulk” was released.
416 2010-07-13 A federal judge has reduced damages by nine-tenths of the original amount in a closely watched music downloading case. Last July a jury awarded $675,000 to four record labels for the 30 songs downloaded and shared by Joel Tenenbaum, a graduate student at Boston University. But on Friday the judge, Nancy Gertner of United States District Court in Massachusetts, ruled that the penalty was “unconstitutionally excessive” — bearing “no meaningful relationship” to the government’s “legitimate interests in compensating copyright owners and deterring infringement” — and lowered the amount to $67,500. The Recording Industry Association of America said in a statement that it would “contest this ruling.”
417 2010-07-13 The apartment’s host can sometimes seem like the ultimate version of that co-worker or college-reunion acquaintance who is always one-upping your anecdotes: ask Sting about the 19th-century aluminum double bass he keeps near his bookshelves and he will say he uses it to play “one little piece of Purcell every day and that’s it”; mention the two chess sets he keeps on his coffee table and he’ll tell you about the matches he played against the grandmaster Garry Kasparov. (“Of course he beat me every time. But you know, he can’t sing.”)

And if that same eclecticism has led Sting far from his origins as a rebellious rocker, he knows how it makes him look to some listeners.

“Of course I do,” he said. “I come off as being pretentious and all that stuff. Don’t care.”

Sting, 58, said the appreciation for classical music he cultivated from the piano playing of his hairdresser mother and BBC radio of the 1950s was not something he could readily confess to back in his Police days.

“It was frowned upon,” he said, “and that’s the whole ridiculous premise of rock ’n’ roll becoming this Taliban-esque, closed thing. ‘You can’t do that, you can’t do that.’ What’s the spirit of rock ’n’ roll except freedom — freedom to do whatever you want?”

More recently his musical wanderings have led him to such disparate destinations as “Songs From the Labyrinth,” his 2006 album of Elizabethan lute music, and “Twin Spirits,” a theater project in which Sting and Trudie Styler, his wife, read the correspondence and joint diary of Robert and Clara Schumann.

What unites these endeavors, Sting’s friends and colleagues say, is his authentic interest in them.

“There are people that you think, ‘Oh my God, what are they doing now?’ ” said Allan Buchman, the artistic director of Culture Project, which recently presented “Twin Spirits” at the Allen Room at Jazz at Lincoln Center. “They should have stopped with what they originally accomplished.”

But in Sting’s case, Mr. Buchman said: “He’s gifted enough to take people on a journey with him and have him feel satisfied that they went along. I don’t think he’s toying with this stuff.”

Reviewing “Twin Spirits” for The New York Times, Allan Kozinn wrote that it might be “easy to see ‘Twin Spirits’ and shows like it as Music Education Lite,” but to Sting and Ms. Styler’s credit, “they endowed the Schumanns’ letters with a sense of the emotion behind them.”

Even a seemingly straightforward and potentially middle-of-the-road album of orchestral music presents challenges, said Rob Mathes, a composer and arranger who produced “Symphonicities” with Sting.

On the one hand, Mr. Mathes said, such a record could end up being nothing but ballads, “where it’s all lush and warm, beautifully voiced chords from the first song to the 10th song.” Or, he said, the music could be overwritten, “being as much about the arranger’s record collection as it is about Sting’s songs.”

Mr. Mathes said that “Symphonicities” tried to avoid those sand traps by including unexpected songs — the Police’s angular punk rock “Next to You”; Sting’s “We Work the Black Seam,” about a British coal miners’ strike — and dressing up familiar numbers like “Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic” in new clothes. (For that song, Mr. Mathes said, “I decided to write it as if Gustavo Dudamel was going to conduct it with the L.A. Phil.”)

Sting said his goal was simply to see an orchestra play arrangements that would “have steam come out of their ears.”

This being Sting, conversation with him naturally turned to subjects like the BP oil spill, the possibility of sustainable fuel sources and Eastern mysticism — in this case via the decorative Tibetan dZi stone he wears around his neck. (“They say they are planted by Bodhisattvas,” he said. “I have no way of verifying the truth of that, but it’s a beautiful thing.”)

It also returned to the meaning of the word pretentious, which Sting pointed out comes from the same root as the word pretend. Though he embraces the label, Sting said: “I’m not pretending anything. I’m curious, I’m finding out. I’m enthusiastic about stuff.”

He added, “What am I supposed to do, stay in my box?,” cheerfully punctuating the remark with a vulgar phrase more closely associated with his punk-rock days.

Besides, should Sting ever want to deflate his ego, all he has to do is step outside his apartment, where he said the city’s denizens are by and large unimpressed by his fame.

“I have a feeling that all New Yorkers, no matter what they’re doing, are in their own TV series with their own theme music, and you are merely a guest on their show,” he said.

Slipping into a raconteurish American accent, he said: “Hey, I’ve got Sting on my show tonight, folks.”

Returning to his natural voice, he added: “We’re all celebrities in this town. I find it very comfortable.”
418 2010-07-13 Heaven and hell both serve as backdrops in “I’ll Be Damned,” the elongated sketch of a musical now at the Vineyard Theater. But the true spiritual location of this faux-naïf tale of a latter-day Faust seems to be just around the corner from “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.” Or perhaps down the street from “Pee-wee’s Playhouse.”

Certainly 19-year-old Louis Foster, the show’s hero, has more than a touch of Pee-wee Herman, the infantile alter ego of Paul Reubens (who, by the way, is bound for Broadway this fall with a show of his own). Played with alarmingly intense chipperness by Jacob Hoffman, Louis is a comic-book-obsessed, home-schooled boy who lives with his mother, wears grade-school-style clothes (shorts and ankle socks) without irony and still believes that babies are delivered by storks.

Another character is not off the mark when he describes Louis as being “like a puppy that can talk.” Small wonder that Louis is a lonely boy, with only an action figurine (of Nightcrawler from “X-Men”) to confide in. Why, he’d sell his very soul for a real-live friend. Enter Satan (Kurt Robbins), contract in hand.

Created by Rob Broadhurst and Brent Black, recent products of New York University’s graduate musical theater writing program, “I’ll Be Damned” would seem to speak to members of Generation Z (is that where we are in the alphabet now?) who are terrified by the prospect of adulthood. I don’t mean the 20- to 30-year-olds who remain frozen in adolescence. They have their own musicals ("American Idiot," "Spring Awakening"). No, I’m talking about those eternal child-adults who make Peter Pan look like James Dean, the ones who would rather sleep with stuffed animals than one another.

A production of the young and admirable Jaradoa Theater, which has extensive community outreach programs, “I’ll Be Damned” isn’t the first musical to identify the tenacious hold kiddie culture may exert long after the nursery. The Broadway hit “Avenue Q” (which originated at the Vineyard and was recently re-reincarnated Off Broadway) cannily tapped into the sensibility of an audience that was weaned on “Sesame Street.” And in the memoir musical “Everyday Rapture,” Sherie Rene Scott wittily spoke (and sang) about how “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” helped shaped her sensibility.
419 2010-07-13 WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal bank regulators have agreed to give the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation unlimited authority to investigate banks, clarifying the agency’s power, which was in question during the financial crisis.

The F.D.I.C.’s board on Monday approved an agreement between the agency and regulators at the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department. It spells out the F.D.I.C.’s authority to make special examinations of banks. It was approved 5 to 0.

Federal bank regulators were widely criticized during the financial crisis for failing to signal high-risk practices before the institutions failed.

The F.D.I.C., which takes over failed banks, has said it lacked access to information it needed to evaluate banks’ risk.

The Fed and two Treasury Department agencies, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision, have primary authority to regulate banks. But the F.D.I.C. often serves as the backup regulator for banks, empowered to examine banks’ condition and operations.
420 2010-07-13 LONDON (AP) — Britain’s recession was deeper than estimated previously, official statisticians said Monday, as they confirmed that the economy grew by only 0.3 percent in the first three months of the year.

Britain entered recession in the fourth quarter of 2008 and exited in the last quarter of 2009. However, analysts said details of Monday’s report raised questions about how robust the recovery was.

“The domestic side of the economy looks very vulnerable,” said Hetal Mehta, chief economist for Ernst & Young’s Item Club.

The Office for National Statistics said gross domestic product fell by 6.4 percent from peak to trough during the recession, worse than the 6.2 percent drop reported previously.

Additionally, the recovery seems to have been more dependent on temporary stimulus measures than earlier estimated.

Government spending, earlier reported to have risen by half a percent in the first quarter, actually rose 1.5 percent, Monday’s figures showed. A rise in investment of 4.6 percent was helped by a 15 percent increase in government investment, the largest since the start of the recession.
421 2010-07-13 “Like the deepwater drilling moratorium lifted by the District Court on June 22, the deepwater drilling suspensions ordered today apply to most deepwater drilling activities and could last through Nov. 30,” the Interior Department said in briefing materials on the new ban.

“The suspensions ordered today, however,” the materials said, “are the product of a new decision by the secretary and new evidence regarding safety concerns, blowout containment shortcomings within the industry and spill response capabilities that are strained by the BP oil spill.”

The main lobby for the oil industry, the American Petroleum Institute, criticized the new order, saying it would worsen the economic hardship already being felt across the Gulf Coast.

“It is unnecessary and shortsighted to shut down a major part of the nation’s energy lifeline while working to enhance offshore safety,” Jack Gerard, the association’s president, said in a statement. “It places the jobs of tens of thousands of workers in serious and immediate jeopardy and promises a substantial reduction in domestic energy production. No certain and expeditious path forward has been established for a resumption of drilling.”

Mr. Salazar directed Michael R. Bromwich, head of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management — the former Minerals Management Service — to conduct public hearings and discussions with industry officials to make recommendations for ways to improve the safety of deepwater drilling.

“I remain open to modifying the new deepwater drilling suspensions based on new information,” Mr. Salazar said, “but industry must raise the bar on its practices and answer fundamental questions about deepwater safety, blowout prevention and containment and oil spill response.”

In New Orleans, Bob Graham, a co-chairman of the presidential panel investigating the April disaster on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which left a well gushing oil and gas a mile below the surface of the gulf, said on Monday that the group would try to determine whether BP was operating in a riskier way than the rest of the offshore industry.

“Was the Deepwater Horizon an outlier, an oil rig operating outside the normal standards of safety, or was it representative of other rigs?” asked Mr. Graham, a former senator and Florida governor, before the seven-member commission opened its first public hearings on the disaster.

The answer, he said, will help guide the panel’s deliberations and color its ultimate report to President Obama. The group has been charged with finding the root cause of the blowout and with recommending how to resume deepwater oil and gas drilling more safely. It has six months to complete its work and has only begun hiring staff and moving into offices in Washington.

Mr. Graham and the panel’s other co-chairman, William K. Reilly, a former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said the commission would not weigh in on whether the deepwater drilling moratorium declared by the Interior Department should continue. But the commission spent two hours Monday afternoon talking with industry representatives about the conditions under which drilling might safely resume.
422 2010-07-13 The aluminum producer Alcoa posted a stronger-than-expected second-quarter profit Monday and raised its estimate for global aluminum consumption, sending its shares up 3 percent in after-hours trading.

The company, whose results are often viewed as a bellwether of the United States economy, cited strength in several industrial sectors and raised its estimate for aluminum consumption this year, even as metal prices have been falling recently.

Shares of Alcoa rose more than 3 percent in extended trade after closing at $10.87 in the regular session.

“It’s constructive and it helps start the earnings season off on a positive note,” said Brian Hicks, portfolio manager of U.S. Global Investors in San Antonio.

“From the standpoint of Alcoa, they see the economy continuing to expand. It’s robust enough that they have to increase their forecast for global aluminum production.”
423 2010-07-13 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, acknowledged the uncertainty at the start of a daylong forum on small-business lending at the central bank’s headquarters.

“How much of this reduction has been driven by weaker demand for loans from small businesses, how much by a deterioration in the financial condition of small businesses during the economic downturn, and how much by restricted credit availability?” Mr. Bernanke asked. “No doubt all three factors have played a role.”

In a broad outreach effort, the Fed held 43 meetings on the financing needs of small businesses, starting on Feb. 3 in Lexington, Ky., and ending on June 30 in Shreveport, La. Two of the meetings, in Miami and Davenport, Iowa, focused on Hispanic-owned businesses. One, in Denver, was centered on the Small Business Administration’s guaranteed-loan programs. At yet another, in Detroit, the challenges facing auto industry suppliers took center stage.

A collapse in the value of real estate and other collateral used to secure loans posed a “particularly severe challenge” to small businesses, Mr. Bernanke said. He recalled that a business owner at the Detroit meeting told him, “If you thought housing had declined in value, take a look at what equipment is worth.”

Some entrepreneurs have resorted to borrowing on their personal credit cards or from their retirement accounts, he noted.

Banks, for their part, say that they have not so much tightened credit as returned to more traditional underwriting standards after being too lax, Mr. Bernanke acknowledged.

“But, though some lenders said they were emphasizing cash flow and relying less on collateral values in evaluating creditworthiness,” Mr. Bernanke said, “it seems clear that some creditworthy businesses — including some whose collateral has lost value but whose cash flows remain strong — have had difficulty obtaining the credit that they need to expand, and in some cases, even to continue operating.”

Mr. Bernanke’s cautious diagnosis set the tone for the forum, which included four panel discussions. His view was echoed by two other speakers, Karen G. Mills, the head of the Small Business Administration, and Elizabeth A. Duke, a member of the Fed’s board of governors.

But the ambivalent nature of the discussion — after months of listening and research by the Fed — prompted expressions of frustration from several of those invited to the event.

“With all due respect for my banking colleagues, there is an apparent disconnect between the proclaimed ‘business as usual’ and the widespread problems with access to credit reported by small businesses,” said Shari Berenbach, president of the Calvert Foundation, a nonprofit organization in Bethesda, Md., that makes loans to community development financial institutions that serve poor and working-class areas. Bank representatives maintained that meritorious borrowers were getting loans, and economists agreed that there was not much evidence of a broad refusal to lend.

Kevin P. Watters, chief executive of business banking at JPMorgan Chase, said the bank was taking a second look at borrowers that initially were denied loans, and was eager to make loans. “We’re really trying to get those healthy borrowers to invest again,” he said.

William C. Dunkelberg, an economist in the School of Business and Management at Temple University, said surveys showed that capital spending was at a 35-year low and that companies were still cutting, not adding, inventory. “Credit’s not an issue,” he said. “Customers are the issue.”

Even so, Mr. Bernanke’s remarks suggested that the Fed was not sure why lending had contracted. He highlighted the particular importance of start-up businesses. Companies less than two years old accounted for roughly a quarter of gross job creation over the last 20 years, even though they employed less than 10 percent of the work force during that time, he said, citing new research.

Zoltan J. Acs, an economist in the School of Public Policy at George Mason University, said that in Japan stagnation had stifled entrepreneurship, and that the United States might be following a similar path.

“What I worry about is, are we on a trajectory where start-ups are not going to recover?”
424 2010-07-13 The arrest and the request for extradition opened up a cultural divide both in the United States and as filmmakers, intellectuals, politicians and victims’ rights groups lined up on either side of the debate. At issue: had Mr. Polanski suffered enough for his crimes, as his supporters argued, or were his celebrity and talent obscuring the serious nature of the charges against him?

The French foreign minister, , said he was “delighted” and deeply relieved by the ruling. Samantha Geimer, who at 13 was Mr. Polanski’s victim in the original sex case, has long disclosed her identity and called to end the prosecution.

Joelle Casteix, the western regional director for the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, said she was “grossly disappointed.” Ms. Casteix, whose group assists the victims of sexual abuse, added, “This sends a message that if the abuser is rich and powerful, that person can flee the country and get away scot free.”

The decision to free Mr. Polanski was a sharp defeat for prosecutors in , who had warded off repeated challenges by insisting that Mr. Polanski’s claims to have been wronged by authorities in the past could not be considered until his fugitive status had ended. Steve Cooley, the Los Angeles County district attorney, is the Republican candidate for state attorney general.

In a statement, Mr. Cooley said his office would continue to pursue extradition if Mr. Polanski were arrested somewhere other than Switzerland.

“Our office complied fully with all of the factual and legal requirements” of the treaty with Switzerland, Mr. Cooley said. All of the original charges against Mr. Polanski are still pending, Mr. Cooley noted, because he was never sentenced under a plea agreement that reduced those to just unlawful sex with a minor.

Lanny A. Breuer, the assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s criminal division, said that the Obama administration was still looking at its options about what to do next but was “deeply disappointed” by the Swiss decision.

“We thought our extradition request was completely supported by the treaty, completely supported by the facts and the law, and the underlying conduct was of course very serious,” Mr. Breuer said.

In effect, Mr. Polanski’s United States legal team worked around the prosecutors, by hammering in many of his claims in appeals court briefs that — while not directly successful in ending the case — appear to have made an impression on the Swiss. In choosing to free Mr. Polanski, the Swiss, at least to some extent, passed judgment on the conduct of the case in Los Angeles.

“I think they’re raising eyebrows about what happened,” said Laurie L. Levenson, a professor of law at the Loyola Law School in Los Angeles.

The turning point in the case occurred in mid-March, when Mr. Polanski’s lawyers disclosed in an appeals brief that Roger Gunson, a now-retired lawyer who originally prosecuted the case, had given sealed testimony describing a plan by Judge Laurence J. Rittenband, the original judge, to limit Mr. Polanski’s sentence to a 90-day psychiatric evaluation, a portion of which Mr. Polanski had served during his 42 days in Chino State Prison.

Mr. Gunson, who gave the testimony in January, also described his own reservations about the handling of the case by Judge Rittenband, who is now deceased.

Courts here refused to open Mr. Gunson’s testimony, which was taken provisionally, because he was gravely ill, and was supposed to be used at Mr. Polanski’s eventual sentencing. But Mr. Polanski’s legal team described the testimony in court filings that were widely described by media outlets.

The Swiss authorities, without success, requested access to the Gunson account, arguing that it would have established whether the judge had assured Mr. Polanski that time he spent in a psychiatric unit would constitute the whole of his period of imprisonment.

“If this were the case, Roman Polanski would actually have already served his sentence, and therefore both the proceedings on which the U.S. extradition request is founded and the request itself would have no foundation,” the Swiss Justice Ministry said in a statement.

Mr. Polanski’s legal team in the United States declined to comment. Reached by telephone Monday morning, Mr. Gunson said he was unaware of the decision and declined to comment.

Georges Kiejman, one of Mr. Polanski’s lawyers in Europe, said Monday’s decision was a vindication of sorts, and a step toward resolving what he called an “American misunderstanding” of Mr. Polanski’s case. Mr. Kiejman said he hoped Mr. Polanski would one day be able to return freely to the United States. “Intellectually and artistically, it’s one of his adoptive homelands,” he said.

Mr. Polanski would have faced an uncertain future if he had been returned for sentencing. As he was held over the last nine and a half months, prosecutors did not make clear their specific plans for him, but they signaled that a sentence much longer than 90 days might be in order.

In May, for instance, David Walgren, currently the lead prosecutor in the case, took a sworn statement from Charlotte Lewis, a British actress who, at a Los Angeles press conference, said she was subjected to an unwanted sexual encounter with Mr. Polanski in the early 1980s.

Monday’s decision by the Swiss was presumably a boost for Marina Zenovich, a documentary filmmaker whose brought the case to new prominence in 2008 by airing interviews in which prosecutors and others described Judge Rittenband’s claimed missteps.

Ms. Levenson said prosecutors and judges who have handled the case in recent years appear to have acted correctly, but that clearly was not sufficient in this case.

“The lesson may be that it’s really hard to go back in time 30 years to remedy a case,” Ms. Levenson said. “If you don’t get justice at the right time, you may not get it at all.”
425 2010-07-13 LEMBO--Gregory L.,75, of Palm Beach, FL, died on July 11, 2010. Born in Brooklyn, he was long employed with the finance firm of Salomon Brothers, Inc., in New York until 1987; and maintained a summer home in Spring Lake, NJ. A Funeral Mass will be...
426 2010-07-14 A parking garage next to a high-rise apartment building in Hackensack, N.J., collapsed on Friday morning, officials said, and local reports said two people were missing.

Emergency workers were searching through the debris at the building, at 300 Prospect Avenue, which is about midway between Interstate 80 and the Hackensack River and the campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University. Bergen County fire officials said search-and-rescue teams were checking the damage and trying to determine whether anyone had been injured.

A resident of the high-rise, Chris Baldo, told a local cable-news channel that he had been in his first-floor apartment when he heard “rumbling that sounded like an earthquake or a plane, like something hit the building.”

The entire fire department was on the scene.
427 2010-07-14 Worse-than-expected data on jobs, the housing market and retail sales have economists worried that we may be facing this recession's second dip. One other, more tangible, sign provides still more cause for concern. To read it, look down.

Elizabeth Semmelhack, the senior curator at the Bata Shoe Museum in Toronto, has observed that during times of financial pressure high fashion brings out the most gravity-defying shoes.

Why? Perhaps economic distress causes distinctions between male and female dress to widen among the fashion-conscious. Or maybe heels grow higher during a bad economy for a simpler reason: As Ms. Semmelhack says, "These little trifles can elevate one's mood."
428 2010-07-14 Annie Lowrey, left, of The Washington Independent and Reihan Salam of The Daily Beast debate whether over-regulation is hurting the economy.
429 2010-07-14 Apple will hold a briefing Friday morning in California on issues surrounding the iPhone 4....
430 2010-07-14 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who voted for an earlier version of the financial regulatory bill, plans to vote no this time around....
431 2010-07-14 The government's preannounced massive block sales of its Citigroup shares doesn't appear to have had a significant negative impact on the firm's stock price, a new academic study finds....
432 2010-07-14 At issue is whether Joe Berlinger must turn over outtakes to the oil company....
433 2010-07-14 Organizers found that it was too expensive for vendors to meet health department requirements....
434 2010-07-14 The big winners on this week's Billboard album chart: Eminem and Bret Michaels....
435 2010-07-14 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who voted for an earlier version of the financial reform bill, is a no this time....
436 2010-07-14 The Deal Professor examines the question of whether the sweeping financial regulatory bill will prevent bailouts and he concludes that the answer is quite nuanced and a bit uncertain....
437 2010-07-14 JPMorgan Chase on Wednesday named Jeff Urwin and Kevin Willsey as its new co-heads of investment banking for the United States and Canada, succeeding Douglas L. Braunstein....
438 2010-07-14 Monologue | Tuesday night on "The Late Show With David Letterman" on CBS: If you know anything about the big spy swap here in New York City, there were ten spies and they were running around New York City stealing secrets. They arranged a big spy ...
439 2010-07-14 It's depressing to realize that two years into liquidity trap economics, the WSJ still doesn't seem to understand the basic point of why the zero bound is a problem....
440 2010-07-14 Hedge funds are cheering Consumer Reports' somewhat damning review of the iPhone 4, as they await an "Apple slingshot," Jason Schwarz writes on Seeking Alpha....
441 2010-07-14 Hedge funds fell in the first half of the year amid concerns that the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may hamper a global economic recovery, Bloomberg News reported....
442 2010-07-14 All 13 branches of the Swiss bank Credit Suisse in Germany were searched on Wednesday in an investigation of suspected tax evasion, The Associated Press reported....
443 2010-07-14 I have never in my 24 years of running this company had such a good run. I may finally be operating a profitable business....
444 2010-07-14 Bemis, a flexible packaging maker, said on Tuesday that it finished the sale of parts of its food packaging business to Exopack Holding for $82 million in cash....
445 2010-07-14 Black Hills, the natural gas and electric utility, said on Tuesday that it planned to sell $200 million of debt on Thursday....
446 2010-07-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
447 2010-07-14 The coal miner Oxford Resource Partners priced shares of its initial public offering within the expected range on Tuesday, according to an underwriter, Reuters reported....
448 2010-07-14 Smaller banks that got federal government bailout money are likely to run into trouble repaying it and may become vulnerable to takeovers as a result, a Congressional watchdog agency warned on Wednesday, Reuters reported....
449 2010-07-14 Asian stock markets jumped Wednesday, powered by better-than-expected earnings from chipmaking giant Intel and Singapore's forecast that its economy will grow a blistering 15 percent this year....
450 2010-07-14 WASHINGTON — When Jacob J. Lew packed up his office on his last day as White House budget director in January 2001, he left behind a tidy sum of $236 billion in surplus funds for his successor. Nine years later, he is returning to a White House some $1.3 trillion in the hole.

For the second time, a president has tapped Mr. Lew to manage the nation’s finances but under radically different circumstances. The flush Treasury he oversaw during a robust economy under President Bill Clinton has been drained by recession, tax cuts, two wars, entitlement programs, bailouts and stimulus spending. And now it will be his job to refill it.

“Jack Lew is somebody who has proven himself already equal to this extraordinary task,” President Obama said Tuesday as he announced his nomination of Mr. Lew as director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. “If there was a Hall of Fame for budget directors, then Jack Lew surely would have earned a place for his service in that role under President Clinton when he helped balance the federal budget after years of deficits.”

Mr. Lew, currently a deputy secretary of state, served as budget director from 1998 to 2001 and presided over three years of surpluses after a generation of deficit spending. But not every Hall of Famer achieves the same success the second time around, and the challenges awaiting Mr. Lew are daunting, should he be confirmed by the Senate to succeed Peter R. Orszag. After 18 months of spending to avert a depression, Mr. Obama is under pressure to bring the deficit under control.

A Treasury Department report on Tuesday showed that the government ran up $1 trillion in deficit spending during the first nine months of the fiscal year, down 8 percent from the same period a year ago, but still on pace to finish the year at around $1.3 trillion, the second-highest on record.
451 2010-07-14 “Being back in garrison is what we don’t do well, because since 9/11 it seems we’ve spent more time deployed than at home,” Lt. Col. David Wilson said.

As the United States military continues to reduce the number of troops in Iraq — to 50,000 by Sept. 1 from about 85,000 now — it has begun to shift some focus to the home front in an effort to ensure a smooth transition for soldiers, a move prompted by lessons learned from returning veterans who have struggled to adjust to lives away from war.

Leaders of the Fourth Brigade said its problems had not only been deeply embarrassing, but had revealed institutional ignorance about combat stress and traumatic brain injury that forced the unit to use a holistic approach not typically associated with the military as it confronted its issues.

“They were leaving a war zone, coming back home and not getting the care and supervision necessary, which allowed them to stay in the Mosul mind-set,” said Sergeant Major Mustafa, referring to the violent northern Iraq city where the brigade had been stationed before it returned to Fort Bliss in 2008. “This is a group of people that had been fighting and killing and taking casualties for 14 months. You can’t switch it on and off.”

The brigade is thought to have one of the worst criminal records among Army brigades, although no statistics are kept. Its leaders say that if it is successful in keeping its troops safe until its next deployment, its multifaceted approach may become a model for other units seeking to acclimate their own soldiers to peacetime.

So far, the strategy appears largely to be working: After spending nearly three months at Fort Bliss, Maj. Myles Caggins, a spokesman, said its soldiers had been involved in only a handful of cases, the most serious three arrests for drunken driving that had resulted in no injuries. The methods have ranged from the hard-nosed — kicking dozens of soldiers out of the Army and requiring groups of three or more troops to march, rather than walk, whenever they are on base — to the soft touch, including calling parents to tell them that their children had done an exemplary job in Iraq and bringing in a civilian social worker to counsel depressed soldiers.

The brigade also expanded its list of at-risk soldiers to include those the Army would not otherwise consider troubled, including troops with multiple traffic violations. Upon arrival at Fort Bliss, soldiers deemed to be at the highest risk of psychological problems were met on the landing strip and escorted to an interview with a counselor, sometimes with family members in tow.

Colonel Wilson said he had ordered his battalion’s soldiers to read “Who Moved My Cheese?” by Spencer Johnson to help them handle change. Officers, he said, were assigned “Winning Every Day,” by the former college football coach Lou Holtz.

The unit has also trained its leaders in suicide prevention programs that exceed Army requirements, and its officers, including the brigade commander until last Friday, Col. Peter A. Newell, have dropped in to bars around Fort Bliss to monitor their soldiers’ behavior.

Sergeants are encouraged to pry into soldiers’ personal lives by inquiring about the health of their marriages and the state of their finances. And before going on leave, each soldier with a car was required to undergo a vehicle inspection and to show proof of insurance and a driver’s license.

“There is a burning desire to change the military,” Colonel Newell said. “We had to do something, or we would have bottomed out after eight years of war.”

A critical aspect of its approach has been to stagger those times when the unit’s leadership was reassigned from the brigade so that the highest-ranking sergeants and officers are not transferred at the same time, which typically occurs in Army units within a few months after a brigade returns from war.

During a pre-departure briefing this spring to about 360 troops at Contingency Operating Base Adder in southern Iraq, Colonel Newell paced in front of them, saying he felt uncomfortable about their impending return to Fort Bliss.

“I have a little stress over sending a brigade home,” he said. “The sad truth is that it is safer for me to keep you in Iraq drawing combat pay with people trying to kill you than it is for me to take you back home.”

One by one, he ticked off cases in which one of the unit’s soldiers had ruined his life at Fort Bliss before the brigade’s deployment to Iraq last year: four suicides, a drug overdose, a murder committed with a baseball bat, fatal drunken-driving offenses, cases of domestic violence, and a shooting after an argument in a bar.

At least six of the unit’s former soldiers are serving 15 years or more in prison for those crimes, and more trials are pending.

As part of a housecleaning, Colonel Newell dismissed more than 150 soldiers from the Army and brought formal disciplinary charges against more than 10 percent of the brigade’s 3,500 troops. In one company, 39 of 150 soldiers were court-martialed.

Capt. Rolland Johnson, 26, a company commander, said the brigade’s approach had required him to pay attention to his soldiers in ways unthinkable a few years ago.

“I can tell you everyone’s full name and hometown,” he said, adding that he had recently installed a suggestion box for his troops fashioned out of a discarded ammunition tin. “It used to be that if you saw the captain coming around you were in trouble,” Captain Johnson said. “Things have changed a lot, but it’s a new type of soldier, too, given all they’ve seen and how long they’ve been away.”
452 2010-07-14 At a time when public school teachers are being blamed for everything from poor test scores to budget crises, Facebook is one place where they are receiving adulation, albeit delayed.

The site has drawn more attention as a platform for adolescent meanness and bullying, and as a vehicle for high school and college students to ruthlessly dissect their teachers. But people who are 20, 30 or 40 years beyond graduation are using Facebook to re-establish relationships with teachers and express gratitude and overdue respect.

Brad Scharff, 49, a finance manager at Time Inc. who knew Ms. D’Addario through her role as the junior class adviser, also reconnected with her online.

“It was like bringing back a lot of the more positive aspects of the high school years when I saw her on Facebook,” Mr. Scharff said.

Over the years, teacher tributes have come in broad formats, in movies like “To Sir, With Love” and “Stand and Deliver” and in television series like “Room 222.” Now, on Facebook, the praise is personalized, more widespread and more democratic.

On Facebook walls and dedicated tribute pages, the writings betray emotions that students dared not display in their youth. They include moving messages (“You inspired each of us to learn and go beyond what we thought we could achieve”), lighthearted claims on old debts (“You owe us a pool party — you promised us one if the Dow ever reached 3,000”) and recollections of specific events (“You got me out of detention one time”).

In the weeks before the death last month of Jerry Sheik, a retired band teacher from Intermediate School 70 in Chelsea, his wife, Judith Kalina, said he was overwhelmed by the praise written on a Facebook page created in his honor, “Sheik’s Freaks Reunite: A Celebration for Jerry Sheik.”

The page has 135 members, mostly students from the 1970s who played in the stage band Mr. Sheik conducted. They have posted old band photos and recalled their rendition of “Oye Como Va.”

One former student, Melissa Sgroi, wrote, “There are few people that you look back on in your life and know they left an indelible mark. Thank you Jerry Sheik for being one of those people.”

Another of Mr. Sheik’s students, Ned Otter, said, “Jerry was the first one to put a sax in my hand.” Mr. Otter went on to play saxophone professionally, touring with Dizzy Gillespie. He is one of nine overseers of the Sheik’s Freaks page.

Across the Hudson River in New Jersey, another music teacher inspired the page “Winston Hughes — Best Chorus Teacher Ever.” Mr. Hughes was surprised to learn that such a page existed.

“I had no idea about this,” said Mr. Hughes, 76, who retired from Edison High School in 1996. “I knew that I had impact, but I never knew the impact was as large as the writings I’ve read.”

Susan Poper Gordon, class of 1971, wrote, “He treated every student with respect, challenged us to stretch ourselves musically, taught us what artistry was and created beauty out of whatever voices walked into his room.” Another student wrote, “Mr. Hughes was the biggest influence on my life at Edison High. He encouraged us to be the best, vocally and personally.”

The tributes underscore what researchers have identified as a major force in adolescents’ lives, said Jacqueline Ancess, a researcher at Teachers College at Columbia University. “The most powerful factor in transforming students is a relationship with a caring teacher who a kid feels particularly connected to,” said Dr. Ancess, who added that many students had told her that if not for a particular teacher, they would not have graduated or would not have taken a certain direction.

Some former students have tried to recreate old roles, using Facebook messages to draw a teacher who had nurtured them back into their lives.

Lisa Nielsen, 41, a former library media specialist at Public School 175/Intermediate School 275 in Harlem, which she said was for troubled students, logged on to Facebook one day last year and saw this message:

“Hey Ms. Nielsen, I had to find you because you made a wonderful impact on my life. If people only knew how great of a teacher you are.” The message continued, “I know it’s been at least 10 years since you took me under your wing,” and added, “Let’s talk, got a lot to say!”

The writer, Keryce Davis, who was a sixth-grade student of Ms. Nielsen’s, is now 22 and works as an optician in Washington, after receiving an associate’s degree. Ms. Nielsen is glad to re-enter Ms. Davis’s life, and said they were discussing possibilities for Ms. Davis’s future.

Bill Chemerka, 64, who was a history teacher at Madison High School in New Jersey for 29 years, said he did not know what Facebook was until a student pointed him to the 455-member “Mr. Chemerka Fan Club” page. He found this message: “Your love of history and teaching oozed from your pores and allowed every student to absorb your knowledge and passion for life and history.”

Sheldon Jacobowitz, 68, said he was delighted about his Facebook connection with roughly 200 former students from New Utrecht High School in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn — the school that inspired the 1970s television series “Welcome Back, Kotter” — where he taught math for 37 years.

“I think it’s amazing; it’s a great feeling,” Mr. Jacobowitz said. “How they make you feel that you were so important in their lives — it makes everything worthwhile.”
453 2010-07-14 Risking the wrath of golf course traditionalists, including many current golf course architects who consider certain parts of the Old Course to be hallowed ground, the Royal and Ancient decided to lengthen the 17th hole, the Road Hole, by 40 yards, to 495 yards from the 455 yards it measured from the 1900 Open to the 2005 Open.

Doing this required repositioning the tee across the road to a spot on an adjacent practice range. Although the 17th was the most difficult hole for the week of the 2005 Open, averaging 4.68 strokes, many pros were hitting 3-irons and 4-irons off the tee to avoid the expanded right rough.

Others were hitting the ball so far they were reaching the green with lofted clubs instead of middle and long irons. Finally, the road that gives the hole its name, and which once served as a bed for railroad tracks, no longer came into play — as it did at the 1984 Open, when Tom Watson bogeyed the hole and lost the Open after his 2-iron approach missed the green and went onto the road.

Peter Dawson, the chief executive of the Royal and Ancient, went ahead with the change. The result from the back of the tee is an intimidating sight, but the sightlines on which pros will start their drives this week — somewhere between the second O and the H on the Old Course Hotel sign painted on an old railway shed — are unchanged.

“We do believe that what is already a challenging hole will become even more so,” Dawson said.

“It’s exactly like I would have envisaged the hole played, probably like the hole played when I first played it in the early ’90s,” the two-time British Open champion Padraig Harrington said.

He added: “You’ve got to hit a tee shot, and the way I look at it, you always want to make sure that the guy that wins the Open championship is tested at some stage coming down the stretch. There’s nobody going to get through 17 without thinking about it, that’s for sure, for four days. It’s now one you’re going to think about for 16 holes to actually get through it.”

Phil Mickelson agreed. “I have an overall philosophy and belief that we on tour should make the hard holes harder and the easy holes easier,” he said. “I like it when we make the challenging holes more challenging.”

Colin Montgomerie, asked this week about the change, decided to weigh in on the hole in general.

“If you designed the hole now, you would be shot,” said Montgomerie, who was the runner-up to Tiger Woods five years ago. “If you said now, ‘I’m going to put a tee over an old railway on a practice ground and get you to hit over a disused course and over a hotel,’ people would think you were off your head.”

Woods, who has won the last two Opens played at St. Andrews, was, not surprisingly, fairly noncommittal on the change. Why would a player who won by eight strokes in 2000 and five in 2005 want anything changed?

“I’m pretty neutral on it because all you’re doing is basically hitting a little bit more club into the green, but it’s the same tee shot,” he said.

And it is basically the same golf course it has been through the years, with changes that were made to keep it from becoming obsolete. That is part of the magic of St. Andrews, preserved by progress.
454 2010-07-14 BRITAIN — The British citizenship of Anna Chapman, a 28-year-old Russian émigré who was one of 10 Russian “sleeper agents” involved in last week’s spy swap between the United States and Russia has been revoked and her passport has been invalidated, officials said on Tuesday.

Home Secretary Theresa May carried out the actions under a law that provides for the revocation of British citizenship from dual nationals when to do so would be "conducive to the public good."

Ms. Chapman, whose maiden name was Anya Kushchenko, acquired British nationality through her marriage to a British citizen, Alex Chapman, during four years that she lived in London, working for Barclay’s Bank and other financial institutions, before returning to Moscow and then moving to New York in February 2010.

The marriage ended in divorce in 2006, but Ms. Chapman’s lawyers told reporters after she was flown out of the United States on Friday with the nine other agents and exchanged for four Russians convicted of spying for the West that she had hoped to return to Britain to live.

In an interview with a British newspaper, Mr. Chapman, 30, said his former wife had changed dramatically during their marriage, frequenting expensive London clubs and holding "secretive" meetings with “Russian friends.”
455 2010-07-14 Shares of Intel jumped 7 percent in after-hours trading. They had ended regular trading Tuesday at $21, up 44 cents, or 2.09 percent.

Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive of Intel, hailed the quarter as the best in Intel’s 42-year history in his remarks to Wall Street analysts.

Intel also said it expected revenue in the current quarter of $11.2 billion to $12 billion, surpassing analysts’ forecasts of $10.92 billion.

Over the last three years, the dominant companies in the PC industry have faced a constant stream of disappointment as their largest corporate customers put off replacing computers. A generation of faster chips, new software and bigger hard drives came and went with disappointing sales, as the big corporate buyers gave up on their tradition of replacing two-year-old machines.

These companies, executives in the technology industry contended, could not survive forever on their old machines. And, at long last, it seems that the technology sector has worn down the resolve of big business.

Mr. Smith said that Intel first caught whiffs of corporate interest in PC upgrades about nine months ago and that the signals had grown stronger with each passing quarter. Over the last three months, Intel noted a particular spike in PC sales to large customers and in sales of its computer server chips that go into data centers, Mr. Smith said.

“It does seem like the long-awaited upgrade cycle is starting to manifest itself a little bit,” said Michael McConnell, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities.

In the last 18 months, Intel’s fortunes have undergone a profound shift. The company was one of the first to feel the brunt of the recession and a global clampdown on technology spending. As a result, its sales plummeted at record rates. But it was also one of the first technology companies to benefit from renewed consumer interest in computers, specifically laptops, and its results so far this year have reflected this enthusiasm for new machines.

Wall Street analysts, however, have been waiting and waiting for companies sitting on four- and five-year-old computers to begin upgrading their machines as well. Such purchases could provide an even bigger boost to the fortunes of Intel, Microsoft, Dell and Hewlett-Packard, since businesses tend to buy more expensive computers.

“The corporate refresh has been the million-dollar question,” said Stacy A. Rasgon, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

Mr. Rasgon added that investors had been cautious when it came to technology companies because they feared that the economy could experience another slump and that the increased recent demand for technology products would vanish. “People are worried about Europe, austerity measures and whether China will slow down,” he said.

Still, analysts said that Intel could withstand some amount of broader economic turmoil better than some of its peers. The company made one of the smoothest transitions in its history to a set of new chip manufacturing plants, allowing it to produce faster chips at a lower cost.

In addition, it has seen diverse demand for its laptop, desktop and server chips, which has helped keep its prices up and the plants humming, said Craig A. Ellis, an analyst at Caris & Company. “Intel is executing very well in a wide array of areas,” he said.

Intel continues to face investor doubts about its long-term prospects. Executives at Intel have maintained that the PC industry has plenty of life left as a growth market, especially as developing countries begin buying large quantities of computers. Investors, however, have yet to buy into this vision.

In addition, there’s skepticism about Intel’s ability to crack new markets like those for chips in smartphones, televisions and electronics.

“I think people are really skeptical about their long-term growth,” Mr. Rasgon said. “You sort of have to believe they are a fundamentally different company than they have been over the past 10 years or so,” he said.
456 2010-07-14 Democrats levied countercharges that Republican Congressional leaders were more interested in blocking President Obama’s legislative agenda and denying Democratic lawmakers the ability to boast of another achievement during the fall campaign than they were in safeguarding the financial system and protecting consumers.

In the end, even lawmakers known for working across the aisle said they were perplexed — and discouraged — that the financial regulation bill ultimately did not generate wider bipartisan support.

“It’s disconcerting,” Ms. Snowe said. “It doesn’t engender the kind of public confidence in an initiative of this scope without having broad support because it raises questions.”

Instead of joint news conferences heralding passage of the bill, Senate leaders have bickered for weeks and engaged in protracted procedural skirmishing that delayed the measure, which Mr. Obama had hoped would be done before the Fourth of July.

Mr. Obama on Tuesday declared the securing of the needed Senate votes “a breakthrough” and praised the Republicans who agreed to support the bill.

“Three Republican senators have put politics and partisanship aside to support this reform, and I’m grateful,” he said, adding “What members of both parties realize is that we can’t allow a financial crisis like this one that we just went through to happen again.”

But Democrats struggled even to hold their own ranks; Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, seemed to waver at the last minute, after previously voting in favor of the bill. He later announced on Tuesday that his concerns had been addressed and that he would stand with his party in delivering the needed 60 votes to close debate.

A fourth Republican who voted for an earlier version of the bill, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, said in a Bloomberg television interview on Tuesday that he remained undecided.

The bill seeks to avert future crises by giving government regulators the power to seize control of failing financial institutions, break them apart, sell off the assets and put them out of business, with shareholders and creditors taking losses.

The legislation would create a system risk council comprising the most senior government regulators to try to identify potential dangers in the financial system. It would create a powerful consumer financial protection bureau to be housed in the Federal Reserve and would impose a new regulatory framework on the trading of derivatives, the complex instruments that were at the center of the 2008 downturn.

The bill would also strengthen the Securities and Exchange Commission by giving it new authority over credit rating agencies, hedge funds and private equity companies.

The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that Democrats were to blame for their unwillingness to compromise on numerous provisions in the bill, and that the legislation would still allow financial institutions to be so big and interconnected that their collapse could endanger the entire system.

“I think what happened with financial regulation is the bill stayed on the far left and therefore was not in the end appealing to most of my members,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference at the Capitol.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said Republicans had turned their backs on Americans by voting against the financial regulatory bill and by blocking an extension of unemployment benefits.

“Wall Street reform is preventive care; unemployment insurance is emergency care,” Mr. Reid said, adding, “I’m grateful that a few brave Republicans are doing the right thing for our country, but it’s still disappointing that you can count on one hand the number of Republicans willing to fix the system that caused the recession.”

A procedural vote on ending debate is scheduled for Thursday morning, and Mr. Reid expressed hope that a final vote could be held later that day. If Republicans object, he said, the vote could be scheduled for Saturday — a highly unlikely prospect in the summer of a midterm campaign year.
457 2010-07-14 Even though American health care is known for the use of advanced technology in treating patients, doctors and hospitals have been slow to replace paper records with electronic records.

“Only 20 percent of doctors and 10 percent of hospitals use even basic electronic health records,” said Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of health and human services.

Richard J. Umbdenstock, the president of the American Hospital Association, said the final rules were an improvement over the proposal. But he said he was still concerned that a majority of hospitals could not jump over the hurdles to get federal aid.

Dr. Ralph G. Brindis, president of the American College of Cardiology, applauded the rules, saying they promised to “increase the quality of care while reducing cost.” Cardiologists have been “early adopters” of electronic records, he said.

Dr. David Blumenthal, the national coordinator for health information technology, said doctors and hospitals would be defaulting on their “professional responsibilities” if they did not use electronic health records. Such technology can reduce medical errors, including mistakes that kill people, he said.

The main criticism of the rules proposed by the Obama administration in January was that they took an “all or nothing” approach. Doctors could not have received any federal bonus payments unless they met 25 criteria, or objectives, and hospitals would have been required to meet 23.

Standards in the new rules are less demanding and more flexible. Doctors will have to meet 15 specific requirements, plus 5 chosen from a list of 10 objectives. Hospitals will have to meet 14 requirements, plus 5 chosen from a menu of 10 goals.

Doctors, for example, will have to use electronic systems to record patients’ demographic data (sex, race, date of birth); their height, weight and blood pressure; their medications; and their smoking behavior.

To meet the new standards, doctors will have to transmit 40 percent of prescriptions electronically. Under the proposal, 75 percent of prescriptions had to be sent electronically.

“We are delaying some of the more ambitious requirements,” Dr. Blumenthal said. He described the new standards as “ambitious but achievable” and said they would put doctors “on an escalator” toward full adoption of electronic records.

Even pioneers in the use of electronic records, like Kaiser Permanente, Intermountain Healthcare in Utah and the Partners HealthCare System in Boston had said they could not meet all the proposed standards.

The final rules do not guarantee that doctors and hospitals can electronically exchange clinical information on patients. The rules do require health care providers to work toward that goal, widely seen as a way to improve the coordination of care and avoid the duplication of tests.
458 2010-07-14 Once President Obama signs the bill into law — the final version must first survive a Senate vote, which may come on Thursday — the government has 18 months to distribute the agency’s work and 1,000 employees among other regulators.

“Its time had come and we should not lament its passing,” said William Longbrake, a longtime industry executive now in residence at the University of Maryland’s business school. “It’s going to be increasingly difficult to say that there’s any true thrift industry any longer.”

In the 1980s, the industry still had enough friends in Congress to preserve its regulator, then called the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, after the savings and loan debacle. Lawrence D. Kaplan, a board employee, remembers going out with colleagues in 1989 to watch President George H. W. Bush announce that the agency would be closed and replaced by the Office of Thrift Supervision. He remembers returning to the office to find that managers had placed a new sign by the front door. He remembers that almost nothing else changed.

Congress has again chosen to preserve savings and loan associations as a separate category of financial institutions. But Mr. Kaplan said that placing the remnants of the industry under the supervision of banking regulators created a glide path for gradual assimilation.

“There’s going to be a homogenization,” said Mr. Kaplan, now a lawyer at Paul Hastings. “There’s not going to be a need for the thrift charter anymore.”

The housing boom that followed World War II was the golden age for S.& L.’s, thanks to a combination of economic tranquillity and legal protections that largely kept banks and other financial companies from making mortgage loans.

The industry has been struggling to get back to that garden ever since. Financial markets were gradually deregulated. Interest rates started bouncing up and down. Competition was a two-way street, but when savings and loan associations plunged into commercial banking in the 1980s, the result was a crisis that wiped out more than 700 institutions.

But by the late 1990s, consolidation had produced a generation of supersize S.& L.’s like Washington Mutual, which boasted that it could match the scale and sophistication of large banks and mortgage companies.

If the first golden age was defined by protective regulation, this new boom was defined by the freedom to lend money to almost anyone.

Agency officials embraced a policy of deregulation, arguing that lenders were better equipped than the government to set appropriate boundaries. Officials urged employees to treat savings and loan associations as “customers.”

“Our goal is to allow thrifts to operate with a wide breadth of freedom from regulatory intrusion,” James E. Gilleran, then the agency’s director, said during a 2004 speech in Washington.

John M. Reich, Mr. Gilleran’s successor, e-mailed an acquaintance in May 2007 that he needed to cancel lunch plans so he could dine with Kerry K. Killinger, the chief executive of Washington Mutual. “He’s my largest constituent,” Mr. Reich wrote.

Financial companies returned the embrace. Countrywide, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, moved under the agency’s supervision. Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch established S.& L. subsidiaries. At the American International Group, the traders whose bets on mortgage-related securities eventually sank the company worked in a unit regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision.

The agency also made a general practice of embracing industry innovations, including some with the greatest risk.

The Option ARM mortgage, for example, worked like a credit card. Borrowers could pay less than the balance due each month, and the remainder was simply added to the loan, with interest, until the total hit a preset limit. Moreover, lenders often did not ask borrowers to prove that they could afford the full monthly payment.

One IndyMac form reminded borrowers not to provide income information.

When other regulators started expressing concerns, agency officials battled to delay a rule requiring lenders to verify that borrowers could afford the full monthly payment. Countrywide later estimated in an investor presentation that the delay allowed it to make an additional $138 billion in loans.

And the agency failed to require S.& L.’s to set aside adequate reserves to absorb losses. As borrowers defaulted, the industry imploded.

Bank of America swallowed Countrywide. Wachovia bought Golden West, the second-largest S.& L., only to find that it, too, could not survive. The largest, Washington Mutual, became the largest failed financial institution in American history.

The agency oversaw 863 savings and loan associations with total assets of almost $1.5 trillion at the beginning of 2006. By the end of this March, the total had dwindled to 757, with assets of $950 billion, reflecting the disproportionate loss of the larger institutions.

The bill dictates that the agency’s 1,000 employees cannot be let go for up to four years. Most of them will be moved to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which supervises national banks, where they will continue to oversee the same companies.

James R. Barth, a former chief economist for the Office of Thrift Supervision, said that new management would make a critical difference. Several investigations have found that agency employees flagged problems at S.& L.’s, including Washington Mutual, only to be rebuffed by supervisors.

“The problem was not with the lower-level people but with the leadership of the agency,” said Mr. Barth, now a senior fellow at the Milken Institute. “We all know the story about Apple and Steve Jobs. A few people at the top can make a big difference.”
459 2010-07-14 The debate stems from the government’s policy since the Sept. 11 attacks to detain hundreds of terrorism suspects without trials, often for years.

But the judge, Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan, ruled that Mr. Ghailani’s extended incarceration had no adverse impact on his ability to defend himself.

“There is no persuasive evidence that the delay in this prosecution has impaired Ghailani’s ability to defend himself in any respect or significantly prejudiced him in any other way pertinent to the speedy trial analysis,” Judge Kaplan wrote.

And in a nod to the political debate about trying terrorists in civilian courts, the judge noted: “The court understands that there are those who object to alleged terrorists, especially noncitizens, being afforded rights that are enjoyed by U.S. citizens. Their anger at wanton terrorist attacks is understandable. Their conclusion, however, is unacceptable in a country that adheres to the rule of law.”

Mr. Ghailani is facing trial on Sept. 27 on charges he conspired in the two American embassy bombings. The authorities have said that he later trained with Al Qaeda and worked as a bodyguard and a document forger for Osama bin Laden.

After Mr. Ghailani was captured six years ago, he was held in secret overseas jails run by the C.I.A., where he was interrogated in the belief he had important intelligence information about Al Qaeda, the judge noted. In 2006, he was transferred to Guantánamo, and last year, the Obama administration ordered him moved into the civilian system, and he was brought to New York.

“The government is entitled to attempt to hold Ghailani accountable in a court of law for his alleged complicity in the murder of 224 people and the injury of more than 1,000 others,” Judge Kaplan wrote.

The ruling comes two months after the judge rejected Mr. Ghailani’s argument that his case should be dismissed on grounds of “outrageous” government conduct. Mr. Ghailani contends he was subjected to cruel interrogation techniques while in C.I.A. custody.

“The combined effect of the two rulings is to say that there is a way forward through the federal courts,” said Karen J. Greenberg, executive director of the Center on Law and Security at the New York University School of Law. “It’s the green light,” she said.

Of course, lawyers for other detainees, if they are brought into civilian court, would most likely try to distinguish the circumstances of their cases in order to argue, for example, that a detainee was prejudiced by a delay in a way Mr. Ghailani was not.

In his ruling, Judge Kaplan weighed the factors used to assess speedy trial claims, like the length of and reason for a delay, and the prejudice caused to a defendant. While the delay in bringing Mr. Ghailani to trial was long, he said, it “did not materially infringe upon any interest protected by the right to a speedy trial.”

Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers did not challenge the government’s authority to detain him for intelligence gathering. But they said prosecuting him in civilian court so many years later on a 1998 indictment was “perhaps the most egregious violation in the history of speedy-trial jurisprudence.”

Federal prosecutors disagreed, contending Mr. Ghailani was a “longstanding Al Qaeda terrorist” who was believed to have “actionable intelligence” about terrorist plots. “This was done, simply put, to save lives,” wrote the office of Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan.

Judge Kaplan noted that the specific interrogation techniques used on Mr. Ghailani in his two years of C.I.A. detention remain classified (he discusses them in a classified supplement to his decision). But those two years of delay, the judge said, “served compelling interests of national security.”

“Suffice it to say,” the judge added, citing the classified record, “the C.I.A. program was effective in obtaining useful intelligence from Ghailani throughout his time in C.I.A. custody.”

Neither prosecutors nor Mr. Ghailani’s lawyers would comment on the ruling.

The judge noted that a factor weighing against Mr. Ghailani’s claim was that he would have been held as an enemy combatant throughout the period of his detention. “None of the entire five-year delay of this prosecution subjected Ghailani to a single day of incarceration that he would not otherwise have suffered,” the judge wrote in his 46-page ruling.

Judge Kaplan also found that the government’s decisions causing the delays “were not made for the purpose of gaining any advantage” over Mr. Ghailani in his civilian court prosecution.

Peter Margulies, a law professor at Roger Williams University in Rhode Island and an expert in national security law, said Judge Kaplan made clear he did not want to compel the government to have to choose upfront between detaining and trying suspected terrorists.

“Forcing a choice might actually discourage reliance on the criminal justice system,” Professor Margulies said.

He said by taking a “flexible, pragmatic approach,” the judge was saying that detentions and trials “are not mutually exclusive, and the criminal justice system is a viable option in terrorism cases.”
460 2010-07-14 KISS--Linda G.,71, of Forest Hills, on July 13, 2010. Linda earned her B.A. and M.A. from NYU and worked as a physical therapist for over 40 years. Linda was an avid reader who also loved ballet, classical music and photography. She had an infecti...
461 2010-07-14 The Yankees signed well over 100 free agents during George Steinbrenner's tenure. Here are some of the notable signings and how well they did for the Yankees based on the wins-above-replacement statistic. It measures the number of wins the player ...
462 2010-07-14 COOPER--Howard: Chief - we will miss you dearly. Thanks for all the years of fun, friendship and creating such a great work environment. Rest in peace. Jeff, Robert, David and Richie Horowitz...
463 2010-07-15 The discovery of an 18th-century vessel at the site of the new World Trade Center has stirred a quest for information about it....
464 2010-07-15 David Gillen, deputy business editor, talks with Nelson D. Schwartz, business reporter, on how banks will deal with the financial reform legislation.
465 2010-07-15 A three-judge panel said the director Joe Berlinger must turn over some footage, but not all 600 hours that the oil company was seeking....
466 2010-07-15 If the intent was to make a difficult hole more difficult, British Open organizers appear to have succeeded. The modified par-4 17th hole was by far the most challenging hole on the Old Course during the first round of the British Open. That shoul...
467 2010-07-15 The Senate voted, 60 to 39, to approve an overhaul of the financial regulatory system on Thursday, heralding the end of more than a generation in which the prevailing posture of Washington toward the financial industry was largely one of hands-off...
468 2010-07-15 By a vote of 60-39, the Senate gave final approval to a broad overhaul of the financial regulatory system. The president is expected to sign the bill next week....
469 2010-07-15 An economist with many talents....
470 2010-07-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
471 2010-07-15 David Gillen and Nelson D. Schwartz of BusinessDay discuss the Senate vote on Thursday to advance legislation to overhaul financial regulation....
472 2010-07-15 This week, seven college admission counselors traveled over 100 miles by bike and saw five schools and some of the most scenic vistas in southern California....
473 2010-07-15 Apple said earlier this month that it would raise the height of the bars showing signal strength on the iPhone 4. A chart shows the difference in visual height....
474 2010-07-15 Stop-and-frisk is the big issue of the day in the police department; even the name of the policing strategy is in flux....
475 2010-07-15 Can foods fight lung cancer? Are there cancer risks in the home? Dr. Derek Raghavan of the Cleveland Clinic answers readers' questions about lung cancer....
476 2010-07-15 The Deal Professor reads all 2,300 pages of the financial regulatory bill and decides that over all it is an effective piece of legislation, despite some flaws....
477 2010-07-15 A broad overhaul of the nation's financial regulatory system cleared the last procedural hurdle in the Senate....
478 2010-07-15 The House Natural Resources Committee voted unanimously to form a panel to investigate the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill, after similar action by the Senate late last month. The action is a direct challenge to the commission formed by ...
479 2010-07-15 The American Bankers Association, no great fan of many parts of the financial regulatory bill, has taken one last shot at the legislation ahead of its expected final passage by the Senate....
480 2010-07-15 A new international treaty organization is needed to address financial regulation globally, an economist writes....
481 2010-07-15 Major indexes ended largely unchanged Wednesday as investors took note of a report that the economic recovery was likely to be slower than expected....
482 2010-07-15 A week after the Agricultural Bank of China raised nearly $20 billion from global investors in one of the biggest stock offerings in history, analysts are warning about growing risks to China's banking system....
483 2010-07-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
484 2010-07-15 The combination of Verizon, the biggest cellphone carrier in the United States, and Apple's iPhone would certainly be a powerful one, but Verizon's deepening ties with Google may mean it doesn't happen....
485 2010-07-15 Arnold Kramish, a physicist who survived an explosion while working on the Manhattan Project and later became an expert on nuclear proliferation and espionage, died on June 15 in Washington. He was 87 and lived in Reston, Va.

The cause was a neurological disorder, his son, Robert, said.

Before graduating from college, Mr. Kramish worked in the special engineering division of the Manhattan Project at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, Los Alamos National Laboratory in Nevada and the Philadelphia Navy Yard.

It was in Philadelphia, on Sept. 2, 1944, that he was severely burned when a uranium enrichment device exploded near him. As two colleagues lay dying on the floor, he refused the last rites offered by a priest before losing consciousness.

Although the fact that the accident was caused by uranium was kept secret for decades, Mr. Kramish later pushed the government to recognize his colleagues who died in the blast.

After the war Mr. Kramish became a nuclear intelligence and policy expert. He served with the Atomic Energy Commission until 1951, when he joined the staff of the RAND Corporation as a nuclear weapons research strategist.
486 2010-07-15 After failed negotiations over pensions with the police union, Oakland laid off 80 officers Tuesday. The layoffs came less than a week after rioting in the center of the city following a verdict of involuntary manslaughter in the case of a white transit officer who shot an unarmed black man in the back in January 2009. Facing a $31 million budget deficit, officials said they had little choice but to lay off the officers, bringing the force down to 696.
487 2010-07-15 In fact, Mr. Chafee appears to be the only statewide challenger this year — that is, a candidate who does not already have to balance a budget — promising to pursue a specific tax increase. Whether or not more sales taxes make sense for Rhode Island (it would, after all, close only a quarter of the projected budget gap while adding to the burden of low-income families), the rarity of Mr. Chafee’s argument — and the fact that is comes from an independent — tells us something about the boxes in which both parties find themselves at the moment.

A lot of Democrats around the country might be philosophically inclined to support some tax increases, but politically they could not be more disinclined, so fearful are they of being smacked with the old “tax and spend” label. In some ways, this generation of Democrats is still traumatized by the experience of Walter F. Mondale, who told voters in 1984 that he was a truth-teller who would raise their taxes — and who might as well have been paraded through the streets as an object of derision for the next 20 years.

The leading Democrat in the Rhode Island governor’s race at the moment, General Treasurer Frank T. Caprio, summarized his pitch to voters at a recent forum this way: “If you want to pay more taxes, support Senator Chafee. If you don’t want to pay taxes, support me.”

Republicans, meanwhile, so defined themselves as tax-slashing conservatives in better times that they seem loath now to consider any deviations from the policy, for fear that their own grass-roots activists will revolt. All Republican candidates for governor in more than a dozen states (and 97 percent of all Republicans seeking federal office) have signed a pledge, circulated by the conservative group Americans for Tax Reform, not to support any new taxes. This explains, along with the party’s hard line on social issues, the near extinction of New England Republicans like Mr. Chafee, whose more traditional notion of fiscal responsibility has fallen out of favor with conservatives.

There are reasons to think Mr. Chafee’s unlikely campaign could succeed, which might, in turn, lead to less confined policy debates everywhere else. He still personifies a powerful political brand in Rhode Island, where his father, John Chafee, was a towering figure as governor and senator. Linc, as he is known locally, remains an object of personal warmth; even on the day he lost his Senate seat, voters in exit polls overwhelmingly said they still admired him. Recent polls show him essentially tied with Mr. Caprio, his closest competitor.

Even so, Mr. Chafee knows what’s coming. His proposed tax would affect such incidental items as coffins and flags. It’s not hard to envision the 30-second ad protesting the “funeral tax” or featuring an Iraq veteran who wants to know why Mr. Chafee is slapping a levy on patriotism. It is a staple of the times.

Mr. Chafee may not have the money he needs to answer those attacks, but he knows what he will say: Give me a better idea.

“This is no time for nonspecifics,” he said in an interview last week. “Are you going to let the murderers out of the correctional institution? Are you going to put Granny and Grandpa out of the nursing home? Are you going to close a state park or two or three? Tell us something.”

His plea, here and in Washington, hangs uncomfortably in the air.
488 2010-07-15 ATLANTA — A relatively unknown Alabama state representative won the Republican nomination for governor on Tuesday, easily defeating a well-financed, establishment-supported opponent in a runoff election.

The representative, Dr. Robert Bentley, beat Bradley Byrne, a former state senator and college system chancellor who was endorsed by the current governor and a congressman. He won 56 percent of the vote to Mr. Byrne’s 44 percent.

“No one thought we had a chance,” Dr. Bentley, 67, a physician, said Tuesday evening in a celebration at the University of Alabama football stadium. “But you know, God is good.”

Political experts offered several theories for Dr. Bentley’s come-from-behind victory: an anti-establishment political climate, an outside group’s negative advertising campaign against Mr. Byrne, and a state registration system that allows Democrats to switch over to vote in Republican primaries.

Although Dr. Bentley campaigned aggressively (his slogan: “Alabama is sick, and we need a doctor”) and had been rising in the polls for weeks, he was a virtual unknown before his second-place finish in the crowded primary on June 1. In that election, he defeated two more prominent opponents: a former governor’s son and a former State Supreme Court chief justice who is nationally known for trying to put a statue of the Ten Commandments in the courthouse.
489 2010-07-15 Apple said that it planned to hold a news conference on Friday to discuss the iPhone 4 as concerns about problems with the device’s antenna continued to mount. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, would not give details of who would speak at the event, which is expected to be held at the company’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.

The iPhone 4 has been Apple’s most successful product introduction to date. Yet problems with the antenna surfaced after the phone went on sale and have plagued Apple for weeks.

Apple sought to address those concerns nearly two weeks ago, saying that a software bug caused the iPhone 4 and its predecessors to display signal strength incorrectly.

But Consumer Reports on Monday called into question Apple’s explanation. The magazine said that it had tested the iPhone 4 along with other devices in a lab and determined that the iPhone 4 had a hardware design flaw. It said that it could not recommend the device to its readers until Apple fixed the problem.

Analysts have said in recent days that a recall of the iPhone 4 is highly unlikely. But some have speculated that the company might decide to offer free bumpers, which appear to resolve most signal problems by insulating the phone’s antenna from human contact.
490 2010-07-15 It forced the cancellation of what was sure to be a poignant curtain call for some of the game’s giants — Arnold Palmer, 80; Lee Trevino, 70; Gary Player, 74; Tom Weiskopf, 67; Peter Thomson, 80; Bob Charles, 74; and Roberto De Vicenzo, 87.

“It’s just brutal out there,” said Nick Faldo, 52, a three-time Open champion and a CBS and Golf Channel commentator who won here in 1990.

As Dawson noted, it would be futile to predict what the weather will be at 6:30 a.m. local time Thursday, when the opening tee shot is hit by the 1999 Open winner, Paul Lawrie. Odds are it will be raining. And even if forecasts are correct and winds are calm Thursday, that is unlikely to last.

Calm is not common on the craggy east coast of Scotland, where the edge of the Old Course juts into the North Sea like a shark’s fin. Most of the 156 golfers in the field are prepared for the surprises that pop up during almost every Open — from balls bouncing sideways into one of the Old Course’s 112 bunkers to damp winds arising on seemingly clear days.

For the first time in a decade, the winner of the Open at St. Andrews is not a foregone conclusion. Tiger Woods, who dominated in his 2000 and 2005 victories here, will be going for an unprecedented third straight at the home of golf, although he is still in search of the form that enabled him to distance himself from the pack.

He is still the betting favorite, although the odds have gotten a bit higher. But if bettors are losing a little confidence, Woods is not. Seeming more self-assured than at any time since he returned to the game in April after a self-imposed layoff to deal with problems in his personal life, Woods is cutting to the chase.

“I understand how to play this golf course,” he said. “It’s a matter of going out there and putting it together and putting it together at the right time.”

Preparation and placement are two keys this week. Among the best prepared will be Justin Rose of England, the hottest player in the game with two victories in the last month. Rose came in last week to get a head start and found the westerly winds blowing. On Wednesday morning, with easterlies blowing, he went out to recheck his lines for the prevailing wind.

“I was quite excited to feel like I’ve played both sets of winds that impact the golf course,” he said. “It was a good opportunity to go out and do the last-minute preparations. But the last four or five holes coming in were crazy, really — the proper sideways rain that everybody dreads here.”

That type of wind-driven rain would not help Woods, whose wins here came in the milder weather he prefers. Nor would it favor Phil Mickelson, the No. 2-ranked player in the world. But it will probably not hurt the deepest, most impressive group of British and Irish golfers in a century.

English hopes will be carried by No. 3-ranked Lee Westwood, Luke Donald at No. 7, No. 10 Paul Casey and Rose, who ended last year ranked No. 70 and has since cracked the top 20 at No. 16. The hopes of the Irish rest on the reigning United States Open champion, Graeme McDowell, and the talented Rory McIlroy, both from Northern Ireland, and Padraig Harrington of Ireland, a two-time Open winner.

Ernie Els of South Africa, at age 40, is back in form, with a refreshed outlook and a confident putting stroke. Steve Stricker is coming off last week’s victory and is under the radar, as is the defending champion, Stewart Cink, who has not won since his victory over Tom Watson at Turnberry last year.

In days gone by, the rest of the field would be viewed as little more than window dressing, a supporting cast for Woods. That is no longer true. Despite ties for fourth place in the first two major championships of the year, Woods has not demonstrated his once-unquestioned ability to close.

Indeed, questions abound this week on golf’s oldest and most revered stage. And someone will step forward and answer them, solving the ever-changing mysteries of the Old Course at St. Andrews, rain or shine.
491 2010-07-15 Two more Cuban dissidents arrived in Spain on Wednesday, joining seven who arrived the day before. The pair, Normando Hernández and Omar Rodríguez, and 10 family members were whisked from Madrid’s airport to a hotel. Two others, Luis Milán and Mijail Bárzaga, are expected to arrive Thursday. In all, 20 of the 52 activists being released are expected to land in Spain.
492 2010-07-15 “Verizon is back in the game, even without the iPhone,” said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

Despite the pull of the iPhone, Verizon has managed to steadily increase its share of the smartphone market, to 26 percent in May, from 20 percent in late 2008. In the same period, AT&T’s market share slipped to 40 percent, from around 45 percent, according to . Those numbers do not take into account the impact of the popular iPhone 4, released last month.

Before the original iPhone’s debut, AT&T and Apple signed a five-year exclusive deal that is due to expire in 2012, according to court documents that emerged in a class-action lawsuit against Apple. Only insiders know whether that agreement has been amended.

When the phone proved to be a hit, Verizon appeared to be left out of the race for versatile phones running programs from third-party developers. Verizon was also not particularly friendly with Google, whose participation in an auction of precious wireless spectrum angered Verizon executives. Google wanted to force the federal government to require carriers to make their networks more open to a wide range of devices and software. Verizon executives were furious, vowing that they would not support the Android operating system.

A year later, Verizon recognized the threat posed by the iPhone and began working with Google and to develop the first of its Android phones, which it sold under the name Droid, a trademark it licensed from Lucasfilm.

Verizon has since collaborated closely with Google to develop six phones running Android, helping to give Google’s mobile operating system 13 percent of the smartphone market in the United States. In contrast, Apple has a 24 percent share, while , maker of the BlackBerry, commands nearly 42 percent.

T-Mobile and Sprint have also jumped on the Android bandwagon. Matt Carter, president of Sprint’s 4G division, said the company was building a portfolio of smartphones that could run on its fourth-generation wireless network, including the Evo, an Android phone made by HTC.

“Obviously, we would love to have the iPhone, but we feel the HTC Evo is a better phone,” he said.

The success of its Android phones has emboldened Verizon to take shots at Mr. Jobs and the iPhone. A recent ad slyly referred to the controversy over the iPhone 4’s antenna design in boasting that the Droid X “allows you to hold the phone any way you like and use it just about anywhere to make crystal-clear calls.”

“Verizon is behaving as if it’s not going to get the iPhone anytime soon,” said Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company. “The signal I’m getting from the intimacy of Google and Verizon is that it is certainly an engagement, if not a marriage.”

Reports from analysts and the news media have predicted, with almost comic regularity, an iPhone debut on Verizon in the next week, next month or next year. Representatives for Verizon and Apple declined to comment on the matter.

Neither company will rule out the possibility of an eventual union. For Apple, millions of untapped Verizon customers are at stake. Analysts say that a partnership between the two companies could double Apple’s smartphone share — a crucial jump if Mr. Jobs hopes to stay ahead of Google.

At a technology conference last month, when Mr. Jobs was asked whether the iPhone could appear on rival networks, he replied that “the future is long.”

John Stratton, chief marketing officer at Verizon, said in an interview that his company “had a lot of respect” for Apple.

“They have served the industry very well,” he said. “The smartphone category is now growing faster than any other part of our business, and in no small part, that is something we can trace back to the creation of the iPhone.”

A Verizon-Apple coupling faces some obstacles. In particular, Verizon maintains an ironclad grip over the phones on its network, steering marketing campaigns, stamping each device with a prominent logo and often installing its own applications, like its VZ Navigator mapping program.

An Apple executive, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, said Apple would never agree to put another company’s name on the iPhone.

Then there are business factors. After Mr. Jobs visited rival carriers, AT&T secured the iPhone in part because it offered the most favorable terms. Analysts estimate that Apple brings in an average of more than $650 for each iPhone sold. Consumers pay upward of $200, and AT&T subsidizes the rest.

Verizon, on the other hand, pays far less than $300 for Android, BlackBerry and Palm phones, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Kaufman Brothers.

Verizon has “done well with the network rollout, they have done well with the financial side of the equation, and they have maintained control by owning the Droid brand,” Mr. Wu said. “Verizon has proven that they don’t necessarily need Apple.”

In addition, Verizon and Google may have agreed to share the revenue generated by sales of Android applications, something Apple does not do, said Philip Cusick, an analyst at Macquarie Research Equities. “Verizon would be uncomfortable ceding those things to Apple,” he said.

Perhaps, he said, it won’t need to. “If Verizon didn’t get the iPhone, it wouldn’t be the end of the world,” he said. “They would continue to add subscribers and new phones.”

But there are also signs that Verizon is willing to compromise to get what remains the world’s most coveted phone. Mr. Stratton of Verizon said the company was relaxing its control over the phones on its network and was even willing to sacrifice that logo.

“We don’t have a hard and fast set of rules we think we need to operate under anymore,” Mr. Stratton said.

One person who seems to believe a Verizon iPhone is a certainty — and is comfortable with that eventuality — is , chief executive of Google. In an interview last month, he said a Verizon iPhone would not bother him.

“I think they should do what they need to do to make their data network and revenue stronger,” he said. “I am satisfied that the Droid would do well against an iPhone on the same data network.”
493 2010-07-15 “They continue to talk about how player salaries outpace revenues, but it’s just not true,” Hunter said.

The rhetorical divide, while predictable, bodes poorly for negotiations on a new labor deal. The sides have had three meaningful meetings so far, with another expected sometime in the next two months. They have until June 30 to complete a new agreement, and history suggests that they will need every last hour to get it done. Both sides are bracing for a lockout.

Stern and the owners want fundamental changes to the labor deal, including shorter contracts, lower salaries, an elimination of several salary-cap exceptions and perhaps even a hard cap. The players union is open to modest changes but contends that the current system works fine.

Hunter strongly disputed Stern’s projection of $370 million in losses, saying, “It just depends on what accounting procedure one applies.” He added, “I contend that the loss, if any, is minimal.”

There are disagreements over certain financial indicators as well. The union points to the new $58 million salary cap — which is drastically higher than once projected for this season — as proof of the league’s financial health. The cap figure is set based on revenues. But league officials say the cap formula does not account for increases in expenses.

Still, both sides agree that fan interest is high and sales are strong. The Knicks, according to a report, have sold out their season tickets for next season, including more than 4,00o new season tickets. At this time last year, they had sold 1,370 tickets. The Charlotte Bobcats have sold 1,300 season tickets so far, compared with 259 a year ago. The Chicago Bulls have gone from 545 in July 2009 to 3,000 this summer.

“What we are seeing with the ’10-’11 ticket sales are just unbelievable,” Hunter said.

The union contends that any financial difficulties can be resolved through increased revenue sharing among the teams.

Stern said the league is working on a new model “that is considerably more robust.” The union has its own revenue-sharing proposal and wants the topic to be part of the collective bargaining process. The league has been pursuing those changes separately.

Although a lockout is possible, Hunter said it would be a huge mistake, given the momentum the league has generated over the past few years.

“We need to be taken out in the backyard and shot if we don’t use this opportunity and all the excitement generated” to promote the league, he said, “rather than destroy it.”

KING HIRED AS NETS’ G.M. On Wednesday, the Nets named Billy King their new general manger as the franchise continued its wholesale rebuilding under the owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov. King will be formally introduced Thursday.

“He has all of the qualities we’ve been looking for in a candidate: professionalism; good relations with the league, players and agents; and strong communications skills,” Prokhorov said in a statement.

King will replace Rod Thorn, who is stepping aside after leading the Nets to the N.B.A. finals in 2002 and 2003 in 10 years as the team’s president. No one will hold the title of president of basketball operations.

King spent 10 years with the Philadelphia 76ers, serving as the team’s president from 2003-7. He helped lead the 76ers to five-straight playoff appearances, from 1999 to 2003, including the N.B.A. finals in 2001.

King had a difficult time building around his star, Allen Iverson, and made a handful of questionable moves. In 2007, King was fired after the 76ers opened 5-12 — a record that was on pace to fall short of the Nets’ 12-win disaster last season. MARK VIERA

SUNS TRADE FOR TURKOGLU The Phoenix Suns have acquired forward Hedo Turkoglu in a trade that sends guard Leandro Barbosa and forward Dwayne Jones to Toronto. Phoenix also signed Josh Childress. (AP)
494 2010-07-15 “It’s very effective on rabbits, squirrels, woodchucks, chipmunks and even sometimes deer,” she said. “I use it all the time.”

She’s also recently started using a product made from predator urine called Shake Away. “You spread it around the perimeter of the area you are trying to protect,” she said, “but do not use it directly on edible crops.” It has a powerful smell, so you’ll probably want to apply it at the end of your gardening day.

When I described the tunnels in the garden, and the plants uprooted, she said these are signs of moles: “Repellents only push the moles to a new location, so traps are your best deterrent.”

At a company called Westchester Wildlife, I spoke to Jim Dreisacker, who for 28 years has helped homeowners with what he calls “nuisance wildlife.”

“Moles are tunneling for worms and grubs,” he said. “If you’ve fertilized and mulched a flower garden, you’re increasing the worm population. The richer the soil beds around the plants, the more worms, and moles, you’re going to have.”

He thought the best solution for both pests was to trap them. Woodchucks, however, are happy to use dens that are no longer occupied, so getting rid of one woodchuck only opens the territory to another, making trapping an annual task.

Moles I could trap, but that is no more appealing to me than trapping mice. I could also spray (my neighbor has had success with Mole Max, an organic deterrent) or use poison, but my water is from a well and poison gets into groundwater. The most effective tactic, for either pest, would be to dig a trench at the base of the deer fence and install an underground wire barrier. It should be 10 inches deep and extend 10 inches out from there, all the way around the garden. But my garden is large and the soil is rocky, so I can’t do it myself. And it is too costly to hire someone.

There are plants the woodchuck didn’t touch — the roses and the foxglove, for instance — and I am looking into planting others. A friend of mine plants only shrubs that deer won’t eat, and I wonder if I could plant a garden woodchucks would leave alone. As for the moles, if I could eliminate the grubs, they might look elsewhere for food. But that’s a project in itself.

When I bought the house there were three pellet guns in the closet. Now I know why.
495 2010-07-15 Eminem’s “Recovery” (Aftermath/Interscope) is No. 1 on the Billboard album chart for a third week, with 229,000 sold, according to Nielsen SoundScan, bringing its three-week total to just under 1.3 million, though its sales have fallen significantly each week. “Recovery” is the first album to hold the No. 1 spot for three weeks since Sade’s “Soldier of Love” in March. Drake’s “Thank Me Later” (Aspire/Young Money/Cash Money) holds at No. 2 with 74,000 sold, and “Sir Lucious Left Foot: The Son of Chico Dusty” (Def Jam), the new album by Big Boi of OutKast, opened at No. 3 with 62,000. The soundtrack to “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” (Chop Shop/Atlantic) is No. 4 with 45,000 and Justin Bieber’s “My World 2.0” (Island) is No. 5 with 43,000.
496 2010-07-15 The graphic can be pinched and stretched to show weekly price swings. That feature, by the way, is missing from non-Apple devices.

The News Pro app from Thomson Reuters is Bloomberg’s equal, but not its twin. The free News Pro lacks some of Bloomberg’s depth, but it compensates with a few features missing from the competition.

Thomson Reuters, for those not immersed in media brands, is a news service with expertise in legal, financial and professional topics, as well as general consumer news. The level of reporting featured in the app is consistently high, if you look past articles like a recent one about an octopus predicting the World Cup winner.

Commuters will love News Pro for its caching features. If users turn on the app and read an article while connected to a network, the app will update articles in the background. Then if you run for a train or step into an elevator, you can read fresh articles while those around you stare out into space.

News Pro’s other strong point is video — at least on Apple devices, where the feature is now available. The company packs its app with multimedia content, which can be a welcome change from consuming business news only through charts, graphs and text.

The video performance was spotty recently. On an iPhone 4, the video failed to load, while on an iPhone 3GS the audio portion of the content loaded, but not the video. The iPad had no such problems.

Speaking of which, Thomson Reuters has a second iPad app, the Marketboard, which makes great use of the iPad’s big screen. But the app also lets you easily find higher-level, company-specific information, like transcripts of investor calls and research reports, through in-app purchases. They can cost as much as $50, but reading and carrying them on an iPad is a pleasure.

People who hold stock accounts with E*Trade, Fidelity and other services can often find company-specific news from those apps and use the information to make trades. On E*Trade’s Mobile Pro (free on Apple and BlackBerry), for instance, even those without E*Trade accounts can find news from Briefing.com and CBS MarketWatch, as well as charts and quotes.

Like Bloomberg and News Pro, E*Trade’s quotes trail the market by 15 minutes. For market trackers with less patience, CNBC Real-Time is a good option. The app (free on Android and Apple devices) offers live quotes from Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as news, videos and watch lists.

Qfolio, which is produced by Nasdaq OMX, also offers real-time quotes and charts from major exchanges, and its iPad app is a stellar desktop companion, thanks to its graphics. (Not available for Android or BlackBerry.)

Of course, you don’t necessarily need an iPad, or even a smartphone, to execute most of these tricks. If you have an iPod Touch with a Wi-Fi connection, the better apps in the category work nicely enough. And especially now that a new Touch is in the pipeline (if the rumor mill is to be believed), you can pick up an older device without breaking the bank.

For those without the confidence, or hubris, to assume they can use these apps to pay off an iPad, it’s a good hedge.

QUICK CALLS Toy Story 3 ($9 on iPad) is a 3-D read-along experience, with songs, games and a coloring book. Free 3-D glasses are available from Disney stores, so you can watch Buzz and his friends narrowly escape incineration with fully dimensional drama ... Guitarists can pack their effects pedals into an iPhone with iShred Live, which includes three free pedal effects, with others available as in-app purchases. Users need a $30 cable from Griffin Technology to connect the phone to the guitar ... Android users without the time to make their own playlists can leave the task to Moodagent (free), which will mix tunes according to a specified mood. Also available for Apple devices.
497 2010-07-15 The efforts to finger a culprit — or culprits — amount to a vast investigation the likes of which “CSI” has never seen. The trail of evidence leads from marine patrols in Mississippi, where more than half the dead turtles have been found, to a toxicology lab in Lubbock, Tex., to this animal autopsy room at the University of Florida in Gainesville. And instead of the fingerprint analysis and security camera video used in human homicides, the veterinary detectives are relying on shrimp boat data recorders and chromatographic spectrum analysis that can tell if the oil residue found in an animal has the same “chemical signature” as BP crude.

The outcome will help determine how many millions BP will pay in civil and criminal penalties — which are far higher for endangered animals like sea turtles — and provide a wealth of information about the little-known effects of oil on protected species in the Gulf.

“It is terribly important to know, in the big scheme of things, why something died,” said Moby Solangi, the director of the Institute for Marine Mammal Studies in Gulfport, Miss., where the initial turtle necropsies and some dolphin necropsies were performed.

“We might be doing what we can to address the issues of today and manage the risk,” he said. “But for tomorrow, we need to know what actually happened.”

In a laboratory at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Jennifer Cole, a graduate student, was slicing a precious chunk of living dolphin tissue into 0.3-millimeter sections.

Supervised by Céline Godard-Codding, an endangered species toxicologist, Ms. Cole was studying cytochrome P450 1A1, an enzyme that breaks down hydrocarbons.

Tissue samples are one of the only ways to learn more about poisonous substances in marine mammals and sea turtles, whose protected status limits the type of studies that can be done — researchers cannot do experiments to determine how much oil exposure the animals can withstand.

Oil — inhaled or ingested — can cause brain lesions, pneumonia, kidney damage, stress and death. Scientists working on the BP spill have seen oil-mired animals that are suffering from extreme exhaustion and hyperthermia, with the floating crude reaching temperatures above 130 degrees, Dr. Stacy said.

Far less is known about the effects of dispersants, either by themselves or mixed with oil, though almost two million gallons of the chemicals have been used in the BP spill.

Studies show that dispersants, which break down oil into tiny droplets and can also break down cell membranes, make oil more toxic for some animals, like baby birds. And the solvents they contain can break down red blood cells, causing hemorrhaging. At least one fresh dolphin carcass found in the Gulf was bleeding from the mouth and blowhole, according to Lori Deangelis, a dolphin tour operator in Perdido Bay.

Investigators plan to take skin and mouth swabs, stomach contents, slices of organ tissue and vials of bile from animals that have died and test them for disease and hydrocarbons, as well as for dispersants, before a final report on the cause of death is written. But no samples have yet been sent to labs, because scientists are still evaluating what type of tests will prove most useful.

Jacqueline Savitz, a marine biologist with Oceana, an ocean conservation group, said there was no excuse for any delay in testing.

“It’s absolutely urgent that it should be done immediately,” she said, because the findings could influence response measures like BP’s experimental use of dispersants underwater.

In the meantime, at places like the Texas Tech institute, the oil spill has set off a mad scramble to fill in the gaps in knowledge. In one laboratory, jars of BP crude in various stages of weathering await analysis to determine their relative toxicity. In another lab, graduate students paint precise amounts of oil on incubating duck eggs. Tanks of fiddler crabs awaited a shipment of Corexit 9500, the dispersant being used by BP in the Gulf.

In the end, Dr. Godard-Codding said, scientists will not find a single smoking gun. The evidence — results of laboratory tests, population counts, assessments of how well oil-drenched animals survive after rehabilitation — will all be circumstantial.

When Lt. Donald Armes of the Mississippi Marine Patrol heard about the rash of dead sea turtles littering the state’s shores, his first thought was not of oil but of shrimp boats.

“Right off the bat, you figure somebody’s gear was wrong,” he said recently, after patrolling for shrimpers in the Mississippi Sound, a few days before floating islands of oil forced officials to close it. By gear, Lieutenant Armes meant turtle excluder devices, which shrimp trawlers are supposed to have. Without them, trawls can be one of the biggest dangers for turtles, which can get trapped in the nets and drown. The devices provide an escape hatch. Another kind of shrimp net, called a skimmer, is not required to have an excluder device — instead, the length of time the skimmers can be dragged is limited by law to give trapped turtles a chance to come up for air.

When shrimp season began in Mississippi on June 3, the marine patrol inspected all the boats and found no violations involving the excluders, Lieutenant Armes said. But on June 6, 12 dead turtles were found in Mississippi in a single day. Similar spikes have occurred when parts of Louisiana waters were opened to shrimpers, and since most of the waters in the spill area have closed, the turtle deaths have subsided.

Shrimpers emerged as a prime suspect in the NOAA investigation when, after a round of turtle necropsies in early May, Dr. Stacy announced that more than half the carcasses had sediment in the airways or lungs — evidence of drowning. The only plausible explanation for such a high number of drowning deaths, he said, was, as he put it, “fisheries interaction.”

Environmentalists saw the findings as confirmation of their suspicions that shrimpers, taking advantage of the fact that the Coast Guard and other inspectors were busy with the oil spill, had disabled their turtle excluder devices.

The devices are so contentious that Louisiana law has long forbidden its wildlife and fisheries agents to enforce federal regulations on the devices. Last month, Gov. Bobby Jindal vetoed legislation that would have finally lifted the ban, citing the “challenges and issues currently facing our fishermen.” By contrast, Mississippi officials strengthened turtle protections by decreasing the allowable tow time for skimmers, posting observers on boats, and sending out pamphlets on turtle resuscitation.

Officials in both states say that turtles die in shrimp season even when shrimpers follow the law, from boat strikes and other accidents. They also say there have been far fewer shrimpers working since the spill, in part because many have hired out their boats to BP. That should mean fewer, not more, turtle deaths.

But there has also been illegal activity. In Louisiana, agents have seized more than 20,000 pounds of shrimp and issued more than 350 citations to commercial fishermen working in waters closed because of the oil spill. In Mississippi in June, three skimmer boats were caught exceeding legal tow times — one just hours after the shrimper had been given a handout explaining that the maximum time had been reduced, Lieutenant Armes said.

As for the piece of shrimp that Dr. Stacy found lodged in the turtle’s throat during the necropsy, it, too, pointed to shrimpers. A turtle is normally not quick enough to catch shrimp, Dr. Stacy said. Unless, of course, it is caught in a net with them.

In the necropsy lab in Gainesville, Dr. Stacy was slitting open the turtle’s delicate windpipe, looking for traces of sediment, a tell-tale sign of drowning. He finds none there, so he examines a crinkled papery membrane barely recognizable as lungs. Nothing.

“Drowning can be a difficult diagnosis,” he said. He has requested data that will show the level of commercial fishing in the area. But, he cautioned, “A lot of times our evidence is fairly indirect.”

In a sense, the necropsies so far have posed more questions than answers, demonstrating how oil has become just another variable in an already complex ecosystem. Late in June, a dolphin examined at the Institute for Marine Mammal Studies in Gulfport showed signs of emaciation, but its belly was full of fish, suggesting that it may have gorged itself after a period of difficulty finding food.

Another dolphin, its ribs broken, was hit by a boat, a catastrophe that dolphins are normally nimble enough to avoid. The veterinarian, Dr. Connie Chevis, found a tarlike substance in the dolphin’s throat. The substance will be analyzed to see if it is oil, but one theory is that the animal could have been disoriented by oil exposure, which can have a narcotic effect, rendering it incapable of avoiding a boat strike. Ms. Deangelis said the dolphins on her recent tours have been “acting like they’ve had three martinis.”

The results raise questions about oil’s indirect effects. Is crude, for example, responsible for what anecdotal reports say is a steep increase in turtles in Mississippi and Louisiana waters? The population of Kemp’s ridleys has been rebounding thanks to years of protective measures. But some scientists have speculated that the spill is driving wildlife toward the coast, crowding areas where there is more boat traffic and setting the stage for fatal accidents.

In a normal year, one or two turtles might get snagged on the hooks of recreational fishermen at the piers. Now, the marine mammal institute in Gulfport is caring for 30 such turtles, a possible indication that they are desperate for food. In recent weeks, Dr. Chevis said, she has begun to see elevated white blood cell counts and signs of pneumonia in rescued turtles, both of which are symptoms of oil exposure, but could easily have other explanations.

In Gainesville, Dr. Stacy returned the jumbled remains of the turtle that ate the shrimp to its plastic wrapper and sent it back to the freezer. There, it will be stored indefinitely, just one piece of evidence among thousands.
498 2010-07-15 KAMPALA, Uganda — The vice president of an aspiring political party in Rwanda was found dead by the banks of a river on Wednesday, a day after he disappeared and less than a month before a presidential election.

The nearly beheaded body of the party official, Andre Kagwa Rwisereka, 60, was found a mile from his car, which was found abandoned Tuesday afternoon, when the Democratic Green Party first announced that he was missing.

The police in Rwanda confirmed the death, saying that they suspected theft and that an investigation was under way.

“People who saw him that night say he had a lot of money, so it is suspected it may be a robbery case,” a police spokesman, Eric Kayiranga, told Reuters.

But Frank Habineza, president of the Democratic Green Party, said that Mr. Rwisereka’s wallet, keys and car had not been taken and that his colleague had been assassinated.

“We call for the police and government of Rwanda to help,” said Mr. Habineza, who added that both he and Mr. Rwisereka had received anonymous death threats.
499 2010-07-15 SHANGHAI — A week after the Agricultural Bank of China raised nearly $20 billion from global investors in one of the biggest stock offerings in history, analysts are warning about growing risks to China’s banking system.

A report released on Wednesday by Fitch, the credit ratings agency, said Chinese banks were increasingly engaging in complex deals that hid the size and nature of their lending, obscuring hundreds of billions of dollars in loans and possibly even masking a coming wave of bad real estate and infrastructure loans.

The report also said that Chinese regulators understated loan growth in the first half of the year, by 28 percent, or about $190 billion, and that many banks continued to secretly shift loans off the books, creating a “pervasive understatement of credit growth and credit exposure.”

“The growing amount of credit moving out of the banking system through these channels is one of the most disconcerting trends we’ve seen in China in recent years,” Charlene Chu, a Beijing-based banking analyst at Fitch, said of the practice of repackaging loans and moving them off bank balance sheets.

While China’s economy remains robust, the report is troubling because the country’s recovery has been fueled by aggressive lending and soaring property prices. Lending by state-run banks was one of China’s most aggressive forms of stimulus last year, but analysts constantly warned that banks could face the risk from overbuilding and nonperforming loans.

Beijing is trying to tame housing prices, rein in overly aggressive lending and stop banks from shifting loans off their books.

China’s biggest banks, like Bank of China and China Construction Bank, are relatively healthy, analysts say. But many banks could face sizable risks if borrowers failed to repay loans.

Analysts say that trying to rein in growth is a delicate and precarious balancing act and that even regulators are struggling to keep up with the rapid innovation in the banking system.

Chinese banks reported a sharp drop in lending in the first half of the year after record amounts in 2009, suggesting that the economy was growing at a strong clip with more normalized lending.

But Fitch said on Wednesday that lending had continued to be aggressive — powering the economy, but raising the risk of nonperforming loans.

Much of the lending through off-balance-sheet channels is fueled by trust companies, mostly privately owned, that are partnering with banks and engaging in complex deals that involve repackaging loans into investment products — akin to an informal type of securitization.

The deals are essentially disguised loans, analysts say. Beijing has tried repeatedly to stop the practice, but analysts say that banks and trust companies have come up with innovative ways around the rules.

Last week, the China Banking Regulatory Commission ordered banks to stop working with trust companies to securitize or repackage loans, according to industry analysts. But the regulator made no official announcement.

A spokesman in Beijing for the commission declined to comment on Wednesday, insisting that senior officials needed to be alerted to the request for an interview.

Stephen Green, a Shanghai-based analyst at Standard Chartered Bank, said trust companies in China were acting as intermediaries and partnering with banks to raise and then lend money to a variety of projects.

According to his estimate, trust companies raised hundreds of billions of dollars in 2009 and the first five months of 2010, partly because depositors were frustrated by low interest rates at banks, and trust companies were willing to offer double that amount with principal guaranteed.

“There’s limited transparency, so obviously that’s a red flag,” he said in a telephone interview.

Worries about a potential wave of bad loans have led regulators to pressure Chinese banks to raise more capital and strengthen their balance sheets.

Banks have also been pressed to lower their exposure to local government debt — money often raised for huge infrastructure projects.

But analysts now say they believe that banks are lowering their exposure to local debt and hiding the size of their lending by working even more aggressively with trust companies.

Analysts say that last year the process worked something like this: a bank would hand over a big loan, say $50 million, to a private trust company in exchange for $50 million in cash. Then the trust company would create a wealth management product out of the loan and give it to the bank to sell to investors and depositors. The money raised would be given back to the trust company.

Investors would receive as much as double the regular saving rate and their principal when the loan was repaid.

That $50 million would then be given to the trust company as if it were an investment; in fact, it was a short-term, high-interest loan to finance a real estate project.

Now, analysts say, to get around new regulations, the transactions are much more complex, but have the same aim — to pretend that a loan is an investment.

If the developer or trust company fails and cannot repay the loan, analysts say the banks could face huge, unrecognized risks. But curtailing the practice will not be easy, Ms. Chu at Fitch Ratings said.

“Before, banks were trying to create these things with trust companies to get them out,” she said. “But now, with inflation and interest rates so low, and property prices low, bank customers are going into banks and demanding this option.”
500 2010-07-15 Then came the rumors and the reality of a new stadium, the rumors and the reality that our beloved park would be devoured to make way for progress. The community would get another park, we were promised, one that would be bigger and better. And so the demolition began.

It’s hard to describe the feeling of watching a piece of yourself disappear piece by piece, day by day. I’ve had such a long relationship with the old Yankee Stadium. Two weeks after my 18th birthday, I played my first college football game at the Stadium. Undefeated Morgan State played Grambling, and every detail of that afternoon has remained vibrant: the sunny afternoon, the sold-out stadium, Morgan’s goal-line stand and victory.

A year later, as a defensive back for Morgan, I gave up my first collegiate touchdown in Yankee Stadium, and in my senior year I played in the first nationally televised game between two historically black colleges in Yankee Stadium.

Twenty-seven years later, I moved into a building where my apartment looked into the soul of the place.

I’ve spent the last two years avoiding the sight of the old Stadium being dismantled, and wondering, Would you rather be demolished and go quickly, or be dismantled like this, little by little?

The symmetry of watching the vibrant old Stadium and the once-robust Boss deteriorate became a daily reminder of my own mortality, a reminder that nothing lasts forever. Each of us, no matter how ruthless or how kind, is destined to be replaced by a newer model. The new Yankee Stadium is better than the old; the new Joseph Yancey park is bigger and better, too.

On Tuesday I took the walk down Macombs Dam Bridge — the final walk of the Steinbrenner era. The walk seemed like a life cycle in miniature: first overcast skies, then a pleasant drizzle, finally a hard rain.

The electronic board atop the new Yankee Stadium announced the news of the Boss’s death. Across the street, in the place of the old Yankee Stadium, was a massive crater, a sacred burial ground for so many cherished memories.
501 2010-07-15 On Wednesday, the Fed lowered its estimate of economic growth for this year, to a range of 3 to 3.5 percent, from the 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent forecast in April. Inflation has been running well below the Fed’s unofficial target of nearly 2 percent, so much so that a few officials fear that the United States is at risk of the kind of deflationary spiral that has hobbled the Japanese economy for the better part of two decades.

The Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has not embraced that view, but even those who disagree with it say the Fed, whose modern institutional culture was built around fighting inflation, now confronts a distinctly different problem of high joblessness.

“If federal fiscal policy is approaching its political or economic limits, some believe that the Federal Reserve should do more, including expansion of its balance sheet,” Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor who is close to Mr. Bernanke, said in a recent speech to the Atlanta Rotary Club. “In my view, any judgment to expand the balance sheet further,” by acquiring mortgage bonds and debt, “should be subject to strict scrutiny.”

The central bank has already held interest rates lower for longer than at any time since the Great Depression, keeping the benchmark short-term interest rate near zero since December 2008. Since the start of the financial crisis, the Fed has more than doubled its balance sheet, to $2.3 trillion, by buying mortgage bonds and Treasury debt to keep long-term interest rates low.

But, as Mr. Bernanke pointed out in a speech in 2002, when he was a Fed governor, a central bank that has run out of ordinary tools to prop up the economy, like lowering short-term interest rates, still has other options to prevent deflation.

By resuming its purchases of assets or by being more explicit about its intentions to keep interest rates low, the Fed could lower inflation expectations and long-term interest rates. That could further stimulate borrowing and spending by companies and individuals.

The minutes released Wednesday from the June 22-23 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed’s crucial policy body, cited the threat of deflation in the United States for the first time in a year.

“A few participants cited some risk of deflation,” the minutes noted. “Other participants, however, thought that inflation was unlikely to fall appreciably further, given the stability of inflation expectations in recent years and very accommodative monetary policy.”

The minutes, which are carefully worded to avoid the appearance of discord, nonetheless made clear a growing divergence in views.

“Several participants noted that a continuation of lower-than-expected inflation and high unemployment could eventually lead to a downward movement in inflation expectations that would reinforce disinflationary pressure,” the minutes stated. “By contrast, a few participants noted the possibility that a potentially unsustainable fiscal position and the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet could boost inflation expectations and actual inflation over time.”

The direction of monetary policy will probably be raised at a hearing on Thursday, at which the Senate Banking Committee will take up the nominations of Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; Peter A. Diamond, an economist; and Sarah Bloom Raskin, a banking regulator, to seats on the Fed’s seven-member board of governors.

While the Fed debate continues, the White House is combating skepticism over the $787 billion stimulus program.

In the latest CBSNews poll, almost three-quarters of Americans said the stimulus had not improved the economy. A new poll by The Washington Post and ABC also found that more than half of respondents said the government should not provide additional stimulus.

“More debt only subtracts capital from the private markets that could be used for loans, to hire more people and create more jobs,” Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, said in an interview.

He said the administration’s proposals on health care, regulation, energy and trade had discouraged private sector growth.

To shore up support for the stimulus program, the White House has been promoting what Mr. Biden has called the “summer of recovery.”

The new report, by the Council of Economic Advisers, showed that the pace of fiscal stimulus had accelerated, with spending growing to $116 billion in the second quarter, from $108 billion in the first quarter and $80 billion in the final three months of 2009.

The report also estimated that gross domestic product, a measure of overall economic output, was 2.7 to 3.2 percent higher than it would have been without the stimulus.

“I am absolutely confident we are moving in the right direction, absolutely confident,” Mr. Biden said. He said federal money had been used to stimulate emerging industries like clean energy.

“None of this would have been possible if our friends on the other side — as my mother would say, God love them — our friends on the other side had gotten their way,” Mr. Biden said.

The report used historical data and statistical modeling to arrive at the estimate of jobs saved or created, but Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, acknowledged that there was some uncertainty over the job estimates, which rely on reporting from recipients of federal aid.

“I suspect the true effects of the act will not be fully analyzed or fully appreciated for many years,” she said, adding that most experts agreed that the stimulus had had a “significant, beneficial impact on employment and output over the past year.”

Mr. Biden acknowledged public frustration over the economy, but noted that the crisis predated the administration. “Before we walked in the West Wing, we were handed a deficit, a bill for that year, for over $1 trillion,” he said.

Real G.D.P. started growing in the second half of last year, and private sector payrolls have increased by nearly 600,000 since their low point in December. But that has been barely enough to keep pace with the normal rate of growth of the work force.
502 2010-07-15 Prestwick went on to stage the first 11 Opens before Morris’s prodigy of a son, Young Tom, won the competition for the third straight time in 1870, thereby retaining the Open’s prize. The members took stock, staged no competition in 1871, then joined forces with the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews and the Honourable Company of Edinburgh Golfers with all three clubs sharing the cost of buying the claret jug that was put into use in 1873 at St. Andrews and remains the Open trophy today.

On an island that relishes its history and is hard-wired to honor paid dues, it might seem surprising that there was no 150th anniversary return to Prestwick. The club remains a lively, evocative place full of character and characters, and although it has hosted 24 Opens, it has not staged one since 1925 because of space constraints and other logistical concerns.

While its newer neighbors to the north and south — Royal Troon and Turnberry — have become fixtures on the rotation of Open courses, Prestwick is relegated to the tournament’s distant past, like Harry Vardon, hickory-shafted clubs and the gutta-percha ball.

“It would be nice to do an Open at Prestwick again, but I’m afraid it’s just impossible because of crowd control and because the closing loop would not allow it,” said Ian Bunch, the club secretary.

There are some consolation prizes this year. On Sunday, during the award ceremony at St. Andrews, the Prestwick captain, Brian Morrison, will present the 2010 Open champion with a replica of the red leather challenge belt.

And last Saturday, the club organized a day of golf and a gala dinner to honor the anniversary. The captains of the 13 other clubs that have staged the Open were at the head table. So were five former Open champions who accepted Prestwick’s invitation: Tony Jacklin, Bob Charles, Lee Trevino, Peter Thomson and Sandy Lyle.

The biggest surprise on Saturday was that the Royal and Ancient presented Prestwick Golf Club with a full-scale replica of the claret jug engraved with the names of the winners up to 1925.

If ever a club would have reason to be pretentious, it would be the home of Open golf, but Prestwick is quite the contrary, even if it remains an all-male private club with a membership of just under 600 where coats and ties are still de rigueur in its main dining room and smoke room.

Nonmembers may play the course for about $180 on weekdays and about $220 on weekends.

“We have approximately 6,000 visitor rounds a year,” Bunch said. “They are predominantly North American, but come from all over.”

Prestwick is a long way in spirit from the ultra-exclusive ethos of North American courses that like to play up their significantly shorter history (see Augusta National). It is even different from a place like Royal Troon, just north of Prestwick.

“This is more of a club and Troon is more of a course,” said Ken Fraser, an 83-year-old World War II veteran who is a member of both clubs and grew up in the house that still sits in the middle of Troon’s old course.

“Someone like me could never come here and not get a game of golf,” he said. “I’ve been a member at Troon since the day I joined the army in 1942 and I can sit there all day and not get a game. It’s not a club anymore. Most of the people live in Glasgow or whatever. It’s just a different atmosphere. Troon is, by any measure, a better golf course, but this is more fun.”

Old Prestwick, as it is known here to distinguish it from Prestwick’s other courses, remains a serious golfing experience, however. The original course was laid out by Morris in 1851. He was from St. Andrews and had been an assistant there to Allan Robertson, the first true golf pro. Robertson supplemented his income by manufacturing the expensive feathery balls of the day but fell out with Morris after he spotted him playing on the Old Course with the new, cheaper gutta-percha ball that would soon dominate and democratize the game.

Morris was thus open to the idea of a career move to Prestwick, where the arrival of the railroad in the 1840s had created demand for a formal course. Morris did not have much land to work with at Prestwick, but he found enough space for 12 memorable holes. The course expanded to 18 with the addition of land in 1882, long after Morris had returned to St. Andrews in 1864.

But the spirit of Morris’s first creation has been respected, and six of the original greens remain in use. Three of the original holes are essentially unchanged, including the par-5 No. 3, with its huge Cardinal bunker that looks more like a beach, and the par-4 No. 17, with its blind approach shot over a ridge that obscures from view the Sahara bunker that guards the green.

A bell sits next to the 17th green so players can alert the next group that it is safe to swing away. There is another bell greenside at the par-3 No. 5, named Himalayas because of the knoll that makes it a blind tee shot.

Walking up the Himalayas and the footpath strewn with crushed seashells, it is easy to feel as if you are back in the 19th century until you reach the top of the rise and your field of vision is filled by a Ryanair jet parked at the adjacent Glasgow Prestwick Airport.

“There is a lovely story the caddies tell,” Bunch said. “They were caddying someone from America, and up on the 18th tee the American said, ‘It’s a great course, but why put a golf course next to an airport?’ ”

Old Tom Morris did nothing of the sort.
503 2010-07-15 He said the market had been fragile for the last few months as the Standard & Poor’s index approached 1,200 with the economic growth under pressure. “The market is digesting all that,” Mr. Ballew said. “So we expect this to be a bit of an uneven ride here in the second half.”

The Fed report “encouraged some profit-taking on short dollar positions,” said Marc Chandler, the global head of currency strategy for Brown Brothers Harriman.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 3.70 points, or 0.04 percent, at 10,366.72, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 0.17 of a point, to 1,095.17.

The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.81 points, or 0.35 percent, to 2,249.84. The index was helped by results from Intel, the world’s largest computer chip maker, which announced record sales during its second quarter and forecast that sales in its third quarter would end up far better than expected, as large companies finally started to buy new PCs. Intel’s shares were up 35 cents, to $21.36. Cisco Systems rose 65 cents, to $23.74.

The rally of the last six days has brought the market only part of the way back to its high in late April. “In my view, stocks could rebound more over the next few days given how depressed shares were ahead of earnings season,” Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Partners, said in a research note.

A report on Wednesday on retail sales also offered a reminder that the recovery would be slow. The Commerce Department reported that retail spending dropped 0.5 percent in June. Shares of J. C. Penney, Macy’s and Target all pulled back after the report, though much of the drop in retail sales was the result of a fall in auto sales.

“Looking ahead, with household balance sheets still overleveraged, the key determinant of consumer spending growth going forward will be the pace of the recovery in the labor market,” Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR, said in a research note.

There were positive signs in the report as department stores posted a 1.1 percent gain in sales. But the underlying trend of the data suggests only modest growth because of the tight jobs outlook. Also, the Census Bureau said on Wednesday that inventories rose 0.1 percent in May, the smallest gain this year.

Nick Kalivas, the vice president of financial research at MF Global, said that technology earnings were strong but stocks had given up some gains. New concerns have emerged over the banking sector after Whitney Holding warned Tuesday that it expected to record a provision for credit losses, he said.

“The majority of the second quarter’s provision expense continues to be related to ongoing issues in the commercial and residential real estate markets in Florida,” the bank holding company said in a statement. It also set aside reserves for the effect of the oil spill on tourism along the Gulf of Mexico. The company’s shares fell $1.79, to $8.18.

Financial stocks ended down almost 1 percent. Citigroup fell 9 cents, to $4.21. Regions Financial dropped 23 cents, to $7.15, and PNC lost $1.45, to $61.29.

The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 21/32, to 103 27/32. The yield fell to 3.04 percent, from 3.12 percent late Tuesday.

Crude oil prices were little changed, ending down 11 cents, at $77.04, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

In Europe, the FTSE 100 in London was down 17.50 points, or 0.33 percent, to 5,253.52, while the DAX in Frankfurt rose 18.63 points, or 0.30 percent, to 6,209.76. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 4.78 points, or 0.13 percent, to 3,632.98.
504 2010-07-15 And yet they’re just so ... beige. (Except for the black ones, of course.) I tried on the full range of offerings. Of the narrow options, the clear victor was the Cramerton cloth, modeled on a pre-World War II Army style, which were sturdy but supple, and soft on the skin. A little short in the seat, maybe, but not irredeemably so. I kept returning to it after trying on the others. The Carolina cloth was mildly mealy, and the twill felt a bit limp. Had they been a bit slimmer, the jean approximants, washed in a resin rinse ($195), might have been ideal: not everyone wears rough khaki over work boots.

Elsewhere in the store, there are handsome weathered leather O-ring belts ($95), some incidental house T-shirts, and a lingering sense of emptiness. This is a huge space for such a small project. Parts of it are well used: some seating, including in the changing booths, is burlap-wrapped bales of cotton (or the equivalent thereof) — a touch of rural whimsy. There are small cups of rivets with the store logo on them. But there’s plenty of room for distraction: two beaten-up jackets, a Barbour and a Belstaff, hung casually on a circular rack: gorgeous, the color of a moonlit night sky, and not for sale.

I wish they had been. Either would have gone perfectly with the Cramerton pants, which I bought in a fit of counter-strategy — they felt as if I were wearing khakis without wearing khakis. But they were underminers, and therefore didn’t really address the khaki conundrum: Is khaki an attitude or a process, an art or a mood?

For comparison, I stopped in at Save Khaki on Lafayette Street, which, while driven by some similar impulses as Grown & Sewn, ends up with a radically different product. Its cramped space is packed thick with pants, shorts and shirts, stacked as if by a schoolchild, in slightly imperfect piles.

Save Khaki sticks with twill, a thin variety that’s almost liquid soft. I tried on two kinds (both $100): a regular fit, which was floppy wide, and a slimmer cut, which was less floppy, but not enough so. (A distracted saleswoman told me that there is a third, even slimmer cut at the store’s Broome Street location.) There was basic beige, but also a slatelike blue, a slatelike green. Are you getting the picture here? The palette consisted of colors already washed out by the beaches you’ve yet to go to and the sunshine you’ve yet to be irradiated by.

These were pants that did the relaxing for you, with cuffs that practically rolled themselves up and picked out their own deck shoes. Structure was an afterthought: these pants begged to be molded, folded, rumpled and crushed. And ultimately discarded, your commitment to any one pair of them as flimsy as the material.

Much the same was true of the lightweight button-up shirts ($100). There was an ample selection, in appealing colors and patterns, but there was absolutely no stiffness in the collar. I tried on a blue shirt with red and white stripes, and no front pocket, which my shopping companion assured me would make for a fantastic pajama top.

That was obvious even in the store’s cramped fitting room, in the basement, underneath the staircase. For a store with so many options, the layout of the space, on the tiny sliver of a block between Lafayette and Mulberry, is choking. Maybe it should trade locations with Grown & Sewn. At the far west end of Duane Street, Grown & Sewn might have a wealthy clientele but not one prone to obsess over microdetail. They’d probably thrill at the opportunity to buy what amounts to bulk upscale beachwear. And over in the East Village, then, Grown & Sewn could be close to its potential connoisseurs, a small museum dedicated to an emerging handicraft, a seed of a resurrection.

THE LOOK Khakis one way. Or, more accurately, khakis one way, done several ways.

THE SCENE A museum of rural Americana touchstones, with pants displayed like ancient artifacts.

THE LOOK Lightweight, pliable khaki for the unfussy dresser.

THE SCENE Cluttered and cramped, though more structured than the clothes themselves.
505 2010-07-15 WORSE-THAN-EXPECTED data on jobs, the housing market and retail sales have economists worried that  we may be facing  this recession's second dip. One other, more tangible,  sign provides still more cause for concern. To read it, look down.       ...
506 2010-07-15 I get asked this question fairly often, and my usual answer is a polite, ''Fine!'' I don't like to bore people with the details of my travails, but I've been asked to provide a more thorough answer for my readers, so here goes.     How's business?...
507 2010-07-15 WASHINGTON -- Lawmakers take contributions every day from corporate executives and lobbyists hoping for their votes. The question of whether that represents business as usual in Washington or an ethics breach is  at the heart of a far-reaching Con...
508 2010-07-16 With a strong wind blowing, the second round of the British Open challenged golfers, who especially struggled on the 17th hole....
509 2010-07-16 A tour of one of Apple's "black labs" proved Apple is serious about antenna design, but it shed no new light on the problem....
510 2010-07-16 In his Wealth Matters column, Paul Sullivan takes a look at the pros and cons of investing in exchange-traded funds....
511 2010-07-16 Updates from Apple's headquarters on what it has to say about problems with the antenna in the iPhone 4....
512 2010-07-16 There appear to be new limits on spontaneous interactions between soldiers and reporters after the Rolling Stone profile of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal....
513 2010-07-16 This weekend, co-vocabularists are invited to propose suitable ways to describe the market activity of unexpected commodities. For example: Have cymbals crashed? Have trampolines rebounded? Or has the bottom fallen out of the lingerie market?...
514 2010-07-16 Gov. David A. Paterson said a sense of justice compelled him to sign a law forbidding the New York Police Department from storing certain personal information collected during street stops....
515 2010-07-16 The Nissan Leaf electric car goes on sale at the end of the year. In a drive of a preproduction model, our contributor discovers how much the car's 100-mile range can vary....
516 2010-07-16 With older people wobbling down the sidewalk on all manner of wheels associated with the younger crowd, maybe it's time they be forced to take lessons....
517 2010-07-16 Financial reform legislation has killed off the proposed box-office futures exchanges....
518 2010-07-16 The governor goes against the mayor and police commissioner, and swimming pools will appear along Park Avenue....
519 2010-07-16 The financial regulation bill is headed to President Obama's desk....
520 2010-07-16 Harrah's Entertainment, the world's biggest casino owner, expects to list some shares publicly in coming months because of the deal owners Apollo Management and TPG struck with John A. Paulson, the billionaire hedge fund manager, Bloomberg News re...
521 2010-07-16 MSCI, the data analysis company, announced on Thursday that it has signed a deal to buy Measurisk from JPMorgan Chase, in a move that will bring together two hedge fund risk reporting providers, Hedge Funds Review reported....
522 2010-07-16 Whiteboard maker Smart Technologies raised $660.1 million in the biggest initial public offering listing in the United States this year, The Associated Press reported....
523 2010-07-16 Corporate strength may be a better gauge of debt problems than gross domestic product growth, or even government debt, The New York Times's Floyd Norris writes in his latest High & Low Finance column....
524 2010-07-16 President Obama's three nominees to the board of the Federal Reserve said they were prepared to help the central bank handle its vastly expanded duties to ensure financial stability and oversee financial institutions....
525 2010-07-16 Is it the case that the newfound skepticism about both modern finance and its effects on the real economy are confined to the United States? Or is there a broader shift in thinking around the world, including in other leading financial centers?...
526 2010-07-16 President Obama's legislative success, as with the passage of the financial regulatory overhaul on Thursday, poses a paradox: while he may be winning on Capitol Hill, he is losing with voters at a time of economic distress and soon may be forced t...
527 2010-07-16 Many in the securities industry are wondering if the strict new requirements that the financial regulatory legislation imposes on the $600 trillion derivatives market will truly bring light and order to a corner of the securities market that has l...
528 2010-07-16 You might question its artistic profundity, but there is no doubting the sheer visual magic of “Artifact,” the sculpture by Gregory Barsamian featured here. A giant head like the top of an ancient colossus lies on its side in the darkened space. Bright blinking lights radiate from blob-shaped windows built into its steel-plate surface.

Peering in through one of the transparencies, you discover an amazing sight, a kind of three-dimensional Claymation cartoon. Amid a network of serpentine steel rods, apples fall from branches into bright green hands where they melt into colored liquid, which falls into hats arranged in a circle below. Meanwhile, little yellow birds fly out of womblike bladders, swoop up and around and crash into small, open, antique books that slam shut on them. As these events repeat at high speed, you may look into other windows for different points of view. It is a mesmerizing and confounding spectacle.

“Artifact” works on the principle of the zoetrope. Apples, birds, books and other elements are attached sequentially to the tubular network, and the whole thing spins at high speed. With each flash of the strobes, you see the objects instantaneously arrested at different positions, which creates the miraculous illusion of motion. Mr. Barsamian’s excellent Web site (gregorybarsamian.com) reveals the secrets of his work.

Mr. Barsamian produces kinetic sculptures for an international clientele. Commissioned by the Museum of Old and New in Hobart, Tasmania, in Australia, “Artifact” is closer to children’s science museum fare than serious art — the imagery lacks metaphorical depth — but it is truly a wonder to behold. KEN JOHNSON
529 2010-07-16 Congress approved a sweeping expansion of federal financial regulation on Thursday, reflecting a renewed mistrust of financial markets after decades in which Washington stood back from Wall Street with wide-eyed admiration, The New York Times repo...
530 2010-07-16 Dr. Hillyard called Dr. Galambos, the author of more than 200 scientific publications, “one of the giants of auditory research.”

Dr. Galambos’s best-known accomplishment was teaming with Donald R. Griffin in 1939 and 1940 to prove how bats use reflected sounds to detect objects. That idea had long been discussed, but never proved.

The first step was for Dr. Griffin, already an authority on bats, to publish a paper reporting that bats utter high-frequency cries inaudible to man. He used new techniques developed by G. W. Pierce, co-author of the paper, to capture the sounds.

Dr. Griffin then asked Dr. Galambos to use a method developed by Dr. Hallowell Davis, a Harvard professor and Dr. Galambos’s mentor, to measure bats’ hearing. Dr. Galambos found it an octave or more above that of other animals.

Thus it was proved that bats could make and hear extreme sound. The experimenters then hung wires from the ceiling of a room to show flying bats make ultrasonic cries when avoiding the wires. When their ears were plugged or their mouths tied shut, the bats blundered helplessly into the wires.

Some scientists reacted with disbelief. Dr. Griffin once wrote, “One distinguished physiologist was so shocked by our presentation at a scientific meeting that he seized Bob by the shoulders and shook him while expostulating, ‘You can’t really mean that!’ ”

But the solution stood. Dr. Galambos wrote that it “was so simple, complete and easy to understand that even schoolchildren told the story correctly after hearing it once.”

Robert Carl Galambos was born in Lorain, Ohio, on April 20, 1914. He earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in zoology from Oberlin College. His master’s thesis was on earthworm locomotion. He earned a Ph.D. from Harvard, writing his dissertation on the bat work.

While there, he assisted on a wartime study on whether loud explosions could cause permanent hearing loss. Part of the experiment involved him and others jumping into Boston Harbor as blasting caps were detonated nearby.

He next graduated with an M.D. from the University of Rochester, then returned to Harvard as a researcher after interning at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta.

He then went to Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, where he worked with David H. Hubel, a future Nobel Prize winner, on studies of how the auditory system of the cat responds to the unexpected. He later worked at Yale and the University of California, San Diego.

In recent years, he switched his attention from ears to eyes, and advanced the theory that the eye sends information to the brain in discrete packets tied to eye movements, rather than continuously.

Dr. Galambos’s first marriage, to Jeannette Wright Stone, ended in divorce. His second wife, Carol Armstrong Schulman, died. He is survived by his wife, Phyllis Johnson; three daughters from his first marriage, Joan Gilmore, Kate Galambos and Ann Holben; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

In 1960, while on an airplane, Dr. Galambos wrote that he had an inspiring thought: that the tiny cells that make up 40 percent of the brain, called glia, are as crucial to mental functioning as neurons.

“I know how the brain works!” he exclaimed to his companion.

But his superiors at Walter Reed found the theory so radical that he was soon job-hunting. The view at the time was that glia existed mainly to support neurons, considered the structural and functional unit of the nervous system. But Dr. Galambos clung to his belief, despite the failure of three experiments he performed in the 1960s.

Since then, scientific opinion has been shifting in his direction. In 2008, Ben A. Barres of the Stanford University School of Medicine wrote glowingly in the journal Neuron about the powerful role glia are now seen to play. He concluded, “Quite possibly the most important roles of glia have yet to be imagined.”
531 2010-07-16 The team’s travel plans were first thrown into question last week, when the British government said the players would not be allowed to travel on their tribal passports unless the American government provided written assurance that they would be allowed to re-enter the United States after the tournament.

Federal officials refused to do that until Wednesday morning, when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton authorized a one-time waiver clearing the way for the team to travel without United States passports, which it has refused to accept.

For a few hours, the team was all smiles, thinking that only some paperwork at the British Consulate stood between the team and its departure for England. But late Wednesday afternoon, the team was informed by British officials that it would not be granted visas after all.

That drew immediate outrage from team officials, who said the consulate had gone against its word, and from several lawmakers who had lobbied the State Department on the players’ behalf.

The U.K. Border Agency issued a statement saying that the players would be welcome to travel to England on tribal passports — but only if they also presented “established documentation” like American or Canadian passports.

That is not an acceptable option to the team, which has repeatedly said that traveling on what it considers a foreign passport would be an affront to the sovereignty of the six nations that make up the Iroquois Confederacy.

The State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, said American officials had discussed the team’s situation with British officials multiple times on Wednesday and Thursday. But the British government concluded it could not make an exception to its usual immigration policies, which he said did not come as a surprise to the State Department.

”We’re satisfied that they looked at this thoroughly, but from their standpoint they made the decision they made,” Mr. Crowley told reporters in Washington. “It’s their prerogative to determine and decide who qualifies for entry into the United Kingdom.”

The Iroquois team is scheduled to play again on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. local time against Japan. Team officials said they would need to depart Kennedy Airport by Friday afternoon to have any hope of not forfeiting that game, too.

In the meantime, the team planned to play a scrimmage against a local lacrosse club in Bayville, Long Island, on Thursday night. After all, the players want to stay in shape, just in case they do find a way to get to England.

But as the hours pass, team officials concede that appears less and less likely to happen. “Our window is closing,” Mr. Abrams said.
532 2010-07-16 Paul Allen, who founded the Microsoft Corporation with Bill Gates, announced on Thursday that he planned to give more than half of his estimated $13.5 billion fortune to philanthropy.

Mr. Allen is among a growing number of wealthy philanthropists who are publicly stating their commitments to giving their money away in response to a call from Mr. Gates and Warren E. Buffett, who last month started a program called The Giving Pledge that aims to get the country’s billionaires to devote half their fortunes to charity. Eli and Edythe Broad, John and Ann Doerr and other wealthy philanthropists have also signed on.

Mr. Allen has already given away more than $1 billion through foundations and nonprofit organizations he has created, and in an interview with the Chronicle of Philanthropy in 2003, he said he thought it was important for people with his kind of wealth to become significant philanthropists.

“I’ve planned for many years now that the majority of my estate will be left to philanthropy to continue the work of the foundation and to fund nonprofit scientific research, like the ground breaking work being done at the Allen Institute for Brain Science,” Mr. Allen said Thursday in a statement, referring to the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation.

Unlike Mr. Gates, whose foundation distributes billions around the world, Mr. Allen has tended to support programs in the Pacific Northwest, the Allen institute and the Experience Music Project/Science Fiction Museum. The museum, in Seattle, was founded by Mr. Allen and highlights two of his biggest interests.

Mr. Allen has made the Philanthropy 50, the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s annual list of the nation’s 50 largest donors, eight times. Last year, he ranked No. 11 for giving away $85 million. Stanley and Fiona Druckenmiller took the top slot for a $705 million gift to their family foundation.
533 2010-07-16 Blythe S. Masters, who oversees the global commodities business at JPMorgan Chase, said at a securities industry conference on Thursday that in many respects the changes “are actually going to be very beneficial for the industry and derivatives market participants.”

“It’s important not to lose sight of the fact most of the best minds in the field have believed for years that there has been the need for reform in the market,” she said.

Derivatives are securities whose value is based on the value of another commodity or financial instrument — commodities like wheat or copper. Swaps, a special kind of derivative, are used by investors to trade one kind of risk for another — a fixed-interest rate for a variable rate, for instance.

The financial overhaul bill, which the Senate cleared Thursday and sent to the president, imposes multiple new regulations on the derivatives market generally and the swaps market in particular. It requires that standardized derivatives contracts be traded on an open exchange, with prices and volumes reported publicly. The contracts must also be cleared through a third party, an intermediary who guarantees that if one party defaults, the investor holding the other side of the trade will still be paid.

Clearinghouses will perform that function by requiring parties in a derivative trade to put up collateral, or margin, to protect against a default. The bill also requires securities firms that trade derivatives to maintain certain levels of capital. Overseeing all this activity is the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in the case of derivatives involving commodities like soybeans, oil or metals, and the S.E.C. for security-based transactions.

Those regulators are also empowered to monitor markets for fraud and abuse and to set limits on how much of a contract a single firm can control.

“Derivatives should reduce risk, not magnify it,” Neal S. Wolin, deputy Treasury secretary, said at the conference. “They should be a force for stability, not contagion. By bringing the derivatives markets out of the shadows, the legislation will benefit every business that uses derivatives to manage real risks.”

The financial bill also requires that banks, which are major participants in the swaps market, segregate those operations from their commercial banking business. Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, was the primary author of that provision of the bill.

She said in a statement Thursday she believed that after the financial crisis it was imperative to make sure that taxpayers were not financing risky derivatives trading through their federally insured bank deposits.

But some participants in the derivatives business are worried about unintended consequences. The bill provides for the possibility that some derivatives clearing firms may be so important to the financial system that they are designated “systemically important” firms, much like the biggest banks and Wall Street companies.

A systemically important clearing firm could, in the case of another financial crisis, be allowed to access the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending ability, a situation that opponents of the bill characterized as leaving the door open for another bailout.

“We nearly went off a cliff in 2008,” Gary Gensler, the chairman of the C.F.T.C., said Thursday. “Derivatives played a role in this. And we have to lower risk and increase transparency.”
534 2010-07-16 SAN FRANCISCO — As Apple prepared to address the mounting controversy surrounding the antenna of the iPhone 4, one thing appeared clear: the company does not plan to recall the popular device.

A person with direct knowledge of Apple’s plans said it would not announce a recall at a press conference scheduled for Friday at its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. The person was not authorized to speak for Apple and asked to remain anonymous.

The iPhone 4’s antenna is built into a steel bracket that surrounds the device. Soon after the phone went on sale, buyers complained that holding it a certain way caused reception problems. On Thursday, Apple denied a report in Bloomberg BusinessWeek that a senior Apple engineer and antenna expert had warned Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, and other senior managers about problems with the antenna design last year. It did not comment further on the controversy.

One person with direct knowledge of the phone’s design said Thursday that the iPhone 4 exposed a longstanding weakness in the basic communications software inside Apple’s phones and that the reception problems were not caused by an isolated hardware flaw.

Instead, the problems emerged in the complex interaction between specialized communications software and the antenna, said the person, who agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter.

The person said the problems were longstanding but had been exposed by the design of the iPhone 4. All cellphones can be affected by the way a hand grips the phone, but well-designed communications software compensates for a variety of external factors and prevents calls from dropping, the person said.
535 2010-07-16 There was more than enough in the financial reform bill — now on its way to — to merit broad support. Yet, for Thursday’s final Senate vote on the bill, 60 to 39, just three Republicans joined 57 Democrats to support reform. In the House, only three Republicans voted for the bill when it passed that chamber in June, 237 to 192.

Republican opponents would have you believe that lack of bipartisanship was evidence of the bill’s unworthiness, but the margin of victory was really about partisan politics and not the bill’s content. That made the vote an even greater victory for Mr. Obama, who has had to fight for every inch of progress against entrenched Republicans (who have been willing to deny unemployment benefits to millions of Americans rather than cooperate with Democrats on anything).

As was the case with last year’s economic stimulus and this year’s health care overhaul, Republican opposition to the bill was primarily an attempt to drag down Mr. Obama by killing any legislative accomplishment.

When that effort was headed for failure, Republican leaders disparaged the bill on ideological grounds. On Thursday, Senator of , the Republican leader, lashed out at what he called a “government-driven solution,” while the senior Republican on the banking committee, of , bemoaned “vast new bureaucracies.”

Those are convenient and time-tested bugaboos to campaign by, but they ignore the urgent needs the bill addresses, and its achievements. Those include resolution procedures to help ensure that shareholders and creditors — not taxpayers — bear the losses when big financial institutions fail; new capital requirements for and other curbs to help quell speculative excess, including the regulation of derivatives and restrictions on proprietary trading.
536 2010-07-16 Equally Wed, published in a state where same-sex marriage is outlawed, is among a crop of Web sites that are filling the void left by conventional bridal publications. They join companies like , a Massachusetts stationery firm that grew along with that state’s same-sex wedding industry; photographers who promote images of gay weddings on their home pages; purveyors of groom-and-groom cake toppers; and lines that advertise their embrace of gay honeymoons.

“The market doesn’t wait for politics to catch up,” said Katherine Sender, an associate professor of communications at the and the author of “Business, Not Politics: The Making of the Gay .” “As gay marriage becomes part of the national imagination, marketing to it and publications concerning it become more and more viable.”

Gay weddings have been depicted on network television since the mid-1990s, and about 70 percent of daily newspapers now carry same-sex wedding announcements, according to the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. But some mainstream publications and broadcasters are only now taking their first halting steps toward inclusion.

This month, under pressure from gay rights groups, the show on welcomed same-sex couples to compete in its annual wedding contest. Also this month, Brides, a publication, ran its first feature about a same-sex wedding, depicting the union of one of the magazine’s photo editors and her longtime girlfriend.

Weddings, a publication of , had already broken precedent in its winter 2010 issue, with a pictorial that showed Jeremy Hooper and Andrew Shulman stomping on glass and sharing a kiss.

Both magazines played it straight, focusing on menus and decorations, with no mention beyond the obvious of the couples’ orientations. “This is a part of the mix going forward,” said Millie Martini Bratten, the editor-in-chief of Brides. “The world is changing.”

But because it must appeal to a broad base, Brides does not plan to spotlight same-sex weddings in any deliberate way or to document their sociological evolution, Ms. Bratten said. That leaves an untapped market for Equally Wed and a handful of other Web sites devoted to same-sex weddings, with titles like Queerly Wed, So You’re EnGAYged, GayWeddings.com and RainbowWeddingNetwork.com.

In the six years since Massachusetts broke the barrier, there have been an estimated 40,000 legal same-sex marriages in the , according to the Williams Institute for Sexual Orientation Law and Public Policy at the . A comparable number of gay Americans have married in other countries, and an additional 84,000 couples may be in civil unions or domestic partnerships, according to the institute.

, , , and the have now joined Massachusetts in recognizing same-sex marriage, and court cases in and Massachusetts are challenging the constitutionality of state and federal laws against it.

It is not lost on the Palladinos that despite the assertion in their publication’s name, they were wed and continue to live in one of the 41 states that prohibit same-sex marriage. But it is the very absence of state approval, they said, that made their own vows so meaningful and inspired the spirit of their magazine.

“We’ve done everything we can to be equally wed,” Maria Palladino said.

The couple are publishing their quarterly from a back room in their tidy house in East Point, an emerging gay outpost just south of . Maria, 30, who works as a freelance Web designer, is publisher. Kirsten, 32, who manages the lifestyle sections of a weekly newspaper, is editor.

Their magazine, which features a more content-driven format than some competing sites, is attracting about 8,000 unique viewers a month, Maria Palladino said. It has about 20 advertisers, including a jeweler, a hotel chain and a car insurer.

Equally Wed can seem driven by conflicting impulses. On the one hand, it is devoted to making same-sex weddings seem ordinary, providing the same obsessive attention to floral arrangement and cake design as bridal magazines. On the other, it celebrates the distinctive, norm-flouting nature of gay unions and guides participants through their specific challenges.

In the summer issue, a feature about planning a shares space on the home page with an article about the legal dilemmas facing married couples when one spouse changes genders. A feature on boudoir photography gives way to an advice column on managing marriage license waiting periods in Iowa and Massachusetts.

Like traditional magazines, Equally Wed pulses with the love stories of real couples and lush photography of their ceremonies. Kirsten Palladino, who always dreamed of a white-dress wedding, writes a blog called which dispenses advice on invitation fonts and summer cocktails.

But she also answers reader questions about whether a man should propose to another man with a ring (why not?) and whether a couple should invite homophobic relatives to their wedding (better to send them an announcement after the fact). Maria Palladino, who said she has not worn a dress since high school, writes a blog from the butch point of view called “Broom Closet,” a term she coined for those who do not quite fit as either bride or groom.

The magazine includes a consumer guide to vendors who are practiced in avoiding heterosexist language and customs. When planning their own wedding, the Palladinos quickly learned to detect discomfort among the photographers they interviewed.

“They were so delicate in their handling of it,” Kirsten Palladino said. “They’d say, ‘You know, I’ve never shot a gay wedding, but I’d be happy to.’ And then sign off their e-mail: ‘Much love in Jesus Christ.’ ”

The Palladinos said that what excited them about the future, both of same-sex weddings and their magazine, was the chance to navigate between tradition and innovation. “There are no rules,” Kirsten Palladino said. “We can look to the history of straight weddings and take what we want and leave what we don’t.”
537 2010-07-16 What Mr. Obama and his allies portray as progressive, activist government has been framed by his opponents as overreaching and profligate when it comes to the economy.

Even before the November elections, the White House is being forced to recalibrate. This week, Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats decided to press ahead with a scaled-back energy bill, having concluded after months of gridlock that the sweeping measure they once envisioned simply would not pass. It is a tactic that the president will likely have to employ more and more after the November elections, when Democrats will almost certainly lose seats — and may even lose control of the House or Senate.

“They clearly made a decision that political capital was something that should be used, not saved,” said Steven Elmendorf, a Democratic lobbyist who worked for years as a senior leadership aide on Capitol Hill. “The reality is, he talked before the election about what he wanted to do, and he’s done it. He didn’t trim his sails, he didn’t change his philosophy. He didn’t compromise. The test will come in the fall: can he and Democrats in Congress make the case to the American people that what he did was the right thing to do?”

That is a difficult case to make, though Mr. Obama is trying. The latest CBS News poll found that while a majority of Americans supported increasing regulations on banks and financial institutions, nearly three-quarters said Mr. Obama’s stimulus bill had not improved the economy, and only a little more than a third approved of the health care law.

“You know, sometimes these pundits, they can’t figure me out,” the president said last week, campaigning in Kansas City, Mo., for the Democratic Senate candidate there. “They say, ‘Well, why is he doing that?’ That doesn’t poll well. Well, I’ve got my own pollsters, I know it doesn’t poll well. But it’s the right thing to do for America.”

It is an argument that sounds eerily similar to the one Mr. Obama’s predecessor, George W. Bush, made to justify an unpopular war in Iraq as he watched his own poll numbers sink lower. Mr. Bush and his aides often felt they could not catch a break; when the economy was humming along — or at least seemed to be humming along — the Bush White House never got credit for it, because the public was so upset about the war.

In Mr. Obama’s case, people are up in arms over the economy. Just 40 percent of Americans now approve of Mr. Obama’s handling of the economy, the CBS News poll found. More than half said he was spending too little time on the economy. In one of the most striking findings, nearly two-thirds said the president’s economic policies had no effect on them personally — just 13 percent said they had helped them.

“Voters don’t have a checklist that they tick off, of what an elected official promised and then delivered,” said Charlie Cook, the editor of The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter that tracks Congressional races. “They were enormously frustrated last year by the fixation on health care when they wanted a focus on the economy, with Democrats losing the messaging fight on whether what they did was right and effective or not.”

Part of the problem for Mr. Obama is that he came to Washington vowing to change the partisan tone in the capital, something he has thus far been unable to do. Just three Senate Republicans voted for the financial regulatory bill on Thursday, continuing a pattern that began early in Mr. Obama’s presidency when just three Republicans joined him on the stimulus bill.

At this point, relations between the president and the opposing party are no better than they were when Mr. Bush left office. Within hours of the bill’s passage on Thursday, Democrats including Mr. Obama were reminding voters that the House Republican leader, Representative John Boehner of Ohio, had called for its repeal. As Mr. Obama traveled to Michigan on Thursday to promote his economic policies, Mr. Boehner accused him of “a bunch of fuzzy math.”

If Republicans reclaim control of the House, the Senate or both, Mr. Obama will find himself in a situation similar to that of the last Democratic president, Bill Clinton, who lost control of the House in 1994 in a historic realignment. Mr. Clinton responded by steering toward the center, searching for issues on which he could find Republicans to cooperate.

If Mr. Obama’s new tack on the energy bill is any guide, he may be willing to refashion himself as a pragmatist who will compromise in exchange for smaller victories. The coming elections may answer the question of how far the president, having had a taste of big things, is willing to bend.

“It could be a prescription for real gridlock, or it could be a prescription for great compromise,” said John Feehery, a Republican strategist, “and I don’t think we know the answer.”
538 2010-07-16 Re “Some Advocates Question Cuomo’s Support of Gay Rights” (news article, July 9): Our experience as New York’s largest statewide gay advocacy organization does not match up with your article about Andrew M. Cuomo’s support for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues.

On the day he announced his candidacy, Mr. Cuomo issued a video statement expressing his unqualified support for marriage equality, a transgender civil rights law and safe schools for L.G.B.T. youth. These are not just Johnny-come-lately statements, but are also backed up by deeds.

As attorney general, he fought for the out-of-state marriages of same-sex couples to be respected here in New York, worked to ensure that state civil rights laws applied to schools and pressured a New York retailer to follow the law and allow transgender employees to wear clothes appropriate for their gender identity.

It simply is not an evidence-based statement to claim that he has had some sort of election season epiphany around issues important to the L.G.B.T. community.
539 2010-07-16 During the past six months, 22 dogs that had been living in the ruins have been adopted. Several more are waiting for a home.

Sallustius “is so sweet,” Mr. Bottinelli said of the 1-year-old red mongrel that never strayed far from his side. “But no one’s wanted him yet.”

Before the project started, Sallustius risked the same lonely fate as the other 70,000 dogs that the Italian Antivivisection League estimates roam the streets of the surrounding Campania region. Beyond those dogs, about 9,000 are housed in local pounds, according to 2009 Health Ministry Statistics.

“The problem of stray dogs is common in all of southern Italy,” said Mr. Bottinelli, who is also the Antivivisection League’s national director for adoptions. “Unfortunately, much of the population does not know about microchips, and they aren’t used to neutering their pets.”

Though official numbers are hazy, the Antivivisection League believes that some 135,000 animals are abandoned in Italy each year, usually during the summer, adding to the country’s stray population of more than 3 million, most of them cats.

But Pompeii has its own particularities.

More than two million tourists — potential food dispensers to dogs — visit the site each year. And every May and October, thousands of pilgrims come on foot to Pompeii to pray at the Sanctuary of the Blessed Virgin of the Rosary, which is just five minutes from the ruins. For reasons that remain obscure, many dogs are left behind when the pilgrims depart, Mr. Bottinelli said.

Illegal dog fights organized by the Camorra, the main organized crime gang here, are also common, creating an added risk for abandoned dogs. All these factors make for “critical problems in Pompeii,” Mr. Bottinelli said.

The dogs in his program get a complete medical checkup, including vaccines, and are neutered. They also receive a microchip implant that registers them in a national data bank. Only after all that can they be adopted.

“The aim is to control the stray population with the dogs’ well-being in mind,” said Roberto Scarcella, the veterinarian responsible for the adoption project. “It’s a cheaper alternative to putting them in a cage in the city pound.”

The ancient names given to the dogs — Vesonius, Diomedes or Mulvia, for example — are intended to reflect the dogs’ provenance, but the adoptive families are free to change them.

Last January, Petty Officer First Class Michael Zdunkawicz of the United States Navy, who works at the NATO base in Naples, adopted a black Labrador retriever from Pompeii. The dog was called Lucius, “but that sounded too much like the devil for me, and he’s everything but the devil,” said Petty Officer Zdunkawicz during a telephone interview. “So we renamed him Benedicto, after the pope.”

The adoption took about a month, he said, and volunteers from Pompeii made sure that his living quarters in Naples were suitable. (The adoption process is rigorous, with extensive vetting of the prospective families.)

Arguably, the excavation site at Pompeii has far more serious problems than strays.

Last month, the Italian government announced the end of the state of emergency, but much remains to be done. Many houses are still closed to the public; some recent restorations done under the aegis of the government-appointed emergency commissioner have been criticized; and concerns have been raised about transforming Pompeii into a money-making operation at the expense of protecting its archaeological wealth.

Still, the success of the dog adoption program, which costs a little more than $100,000, mostly for medical bills, suggests that small battles can be won. The project officially ends this summer, but local volunteers have been trained to take over. It is a necessity because new strays arrive all the time.

“The other side of the coin is that if you want to abandon your dog, you bring it to Pompeii because someone will take care of it,” said Pasquale Riso, a local veterinarian and a volunteer at the site. “So some people may try to take advantage of the situation.”
540 2010-07-16 Then God reveals the tree of knowledge and forbids them to eat of its fruit. Call it the world’s first mixed message.

The show’s narrators, male and female angels (Nehal Joshi and Jennifer Blood), attempt to seduce Adam and Eve into sin by impersonating snakes, but only Eve takes the bait. “This is just so idiotic,” she sings. “Tell me, how can fruit be so hypnotic?”

Here’s where the authors diverge most significantly from the biblical word, as Eve is cast out alone into the world, and the resolutely obedient Adam, whether from wimpiness, rectitude or inertia, decides to stick to his apple-free diet and stay put. The show’s rib-tickling tone (excuse the pun) quickly shifts into sincerity, as Eve wanders the desolate Earth while Adam languishes back in Eden.

Mr. Howard’s lyrics, unfortunately, are not particularly eloquent or deft in either comic or somber mode. In their workaday competence they are a suitable match for Mr. Simmons’s pleasant if forgettable pop music, which ranges from perky comic tunes to Billy Joel-ish balladeering. Obeying a commandment of contemporary musical theater as rigid as any the Lord revealed to Moses, the score also includes a hand-clapping gospel number, in which the female God leads the angels in a song enumerating all the wonders the sin of procreation will eventually beget:

It’s more a random grab bag of rhyme-able stuff (underwear?) than a smart Cole Porter list song, but it’s livelier and more entertaining than the soul-searching anthems for the lovelorn Adam and Eve. “She was a song as sweet as the morning,” Adam sings. “She was a feeling as soft as a breeze.”

Portraying characters who virtually define the generic, Mr. Llana and Ms. Brown infuse Adam and Eve with some pleasing sparkle. Mr. Llana, the strongest singer in the cast, in particular has fun with his character’s surfer-dude dopiness, his eyes popping from his head as each new pleasure of paradise is revealed. (Still pining for Eve, he’s not that thrilled when God offers to whip up a replacement named Nicole.) Ms. Brown sings ardently in a vibrato-rich voice, and both are suitably toned and attractive, befitting a world before the creation of blights like cellulite. Their scanty costumes are by Bobby Pearce.

Adam Kantor looks more like a boy band member than someone capable of creating the Earth and all its wonders from scratch, but he has fun with God’s snarkier asides. As his female counterpart, Sasha Sloan is a bit underpowered leading that gospel number, but otherwise pleases. Ms. Blood has a few funny asides as the more lustful and cranky of the two angels.

At its most sardonic, “Falling for Eve” it is not really clever enough to justify even its relatively modest length. (The great Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick devoted only a third of their musical “The Apple Tree” to telling the same story, after all.) But the syrupy paeans to human love are most trying. The evening concludes with one titled “Paradise Is You.” Adam and Eve, reunited, stare longingly into each other’s eyes as they discover at last what fun sinning, original or otherwise, can sometimes be.

At which point God steps in and announces, “And thus was born Cain....” Ouch! Talk about a buzz kill.

Book by Joe DiPietro, based on the play “Adam Alone” by David Howard; music by Bret Simmons; lyrics by Mr. Howard; directed by Larry Raben; music direction and arrangements by Kim Douglas Steiner; musical staging by Lee Martino; sets by Beowulf Boritt; costumes by Bobby Pearce; lighting by Herrick Goldman; production manager, Scott Dela Cruz; production stage manager, Megan Schneid. Presented by the York Theater Company, James Morgan, artistic director, and 1113 Productions, Steven Ullman, executive producer. At the Theater at St. Peter’s, 619 Lexington Avenue, entrance on 54th Street; (212) 935-5820; yorktheatre.org. Through Aug. 8. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: Jennifer Blood (Sarah), Krystal Joy Brown (Eve), Nehal Joshi (Michael), Adam Kantor (God He), Jose Llana (Adam) and Sasha Sloan (God She).
541 2010-07-16 LOS ANGELES — After Swiss authorities this week refused to extradite Roman Polanski to the United States because they were denied access to secret testimony about his expected sentence on a decades-old sex charge, officials in Washington and Los Angeles were left facing an uncomfortable question: Why was a judge in the case allowed to believe that the Swiss had no interest in the sealed account?

On Monday, officials in Switzerland freed Mr. Polanski, the 76-year-old film director who had been held since September pending possible extradition to face sentencing for having unlawful sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977. He had entered a guilty plea on that charge but fled the United States the following year before he was sentenced.

In a letter notifying Mr. Polanski’s European legal team of the decision, the Swiss justice department said it asked the United States Department of Justice on May 5 for access to sealed testimony of Roger Gunson, the prosecutor who originally handled the case and who is now retired.

Mr. Gunson testified this year about a plan under which the Los Angeles County Superior Court judge who presided over the Polanski case, Laurence J. Rittenband, now deceased, had intended to limit Mr. Polanski’s sentence to a 90-day psychiatric evaluation, part of which he had already served. But the testimony was sealed for possible use if Mr. Gunson, who was gravely ill, would not be available.

Mr. Polanski’s American legal team asked Judge Peter Espinoza of Los Angeles County Superior Court to unseal the testimony, which might have shown that Mr. Polanski was headed for a sentence too short to qualify for extradition. On May 10, Judge Espinoza denied the request, citing, in part, a written assurance on May 6 by David Walgren, the county prosecutor handling the case, that the Swiss had never sought the information.
542 2010-07-16 After that analysis, using a system he developed with a company called Risk Metrics, Mr. Altman’s ranking of European governments now differs a little from conventional wisdom. He sees Britain and the Netherlands as the safest governments, ahead of Germany. Greece is at the bottom, of course, with Italy, Portugal and Spain looking better than it does, but not particularly good.

Looking at corporate strength, he argues, does a better job of forecasting debt problems than do traditional macroeconomic indicators, like gross domestic product growth and debt levels relative to G.D.P.

That analysis is sharply at odds with much current political discourse, which focuses on debt-to-G.D.P. levels and purports to see disaster looming for both Britain and the United States if something is not done immediately to restore fiscal discipline.

It may seem odd to talk of businesses bailing out governments, when the reverse is what appeared to happen over the last couple of years. But government credit, in the end, is based on its ability to collect taxes. A healthy private sector will provide the taxes, if they are to be provided at all.

That is something the bond rating agencies understand, but it is also the opposite of a traditional ratings practice, which was to treat a country’s debt rating as a ceiling for the ratings of companies from that country. In fact, the reverse has something to be said for it.

The old ceiling view did make sense under some circumstances. Defaulting governments have sometimes required companies to default as well, as a way of protecting dwindling foreign currency reserves at a time of crisis.

The overseas debt of most countries is denominated in currencies the governments cannot print and its citizens do not use, which is one reason crises can sneak up on traditional analyses. Argentina’s debt-to-G.D.P. ratio was about 50 percent, recalled Albert Metz, a managing director of Moody’s, shortly before the nation defaulted in the 1990s. The currency collapsed, and the ratio tripled overnight.

That distinction is one that has gained less attention than it should. In practice, it means that a crisis such as Argentina experienced, or as Thailand did a few years later, cannot sneak up on nations like Britain, which borrows pounds, or the United States, which borrows dollars.

Greece did not face that risk either, because it borrows euros. But it cannot print the currency, so new credit could dry up. It was that threat that forced the crisis.

There is another lesson of the recent crisis that should be understood. The obligations of a country’s financial sector are, in extremis, contingent obligations of the government. Allowing the financial system to collapse is simply not an acceptable alternative.

Much of the rhetoric about the new financial reform bill in the United States dealt with politicians claiming, or denying, that future bailouts would be prevented. The real answer hinges on whether the new regulatory regime, combined with the lessons bankers should have learned, will prevent a new financial crisis.

If not, there will be bailouts, whatever laws are passed. Or at least there should be. The world tried going without them in the 1930s. It did not work out well.

It is profoundly discouraging to see American politicians screaming that TARP — the bank bailout — is to be blamed for deficits. In fact, the bailout worked. Had something like it not been done, the debt of the United States government might be lower now, but the nation’s credit would be far worse.

Federal debt, as reported, has skyrocketed during the Obama administration. But a large part of that stems from decisions made years before most Americans knew who Barack Obama was, and certainly before he had any power. Those decisions were made by banks and brokers. They were made by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac when they were not under direct government control.

Other parts of the spending come from efforts to keep the economy from collapsing under the weight of the proof that those earlier decisions were horrendously bad ones.

The economic debate now should be focused on keeping the federal government from someday being similar to Greece, with a weak private sector and a bloated government that cannot collect taxes to meet its obligations.

There is no risk of that in the near term. The United States government can print dollars to avoid default, but it is not having to do so. It can borrow at low rates because investors around the world still trust it.

To keep that trust in the longer term, the economy must grow. It is possible, though not proved, that significant new stimulus is needed. If it is, that spending, too, will partly be to clean up messes made before.

The American economy currently is doing better than it would sound from the rhetoric on both sides of the political spectrum. The two demonstrable signs that the recovery has slowed are in areas — housing and cars — where temporary stimulus programs were artificially spurring growth. It was obvious that there would be brief declines when those programs expired.

But pessimism is intense. There was talk of depression just before the latest stock market rally began, and surveys of investors show levels of bearishness normally seen only after years of market declines. In fact, the market is up sharply from early 2009, and about 20 percent above where it was a year ago.

In Washington, nobody seems to want to see good news. When government employment rose because of Census hiring, that was dismissed as obviously temporary. Now that the Census Bureau is letting people go, that is seen as bad economic news.

The left wants more stimulus spending, and sees economic optimism as playing into the hands of its opponents. The right wants proof that President Obama is doing a bad job, which it hopes will lead to large Republican gains in November, and sees economic pessimism as in its best interests.

In fact, there are few signs of a double-dip recession. As Daniel Gross asked in Slate this week, “Retail sales are up, and credit card debt is down. Why is that bad news?” Americans are spending about 5 percent more than a year ago, even with this week’s retail sales numbers that were pronounced disappointing by some. But it appears that the spending is coming more from those who can afford it than from those who need to borrow.

The important goal now is a healthy economy, and there are signs that it is arriving. Corporate profits were surprisingly strong in early 2010, and early second-quarter reports are encouraging.

It is the success, or failure, in obtaining that goal that will determine whether there is a real crisis in federal debt.
543 2010-07-16 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean doctors perform operations without anesthesia in clinics where hypodermic needles are not sterilized and sheets are not washed, the human rights group Amnesty International said in a report released on Thursday.

“Five medical assistants held my arms and legs down to keep me from moving,” the report quoted a 24-year-old North Korean defector as saying, describing how his left leg was amputated without anesthesia after a train accident. “I was in so much pain that I screamed and eventually fainted from pain.”

Other defectors told similarly horrific stories. One said her appendix was removed without anesthesia and her hands and feet were bound to prevent her from moving during the procedure. Others told of entire cities with no ambulances.

Drawn from interviews with more than 40 North Koreans who had defected over the past six years, as well as with health professionals who had worked with North Koreans, the report depicted a North Korean health system in dire straits.

Long cut off from most of the world, North Korea has been pushing its people even deeper into isolation. Rising tensions on the Korean Peninsula after the North’s nuclear test last year and the North’s presumed role in the sinking of a South Korean warship in March have driven away potential aid donors. The government’s botched currency reform late last year also worsened chronic food shortages in the North.
544 2010-07-16 Only part of the hearing focused on monetary economics, the Fed’s traditional bailiwick. The three nominees all expressed concern about the high unemployment rate, but did not weigh in on a debate within the Fed over whether the central bank — having lowered interest rates nearly to zero and made trillions of dollars in loans and asset purchases — could do more to stimulate the economy.

“With unemployment still painfully high, job creation must be a high priority of monetary policy,” Ms. Yellen said.

The second nominee, Sarah Bloom Raskin, who is the Maryland state banking regulator, noted the “pervasive social costs” of joblessness. She said the Fed’s success in the last 30 years in curbing inflation was “only a partial victory when many American households continue to face the perils of unemployment and many small businesses struggle with weakened consumer demand and reduced access to credit.”

The third nominee, Peter A. Diamond, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, taught Ben S. Bernanke, now the Fed chairman, when Mr. Bernanke was a graduate student there. “A central theme of my research career has been how the economy deals with risks, both risks at the individual level and risks that affect the entire economy,” Mr. Diamond said.

The confirmation hearing was sparsely attended by the senators: the committee chairman, Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, and the committee’s top Republican, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, both had to leave to vote on the regulatory legislation.

Mr. Dodd noted the surprising turnaround in the Fed’s status since he released draft legislation last year in response to the financial crisis. “To be very blunt, that draft bill contemplated removing all of the Fed’s authority in areas where it had performed poorly, leaving it with responsibility primarily over monetary policy,” he told the nominees. “However, as we worked through the legislative process, it became clear that the political will of the Congress was to retain and strengthen the Fed’s supervisory role.”

Mr. Diamond acknowledged the challenge, saying, “The Fed will have major work to do to implement the tasks that the legislation is placing at the Fed.”

The nominees received only a few tough questions, from Republican senators.

Mr. Shelby asked Ms. Yellen about the failures of about 65 banks, with estimated loss of $28 billion, since 2004 in the San Francisco Fed district.

Ms. Yellen said that “our regulatory oversight was careful and appropriate,” but noted that most of the failed institutions were community banks with high exposure to commercial real estate. More broadly, she said, “The regulatory response was insufficient over a period of years.”

She added: “There is a need for all of us in regulation to act in a timely way, to take away the punch bowl, and to require more stringent capital requirements.”

Ms. Raskin, who was a staff lawyer for the Senate banking committee under a former chairman, Paul S. Sarbanes, said that regulators did not devote enough attention to the importance of capital and of banks’ off-balance-sheet assets leading up to the crisis.

“For those of us on the ground level, we saw quite a number of disturbing trends in housing markets,” including the sometimes weak regulation of mortgage originations, she said.

Mr. Shelby, who noted that Mr. Diamond had once described himself as a “card-carrying behavioral economist,” elicited a response that suggested that personal financial literacy would continue to be a focus for Mr. Diamond, who is an authority on Social Security and pensions.

“Behavioral economics draws heavily on cognitive psychology, and cognitive psychology is very aware of the difficulty for inexperienced people in interpreting complicated elements,” he said.
545 2010-07-16 Works large and small, major and minor all make their points sooner or later. The great “Portrait of Yvonne Landsberg” — whose masklike face, hemmed-in torso and superannuating arcs of radiance are more scratched than painted — may sharpen your appreciation of the insistent lines and textures in several drawings and a lithograph of female nudes in the show’s opening gallery. Matisse could carve with the brush, but at times he also used it like a pencil.

The thorn in Matisse’s side for most of the years encompassed by this show was Picasso’s ferocious “Demoiselles d’Avignon” of 1907 and Cubism, its more refined aftermath. Until the “Demoiselles,” conveniently located downstairs at MoMA, Matisse had been riding high. Inspired by African art — to which he introduced Picasso — he almost single-handedly revived European sculpture with a new bluntness and distortion of form. As first among the Fauves — or Wild Beasts — he, along with Georges Braque and André Derain, revolutionized painting with a new emphasis on stark color: color for color’s sake. His bright, raw contributions to the autumn salons of 1905 and ’06 had scandalized the public, to his satisfaction.

But “Demoiselles” changed things. Braque and Derain shortly became, in the words of Gertrude Stein, “Picassoites and were definitely not Matisseites.” Stein also changed sides, which wounded Matisse.

By 1910 Matisse had withdrawn from the hurly-burly of the Paris art world. He rented a house in the suburbs, built a studio in its garden and refueled with travel. He saw a mind-boggling show of Islamic art in Munich and Russian icons in Moscow. In Spain he encountered Moorish architecture and the works of Velázquez, El Greco and Goya. During long sojourns in Morocco in 1912 and early 1913, he reaffirmed his faith in the marriage of light and color. But by January 1914 he was back in Paris. He an his wife moved into an apartment at 19 Quai Saint-Michel. It was one floor below the studio in which he had worked from 1894 to 1907, with the same view of the Seine and Notre Dame.

In the next years Matisse pushed his art to even greater extremes of scale, stand-alone color, formal power, surface roughness and emotional undertow. He confronted Cubism by becoming more aggressively and transparently himself.

Spaciously arrayed in five large galleries, the MoMA show includes a bumper crop of Matisse’s most important canvases and one by Cézanne: the small, powerful “Three Bathers” of 1879-82. Matisse purchased the work from Ambroise Vollard in 1899, though he could ill afford it, and cherished it as a talisman until giving it to the Musée du Petit Palais in the 1930s.

Hanging near the show’s entrance, “Bathers” signals Matisse’s early understanding of Cézanne’s importance — an awareness that only became widespread with Cézanne’s 1906 memorial retrospective. It also suggests that Matisse shared more than a little of Cézanne’s well-known doubt while also indicating one of the show’s larger themes: Matisse’s link to the grand French tradition of painting nudes in landscapes.

This first gallery includes Matisse’s snarling “Blue Nude” of 1907 — which sent Picasso back to the studio to toughen up “Demoiselles” — and the eternally strange “Bathers With a Turtle” (1907-08), dominated by a proto-Brice Marden background and an alpha female who is either devouring her hands or about to regurgitate food for the turtle. The show concludes with Chicago’s monumental “Bathers by a River,” which Matisse grappled with off and on for most of the period covered by this exhibition. He began it in 1909-10 and returned to it in 1913 before finally completing it in 1917. With its immense dolmen-tree-trunk figures in shades of gray, blue and pink, it remains one of the most difficult, least ingratiating of modernist masterpieces.

The show is full of marvelous pairings and clusters of paintings executed close to the same time in which Matisse approaches and sometimes takes a timeout from “radical invention.” A particularly stunning gallery contains seven paintings made in the first six months after returning to Quai Saint-Michel, including the Landsberg portrait. The greatness of the Modern’s “Goldfish and Palette” — its scale, startling pentimenti and flirtation with abstraction — has never been clearer than when seen next to “Interior With Goldfish,” a more conventional, if still glorious version of the same view. The group culminates in the divine economies of the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s “Branch of Lilacs,” a bouquet of soft thin smudges of color and bare canvas, and the Modern’s “View of Notre Dame,” an intimation of sky and stone that is still unsettlingly cursory after all these years.

Everything looks fresh. Matisse’s nearly Baroque 1915 rendition of his 1893 academic copy of Jan Davidsz. de Heem’s “Desserte” is a MoMA staple that has always seemed mercilessly clogged to me. Here it reads as a blithe lexicon of the paint treatments that can be found throughout the show.

Matisse’s small monotype portraits from World War I stand out as “carved” with a few clean, deft needle-fine lines. And they stand up to their neighbors, a series of imposing charcoal and pencil portraits of women in which clouds of erasures are as crucial to the sense of form and personality as the drawn lines. In the show’s second-to-last gallery the melons, turbans and minarets of “The Moroccans” — a painting almost as truculent as “Bathers by a River” — are foreshadowed by monotypes and then paintings of apples and other fruit on tables.

“Demoiselles” was the Big Bang that helped Matisse become more fully himself, but Cubism barely grazed him. Cézanne’s “petites sensations” inspired Picasso and Braque to shatter Renaissance space into so many little pieces as to be atomized. Fittingly William Rubin, who ruled the Modern’s department of painting and sculpture for nearly two decades could characterize Analytic Cubism — which he adored — as the last stage of old master painting.

Matisse was not so interested in shattering, or in small pieces. He focused on wholeness, simplicity and monumentality, in planes that bent and angled in ways that suggest fragments of Cubism writ large. He built on Cézanne as surely as the Cubists did, but balanced that influence with an abiding admiration for the flat colors of Giotto’s frescoes, landmarks of the early Renaissance, which he saw in Padua during a trip to Italy in 1907. Giotto showed Matisse how to make color live big, enabling him to turn Cézanne’s petites sensations into something grand.

It is not every museum exhibition that begins with blown-up reproductions of small, sometimes minute details of 15 of the paintings displayed inside. This amazing show keeps your eyes on their toes. Attention paid is profusely and profoundly rewarded.
546 2010-07-16 WASHINGTON — Congress approved a sweeping expansion of federal financial regulation on Thursday, reflecting a renewed mistrust of financial markets after decades in which Washington stood back from Wall Street with wide-eyed admiration.

The bill, heavily promoted by President Obama and Congressional Democrats as a response to the 2008 financial crisis, cleared the Senate by a vote of 60 to 39, largely along party lines, after weeks of wrangling that allowed Democrats to pick up the three Republican votes to ensure passage.

The vote was the culmination of nearly two years of fierce lobbying and intense debate over the appropriate response to the financial excesses that dragged the nation into the worst recession since the Great Depression.

The result is a catalog of repairs and additions to the rusted infrastructure of a regulatory system that has failed to keep up with the expanding scope and complexity of modern finance.

The bill subjects more financial companies to federal oversight, regulates many derivatives contracts, and creates a panel to detect risks to the financial system along with a consumer protection regulator. It leaves a vast number of details for regulators to work out, inevitably setting off another round of battles that could last for years.

Over the last half-century, as traders and lenders increasingly drove the nation’s economic growth, politicians of both parties scrambled to get out of the way, passing a series of landmark bills that allowed financial companies to become larger, less transparent and more profitable.

Usury laws were set aside. Banks were allowed to expand across state lines, sell insurance, trade securities. The government watched and did nothing as the bulk of financial activity moved into a parallel universe of private investment funds, unregulated lenders and black markets like derivatives trading.

That era of hands-off optimism was gaveled to an end on Thursday as the Senate gave final approval to a bill that reasserts the importance of federal supervision of financial transactions.

“The financial industry is central to our nation’s ability to grow, to prosper, to compete and to innovate. This reform will foster that innovation, not hamper it,” Mr. Obama said Thursday. “Unless your business model depends on cutting corners or bilking your customers, you have nothing to fear.”

The White House said Mr. Obama would sign the legislation next week.

Democrats, who celebrated with high fives and handshakes as the bill was packed in a blue box for delivery to the White House, argue that the government’s expanded role will improve the stability of the financial system without sapping its vitality. But that project faces considerable challenges. Many investors have withdrawn from markets like commercial paper that were once seen as safe. Lenders have lost faith in borrowers. Politicians and central bankers are struggling to repair economies and restore the flow of credit.

Even the bill’s political luster no longer seems certain. Despite public anger at Wall Street, the vast majority of Republicans opposed the bill with loud confidence, betting ahead of hotly contested midterm elections that the public dislikes government even more.

Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama, described the bill as “a 2,300-page legislative monster.”

“It creates vast new bureaucracies with little accountability and seriously, I believe, undermines the competitiveness of the American economy,” Mr. Shelby said on the Senate floor before the final vote. “Unfortunately, the bill does very little to make our system safer.”

The three Republicans who voted in favor were New England moderates, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine and Scott Brown of Massachusetts. The one Democratic holdout was Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, who said he voted against the bill because it was not tough enough.

The bill expands federal banking and securities regulation from its focus on banks and public markets, subjecting a wider range of financial companies to government oversight, and imposing regulation for the first time on “black markets” like the enormous trade in credit derivatives.

It creates a council of federal regulators, led by the Treasury secretary, to coordinate the detection of risks to the financial system, and it provides new powers to constrain and even dismantle troubled companies.

It also creates a powerful new regulator, appointed by the president, to protect consumers of financial products, which will be housed in the Federal Reserve. The first visible result may come in about two years, the deadline for the consumer regulator to create a simplified disclosure form for mortgage loans.

Officials are already working to prepare for the expansion of government, including finding buildings in Washington to house the new agencies.

The rhythms of Washington have long dictated that crises beget legislation, but Democrats insisted Thursday that these changes also represented a long-overdue response to the evolution of the financial industry.

“This is a public sector response to transformative changes in the private sector,” said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and a crucial author of the legislation. “You have to have rules that allow you to continue to get the benefit of the innovation but curtail abuses.”
547 2010-07-16 Even so, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive, seemed cautiously optimistic that the worst for his bank — and the industry — was over. For the first time since the crisis began, JPMorgan released money from the reserves it had set aside to cover future losses.

The $1.5 billion benefit, or an after-tax gain of 36 cents, came from a reduction in loan loss reserves amid a modest improvement in housing and job markets, as well as signs that corporate borrowers were in better shape.

“I have always called that income paper,” Mr. Dimon told investors in a conference call. “It means nothing. Put it this way: we will take down reserves only if we have to.”

Still, Mr. Dimon stopped short of saying the economy was turning around. “Although we are gratified to see consumer lending net charge-offs and delinquencies decline, they remain at extremely high levels,” he said. “It is too early to say how much improvement we will see from here.”

With the permission of its regulators, the bank bought back more than $500 million in shares in the second quarter. Tellingly, however, it did not raise its dividend.

Mr. Dimon said late last month that he planned to await further improvement in the economy and more clarity about minimum capital requirements to be imposed by regulators before contemplating an increase in the dividend. He had previously hinted that such a move could come in the second half of 2010.

As the Senate passed the financial reform bill and prepared to send it to President Obama, Mr. Dimon said that many challenges and uncertainties remained that could result in unintended consequences for the bank’s businesses and the broader markets.

“With a need for global regulatory coordination and hundreds of rules to be written, increased focus is critical in order to implement these reforms in a way that protects consumers and the competitiveness of the U.S. financial system, while ensuring the flow of safe and sound credit,” he said in the statement.

Mr. Dimon did not present a full estimate of how much the new financial rules would cost his bank, although the credit and debit card business could face bigger hits than the bank had anticipated. Analysts say the full set of reforms could wind up lowering earnings by as much as 11 percent.

It was a difficult second quarter in some ways. JPMorgan set aside about $550 million to cover the cost of a one-time tax on the 2009 bonuses of workers based in Britain.

The investment bank posted a $1.4 billion profit, about 44 percent less that it earned in the first quarter. After making money every day in the first three months of the year, trading results in fixed-income, commodities and currency trading were much weaker as the market swung wildly. The bank benefited, however, from releasing about $325 million originally set aside to cover losses.

Chase’s consumer businesses, meanwhile, showed modest improvement. The credit card division posted a $343 million profit, after several quarters of bleeding red ink. Bank executives raised their projections of the cost of new credit card legislation to $750 million, from about $500 million.

The retail bank earned about $1 billion, in part because the bank set aside less money to cover future mortgage and home equity losses. Revenue fell by about 2 percent, as the bank took in less fee income on deposit accounts.

Mr. Dimon said that the loan losses in these units remained extremely high. “Returns in our consumer lending businesses are still unacceptable,” he said.
548 2010-07-16 ST. ANDREWS, SCOTLAND - If the intent was to make a difficult hole more difficult, British Open organizers appear to have succeeded. The modified par-4 17th hole was by far the most challenging hole on the Old Course during the first round of the ...
549 2010-07-16 Two days after construction workers discovered the keel of a centuries-old wooden ship at the site of the new World Trade Center, New Yorkers continued to speculate about what might have caused the mysterious vessel to come to rest amid layers of ...
550 2010-07-16 EMIL--Arthur D. The Trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts (AFA) are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and former President of the Board, Arthur Emil. We will be forever grateful for his many contributions and leadershi...
551 2010-07-17 Yogi Berra was recovering after falling near his New Jersey home Friday night....
552 2010-07-17 A computer match is being staged between two of the top computer software programs. After 31 games, the reigning world computer champion is winning....
553 2010-07-17 The chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has retreated from his request that participating scientists keep a distance from the media....
554 2010-07-17 The cover story of the current issue of Forbes India is about Viswanathan Anand, the world champion. It is not the only time that business has turned to chess players for ideas about how to compete....
555 2010-07-17 Senator John McCain finally faced off with his Republican primary rival J. D. Hayworth, with less than two months remaining before voters go to the polls. A Tea Party latecomer, Jim Deakin, also joined the fray....
556 2010-07-17 Brian Gaffney of Rumson Country Club won the 90th New Jersey State Golf Association Open Championship, defeating Bobby Gage of Forsgate in a playoff at Spring Brook Country Club in Morristown. It was the first New Jersey Open title for Gaffney, who had finished in the top five the previous four years.
557 2010-07-17 Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia called on Saturday for a parliamentary election on Aug. 21. Ms. Gillard became the country’s first female leader on June 24 after a revolt in the center-left Labor Party led Prime Minister Kevin Rudd to step down. Ms. Gillard, his deputy, was then unanimously selected to take over. The Labor government had faced a likely defeat at the polls before Mr. Rudd resigned, but Ms. Gillard has rebuilt support, and some public opinion surveys now put Labor slightly ahead of the Conservative Party. Ms. Gillard said she hoped to continue to expand the economy and to create budget surpluses. “Today,” she said, “I seek a mandate from the Australian people to move Australia forward.”
558 2010-07-17 Players remaining at the World Series of Poker main event were each guaranteed a six-figure payday after the French player Gabriel Nassif busted in 73rd from the no-limit Texas Hold ’em tournament. Nassif earned $94,942 and bumped the remaining entrants to at least $114,205. The top prize in the tournament is $8.94 million.
559 2010-07-17 And, the scratched an old wound this week when it called on the to expel racists from its ranks. The Partiers protested — too much methinks — because the racism is a rap they can’t seem to beat.

Mark Williams, a spokesman for the Tea Party Express, went so far as to proclaim, “It’s impossible for there to be a racist element in the Tea Party.” Yes, Mr. Williams, and it’s impossible that the ocean is composed of water. , with her deliciously loopy logic, called on Obama to “set the record straight.” No dice, Sister Sarah. Race is a subject that candidate Obama said he believed “this nation cannot afford to ignore right now,” but it’s also a subject that careens away from like it’s Kryptonite, particularly since jumping blindly and recklessly into the arrest imbroglio.

The president has yet to jolt the economy into recovery, he’s made some unpopular decisions and circumstances have not always favored him. But a presidency is a never-ending series of choices. Seasons change, winds switch directions, bad times don’t last always.

In November, voters will blow off some steam, and the dust will settle. Obama will have survived it all, and not in as bad a position as many claim. As another ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Tuesday said: “The president’s solace may be his comparison to — the last president to take office in the midst of a recessionary gale. In an ABC/Post poll at about his year-and-a-half mark, and with unemployment then at 9.8 percent, Reagan’s approval rating was 49-47 percent — almost precisely the same as Obama’s now.” Reagan went on to a second term and to become the gold standard of the

Soon Obama should get a magnificent gift: the beginning of Republican jockeying to challenge him in 2012. The list of current suspects is littered with characters, including Palin, the Tea Party Princess. A Gallup report released on Friday found that Palin is the “best known and most positively rated of five possible contenders for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.” That alone speaks volumes about the vacuousness of the Republican Party. Palin is all cheer and no leader.

But, now that Levi Johnston, Palin’s daughter’s baby-daddy, has announced plans to join the family, and presumably bury the hatchet, a major loose end has been tied down for her.

Then there’s who decided to test the waters and stir the pot this week by saying that he has “never been this serious” about running for president.

It’s not clear to me that he’s serious, but the very thought of Newt and Sarah squaring off thrills me to no end. I keep imagining the scene from (the original movie, not that awful new one) when the Kraken meets the head of Medusa. Cheesy and awesome! (In case you didn’t see it, they’re both destroyed by the demigod, golden boy who grew up with an absentee father.)

Newt once said, “I think one of the great problems we have in the Republican Party is that we don’t encourage you to be nasty. We encourage you to be neat, obedient, loyal and faithful and all those words, which would be great around a campfire but are lousy in politics.” Ha! That’s rich, and wrong. It certainly isn’t true today as some Republicans, including Gingrich, casually toss around Nazi references.

I’m betting that the battle for the Republican nomination will be beyond nasty. Not only are we likely to have Sarah and Newt, but bungling ; the devastatingly boring ; and , who reminds me of Floyd the barber from “The Show.” He once told an group that he couldn’t wait to get to heaven for the duck hunting. It wasn’t enough that Jindal last week signed the “gun-in-church” bill. Huckabee wants guns in heaven.

And if there is a God, and he answers earnest prayers, then he will do one small thing that will complete my life in 2012: He will nudge the endlessly embarrassing Michael Steele into the race. Please, God, please!

A campaign will require these candidates to air out their hollowness in full view, explaining why they see a phantom in every corner, a plot behind every policy, doom along every horizon. They will have to take positions instead of just give grief. They will have to develop a plan instead of simply picking apart Obama’s. And they will have to point out the pox on their opponents, which will be great to watch.

When this sideshow begins, Obama will be able to pass the popcorn and enjoy the frostiness. The summer will be a distant memory.
560 2010-07-17 Mr. Kelly used the cases to try to persuade Mr. Paterson to veto legislation that would prohibit the department from keeping the names and addresses of people who are stopped and questioned, but not arrested or issued a summons.

Mr. Paterson was not convinced, and on Friday he signed the legislation.

Mr. Paterson said the police failed to show that keeping such data was a strong enough tool to overcome the infringements on personal privacy of the hundreds of thousands of people stopped — to be questioned and sometimes frisked — each year in New York City.

In fact, Mr. Paterson said in an interview, the examples Mr. Kelly provided only further convinced him that signing this bill would not lead to a rise in murders and other violent crimes, as some, including Kelly had warned. “I saw this as a two-pronged test,” he said. “One, was it violative of privacy rights, which I thought it was. Two, was the effectiveness of stopping very serious crime, or perhaps acts of terrorism, dependant on this information? And my conclusion was overwhelmingly that it was not.”

The documents submitted by Mr. Kelly represented the first time the police had put specific cases behind its argument for being allowed to keep information on all of those stopped.

A look at these 170 cases shows instances where the stop-and-frisk data clearly did assist investigators in tracking down perpetrators. In many cases, the data provided shortcuts that speeded investigations along, such as providing hangouts of a known suspect or the names and addresses of potential witnesses known to frequent a location where a crime occurred.

But in many of the cases, it was hard to determine how helpful the data was in solving crimes, because the information provided to the governor was, in his words, “at best inconclusive.”

And the cases cited by Mr. Kelly constituted only a tiny fraction of the hundreds of thousands of crimes committed during that period. Police officials noted that they had rushed to put the cases together in an effort to persuade the governor.

In many of the cases, however, the summaries provide strong evidence that the stop-and-frisk data played a less than essential role — and sometimes hardly any role at all.

A recent murder in Brownsville, Brooklyn, serves as an example. On June 4, at a busy intersection, a man leapt from a car in broad daylight and fired gunshots into a Ford van at Amboy Street and Linden Boulevard, killing the 22-year-old driver with two bullets to the back. No arrests were made.

According to the police summary provided to Mr. Paterson, witnesses gave investigators the suspect’s name. Using that stop-and-frisk data, investigators from the 73rd Precinct found that he had been stopped nearby two days earlier,

But in the next sentence, the summary states, “Computer checks on the name further revealed a violent criminal history with an address in Brownsville.”

Though the governor did not refer to this case specifically, it was one of many examples in Mr. Kelly’s summary in which it was hard to see how the database played a “breakthrough role.”

Mr. Paterson said many of the examples involved people whose names and addresses were already in police databases because they had criminal histories. In several cases, DNA or fingerprint evidence from the crime scene appeared to provide the crucial element used by detectives in solving cases.

Investigating a string of home burglaries in Brooklyn earlier this year, for example, detectives retrieved DNA samples at four of the locations within the 62nd and 66th Precincts and used them to identify a suspect by name based on his criminal history. A check of the stop-and-frisk database showed the suspect had been stopped in the 83rd Precinct, in Bushwick. Detectives alerted the precinct to keep an eye out for him. But the suspect was later caught during a burglary there, leaving open the question of how the database was an important tool in apprehending him.

“If we were to gather DNA on every citizen in the country, that would help solve cases,” said State Senator Eric L. Adams, who was a police officer for 22 years and who sponsored the bill with a fellow Brooklyn Democrat, Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries. “The question is how do you balance that against people’s constitutional rights.”
561 2010-07-17 This is all part of what I think is one of the weirder aspects of our culture: a heightened freneticism that seems to demand that we be doing, at a minimum, two or three things every single moment of every hour that we’re awake. Why is multitasking considered an admirable talent? We could just as easily think of it as a neurotic inability to concentrate for more than three seconds.

Why do we have to check our e-mail so many times a day, or keep our ears constantly attached, as if with Krazy Glue, to our cellphones? When you watch the news on cable television, there are often additional stories being scrolled across the bottom of the screen, stock market results blinking on the right of the screen, and promos for upcoming features on the left. These extras often block significant parts of the main item we’re supposed to be watching.

A friend of mine told me about an engagement party that she had attended. She said it was lovely: a delicious lunch and plenty of Champagne toasts. But all the guests had their cellphones on the luncheon tables and had text-messaged their way through the entire event.

Enough already with this hyperactive behavior, this techno-tyranny and nonstop freneticism. We need to slow down and take a deep breath.

I’m not opposed to the remarkable technological advances of the past several years. I don’t want to go back to typewriters and carbon paper and yellowing clips from the newspaper morgue. I just think that we should treat technology like any other tool. We should control it, bending it to our human purposes.

Let’s put down at least some of these gadgets and spend a little time just being ourselves. One of the essential problems of our society is that we have a tendency, amid all the craziness that surrounds us, to lose sight of what is truly human in ourselves, and that includes our own individual needs — those very special, mostly nonmaterial things that would fulfill us, give meaning to our lives, enlarge us, and enable us to more easily embrace those around us.

There’s a character in the play “Joe Turner’s Come and Gone” who says everyone has a song inside of him or her, and that you lose sight of that song at your peril. If you get out of touch with your song, forget how to sing it, you’re bound to end up frustrated and dissatisfied.

As this character says, recalling a time when he was out of touch with his own song, “Something wasn’t making my heart smooth and easy.”

I don’t think we can stay in touch with our song by constantly Twittering or tweeting, or thumbing out messages on our BlackBerrys, or piling up virtual friends on .

We need to reduce the speed limits of our lives. We need to savor the trip. Leave the cellphone at home every once in awhile. Try kissing more and tweeting less. And stop talking so much.

Other people have something to say, too. And when they don’t, that glorious silence that you hear will have more to say to you than you ever imagined. That is when you will begin to hear your song. That’s when your best thoughts take hold, and you become really you.
562 2010-07-17 “Pedro Espada represents everything that’s wrong with Albany,” said Dan Cantor, the party’s executive director. Defeating Mr. Espada in the September primary, Mr. Cantor said, “is our No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 priority.”

The Working Families Party has a record of helping insurgents topple established incumbents. In 2008, it played a crucial role in State Senator Daniel L. Squadron’s victory against Martin E. Connor, who had been in office in for 30 years — since before Mr. Squadron was born. That campaign, Mr. Cantor said, will serve as a model for the party’s effort against Mr. Espada.

Vincent J. Montalbano, a veteran lobbyist and political consultant, said the Working Families Party’s support could prove decisive. “In local races, the candidate they get behind, I think, has a tremendous advantage,” Mr. Montalbano said. “I think it is the overwhelmingly main factor in making it a competitive race.”

Founded in 1998, the Working Families Party is a coalition of unions and liberal groups that rarely runs its own candidates. Instead, it endorses other parties’ candidates, almost always Democrats, and then sends its workers into the field.

But the party brings its own baggage to the race: federal prosecutors are investigating it for possible campaign-finance violations. The inquiry could become ammunition for Mr. Espada as he tries to fend off accusations of corruption.

Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democratic nominee for governor, filed a civil suit in April accusing Mr. Espada of steering millions of dollars from his nonprofit health care network to pay for vacations, meals, and housing and campaign expenses. Federal prosecutors are also investigating Mr. Espada and his health care clinics.

Last week, the state Democratic Party officially moved to oust him from the party.

Mr. Espada’s campaign did not return a call for comment.

At the moment, Mr. Espada has a far larger campaign war chest than Mr. Rivera. In campaign filings submitted this week, Mr. Espada reported having about $323,000 on hand, compared with $38,000 for Mr. Rivera. Still, Mr. Rivera reported raising over $65,000 since entering the race in May, while Mr. Espada raised about $82,000 since the start of the year.

The Working Families Party will work to help close the gap, and the New Roosevelt Initiative — a statewide reform project started by Bill Samuels, a technology entrepreneur and a top Democratic donor — has endorsed Mr. Rivera and pledged to spend up to $250,000 to defeat Mr. Espada.

Mr. Rivera has worked as a political strategist for several campaigns, including Jose M. Serrano’s successful 2004 race for a State Senate seat representing East Harlem and parts of the Bronx. In addition to his role as an aide to Ms. Gillibrand, he served as chief of staff for State Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Westchester County Democrat.

He also has ties to the powerful Service Employees International Union.

Mr. Rivera said his campaign would focus on fighting the area’s high unemployment rate, providing rent protection for low-income families and addressing school crowding.

Despite the party’s support, Mr. Rivera faces other obstacles, including two other Democratic candidates, who could split the anti-Espada vote. They are Fernando P. Tirado, the district manager of a local community board, and Daniel Padernacht, a lawyer and a member of another community board.

A fourth candidate, Desiree Pilgrim-Hunter, dropped out of the race this week because of difficulty raising money.
563 2010-07-17 Chevron is seeking to have the litigation dismissed in Ecuadorean courts. It says that footage shot by Mr. Berlinger could help its cause by showing instances of improper collaboration between the Ecuadorean plaintiffs and court-appointed experts.

Lawyers for Mr. Berlinger had argued that his unused footage was protected in the United States by the First Amendment and by legal precedents giving journalists some ability to shield confidential sources.

But in his May ruling, Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of United States District Court in Manhattan said that Mr. Berlinger had not met his burden of showing whether any of his filmed material was subject to confidentiality agreements with his sources, and that the release forms he used with his subjects gave him “carte blanche to use all of the footage in his production.”

On Wednesday a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan indicated it might narrow Judge Kaplan’s decision and require Mr. Berlinger to produce a smaller amount of material. And it did just that on Thursday.

The panel ruled that Mr. Berlinger must turn over to Chevron “all footage that does not appear in publicly released versions of ‘Crude’ ” that depict the lawyers for the Ecuadorean plaintiffs, private or court-appointed experts or current or former Ecuadorean government officials. Chevron may use this footage “solely for litigation, arbitration or submission to official bodies, either local or international,” the order said, and must reimburse Mr. Berlinger’s “reasonable expenses of sorting and duplication of footage.”

Lawyers on both sides and legal experts cautioned that the implications of the appeals court’s ruling would not be completely clear until the court issues a fuller explanation of its reasoning in the coming days.

Douglas E. Lee, a legal commentator for the First Amendment Center at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, said the ruling represented “one more issue where the courts and, frankly, the media industry are having difficulty keeping up with technology.”

The line between who is or is not a journalist, Mr. Lee added, “just isn’t as bright as it used to be.”

But Floyd Abrams, the First Amendment lawyer who wrote a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of Mr. Berlinger that was signed by 13 news organizations, including The New York Times Company, said on Friday that it was “just not the law” that an investigative journalist cannot be compelled to turn over materials, confidential or otherwise.

“The legal test is, is it likely to result in relevant evidence which cannot be obtained elsewhere?” Mr. Abrams said.

Randy M. Mastro, a lawyer representing Chevron, said in an interview that this case was “the antithesis of the typical journalist’s privilege case.” The lawyers representing the Ecuadorean plaintiffs and other figures in the film, Mr. Mastro said, were people “who wanted to be on film, wanted to tell their story and wanted as much screen time as possible.”

As a result, he added, “They had no expectation of privacy or confidentiality.”

Mr. Berlinger said it had not been his goal to prevent Chevron from obtaining any of his unused film footage.

“We have to be intellectually honest about the merits of laws that allow certain footage or certain reporters’ material, under certain conditions, to be turned over,” he said. “I believe there are times when it’s appropriate to turn it over.”

For example, he pointed to the “Paradise Lost” documentaries he made with Bruce Sinofsky, about three young men in West Memphis, Ark., who were convicted of the murders of three 8-year-old boys in 1993.

“If I had anything in my footage that would make the difference between a man sitting on death row or not,” Mr. Berlinger said, “I would want me or anybody else to be compelled to turn that over.”

Eddie Schmidt, the president of the International Documentary Association in Los Angeles, agreed that the turning over of some footage in cases that “would help someone or change an outcome” would not have a long-term impact on “the trust-building nature that filmmakers and subjects have.”

Maura J. Wogan, a lawyer representing Mr. Berlinger, said that it was her client’s “job, and duty and obligation” under the appeals court’s order to turn over the film footage as it specified, and that he “intends to do so as quickly as possible.”

Mr. Mastro, the Chevron lawyer, said the “Crude” footage could be a “treasure trove” for his client, estimating that the lawyers representing the Ecuadoreans were on screen for “more than 70 percent of the film.” (Mr. Berlinger disputed Mr. Mastro’s calculation.)

Mr. Berlinger said further appeal of the decision was unlikely.

“We fought very hard to not worsen the precedent for investigative reporters, and in particular documentary filmmakers,” he said. “And to appeal this order would risk setting back the hands of time and ending up with a worse result.”
564 2010-07-17 THE YO-YO PROBLEM The yo-yo phenomenon is rare, but truly insidious and will probably escape oversight by the new agency because auto dealers, not banks, perpetrate it.

Here’s how it often occurs. Consumers sign contracts agreeing to an interest rate and price and drive away from a dealership thinking a deal is done. Not long after, they get a call asking them to come back to the dealership. Once dealers reel them back in (hence yo-yo), they say the financing has fallen through and try to get consumers to sign new contracts with higher interest rates.

This happened to KeyAnn Gladden at a Hall Automotive dealership in Virginia Beach, Va., two years ago. When she refused to sign new paperwork or return her car, citing her original contract and the fact that the sales staff had told her she was approved for financing, she said the dealership tried to have her arrested at her job at a day spa.

“This is a nightmare,” said Ms. Gladden, who is now 30 years old. She added that she lost her job in part because of the police visit and is suing the dealership. “It’s about my credit history and the credibility of my character.” A representative of Hall Automotive refused to comment on Ms. Gladden’s allegations.

Why does this sort of thing happen? “Many times it has to do with errors on the consumer’s application for credit, whether intentional or an accident,” said Bailey Wood, a spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association.

Consumer advocates and plaintiff’s lawyers, however, point to a different problem. Often, a dealer will quote an interest rate from a bank or finance company to a consumer, and the buyer signs a contract. Only then does the dealer get official approval from the lender who provided the rate quote. Every so often, lenders change their mind (or dealers do, lawyers say, because they may be able to make more money by arranging a higher-interest loan elsewhere and shoving it down the throat of a frightened buyer who needs the car to get to work).

The best way to avoid this is to get your loan from a bank or credit union in the first place, but that might mean missing out on zero percent financing at the dealer if your credit is good enough to qualify.

So pick your dealer carefully. “It’s important to note that not all dealers are shysters,” said David Julian, the director of the Defense Department’s office of personal finance who added that many dealers near military bases sign a code of ethics.

You can also try to put a dealer on notice that it’s probably best to pick on someone else. Demand to know who has agreed to provide the loan, for instance, and ask to know if the financing is, in fact, truly approved. Or make a point of refusing to sign a sales contract that says that the sale is conditioned upon financing approval, a consumer tactic that the dealers association endorses.

THE MARKUP PROBLEM One thing consumers may not realize when applying for an auto loan through many dealers is that it’s often the dealers, not the company providing the loan, that ultimately decide how much you’ll pay. A bank quotes a wholesale rate to the dealer, and then the dealer is free to mark it up by as much as 3 percentage points. The dealer’s ultimate profit on any deal depends in part on how much it marks up this rate.

That spread used to be higher, before a number of lawsuits using data from as recently as 2004 revealed that blacks and Hispanics were paying more for their loans, even when they had the same credit scores as whites. And in case you didn’t believe that everyone’s a little bit racist sometimes, lawyers in one lawsuit determined that minority-owned dealers had the biggest markups, according to Stuart Rossman of the National Consumer Law Center in Boston, who was co-counsel on the cases.

It’s not clear what the numbers are today, but remember that on many parts of the Internet, no one knows you’re black. So get preapproved for an auto loan via a bank’s or credit union’s online application process before going to a dealer to discuss financing. Then, no matter what your skin color, ask the dealer to beat that rate.

THE ADD-ON PROBLEM If you’ve gotten a good price on the car and arrived with cash or a loan from someplace else, dealers will try to find some other way to make money off you. In fact, lawyers for the finance companies that supply dealer loans promised Mr. Rossman as much when he was in the middle of suing them. “I would see them at legal conferences, and they would tell me that if we stopped them from doing what they were doing, they would just move their profit margins someplace else,” he said.

And so the dealers try to sell you window etchings and service contracts, or disability and other insurance. Or, they try to force you to buy these things by implying that the add-ons are a condition of getting a loan or getting a good rate on one.

Mr. Bailey of the dealers association says that this is illegal, but some dealers do it anyway. The Oregon Justice Department has taken action twice in the last two years against dealers like this. In August 2008, it reached a $100,000 settlement agreement with Salem Nissan in Salem, Ore., after finding that the dealership had added all sorts of products to almost all its contracts without the buyers knowing they didn’t have to buy them. As is standard in these sorts of agreements, the dealership admitted no violation of the law.

Most of these products are of questionable value or available in better, cheaper versions elsewhere. Keep a careful eye on your paperwork to see if they’ve ended up on your bill.

Feeling dirty yet? I do. Many dealers have now successfully stood up in public and persuaded legislators to shoo away new regulators in an area that needs better oversight. That, for better or for worse, will make all dealers suspect in the eyes of many consumers.

So I eagerly await word from independent dealers who have built a campaign around a promise of no yo-yo schemes ever, upfront (and not fine print) disclosure that interest rates are often negotiable and an end to useless or overpriced add-ons.
565 2010-07-17 Some marketing experts said Mr. Jobs had been effective at deflecting a potentially damaging crisis and predicted Apple would suffer little damage from the antenna ruckus.

“It is inexcusable that this problem was not found out in advance,” said Peter Sealey, a former chief marketing officer of the Coca-Cola Company, who teaches at the School of Management at Claremont Graduate University. But he said Mr. Jobs “did what he needed to do. He is the best marketing guy in America, and this is just a bump in the road.”

Mr. Jobs offered some contrition. He said Apple was not perfect and apologized to customers affected by the antenna problem. “We are human and we make mistakes sometimes,” he said.

But he quickly went on the offensive, saying every smartphone suffers from similar problems. To bolster his case, he showed videos of smartphones, including a BlackBerry, an Android-powered phone and a Windows Mobile device, that dropped signals when they were held in certain places.

When a reporter said he could not replicate the signal drop on his BlackBerry, Mr. Jobs said the problem was only evident in places where the signal is weak.

Most of all, Mr. Jobs said time and again that the iPhone 4 was the best phone Apple had shipped, and that most reviewers believed it to be the best smartphone on the market. He said he had evidence to back his claims.

First, only one in about 200 buyers had called Apple to complain about antenna issues, a historically low number, he said. What’s more, he said that return rates at AT&T, the exclusive carrier of the iPhone in the United States, were 1.7 percent, or less than a third the return rates of the iPhone 3GS.

Mr. Jobs conceded that the iPhone 4 suffered from a slight increase in dropped calls over the iPhone 3GS, but said that the increase was less than one additional drop for every 100 calls. He would not provide absolute numbers of dropped calls, but he said that he believed the increase was because fewer iPhone 4 customers were using a case, or bumper.

“The data supports the fact that the iPhone 4 is the best smartphone in the world,” Mr. Jobs said. “And there is no ‘Antennagate.’ There is a challenge to the entire industry to improve antenna performance so that there are no weak spots.”

Mr. Jobs also rejected criticism that Apple had been slow to respond to complaints about the antenna, saying engineers had been working around the clock to diagnose the problem. “It is not like Apple has had its head in the sand,” he said. “It has been 22 days.”

Mr. Jobs revealed that Apple had sold more than three million of the black iPhone 4s and said the white model would start shipping at the end of the month. On July 30, Apple will start selling the iPhone 4 in 17 more countries, including Australia, Austria, Italy, Ireland and Switzerland.

Some Apple rivals took issue with the contention that all smartphones suffer from antenna problems. Karen Lachtanski, a spokeswoman for Nokia, said in an e-mail message that antenna performance can be affected by a tight grip, but added: “That’s why Nokia designs our phones to ensure acceptable performance in all real-life cases, for example when the phone is held in either hand.”

Sanjay K. Jha, Motorola’s co-chief executive, said in a statement that his company had avoided putting antennas on the outside of its phones “because consumers don’t like being told how to hold the phone.”

Mr. Jha said it was “disingenuous to suggest that all phones perform equally,” adding that in the company’s tests, Motorola’s new Droid X had performed better than the iPhone 4 when held in the hand.

Other phone makers and carriers contacted did not return calls for comment.

For its part, Consumer Reports, which shone a spotlight on the iPhone 4 problems by saying Monday that it could not recommend the device, called Apple’s response a “good first step.” Paul Reynolds, the magazine’s electronics editor, said it would continue to withhold its “recommended” rating.

“We want to take a little more time to see what else Apple will come up with,” he said.
566 2010-07-17 He said the firm’s models were meant to find trends. In doing so, he said, they often miss the first 10 percent on the upside and lose 10 percent on the downside. The strategy adapts to what is already happening, rather than trying to predict which might happen. Its goal is to outperform the MSCI All World Index, an index of global stock funds — it has done so by 1.5 percentage points over the last five years — but to do so with half the volatility.

Such an approach irks someone like John Calamos, founder of Calamos Investments and a proponent of a different low-volatility strategy. He considers exchange-traded funds the domain of a manager who has given up.

“He says, ‘I can’t pick stocks. I don’t know if Apple is any better than BP so I’ll just pick an E.T.F. and have both of them in there,’ ” Mr. Calamos said. “If I’m no good at picking stocks, am I better at picking groups of stocks? That’s silly. We believe active management works.”

His strategy, which relies heavily on convertible securities, was born out of a similarly rough time in the 1970s, and his two funds, meant to capitalize on volatile markets, were both up around 15 percent last year with fewer swings. He admits, though, that these strategies do not perform as well in less volatile markets.

Daniel Weiskopf, who runs Forefront’s E.T.F. strategy with Mr. Faucetta, said the best active managers might have an advantage in volatile markets, but finding the best ones could be difficult. He hews to the belief that 80 percent of the returns come from picking the sector and only 20 percent from the individual securities.

In terms of funds intended to limit losses, the options seem limited. There is the PowerShares BuyWrite E.T.F., which replicate a traditional covered call strategy to limit the depreciation of a stock in return for giving up some of its appreciation. And a 2008 University of Massachusetts study, “Collaring the Cube,” showed how a similar strategy could be applied with the popular Nasdaq exchange-traded fund, QQQQ.

Ben Marks, president of Marks Group Wealth Management, argued that a properly constructed basket of E.T.F.’s could be an effective hedge against market volatility in and of itself. This is the goal of his Alternative Strategy Portfolio, which currently consists of investments in eight separate funds.

“This portfolio is really meant to take the bumps out of the road,” he said. “It’s meant to be noncorrelated to equities and bonds.”

One recent addition was a fund focused on base metals in the belief that emerging markets like China are going to drive up metal prices — creating volatility in commodity prices — while a recent success was a fund that bet that European currencies would lose value against the dollar.

None of this is risk-free, and some exchange-traded fund. investments could create problems for investors far greater than a bit of volatility. One comes from leveraged funds and so-called inverse funds, which return the opposite of what an index does. The danger here comes if your assumption is wrong and instead of being down 5 percent the index being tracked is up 20 percent.

The more common risk is in people jumping on the exchange-traded fund bandwagon in the hope that it will save their portfolios.

“There are so many E.T.F.’s now and the industry has been booming, that they really have become a catchall,” said Joseph Jennings, investment director in Baltimore for PNC Wealth Management. “They’re a good tool to manage diversification and risk in a portfolio as long as the investor is aware of what he is buying.”

He pointed to a popular telecommunications fund that was meant to track that industry. Some 45 percent of its holdings were in AT&T and Verizon, making it not very broad. In other words, buyer beware.
567 2010-07-17 The meeting late last month began an intense tutorial by the prosecutors on law and philosophy, ethics and history, politics and statecraft. They examined research on the history of swaps of spies and other prisoners; a big one involving their office occurred in 1986, during the Cold War, when Mr. Bharara was a teenager. Would they ever draw a line? What if the child of a Russian official were arrested for drug dealing and demands were made to drop that case? Would they object to a deal then?

Mr. Bharara’s office was assigned last year to prosecute another high-profile case, the trial of and four others accused of plotting the Sept. 11 attacks, but before the defendants ever arrived in New York, the plans were derailed by strong opposition from local politicians.

In the Russia case, though, the circumstances were different. A deal was being struck by political leaders of two nations that would close a decade-long investigation even before an indictment was brought.

In the end, Mr. Bharara said he concluded the deal being brokered by the politicians was acceptable and just, and was being pursued for the right reason, and his prosecutors scrambled to secure guilty pleas from the 10 jailed suspects in different cities as the case sped to a conclusion.

Now, with the deal done and the Russian agents back in , it turns out that prosecutors were not the only ones questioning their role in one of the odder, more fascinating spy cases in years.

Donna R. Newman, the lawyer for one man accused of being a member of what was known as Russia’s illegals program, said a prosecutor had made clear to her that the terms of the eventual plea deal were being handed down from the highest levels of government. She said it was usually the United States attorney’s office that dictated the terms of plea bargains, and she joked with the prosecutor, “I’m used to being window dressing, but in this case you’re window dressing, too.”

Robert M. Baum, the lawyer who represented another of the agents, , said, “People congratulated me on the result of the case, but I had nothing to do with the result.”

The case moved so swiftly that Peter B. Krupp, the lawyer for one of the Russian agents detained in , said he first learned the outlines of what later became the plea deal not from prosecutors but from a Russian official in a jailhouse meeting in Plymouth, Mass.

Mr. Krupp said he called a prosecutor, asking for confirmation of the terms of the deal, and was left with the impression that the prosecutor himself was unaware of the details.

“It is my feeling,” Mr. Krupp said, “that the defense teams, the prosecutors and the court were all pawns in this negotiation.”

To Mr. Bharara, the 41-year-old United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, who has served 11 months in the post, the prosecutors were not pawns, and he said they worked hard to guard against that.

“We took seriously our responsibility to be independent thinkers and responsible enforcers of justice,” he said. “It’s very easy for me to say that, because we agreed with what was going on, but it’s important for people to know that we thought about that.”

“If something would have violated our principles,” he added, “we would have objected.”

Mr. Bharara agreed to discuss limited aspects of the case at the request of . Further details were obtained from others who were briefed on the process.

Mr. Bharara said he and two top aides had monitored the arrests from an command center in Manhattan as they were being carried out on June 27. He knew at the time, he said, that some in the Obama administration had raised the idea of a swap as part of the broader rebuilding of United States-Russian relations.

But that weekend, he said, he had no information that a deal was imminent, or even on the table.

His office had sent prosecutors to , Va., and to handle arraignments there; his lead prosecutor on the case, Michael Farbiarz, the co-chief of the office’s terrorism unit, was overseeing the effort from Manhattan.

“I fully expected we’d be in lengthy proceedings,” Mr. Bharara said, “and pleading some people out and going to trial with others.”

So when, to his surprise, he was informed on June 29 “that the idea of a swap was extremely serious,” he said, he summoned Boyd M. Johnson III, his deputy, and Richard B. Zabel, who ran the criminal division, to his eighth-floor office. Mr. Farbiarz was called back from a colleague’s farewell luncheon in TriBeCa.

Big cases often end in plea bargains before trial, with prosecutors never showing their evidence. But this proposal, coming from outside the Justice Department, raised unusual questions.

“We’re prosecutors, right? We’re not spy-swap negotiators,” Mr. Bharara said. “The view was we just needed to make sure that at every step we’re doing the right thing for the right reasons.”

Thus began their deliberation. “Was it O.K. to have a swap? And should we be considering that?” he said he had asked the group. They also discussed the content of the proposed exchange, he said

He raised hypothetical questions, like what would happen if the office were asked to dismiss a prosecution for less noble reasons.

“Would we be thinking differently,” Mr. Bharara recalled asking, “if it was a cocaine case involving some significant foreign leader’s child? And the answer was yes.”

Mr. Bharara also asked about the history of such trades, and whether they were an acceptable outcome, both in criminal law and as understandings between nations. “We deal in precedent, and it was important for me to understand what has gone on before,” he said.

He declined to elaborate on which cases they examined, but one major deal is well-known.

In 1986, an accused Czechoslovakian spy, Karl F. Koecher, who was being prosecuted by the Southern under , became part of an elaborate nine-person exchange in which the Soviet dissident Anatoly B. Shcharansky (now known as Natan Sharansky) was freed at ’s Glienicke Bridge.

The prosecutor at the time, Bruce Green, now a Fordham University law professor, recalled this week that Mr. Koecher received a life sentence that was reduced to time served on the condition he participate in the swap and never return to the United States.

“You can wonder,” Professor Green said, “does the criminal law really have much of a role to play here? If the likely result is going to be you just pack them up and send them home, what’s the point of the legal process?”

For Mr. Bharara, the review of the earlier cases was useful because it showed they were not “in uncharted territory.”

In that meeting and over the ensuing days, Mr. Bharara said, he kept a dialogue going as the proposal evolved and as Mr. Farbiarz and two other assistant United States attorneys, Jason B. Smith and Glen Kopp, worked to secure plea deals. He said there was unanimity that no swap should occur until after the Russian agents had admitted their guilt in court, described how they had violated the law and disclosed their real names. “It was very important to us,” Mr. Bharara said, “to vindicate the interests of the criminal justice system.”

One of the other key considerations, Mr. Bharara said, was the comparative significance of the four prisoners being returned in the deal.

“We did ask questions,” he said. “We learned about the relative identities and backgrounds of our 10 versus the other four; we were satisfied that the overall resolution was in the interest of justice.”

At that point, the prosecutors had to act quickly, as the Russian government was making preparations for its prisoners to be exchanged.

On July 8, the day of the guilty pleas in United States District Court in Manhattan, Mr. Bharara’s office found itself pushing to ensure that the fast-moving swap remained consistent with the requirements of the criminal justice system.

In court, Mr. Farbiarz told the judge, , that Russian officials had been meeting with the defendants jailed in the United States, and he suggested she ask each lawyer whether the Russians had done anything to either force or entice their clients to plead guilty. The lawyer for one defendant, the journalist Vicky Peláez, revealed that the Russians had offered his client a monthly stipend of $2,000 for life and other amenities, but he assured the judge that the promises had not induced her to plead guilty.

The pleas were accepted, and the agents sentenced to time served. Within hours, they were on a flight to Vienna, the transfer point for the swap.

“Our job is to make sure that justice is done,” Mr. Bharara said, “and in the modern world, it’s to make sure it’s done consistent with national security.”
568 2010-07-17 Mark Calcavecchia, a burly 50-year-old who said, “I’ve been feeling ancient and royal for a long time,” summoned his wiles and a putting stroke from his past to fashion a round of 67 that left him alone in second place at seven under par.

And two Englishmen, Lee Westwood and Paul Casey, barreled into contention at six under. Casey shot his second 69 and Westwood a 71.

A stunning array of seven golfers with different styles and levels of British Open experience are tied for sixth place, packed together at five under par like the line out the door at the lone St. Andrews Starbucks at 7 a.m. Not acting their age are the 1996 Open champion Tom Lehman, 51, who shot a 68, and the pony-tailed Spaniard of perpetual youth Miguel Ángel Jiménez, 46, who shot a 67. Also in the group are Ricky Barnes (71), Peter Hanson (73), the United States Open champion Graeme McDowell (68), Retief Goosen (70) and Sean O’Hair (72).

From Calcavecchia’s first shot to open the day, to the 357-yard drive by Woods at the 18th that nearly went in the hole for a double eagle, to the pitch Watson nearly holed for eagle in the dark, it was a terrific 15-hour show on a great stage in eastern Scotland.

Play was halted for more than an hour by the winds, and that delay, coupled with the difficulty of coping with the gusts, stranded 10 threesomes on the course because of darkness. They will finish their second rounds starting at 6:30 a.m. on Saturday.

Missing the 36-hole cut that is projected to be at two over par were: Watson (75-148); Ernie Els (79-148); Padraig Harrington (77-150); Geoff Ogilvy (78-150); Justin Leonard (74-150); and David Duval (78-155).

For other carnage, consider the first-round leader Rory McIlroy. An engaging 21-year-old from Holywood, Northern Ireland, he shot the record opening round of 63 in the calm of Thursday morning. McIlroy followed that with a mortifying 80, which not only dropped him from first to 40th place, but also set a record for the highest round after a 63 in major championship history.

The turnaround was complete. McIlroy had never seen a day as calm as Thursday at St. Andrews, and he had seen few as brutal as Friday; the 63 was his best round, the 80 was not only his worst, it was his worst by 11 strokes over his previous high of 69.

Say this for McIlroy, though. He took the 80 the same way he took the 63 — like a pro.

“Two-putted for a good 80,” he said with a wry smile when asked what happened. “I actually did well to par the last three holes, if I’m totally honest. It could have been an 82 or an 83.”

McIlroy was at one under par but sounded determined to try to climb back up the board. “If the weather is quite calm, I feel like I’ve got a chance to go low,” he said.

For some courage — defined, in this case, as facing pain without being deflected from his chosen course of action — take Calcavecchia. He ignored the arthritis in his knuckles, the kinks in his back and the assortment of aches and pains that have at times forced him to take “a bowl full of Advil” to put himself in position to repeat as Open champion 21 years after he won at Troon.

Shots great and gruesome, largely the result of the blustery winds, included the hooking tee shot at the 175-yard, par-3 eighth hole by Camilo Villegas that started some 30 yards right of the hole and stopped 4 feet to the left of the hole; and the 4-foot putt by Andrew Coltart, at the par-3 11th, that was stopped short by the wind, never reaching the hole.

Then there was the drive on No. 18 by Woods, which might be the shot of the week if he goes on to win his third straight Open at St. Andrews. What the shot did was expunge the memory of Woods’s opening with consecutive three-putt bogeys at the first two holes, followed by a grueling, grinding round to come back that nearly went south with a couple of late bogeys at the 13th and the 15th holes that could have erased it all.

Even though Woods did not make the eagle putt from 10 feet at No. 18 — it cruised the high edge of the hole and went past — he made a birdie that was very loud indeed.

It was a reminder: “I’m still here.”

Whether that does anything to shake up the seemingly unflappable Oosthuizen this weekend will largely depend on how close Woods can get on Saturday. He may not be the favorite from his position at tied for 15th, but he is only one stroke out of a tie for sixth. And that is getting close in an Open that could get even wilder this weekend.
569 2010-07-17 Prices for consumer goods fell in June for the third consecutive month, mostly because of lower costs for gasoline, according to a government report released Friday.

The Consumer Price Index, which measures prices of a batch of common goods, declined 0.1 percent last month on a seasonally adjusted basis. Lower prices for gasoline, which showed a 4.5 percent decline, were a big factor for the decrease. The report, released by the Labor Department, is considered a benchmark measure of inflation.

Over the last 12 months, the index has risen 1.1 percent before seasonal adjustment.

The lower energy and food prices offset increases for other items. Prices for housing, clothing, used cars, medical care, tobacco and recreation all rose, the department said. That meant the so-called core price index, which strips out food and energy prices, was up 0.2 percent in June, the largest gain this year and above analysts’ forecasts for a 0.1 percent rise.

The core number is up 0.9 percent in the last 12 months.

With the rates well below the Federal Reserve’s unofficial target of nearly 2 percent, some economists have said that there is more risk of deflation in the United States, like that seen in the Japanese economy for about two decades.

The minutes of the Fed’s June meeting indicated that policy makers were divided on whether the weak economy faced deflation.
570 2010-07-17 “Airlines are still cautious about spending and pushing back as much maintenance work as they can,” said Richard Tortoriello, an analyst with Standard & Poor’s Equity Research.

Aviation equipment orders decreased 8 percent, the only category of five to fall, while aviation service orders decreased 5 percent.

General Electric reported second-quarter net income of $3.03 billion, or 28 cents a share, compared with $2.61 billion, or 25 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago. Earnings per share for continuing operations were 30 cents.

Revenue, however, declined 4 percent, to $37.44 billion, from $39.11 billion. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected a profit of 27 cents a share on revenue of $38.4 billion.

Shares of G.E. fell 70 cents, to $14.55 on Friday.

The chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, said in a statement that business was improving. “Losses and impairments declined $0.5 billion from the prior quarter, with consumer losses down $0.4 billion and real estate losses in line with our expectations,” Mr. Immelt said in the statement. “We have strengthened the franchise over the past year and GE Capital’s earnings recovery should continue.”

G.E., based in Fairfield, Conn., is often considered the largest proxy for industrial America.

“If the overall global recovery takes place, you can argue G.E. will be the largest beneficiary,” said Mr. Davis. “Not only does it have a large subset of manufacturing businesses, but it has a large finance subsidiary.”

GE Capital profit increased 93 percent and the company said its earnings recovery should continue, though revenue from GE Capital Services decreased 2 percent, to $13.1 billion.

“Commercial real estate business remained the one tough area of GE Capital as expected,” Keith S. Sherin, chief financial officer, said during a conference call. The real estate segment lost $524 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $237 million a year ago.

The company did not have an update on the sale of NBC Universal to Comcast, which was announced in December. Mr. Sherin said G.E. had no news while the merger was being reviewed by federal regulators.

“I hate to predict when it’s going to close just because we don’t control it,” Mr. Sherin said regarding the deal. The European Union approved the transaction on Wednesday.

Total orders and equipment orders increased for the first time since the third quarter of 2008, with the latter increasing 17 percent in the quarter.

“This is significant because growth in G.E.’s heavy-equipment businesses tends to lag growth in the overall economy,” Mr. Tortoriello said. “Thus this data gives us an indicator that economic growth is on track.”

Mr. Davis had estimated the increase in equipment orders to be more than 10 percent, in part because of a $1 billion order from Iraq for 25 gas turbine units, but also because of greater activity from hospitals.

“The recovery in health care equipment has come a lot faster than expected,” Mr. Davis said. “A lot of businesses held off until President Obama’s health care bill passed.”
571 2010-07-17 So that's why they tell their clients not to talk to us.     Part of the ritual in covering courts as a reporter is going to lawyers after their clients are accused of something and getting the token ''No comment'' or ''We intend to vigorously dis...
572 2010-07-18 Kelly Wallace, a former broadcast journalist who moved to the Web site iVillage, found business aspects embedded in online journalism....
573 2010-07-18 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
574 2010-07-18 Wal-Mart, as Mr. Doig explained, looks beyond a location’s one- or two-mile radius and assesses access from expressways, drive-time data and proximity to public transit. For the Pullman store, most likely to open in 2012, it figures three-quarters of the customers could come from outside the neighborhood — from the south suburbs and northwest Indiana.

Another little-understood reality comes from Paul Vogel, a Chicago retail analyst. “Big cities are understored,” Mr. Vogel said. “We don’t have enough stores in Chicago and are losing significant sales-tax dollars.”

A city the size of Chicago, understored? Wal-Mart said credit card purchases show that $500 million of its suburban sales come from city residents. Over all, Mr. Vogel estimates that city people spend $1 billion yearly on goods (not groceries) in the suburbs.

Wal-Mart needs the city. Having conquered the suburbs, the chain sees its future dependent on urban growth.

In a phone chat, Mayor Richard M. Daley, a Wal-Mart supporter, bemoaned business lost to “Palos, Stickney, Evergreen Park.” He wondered why labor didn’t organize to stop low-paying big-box stores in those places instead of waging a battle in the city, including huge anti-Daley spending in the 2007 aldermanic elections.

The tussle over the Pullman store, and Wal-Mart in general, is a labor-management Rorschach test. Substitute “Wal-Mart” for inkblots and responses are quick, visceral and revealing. Some people drive many miles to exploit bargains at the stores; others won’t deign to give the company a dollar because they can’t shake the image of an aggressively anti-union company.

Say “Target” and you think urban, cool and classy. Say “Wal-Mart,” and some will think rural, brutish and downscale. I asked a Teamster lawyer why unions hadn’t fended off Target, which has comparable wage levels, and nonunionized work forces.

“Wal-Mart’s the goliath; they set the standards,” he replied. “Target is tiny by comparison.”

That scale explains why key unionists, including Keith Kelleher of the Service Employees International Union and Jorge Ramirez, president of the Chicago Federation of Labor, found solace in the final Pullman deal — an $8.75 starting hourly rate, with a minimum 40-cent increase after a year.

“It’s something to build on,” said Ron Powell, leader of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents 34,000 Jewel and Dominick’s workers.

Perhaps. Future Wal-Mart inroads could threaten the comfortable middle-class existence of city members of the food workers’ union, who can earn upward of $20 an hour.

And if the city is “understored,” the future is also found in long downbeat Uptown, where a Target store opens July 25 at Broadway and Montrose Avenues, adjacent to an existing Aldi, the German-owned discount grocer.

On Thursday, consumers didn’t mind Aldi’s austerity — the private-label goods in boxes, the paucity of salespeople, the need to bring one’s own bag. It’s all about prices, in many cases much lower than the ones a few blocks away at Jewel.

It’s also what Joseph Schumpeter, the Austrian economist, called the “creative destruction” of capitalism.
575 2010-07-18 “I have to be here,” Jackson said.

So he came, as much for Steinbrenner, who was buried Saturday in a private funeral in Trinity, Fla., as for another friend, Sheppard, who died last Sunday. Clips of Sheppard played while the old-timers took batting practice, eliciting remembrances from those whose names he enunciated with precision.

“No one ever spoke the English word like Bob Sheppard,” said Jerry Coleman, a member of the Yankees’ 1950 title team.

Or ordered a haircut like Steinbrenner. Fresh off an off-season trade with Cleveland, Gamble arrived at the Yankees’ complex in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1976 with a 12-inch Afro and without a uniform in his locker. Aware of Steinbrenner’s ban on long hair, Gamble was hoping to be pardoned until the season started so he could appear in an Afro Sheen commercial. Steinbrenner did not budge. Elston Howard, then a Yankees coach, drove Gamble to a local barbershop. The trim knocked off about 8 inches, Gamble said, and Steinbrenner paid for it.

Gamble said he remained in sporadic contact with Steinbrenner over the years. In January, when he was in Tampa, Fla., for the team’s fantasy camp, Gamble, Mickey Rivers and Blomberg visited him in his office. “I said, ‘Remember when you made me get that haircut,’ ” Gamble said. “He goes, ‘Yeah,’ and I said, ‘Well, look at what you did to it.’ ” Gamble took off his cap to show his bald pate.

Before Brian Doyle’s first game at Yankee Stadium in 1978, the trainer Gene Monahan told him that someone was on the telephone wishing to speak with him. Doyle, then 23, thought it was one of his brothers, Blake or Denny, congratulating him. “All I did was say hello,” Doyle said, “and he goes: ‘Doyle, this is Steinbrenner. I want you to go out there and bust your butt and I mean bust your butt and you better not disappoint me.’ Then he hung up the phone. Welcome to the big leagues.”

Doyle had an unremarkable regular season, but he went on to hit .438 in the World Series while filling in at second base for the injured Willie Randolph. After the Yankees clinched in Los Angeles, Doyle said Steinbrenner hugged him and said, “I knew you could do it, that’s why I got you.”

Steinbrenner was decidedly less happy a month earlier, when the Yankees lost the regular-season finale to Cleveland in the Bronx to force a one-game playoff with the Red Sox the next day at Fenway Park. That night, after the team arrived in Boston, Bucky Dent was riding the hotel elevator when Steinbrenner walked in.

“The doors opened, and he got in the elevator, and I went, ‘Oh boy, this is going to be a cold ride down,’ ” Dent said. “He mumbled something about tomorrow’s going to be your day or something like that.” The next day, Dent beat the Red Sox with a three-run homer.

The Yankees went another 18 years without winning a championship, a tumultuous time of on-field failures (two postseason appearances) and managerial instability. As Ron Guidry recalled, “One day, you leave the park and you say good night to your manager, and the next day, another guy comes in. That happened about 17 times when I was here.”

Steinbrenner made his penultimate managerial change before the 1996 season, hiring Joe Torre. Under Torre’s leadership, the Yankees won the division title and overcame a two-games-to-none deficit to defeat the Atlanta Braves in the World Series.

The Yankees lost in the division series in 1997 but won titles the next three years, and then, of course, No. 27 last season. For Blomberg, the franchise’s success called to mind something Steinbrenner told him during their initial meeting 37 years ago.

“Whatever y’all need, whatever we can do for y’all, whatever we can do for New York, we will bring this team back,” Blomberg said. “It’s going to be a dynasty. That’s what he did. That’s why he was the king.”
576 2010-07-18 The new financial reform will go a long way to limit the vast new risks created by modern finance. The banks, which fought the legislation tooth and nail, are not giving up. They are now working to weaken new international banking rules.

Following the financial meltdown, the Group of 20 big economies asked the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision — made up of regulators from 27 countries, including the United States — to come up with new rules to moderate the banks’ wanton risk-taking and strengthen their balance sheets. The goal is to have a complete package ready for the November G20 summit meeting in Seoul.

The rules will tighten capital requirements for the world’s biggest banks — requiring them to set aside a larger cushion of cash and other easy-to-sell securities — and set stricter limits on banks’ leverage and liquidity.

That means banks will have to raise and hold more rather than invest it in risky and profitable assets. But it will improve banks’ ability to withstand another sudden drop in the value of their loans and investments. And by requiring more capital to cover more risky investments, it will reduce the incentive to take on excessive risk.

Banks claim that a proposal to force them to hold enough liquid assets to cover all their liabilities coming due over one year would be prohibitively expensive. They are objecting to a requirement that they amass a capital buffer when banking regulators deem credit in the economy to be growing too fast. They are resisting calls to limit the ratio of their total assets to total capital, regardless of the risk of their portfolio. This would set a common bar for banks in different countries, which often have different standards for what is a risky asset.

Bankers, of course, are predicting calamity if the rules are tightened “excessively.” The Institute of International Finance, the lobby group for big banks, claims the new rules would trim 3.1 percent off gross domestic product in the United States, Japan and the euro area of Europe by 2015.

Jaime Caruana, the head of the Bank for International Settlements, rejected those warnings in a speech last month. “According to preliminary results, the reforms will not undermine economic growth,” he said, while “the long-term benefits of lowering the probability and cost of financial crises are substantial.”
577 2010-07-18 This is what passes for political discourse in Washington these days. Someone in a position of authority, or at least celebrity, says something modestly interesting and someone on the other side — or sometimes even the same side — blows it up into something resembling a full-fledged contretemps. It’s politics by slip of the tongue.

This at a time when the issues confronting Washington could hardly be more consequential. Yet explaining the new financial regulation bill that passed last week or the new health care program slowly coming into effect is complicated compared to the media catnip of a good partisan spat.

After being asked about his comment at his daily briefing on Monday, on Tuesday and on Wednesday, Mr. Gibbs seemed understandably weary of the topic on Thursday, when reporters brought it up on Air Force One. “Guys, we’ve spent a lot of time on this subject this week,” he said.

But Mr. Gibbs is hardly a naïf when it comes to the Washington way of seizing quotes to bash someone else or make a political point, even at the risk of distorting or overemphasizing what was really meant. After all, he has spent much of the last few weeks repeating a quote from Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, who said the president’s financial regulation plan was like “killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.”

Within hours of the comment becoming public, Mr. Gibbs was telling reporters that Mr. Boehner thought the financial crisis of 2008 was an ant. That was then inserted into a speech by Mr. Obama while Democratic organizations and allies rushed out statements and blog postings and a Web video. Did Mr. Boehner oppose the financial regulation bill? Yes. Does he really think the financial crisis was an ant? Of course not. But he handed his rivals a useful hammer.

Small surprise, then, that Mr. Boehner and his aides were happy to jump on Mr. Gibbs’s quote just as he had jumped on theirs. His office sent out several e-mail messages to reporters about the quote after it generated reports of angry House Democrats, most particularly the speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who was reported to be fuming.

“Boehner on Gibbs-gate,” the Republican office wrote in one e-mail message on Thursday.

“I’m always struck by the fact that there are life-and-death struggles, steel cage fights over things that have absolutely no impact on anyone,” said Chris Lehane, a Democratic political operative for President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. “People fight to the death over millimeters. And people outside D.C. look at them and say, ‘A pox on both your houses.’ ”

Yet as bad as it got during his time here, Mr. Lehane said the gotcha games seem to have reached a whole new level, thanks to the nonstop, Internet-driven, 24/7 news cycle. Small armies of operatives scour public statements, find a quote to exploit and put out an attack, and then when some blog or media outlet picks it up, put out another e-mail message quoting the story quoting the attack.

It’s fashionable to bemoan the process, but that doesn’t stop it from happening.

“The reality is you cannot operate in this environment passively,” said David Axelrod, the president’s senior adviser. “If you do, the coverage and events will be shaped for you. Things that may seem like trivial distinctions can become large problems in terms of communications unless you’re aggressive about engaging. We didn’t create the environment. We didn’t make the rules. But we have to live with it.”

Mr. Axelrod, naturally, maintained that the other side was more at fault, arguing that Mr. Boehner’s “ant” comment was about a substantive issue, while Mr. Gibbs was simply stating the obvious. Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, argued the other way around. “Washington Democrats have to attack on insignificant issues because they can’t defend their record,” he said.

Small quotes become big issues in part because they become proxies for larger tensions or disagreements. When Mr. Gibbs said there was “no doubt” that Republicans could win the House, it exacerbated long-simmering resentment by House Democrats who think the White House is not invested enough in their success.

But there are tradeoffs. Political figures say the potential for any quote to blow up at any time has the pernicious effect of making them more cautious, forever conscious that the next words out of their mouth could become a weapon against them. And so they hold back, afraid of being distorted or misinterpreted. Or don’t, and pay the price.

“Politics in D.C. have become Seinfeldesque,” said Mr. Lehane. “Fights about nothing.”
578 2010-07-18 Serena Williams, who cut her right foot on broken glass at a restaurant, will miss three tournaments in the buildup to the United States Open because of surgery.
579 2010-07-18 WASHINGTON — Newt Gingrich woke up last week with an idea to heal America. This is not a remarkable event; Mr. Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, wakes up with about five new ideas most days, many of which are instantly snuffed out by the cold reason of daylight. In this case, though, he had an intriguing idea for his brethren in the Tea Party movement, which the N.A.A.C.P. had just accused of brooking racism: he suggested that they reach out to local chapters of the civil rights group and propose a series of joint town-hall-style meetings around the country.

Mr. Gingrich’s thinking here is that the two groups could bury their differences by focusing on a common economic agenda to “bring all Americans together.” He could be on to something — if, by “all Americans,” he means predominantly those who are old enough to remember when cigarettes were harmless and Strom Thurmond was a Democrat. The Tea Party and the N.A.A.C.P. represent disproportionately older memberships. And herein lies a problem with so much of our discussion about race and politics in the Obama era: we tend not to recognize the generational divide that underlies it.

The question of racism in the amorphous Tea Party movement is, of course, a serious one, since so much of the Republican Party seems to be in the thrall of its activists. There have been scattered reports around the country of racially charged rhetoric within the movement.

But such incidents — or, maybe more accurately in some cases, an utter indifference toward racial sensitivities —shouldn’t really surprise anyone. That’s not necessarily because a subset of these antigovernment ideologues are racist, per se, but in part because they are just plain old — at least relatively speaking. According to a survey by the Pew Research Center in June, 34 percent of Americans between the ages of 50 and 64 — and 29 percent of voters 65 and older — say they agree with the movement’s philosophy; among Americans 49 and younger, that percentage drops precipitously. A New York Times/CBS News poll in April found that fully three-quarters of self-identified Tea Party advocates were older than 45, and 29 percent were older than 64.

This does not mean that there aren’t hateful 25-year-olds coming to Tea Party rallies and letting fly racial slurs. What it does mean is that a sizable percentage of the Tea Party types were born into a segregated America, many of them in the South or in the new working-class suburbs of the North, and lived through the marches and riots that punctuated the cultural and political upheaval of the 1960s. Their racial attitudes, like their philosophies of governance, reflect their complicated journeys. (This is true for a lot of older, urban Democrats, too, who consider themselves liberal but whose racial commentary causes their grandchildren to recoil.)
580 2010-07-18 Rebeccah stayed in Washington to become an accountant for Deloitte & Touche and pursue a running career.

“I always knew that whatever I was doing, she could easily do,” Rebeccah said. But for eight years, Laurel did not have an equal chance.

In 1998, Laurel, then 23, was in Central Park when she felt three bumps on the left side of her neck. It turned out to be Stage 2 Hodgkin’s disease.

Rebeccah transferred to New York City, found an apartment with Laurel on West 12th Street and continued to work and run hard while her twin faced six months of chemotherapy.

“I tried to be the one who was, ‘O.K., everything’s normal,’ ” Rebeccah said. “ ‘Everything’s going to turn out O.K.’ ”

But it was not normal. In the waiting room at the hospital, Laurel would say: “Everyone here is old. No one here looks like me.”

She tried to maintain her identity as an athlete by running on a treadmill at the gym. It was almost effective.

“People stared at me because I was bald and still running faster than them,” Laurel said, but once, someone sarcastically called her Sinead O’Connor. She did not respond but thought, “I was like, ‘You have no idea.’ ”

On Tuesdays, Laurel’s chemotherapy days, Rebeccah did her hard runs with a women’s team in Central Park. She worked to exhaustion so she could share Laurel’s fatigue.

Three days after Laurel’s final treatment, Rebeccah ran her first marathon, in London, and her twin — pale and skinny, with no eyebrows — wore a baseball cap on the sideline. That date, April 18, 1999, had sustained Laurel through treatment.

“It was my goal,” she said.

Rebeccah placed 36th in less than three hours but preferred a sport that she could do more than once or twice a year. So in 2002, she dusted off her bike and spent weekends riding up Route 9W north of New York City to master cycling.

The pool at Chelsea Piers, the roads of New York and flexible work hours at Amy’s Bread also enabled Rebeccah, at 28, to win the 2003 national amateur triathlon age group championships. She turned professional a year later, and after she finished third at events in New York and in Chicago, USA Triathlon named her the 2004 elite rookie of the year.

But the next year, she was sidelined by a pelvic stress fracture and began to convert Laurel, who had worked in the photo department at Men’s Journal and Fast Company, to triathlon.

“I knew she could beat me in the swim, but she wasn’t 100 percent confident in her health,” Rebeccah said. “She’d complain after running 12 minutes. I’d say if you make it to 20 minutes, you’ll be fine.”

Laurel finally grasped the magnitude of the sport in Lausanne, Switzerland, where she and her younger sister, Sarah, watched Rebeccah place 52nd at the 2006 world championships.

“As soon as I got there, I knew I wanted to be part of it,” Laurel said.

One month later, Laurel said, doctors told her: “You’re done; you’re free. You never have to go back to the hospital.”

She said, “It was a huge weight off my shoulders.”

About a year later, she turned pro.

In one of Laurel’s first pro races, in Philadelphia, she started to beat Rebeccah in the swim, and Rebeccah remembered thinking: “This is actually happening. Everything is coming together.” She added: “It was definitely emotional. Good thing I was underwater.”

Rebeccah won, Laurel was third, and with four other podium finishes that year, Laurel was named the 2008 elite rookie of the year.

Then last year in New York City, Rebeccah won convincingly and Laurel placed sixth.

In May, Rebeccah could not vie for her third consecutive title in the Columbia Triathlon in Maryland because of a torn plantar fascia in her left foot, but Laurel ran to victory.

Laurel not only kept the title in the family, she said: “I was finally able to do something that made everyone happy instead of really sad or stressed out. I had projectile tears at the end of the race. My sisters did, too.”

Then last weekend in Minneapolis, Rebeccah came back from her injury and placed second, finishing with a huge grin.

“I never smile during a race,” she said. “I can’t believe I let my guard down, but I was so happy to be in it.”

Laurel, too, has let down her guard. She only recently began talking openly about her cancer.

The twins, now 34, represent Livestrong and plan to establish a postcollegiate grant for a young person with cancer.

“I always felt I should help someone out,” Laurel said.

At the same time, the Wassners say they look toward qualifying for the 2012 Olympic trials.

Rebeccah placed 10th at the 2008 trials, but Laurel would have what English, their coach, called “the innocence of not knowing” what to expect.

If the United States earns three women’s berths, he said, “It might be tough to topple Sarah Haskins and Laura Bennett, but that third spot is wide open.”

Until then, triathlon fans could get used to seeing double.
581 2010-07-18 On North Street, one of the three main streets, a boutique hotel is among the many establishments that more than doubled their rates during the Open. For seven days, including breakfast, the rate ranged from about $3,750 to $4,500.

For many hotels, the added revenue during the Open makes up for the three weeks before it starts, when the golf courses are closed to the public for maintenance and preparation. During that time, revenue can drop 20 percent to 30 percent, owners say.

Those hoping to find a cheaper option by renting a private apartment rather than a hotel room were out of luck, though.

According to an estimate by Pagan Osborne, the official rental agency to the Open in St. Andrews for 25 years, the average price for a property rented during the week of the Open was about $6,750. The highest price for a one-week rental was roughly $30,000.

“We market the properties at rates we know are in line with market conditions,” said Matthew Gray, the property sales director at Pagan Osborne.

Although the prices remained high by British standards, foreign visitors were buoyed by a weakening British pound.

During last year’s Open in Turnberry, a pound was worth $1.65. This year, it has fallen to about $1.50, a drop of about 10 percent. For a £2,000 accommodation bill, that means an American golf tourist can save about $300 compared with last year.

But after paying for air fare, a car rental and tickets to the event, “What’s a few more dollars for lodging?” said Lex Page, a golf enthusiast from Oregon who attended the last Open at St. Andrews, in 2005.

The demand for accommodation during the Open means that bills often reach four or five figures, although that price does not always mean five-star accommodations. Luxury, comfort and style are not guaranteed, as many of the golf rentals are the same apartments in which students of the University of St. Andrews stay. Houses with dated kitchens and party-stained carpets can still be expensive.

What counts to many tourists is the proximity to the golf courses. One two-bedroom apartment that is a five-minute walk from the courses was rented for about $2,550 for the duration of the Open, much higher than the rate students pay.

“The bargain pricing of the house is due to the fact that for most of the year, it is let out to university students and as a result is not furnished to luxury standards,” said one advertisement for housing on standrewsopen.com.

Some tourists booked accommodation in university residence halls in the town center. At roughly $1,050 for the Open, it is one of the cheapest options, but the ratio of bathrooms to bedrooms in some halls is about one to six.

In a town where the average home price is 8.63 times the average salary and houses sell on average for about $660,000 — nearly triple the national average of about $226,000 — many homeowners are happy to rent their property for one week during the Open. One local resident said she would be able to rent her home, take a vacation during the week and come back having made a profit.
582 2010-07-18 Emily Ann Lucas, a daughter of Virginia L. Lucas and Jerome D. Lucas of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Joseph Duilio Turilli, a son of Carol Ann Turilli and Dr. Nicholas J. Turilli of North Kingstown, R.I. The Rev. Marcel L. Taillon, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony, with the assistance of the Rev. Joseph G. Fonti at St. Dominic’s Chapel in Oyster Bay, N.Y.

In September, Mrs. Turilli, 25, is to begin teaching fourth grade at the Brearley School, the private girls school in New York. She graduated from Harvard and is pursuing a master’s degree in childhood education at Fordham.

Her father is a managing director in private wealth management at Barclays, the British bank. He works in New York.

Mr. Turilli, 27, is an associate at Brigade Capital Management, a money management firm in New York. His responsibilities include maintaining relationships with investors and attracting new clients to raise capital for the firm. He also graduated from Harvard.

His father is an internist in private practice in Warwick, R.I. The bridegroom’s mother manages the practice.

The couple met in New York late in 2007, and found that they had crossed paths at Harvard but did not actually meet there. “We took a few of the same classes. We were at a bunch of the same parties. We had the same big group of friends,” Ms. Lucas said.
583 2010-07-18 IT took Tim Ward and Ruth Turoff more than two years to find a house that they could afford in Hastings-on-Hudson, a community with spectacular views across the river to the Palisades in Rockland County. Mr. Ward, a mixed-media painter who exhibits in Manhattan and Philadelphia, was drawn to the village by its connection with painters like Jasper Francis Cropsey, a member of the Hudson River School of artists in the second half of the 19th century.

Mr. Ward and Ms. Turoff, who works for a nonprofit literacy group in Manhattan, also wanted their daughter, Bluebell, 6, to be in the well-regarded Hastings School District.

After renting in the village for six years, Mr. Ward and Ms. Turoff are poised to move into a three-bedroom one-bath colonial on a tiny lot. It will cost them $540,000, and is not as large as they had hoped for, said Mr. Ward, who requires studio space in his home. “But I’m from Yorkshire in England, and we’re used to small houses, so we’ll make do.”

With Westchester practically synonymous with pricey real estate, those on a limited budget have tended to gravitate to less affluent areas like Yonkers, Mount Vernon, New Rochelle and Peekskill. But that may be changing.

The overall drop in the price of real estate has opened up opportunities in parts of the county often seen as out of reach, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, the chief executive of the Westchester County Board of Realtors.

In the current market, Mr. Mercurio said, about 20 percent of the single-family homes for sale are listed at or above $1 million. About 45 percent cost $500,000 to $1 million, and the remainder sell for less than $500,000. As the median price of a house has fallen in the past two years, the percentage in the lower range has increased. In 2007, the median sales price of a house was $700,000; it fell to $532,000 in the first quarter of 2009, and had rebounded to $599,500 at the end of March.
584 2010-07-18 Q What is the debt level?

A Typically under 50 percent loan to value. In real estate you have to know two things: keep debt down so that when the cycle changes you still own the building, and you have to live long enough.

Q Is there much improvement on the lending side?

A Much better from the financing side. But there’s a trillion dollars of commercial loans coming due over the next couple of years. How that plays out is going to be interesting. Most people have been focused on the residential crisis, but the commercial crisis will be real, too.

Q What are you working on now?

A We’re focused on 515 Madison and 40 Worth, and investing in both of those buildings, probably, on a cash basis, $50 million.

We acquired the fee — the land — at 515 Madison. We had a long leasehold. Now we own the building in partnership with the Hemmerdinger family. It has a new lobby. And as we speak, it’s about 98 percent rented, but we have two tenants moving out, so we’re getting two full floors back that we will divide up into prebuilts.

The biggest challenge is 40 Worth, which was occupied by the city. They moved out in June 2009. Fortunately we were able to make a deal to relocate the Gap down to the building. We’re in the process of putting in all new systems — elevators, cooling towers and windows. And we’re signing other leases.

Q What is your occupancy level portfoliowide?

A We’ve got to be 97 percent for most of our buildings.

A It ranges from the lower $20s to the mid- to upper $50s. We still rent to manufacturers in the garment center as well; those deals are made in the mid-teens.

Q Do you have a vision for the nearby Times Square pedestrian walkway?

A Obviously not painted asphalt, or whatever that is. I think you need a different surface and better furniture, maybe more landscaping. I think it could be nice.

Q What’s your current stake in the Flatiron Building?

A Our group originally owned 71 percent, and now we own about 20 percent. My family owns most of that 20 percent.

That’s my favorite building. I was once driving from Columbus, Ohio, to Lexington, Ky., and I went into one of these chain restaurants, which is called New York, New York. It’s a New York theme and they had a picture of the Empire State Building, the Chrysler Building and the Flatiron Building. My friend says to the waitress, “You see this guy, he owns that building!”

Q You also own racetracks in Tioga and Oneida Counties. Why the interest in horses?

A I grew up near Roosevelt Raceway back in the ’60s, when horse racing was a big sport.

I have a horse farm in Dutchess County — it’s a breeding farm for trotters.

Q What was your family’s connection with Bernard L. Madoff?

A My father’s best friend was Norman Levy, and Norman was very close with Bernie Madoff. My father offered to invest, like, $1 million, and Bernie Madoff said no. He was insulted. He said if you’re not interested in investing $20 million don’t bother. My father grew up in the Depression and there was no way he would have given anybody $20 million.
585 2010-07-18 Nine artistically inclined 20-somethings share an old mansion they call Cedar House in Bushwick, Brooklyn....
586 2010-07-18 Sports writers talk about consistency as a measure of greatness. And as obnoxious as routine winning can be to fans of the underdog — ask anyone who despises the Yankees — BMW can claim a similarly consistent lineup and lineage. In the true test of a big-leaguer, every model feels at home on the racetrack, from the scrappy 1 Series coupe to a comically beefy slugger like the X6 crossover. And every BMW model has a consistent feel and aura of command.

The new 5 displays all those champion’s tendencies, along with some weaknesses: a sense of aloofness in some situations (aggravated by its new electric power steering) and an inclination to show off its technical prowess.

The 5 Series’ perennial task is to bridge the gap — in size, price, sportiness and luxury — between the sprightly 3 Series and the big-and-rich 7 Series. Sharing a stellar chassis with the latest 7 Series, the new 5 leans in that luxurious direction, literally: the mildly stretched 5 Series is just 6.9 inches shorter than the 750i but 14 inches longer than the 3 sedan. Not surprisingly, the 5 drives more like a scaled-down 7 than a scaled-up 3.

Traditionalists can certainly cheer the redrawn styling, with its combed-back cabin and 3.2-inch-longer wheelbase. Though it’s not entirely accurate to argue, as many auto writers have, that the 5 simply attended BMW’s re-education camp, at which inmates are forced to renounce all memory of Chris Bangle, the wave-making chief designer who left the company in 2009.

Adrian van Hooydonk, the Bangle disciple who directed the 5’s styling, certainly hasn’t disavowed his master. From any angle, the new 5 displays the “flame surfacing” — a tense battle between concave and convex shapes, influenced by the architect Frank Gehry — that made Mr. Bangle the world’s most influential and controversial car designer. Metallic waves lap and crest along the complex hood, floating a surfboard-shaped center section fronted by the BMW logo. A rising character line carves a pronounced ledge along the body sides, and at the rear the decklid rises to form a graceful pseudo-spoiler.

The result is a muscular Teutonic coach that reconciles Bangle’s bold modernism with BMW’s still-appealing conservatism: the 5 is the bartender at the private club who knows exactly what you’re having, and it’s not pink and fizzy.

The familiarity extends into the lovely cabin, which evokes both luxury and pure functionality without seeming to lift a pinkie to exert itself. Highlights include a no-nonsense black-panel instrument display; a knockout 10.2-inch, high-resolution screen for the optional navigation system; and an especially comfortable back seat, with a touch more knee room than before. Starting at $50,475, the popular 535i model gets the company’s new 3-liter single-turbo in-line 6, with 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of torque. That 535i is good for a factory-estimated scoot from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 5.7 seconds.

For $60,575, the 550i cuts that time to 5 seconds flat by calling on the 7 Series’ 400-horse twin-turbocharged 4.4-liter V-8. Strivers can also have a 528i for $45,425, as long as your motive standards are met by a 240-horsepower in-line 6.

Those engines are bolted to the 7 Series’ 8-speed automatic transmission that keeps the engines in their sweet spot so unobtrusively some enthusiasts may pine for more noise or drama. As for any suggestions that the BMW has sold its sporty soul, recall that the 5 Series is the only car in its class to offer a manual transmission.

The automatic transmission’s downside is the wand-shaped console lever that can leave a driver red-faced with its tendency to ignore commands to engage drive or reverse from a stop. More than once, I found myself racing the engine in neutral, feeling like a jerk, while a patronizing dashboard message reminded me to “Press unlock button to select gear.”

The BMW’s technical portfolio does celebrate the Rise of the Machines, mostly for good but also for ill. The gadgets, virtually all of them optional and expensive, include Driving Dynamics Control from the 7 Series: its settings, from Comfort to the sharp-edged Sport Plus, adjust the active suspension, transmission, throttle and stability-control programs to the driver’s whims. Active Roll Stabilization keeps the BMW flatter than a Marine’s buzz cut through the corners.

The Top View system’s onboard cameras create a virtual 360-degree view around the car, with more candid cameras in the front bumper to peer around sharp corners. The adaptive cruise control now works even in stop-and-go traffic. Buyers can have lane departure and blind spot warnings, and a sort of digital valet that tells you whether a parking spot is big enough for the car. But the Night Vision system with pedestrian detection is the acme of superfluous options.

More reliably, active four-wheel-steering improves high-speed composure while trimming 19 inches from the car’s turning circle. The system tweaks the steering ratio for easier parking and improved maneuverability.

And that, believe me, is the Cliffs Notes version of a car whose technical intricacies could make Stephen Hawking break out in a sweat.

Between the discreet transmission and the somewhat icy steering, the 5 Series does reveal a bit of the synthetic, autopilot tendency that I dislike in the 6 Series coupe and convertible.

For those truly determined to shred the BMW’s civilized veneer and find the hooligan underneath, a new M5 arrives next year. That high-performance version is said to develop more than 550 horsepower — up from 500 of the current V-10 model — with a twin-turbo V-8.

Even the mildly uncommunicative helm didn’t prevent the 5 from turning impressive racetrack laps or from gulping huge helpings of twisting curves on public roads. Crank the BMW to its Sport Plus chassis setting, and it’s hard to imagine anything in this class outrunning a 550i with a manual transmission. Facing a 1,000-mile journey and given a choice of any car in this fiercely competitive segment — Jaguar XF, Mercedes E-Class, Infiniti M, Audi A6 — I’d grab the BMW’s chunky key fob and never let go.

Yes, some people buy a BMW for the badge. But the real prestige of the 5 Series, and its continuing superiority, has nothing to do with the badge, and everything to do with what’s inside.

INSIDE TRACK: Still the Fab Five.
587 2010-07-18 Watching the sulfur workers toil on Mount Ijen is one way for visitors to experience the role Java’s volcanic landscape plays in the modern day-to-day lives of locals. Across Java, there are opportunities to appreciate the sheer physical beauty of the volcanoes: spectacular vantage points from which to watch the sun rise above the lava-spewing peaks, and trails where hardy travelers can lace up their hiking boots and trek across the lunar-like terrain or right up to the maw of some of the most active cones.

To properly explore the volcanic landscape, a west-to-east traverse of the island made sense to us, starting at the ancient temple of Borobudur, which lies in the shadow of two volcanoes, and ending on the far side of Java in the crater of Mount Ijen.

Borobudur, the sprawling stone monument that was completed by Mahayana Buddhists in the ninth century, is ringed by rice fields where people farm as they did centuries ago. The monument, said to have been built from two million stones, is a mandala made to reflect the order of the cosmos.

The nearby volcanoes have shown little mercy to Borobudur. After nearby Mount Merapi erupted centuries ago, the temple lay beneath ash until it was cleared in 1815, when Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles governed Java for the British Empire.

At dawn, we walked from our simple guesthouse in the rice fields to the base of Borobudur. The monument has five square platforms topped by three circular ones, each adorned with bas-reliefs depicting religious episodes and scenes from the Buddha’s life. The statues of Buddha at the top gaze out serenely at the perfect cones of the two nearby volcanoes, Merapi and Mount Merbabu.

Smoke trailed from the cone of Merapi, signaling that it was still active. Among the Javanese, it is widely feared — having erupted dozens of times in the last century — and guidebooks advise travelers to check with local authorities before trying to climb to its 9,550-foot summit. Early the next morning, Golan, a worker at our guesthouse, took us to a point atop a hill where we could see the sun rise over Mount Merapi. The jungle lay before us, the mandala of Borobudur in the center. A thick mist rose skyward from the trees, the moisture of night burning off. We had considered hiking up Merapi overnight, but were warned that the trail could be treacherous in the rainy season.

The drive to Mount Bromo, the most-visited volcano on Java, took a full day. Our driver took us along the west slope of Mount Lawu, an inactive volcano, and we stopped at Candi Sukuh, a temple that seemed to have been the house of worship for a fertility cult — stone statues with gargantuan genitalia stood on the grounds. In the afternoon it stormed, and rain was still falling by the time we arrived at Cemoro Lawang, the gateway village to Mount Bromo.

The village stands on the edge of a vast caldera, the cradle of two other volcanic peaks that rise from an otherworldly sand sea at the floor of the caldera. Gazing across the landscape is like staring out at the surface of the moon. Smoke still curled up from the crater of Bromo, at 7,848 feet. I could see how this stark environment would inspire worship from the Tenggerese, the highland locals. Those who lived in Cemoro Lawang are Hindus, a minority in Muslim-dominated Java. They had even built a Hindu temple in the sand sea, at the foot of Bromo.

At the ranger station in Cemoro Lawang, I met Retno Suratri, a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Indonesia who was studying the Tenggerese. “They have so many rituals related to Mount Bromo,” she said. “They believe their ancestors came from there. They’re willing to spend lots of money on their rituals, even more so than other people in Indonesia.”

That seemed to be a properly respectful attitude for people who live with the daily possibility of wholesale destruction. Every year, the Tenggerese appease the spirits of the volcano by tossing vegetables, chicken and money into the maw during the Kasada festival, according to one guidebook. A trail leads across the sand to the Hindu temple, and then up steps to the lip of Bromo. It is an hour’s walk, mostly across soft earth. The end brings you face to face with the abyss: a drop straight down into a white, sulfuric haze.

We spent six hours hiking that day. The parts of the caldera floor beyond the sand sea were carpeted with grass and swaying reeds, like an African savannah. Locals rode their motorbikes on the dirt paths as they shuttled between Cemoro Lawang and towns on the far side of the caldera.

At 3:30 the next morning we left our hotel. The plan was to hike three hours to the highest point on the caldera rim to watch the sunrise. But as we started off with Tris, our Tenggerese guide, we felt drops of rain. Tini said it was a bad idea to press ahead. Tris agreed. The downpour began when we got back into bed. It was just another rainstorm, but it seemed to underscore the unpredictable nature of exploring these volcanoes. Our hikes were not tough, but there were risks. While we were in Indonesia, a Swedish hiker died during a fall on Mount Batur, a well-touristed volcano in Bali. Tris said it best: “You have to respect the environment and keep both eyes open.”

I took a tumble myself, hiking up from the turquoise crater lake of Mount Ijen, as the sulfur clouds were starting to thicken in mid-morning. It was the last stop for us in Java. We had spent an hour inside the crater watching miners with goggles and gas masks hack out sulfur with pickaxes as fumes belched from the yellow rocks.

We had only bandannas to cover our mouths. When the wind blew the sulfur clouds in our direction, some travelers began coughing. We started up. A few minutes along, I stepped on a loose rock and tumbled down the steep crater.

I landed on a slope, my jaw slamming into a rock and blood spraying from my mouth. My arms and legs were covered in cuts. Worst of all, my right ankle was badly sprained. A miner helped me up. I managed to limp up to the crater lip, passing a worker who was coughing wildly, then hobbled two miles to the trailhead.

My jaw was still bleeding when we drove away. My ankle throbbed. Behind us, hunched miners stepped off the trail and dropped their baskets of sulfur in the clearing, then turned to head back up the volcano.

IF YOU GO

From Jakarta, it is an easy eight-hour express train ride to Yogyakarta, the island’s cultural center. A ticket for the Argo express between the two cities costs 220,000 Indonesian rupiah, or $25 at 9,050 rupiah to the dollar. Cars with drivers can be hired for about 500,000 rupiah a day, although long-distance hauls will cost more.

In eastern Java, Mount Ijen is difficult to get to with public transportation. Hire a car or join a group tour through a hotel in Cemoro Lawang, the village at Bromo-Tengger-Semeru National Park.

The Phoenix Hotel (Jl Jenderal Sudirman 9-11; 62-274-566-617) is the most atmospheric place to stay in Yogyakarta. It has colonial charm that dates back to 1918. The outdoor pool provides relief from the heat of the dusty plains. Rates start at 545,000 rupiah.

Lotus 2 (Jl Balaputradewa 54; 62-293-788-845; jackpriyana@yahoo.com.sg) in Borobudur puts you right at the edge of the rice fields. The temple of Borobudur is a 10-minute walk, and workers at this guesthouse run tours to off-the-beaten-path sites in the area. Ask them to take you to the rice terraces at Selogriyo. Rates from 150,000 rupiah with breakfast.

Roemahkoe (Jl Dr. Rajiman 501; 62-271-714-024) is a beautifully renovated Art Deco home in Solo that was once owned by a local batik merchant, and is possibly one of the most atmospheric hotels on Java. Rates start at 430,000 rupiah with breakfast.

Lava View Lodge (62-335-541-009) is the nicest hotel on the edge of the Mount Bromo caldera in the village of Cemoro Lawang. Rooms are mediocre for the price, but you can see the three volcanoes of the caldera as soon as you step out of your room. Rates start at 420,000 rupiah with breakfast.

Catimor Homestay (62-813-3619-9110) has basic rooms on the Kebun Balawan coffee plantation a few miles from the village of Sempol, en route to Mount Ijen. It is the most convenient lodging for an early morning trip to the Ijen crater. You can walk around the plantation and meet workers there. Rates start at 175,000 rupiah.
588 2010-07-18 The sound is unlike any other: a dry, scraping noise made by a skateboard's wheels as they roll across a concrete surface - part of the city's summer cacophony. I heard it just the other day, coming up fast behind me as I waited for the light to c...
589 2010-07-18 Dr. Robert Galambos, a neuroscientist whose work included helping to prove how bats navigate in total darkness and deciphering the codes by which nerves transmit sounds to the brain, died  June 18 at his home in the La Jolla section of San Diego. ...
590 2010-07-19 Credit: Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times
591 2010-07-19 Tim McCarver backtracked Monday from the comparison he made Saturday between the Yankees' treatment of Joe Torre's legacy as manager to the way World War II despots, "primarily in Russia and Germany," airbrushed former generals out of photographs ...
592 2010-07-19 Baseball will not discipline the umpire Phil Cuzzi, who missed a call at home plate and angered players on both teams Sunday in the Mets-Giants game....
593 2010-07-19 If Congress's financial-sector overhaul succeeds in taming Wall Street a bit, the reduced volatility could help the city chart its own fiscal future, or at least those parts of it that depend on tax revenue from Wall Street jobs, a report says....
594 2010-07-19 Some foods labeled sugar free may still raise blood sugar, explains Anahad O'Connor in the latest "Really?" column....
595 2010-07-19 A healthy budget legacy? Really?...
596 2010-07-19 Roman Polanski made public appearances over the weekend after Swiss authorities said they would not extradite him to the United States....
597 2010-07-19 While waiting for a train, use your brain, use your mind / On the platform, stay behind the yellow line. And more transit safety advice from lab-coated king of public-service-announcement rap....
598 2010-07-19 Steve Jobs was critical of the media for exaggerating iPhone 4's problem, but he couldn't criticize Consumer Reports....
599 2010-07-19 The mystery trader who bought 241,000 tons of cocoa beans Friday, sparking rumors in London's City and driving prices of the commodity to their highest level since 1977, is Anthony Ward, co-founder of British hedge fund Armajaro Holdings, accordin...
600 2010-07-19 Military expenditures on the ground and at sea subsidize carbon dioxide emissions, a new study suggests, and should be factored into comparisons of gasoline and ethanol as emissions sources....
601 2010-07-19 Hedge funds and other large speculators raised bets that oil would gain by the most in more than three years just as it began to slide, the second straight week money managers lined up on the wrong side of the market, Bloomberg News reported....
602 2010-07-19 This poisonous dynamic between Washington and business must be fixed -- and while both sides should make adjustments, the business community especially needs to make efforts to mend this relationship, Roger C. Altman writes in The New York Times's...
603 2010-07-19 Boeing obtained an order for up to 30 of its wide-body 777 jets from Emirates Airline of Dubai in a deal that would be worth nearly $7 billion at list prices, industry officials said Sunday.

The deal, to be announced on Monday at the Farnborough Air Show in Britain, is a sign that commercial aviation, and Boeing’s fortunes, are starting to recover from the global recession. The industry officials asked for anonymity because the deal was not yet public. Emirates could not be immediately reached for comment.

The order could be one of the largest at the show. Farnborough, outside London, alternates with Paris each year as the site of the industry’s most prominent event, and executives are looking for further signs of an upswing there.

Airbus, Boeing’s European rival, has sold 131 commercial planes this year. Its chief operating officer, John Leahy, told reporters on Saturday that Airbus could double that number through orders at the show.

Boeing has said it received orders for 177 planes this year. It also flew its new midsize 787 Dreamliner jet, which is undergoing testing, to the show.
604 2010-07-19 Essentially, that means doing well by doing good.

In the case of SnagFilms, the public service element has to do with finding viewers and revenue for at least some of the thousands of documentaries that are produced annually by professional as well as amateur filmmakers, few of whom will ever see their pictures play in theaters or on television networks.

“The costs of making a documentary in some respects have disappeared,” said Michael Lumpkin, who is the executive director of the International Documentary Association.

Mr. Lumpkin’s organization has helped deal with the resulting surplus by putting a handful of films onto the awards circuit through its annual DocuWeeks program. That puts nonfiction films into theaters in New York and Los Angeles, this year from July 30 to Aug. 19, to qualify them for prize consideration.

On a much grander scale, Mr. Leonsis and his colleagues envision eventually distributing as many as 100,000 films through channels as varied as their own imaginations can devise.

To date, SnagFilms has a library of about 1,500, according to its chief executive, Rick Allen.

Mr. Allen said SnagFilms in its first phase had relied on an open-ended distribution formula under which films, with periodic 15-second ads embedded, were made available to viewers, including nonprofit and issues-oriented groups. The groups were then invited to show the films free via their own Web sites.

About 90,000 Web sites and pages have streamed the films, Mr. Allen said. The resulting ad revenue is split evenly with a film’s owners. A SnagFilms blockbuster like “Super Size Me” might reach a million viewers through the system, with total revenue in what Mr. Allen calls “the very low six figures,” though most films yield far less.

With the deals to be announced on Monday, Mr. Leonsis said he expected SnagFilms to reach profitability by the first or second quarter of next year.

At the same time, Mr. Allen said he expected to begin offering filmmakers more options. “It will be highly individualistic,” said Mr. Allen, whose own passion for documentaries grew during an executive career at Discovery Communications and National Geographic.

IndieWIRE also has a small army of associated freelance writers, and a growing roster of prominent bloggers that now includes Mr. Bogdanovich, Anne Thompson, Leonard Maltin and the former Variety critic Todd McCarthy. The bloggers, said Mr. Allen, receive a share of advertising revenue, while SnagFilms gives them technical, sales, administrative and legal support.

Over all, IndieWIRE is known for its dedicated pursuit of news in a film world where a wide array of online competitors and established trade publications like Variety and The Hollywood Reporter compete on the same turf.

Eugene Hernandez, the editor of IndieWIRE, said he, Mr. Leonsis and Mr. Allen had agreed from the outset that the service should have editorial independence, despite its interest in many of the SnagFilms projects.

“If it were to be damaged, then it would damage our viability as a company,” Mr. Hernandez wrote via e-mail, referring to credibility it gained in the 12 years before SnagFilms acquired the service.

Still, IndieWIRE’s reporters and editors, who burrow deeply into major film festivals like Sundance and South By Southwest, are not shy about sharing a thought on the distribution front.

“They send us e-mails all the time,” Mr. Allen said. “They’ll spot something, and say keep your eye on this for acquisitions.”
605 2010-07-19 In a world in which anything, it seems, can be turned into a risky investment instrument, consider the “forever” stamp. Did you think it was just a device for the post office to guarantee that a first-class stamp would always be postage enough for a first-class letter? Imagine if the stamps caught the eye of some Wall Street whiz. Like tulips and mortgages, the little sticker with the Liberty Bell has the makings of a nice financial crisis.

The Postal Service is just awaiting the O.K. from the Postal Regulatory Commission to increase the price of first-class postage by 2 cents, to 46 cents, next Jan. 2. But the service plans to keep selling the forever stamps at the old rate right up to the day it raises the price. That is as close as one gets to a free lunch.

Buying the stamps at the old price and selling at the new one would bring a 4.5 percent return at a stroke. Not bad when a one-year Treasury bill yields 0.31 percent. And if a $4,500 gain on a $100,000 investment doesn’t seem life-changing, think of the rewards to a bank with a billion to invest. Many would unleash economic Armageddon for less.

Which brings us to the nub of the problem: Should we allow the Goldman Sachses and JPMorgans of this world, its HSBCs and UBSs, to play in this new market? Think of their temptation to lever up — to borrow a billion or two in the interbank market, at about 1.13 percent a year, and plow it into this unique philatelic opportunity.

Forever stamp sales, which reached about $3.5 billion last year, would mushroom. A.I.G. could offer insurance. After all, the bet would be as safe as houses.

Until the safe bet turned sour. Jan. 2 would come around and stamp-stuffed banks would find there weren’t enough letter writers left in the country to buy their hoard. Many would try to sell them at 45 cents. Meanwhile, their loans would come due.
606 2010-07-19 G.M. and Chrysler, which went through separate six-week stays in bankruptcy protection last year, received a total of $62 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. G.M. repaid $6.7 billion in April, but the remainder of its government debt was converted into a 61 percent equity stake. The Treasury owns 8 percent of Chrysler.

Treasury officials, in a letter of response, said they “strongly disagree” with the report’s conclusions, arguing that the administration’s actions toward G.M. and Chrysler “not only avoided a potentially catastrophic collapse” but also “saved hundreds of thousands of American jobs.”

About a year ago, G.M. informed more than 2,000 dealers that some or all of their franchise agreements would not be renewed in October 2010. Chrysler eliminated 789 dealers, or about a quarter of its network, with less than a month’s notice.

Both carmakers voluntarily rescinded some terminations — 666 at G.M. and 50 at Chrysler — which, the report said, “suggests, at the very least, that the number and speed of the terminations was not necessarily critical to the manufacturers’ viability.”

In addition, a small number of dealerships won the opportunity to be reinstated through an arbitration process created by Congress; that process has only a handful of cases left to consider and is scheduled to be completed by the end of this month.

According to the report, Chrysler estimated it would save $45,500 for every dealership it closed, while G.M. projected a savings of $1.1 million a dealership, largely a result of reduced incentive payments. “The difference in these estimates alone casts doubt on their credibility,” the report said.

Though Chrysler has been criticized by dealers for being more subjective about which dealerships to close, the report concluded that Chrysler was consistent in its decisions, whereas G.M. was not.

G.M., the report said, used more objective guidelines, but its closings appeared more random. For instance, G.M. retained 1,426 dealerships that might have qualified for termination while terminating 41 dealerships “that did not meet any of the objective criteria,” the report said.

The report also criticized the Treasury Department for failing to monitor the process.

Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, said in a statement: “This sobering report should serve as a wake-up call as to the implications of politically orchestrated bailouts and how putting decisions about private enterprise in the hands of political appointees and bureaucrats can lead to costly and unintended consequences.”

Although the role that the dealership closings played is debatable, both G.M. and Chrysler have greatly improved their finances in the last year. G.M. expects to report a full-year profit, and Chrysler has projected that it will break even or earn a modest operating profit for 2010.

“The right-sizing of Chrysler’s dealer network contributes to more profitable, better performing dealers and better customer service,” Chrysler said.

G.M., in a statement, said it had a “stronger dealership network” since emerging from bankruptcy.
607 2010-07-19 Second, at that same time, the credit markets were in tatters and simply not functioning. The administration submitted the biggest banks to confidence-building stress tests. It skillfully invested in financial institutions, kept the mortgage markets afloat and undertook other creative initiatives to solidify the financial industry. These have worked more quickly and more successfully than anyone predicted. The system is healthy again.

All this has led directly to a turnaround in corporate profits, share prices and liquidity. Profits have increased 41 percent since President Obama was elected. And the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen 28 percent over the same period. These are strong results.

Third, the president made the courageous decision to put General Motors and Chrysler through bankruptcy. As a result, both survived and, today, G.M. in particular is coming back fast — along with its hundreds of suppliers. Moreover, taxpayers are likely to recover the full value of their investment in the company.

Fourth, Mr. Obama has made big progress toward restoring America’s standing around the world. Two years ago, it stood at a historically low point, and multinationals were encountering resistance in penetrating foreign markets. The president’s reframing of our global priorities and values has returned the United States to pre-eminence — and is starting to ease our way to opening new markets abroad.

A top issue for these business groups, and properly so, is education policy. That’s because a better educated work force is a more productive one. So far, this administration has an unorthodox and outstanding record on education, a notable illustration of this is its Race to the Top initiative, which rewards the most reform-minded states with hundreds of millions of dollars worth of federal grants. Perhaps leading businesses could work with the White House to match these awards at least in part.

Yes, business sees both the health reform and financial reform legislation as establishing burdensome regulatory structures. It is right in this regard. But financial reform was mandatory. And while some on Wall Street naturally don’t like it, most in our community view it as relatively harmless.

What adjustments should President Obama make to repair ties with business? For starters, no important member of his administration has ever met a major payroll. Such an absence of business experience in a presidential administration is unique in recent decades and carries negative connotations; certainly, no other comparable interest group is so unrepresented. This could be remedied by recruiting a senior industry figure for one of the four or five key economic policy positions.

Beyond that, there is skepticism over the president’s commitment to reducing the huge and dangerous budget deficits which America now faces. A strong step toward deficit reduction next year — like undertaking the difficult task of trying to fix Social Security — would earn deeper credibility with business and with all Americans.

Another problem is that the administration’s rhetoric — which too often employs inflammatory words like “reckless” — has the effect of tarring all of business with the same brush. The White House might better distinguish between Wall Street, Big Oil and health insurers, which have all incurred public wrath, and the majority of businesses, which haven’t.

The tension between President Obama and the business community is hurting both sides and may hamper economic recovery. Closing that divide requires the business community to mute its criticism, and the administration to make personnel and policy adjustments. Neither should be hard.
608 2010-07-19 Mr. Amiri has said that he was kidnapped by the Central Intelligence Agency and Saudi agents while on a pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia in June 2009, then tortured by C.I.A. agents to reveal secrets about Iran’s nuclear program, although he insists he knew nothing about the program.

His account of what happened to him differs markedly from the United States version.

American intelligence officers, most of whom would speak only on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the case, have described Mr. Amiri as a long-term informant. They said he provided details about how Malek Ashtar University in Tehran, where he worked, had become the covert headquarters for the organization responsible for designing nuclear weapons and warheads that could fit atop an Iranian missile.

They also said that while still in Iran, he was one source for a much disputed National Intelligence Estimate on Iran’s suspected weapons program, which was published in 2007.

In the televised interview, Mr. Amiri said that after several weeks of lie detector tests and interviews with psychologists, his American captors accepted that he had no important information to give them and that they had made a mistake in abducting him.

“After that, they thought there might be some hope that I would cooperate with them in the media,” Mr. Amiri said, adding that at that point he was moved from military custody into more comfortable residential surroundings.

He said he lied in an effort to convince his captors that he intended to remain in the United States. “It was a six-month process during which I behaved in a way which made them think that I had long-term plans to stay in the United States,” he said.

During that time, Mr. Amiri said, the United States arranged for him to attend a university in Virginia and supplied him with a driver’s license and Social Security number, although, he said, he had not requested either document.

In June, Iran state television broadcast a poor-quality video message from a man claiming to be Mr. Amiri, describing the kidnapping and saying that Iranian agents had found a way to contact him during his captivity. Citing “national security” concerns, he did not disclose details of how this had occurred.

In the interview broadcast Saturday, Mr. Amiri said, “In reality, our country’s intelligence services were able to contact me and they provided me with the necessary facilities to make my first film.”

He added that after further contact with Iranian agents, he was able to hold a brief video conversation with his wife, which gave him “complete confidence” in the Iranian authorities and the well-being of his family.

At the end of Saturday’s hourlong interview, Mr. Amiri asked to offer his final words to prospective viewers, quoting Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of Iran’s Islamic Revolution in 1979, who once called the United States an “empty drum.”

“Before all this happened, I did not understand exactly what that meant,” Mr. Amiri said, “but I now know that the intelligence war is a battle of minds, not a battle of technology and facilities in which the U.S. intelligence services are far more powerful.”
609 2010-07-19 It must be even easier to laugh it off now that Oosthuizen has won a major championship after missing the cut in all three of his previous British Opens.

Meanwhile, Westwood continues to build on his reputation as golf’s latest near-miss man. It is, at this stage, quite an edifice. Westwood, a barrel-chested Englishman, has finished in the top five in major championships on seven occasions and has finished either second or in a tie for third in four of the last five majors.

He led by two shots late in the final round at last year’s British Open at Turnberry before faltering and finishing — crestfallen — behind the champion, Stewart Cink, and the runner-up, Tom Watson. This year, Westwood led going into the final round at the Masters before being outplayed by Phil Mickelson and finishing second.

“I’ve lost count,” he said Sunday of his chances in majors. “But you know, what else can you do other than getting in contention and playing well?”

This time, he was never truly in the hunt for the trophy, in part because he missed many makeable putts by small margins.

“I wouldn’t put it purely down to putting because putting, everybody thinks when the wind blows it affects the long game the most, but it doesn’t,” Westwood said. “It tends to affect the putting most. So it’s difficult to remain in any kind of rhythm because the putter is getting blown all over the place and the ball gets hit by the wind. I’m not reading too much into the putting this week. It’s very difficult, and you’re putting from a long way most of the time.”

Westwood and his playing partner, Alejandro Cañizares, were just two groups in front of the leaders Sunday, but Westwood started the day eight shots off Oosthuizen’s lead and was only able to close the gap to seven when Oosthuizen bogeyed the 17th hole.

“Whether I won the tournament today was in the hands of other people,” Westwood said. “Louis has obviously played great and thoroughly deserves to win, so there’s not even any real disappointment. If you get close and you lose, then there’s disappointment.”

It has to be disappointing to carry the weight of being the best player in recent years not to win a major. “Law of averages says the door is going to open one day,” Westwood said after the Masters this year.

But there are plenty for whom the door never opened. The most prominent recent example is Colin Montgomerie, who dominated European golf in the 1990s. Montgomerie finished second or in a tie for second in a major five times. But at age 47, his chances have become increasingly remote, and he finished tied for 68th here after being obliged to go through qualifying.

Meanwhile, players of his generation who never came close to his level of consistent achievement, like Todd Hamilton of the United States and Paul Lawrie of Scotland, are British Open champions and have exemptions until age 60.

The good thing for Westwood at this stage of the summer is that there is another major championship coming up quickly: the P.G.A. Championship next month at Whistling Straits in Kohler, Wis. Westwood, despite his injury, intends to keep playing and said he did not think the inflammation in his leg held him back at St. Andrews.

“I don’t know if it’s around the corner,” Westwood said of that elusive major title. “But hopefully it’s about three weeks away. But I don’t know, you know. Like I said, I can’t do much more than I’m already doing. I’m trying to improve all the time, and I’m sticking myself in contention.”

Then there is Oosthuizen, who has put himself in contention just once and now has the claret jug.
610 2010-07-19 “I don’t see how it can fail to have an impact,” said James F. Blair, a board member of the authority who represents riders of the Metro-North Railroad. “People are very careful with their dollars at all times, but in this day and age particularly. And little things like this can form the basis for a change in transportation habits.”

Analysts at the transportation agency had initially considered eliminating all off-peak railroad fares — as New Jersey Transit did this year — but that option was eventually discarded. Situations that involved fare increases of more than 10 percent were also considered, according to several individuals familiar with the plans who asked for anonymity because the discussions were intended to be confidential.

The “limited unlimited” plan, first reported by The New York Post, would cap the number of rides that can be taken on a monthly pass to about three a day, requiring heavier users of the system to pay more if they exceed the limit.

Other surcharges, like a $1 fee for obtaining a new MetroCard rather than refilling an old one, are expected to be levied as well.

Transit officials said they were trying to limit an overall fare increase to 7.5 percent, which had been their intention since before the authority’s financial situation worsened drastically in December. The agency lost a big chunk of state financing in Albany’s budget cuts, and tax revenues designated to pay for mass transit have been far below expectations. Officials are also struggling to rein in overtime costs and bureaucratic bloat.

But the fare changes will not be a simple across-the-board increase. Instead, the authority plans to raise the additional revenue by making some passes relatively more expensive than others, and instituting other surcharges.

“Most board members would prefer we don’t just raise everything 7.5 percent,” said Mitchell H. Pally, a board member from Long Island. “Yes, we want to raise more revenue, but we don’t want to discourage ridership.”

Riders’ advocates say the pain will be the same no matter what package it comes in.

“A fare hike is a fare hike is a fare hike,” said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign. “Across the board, people are going to experience higher costs for getting around town.”

Planners from the authority’s constituent agencies, which run the region’s bus, subway and commuter-rail networks, along with its tunnels and bridges, have been meeting weekly to evaluate the pros and cons of new fare structures.

The process requires transit planners to weigh the financial needs of the agency against the fact that higher prices translate to fewer riders.

Mr. Blair, the Metro-North riders’ representative, said he was concerned that off-peak riders who use the railroads for beach jaunts and family weekend trips could be discouraged from using mass transit.

“It doesn’t take much to dissuade people who are newly arrived to go back to their old ways if the economic incentives are not as good as they once were,” Mr. Blair said.

Off-peak rides make up 30 percent of revenue at the Long Island Rail Road and 27 percent of trips, officials said. Nearly three-quarters of Metro-North passengers who buy one-way or round-trip tickets do so for the off-peak period.
611 2010-07-19 The comedian Dick Gregory used to joke bitterly during the civil rights era, that you could always spot a white moderate in Mississippi. He was the “cat who wants to lynch you from a low tree.”

Few in Mississippi got to hear Gregory’s crack. When it came to race issues the state operated under a virtual media lockdown in the early 1960s. When James Baldwin was a guest on “Today,” NBC stations in Mississippi cut to an old movie. When Thurgood Marshall, then an N.A.A.C.P. lawyer, appeared on TV, a notice flashed: “Cable Difficulty.” Mississippi’s ABC affiliates didn’t want to air “Bewitched,” a new sitcom. Marriage between man and witch? Surely that was code for interracial sex, for the coming mongrelization.

Mississippi pretended its race problems didn’t exist. But as Bruce Watson makes plain in his taut and involving new book, “Freedom Summer,” the rest of America in 1964 was beginning to have trouble looking away from Mississippi. Ten years after Brown v. Board of Education and nine years after Rosa Parks refused to move to the back of the bus, the state hadn’t budged. Nina Simone was recording a new single most people in the state wouldn’t get to hear either: “Mississippi Goddam.”

Blacks in Mississippi were almost entirely disenfranchised. Poll taxes, literacy tests and other sorts of “legalistic voodoo,” Mr. Watson writes, kept them out of voting booths. Counties in which blacks outnumbered whites had not a single black registered voter. The words of a United States senator from Mississippi, Theodore G. Bilbo, spoken in 1946, still hung heavily in the air: “I am calling upon every red-blooded American who believes in the superiority and integrity of the white race to get out and see” that no blacks vote. “The best time to do it,” he added ominously, “is the night before.”

Mr. Watson’s book derives its power — at its best, it is the literary equivalent of a hot light bulb dangling from a low ceiling — from its narrow focus. “Freedom Summer” is about the more than 700 college students who, in the summer of 1964, under the supervision of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, risked their lives to travel to Mississippi to register black voters and open schools. It was a summer, Mr. Watson writes, that “brought out the best in America” but “the worst in Mississippi.”

The story of these months has been told before, but rarely this viscerally. “Freedom Summer” opens with these students, many if not most from places like Yale and Oberlin and Harvard and Berkeley, arriving in Ohio in June 1964 to study with coordinating-committee members before heading south. What they learned made some flee. They were taught how to take a beating. A security handbook read, “No one should go anywhere alone, but certainly not in an automobile and certainly not at night.”
612 2010-07-19 Yet the race’s top riders, Schleck and Alberto Contador, do not appear to be worried. They rode to the finish line together, chatting as if on a casual weekend ride, without a victory in the world’s most prestigious cycling race at stake. Twice on that final climb, Contador had tried to attack Schleck, to no avail. At day’s end, Schleck remained in the yellow jersey, 31 seconds ahead of Contador, the two-time Tour champion. Samuel Sánchez of Spain is third, 2:31 back.

“I feel really good,” said Schleck, who then referred to Contador when he said, “If he wants to get me tomorrow, he has to be really good.”

While those riders were gearing up for the next few days, when the Tour will probably be won or lost, Christophe Riblon of France took the chance to grab the spotlight Sunday.

Riblon, of the AG2R La Mondiale team, was in a breakaway that formed about 19 miles into the 114.6-mile stage. Then — one by one — the other riders could not handle the pain and dropped back. In the final miles of the stage, Riblon looked around. No other riders were there. He was alone to enjoy the moment. The fans, many waving Spanish flags because of the finish line’s proximity to Spain, cheered him on.

“I don’t know what to say; I’m just too emotional,” Riblon said as he held back tears. He is in 27th place over all, 23:29 behind Schleck — but nearly 20 minutes ahead of the most famous rider at the Tour: Lance Armstrong.

Armstrong, the seven-time Tour winner, finished 70th in the stage, more than 15 minutes behind Riblon. In earlier stages, he crashed several times and lost his chances at an eighth Tour victory. Now, each day he drops even more in the standings.

Armstrong is now 38th, nearly 40 minutes behind Schleck — one of the riders he had shared the podium with last year. (Schleck was second; Armstrong third.)

On Sunday, for yet another day, Armstrong did not appear to be trying very hard as other riders zoomed past him. He said he was conserving his energy to try to win a stage in what he says will be his final Tour.

When the time comes for him to try to win a stage, Armstrong said he would earn it.

“I’ve got 25 of ’em,” Armstrong said of his stage victories at the Tour. “I don’t need somebody handing me one just ’cause they feel sorry for me.”

Wiggins, who started as one of the favorites, does not want pity, either. He had no explanation for why he is faring much worse at this Tour than he did last year, when he rode for the team that is now Garmin-Transitions. He left that squad to join the newly formed British Team Sky, as that team’s — and his country’s — best hope to win the Tour.

“Last year was a fluke,” Wiggins said. “It was a fluke in that it wasn’t planned.”

Last season, he became Garmin’s team leader only after Christian Vande Velde injured himself in a crash at the Giro d’Italia. Throughout the Tour, Wiggins — a track cycling specialist — just kept getting better and better.

For years, he had been known as being good at going fast on a track. But, in what seemed like an instant, he finally figured out how to be a road racer. He dropped so much weight that he looked like a stick figure, but it was worth it. It became easier for him to motor up the climbs.

“I fell into super form and was riding on a cloud the whole time,” he said.

This year, though, Wiggins had none of that magic in him. On Sunday, he realized that. As the top riders accelerated up the mountain, he could not keep up.

Looking tortured, he winced and gritted his teeth. But he just could not pedal faster.

Wiggins finished 36th, 4:59 behind the winner, and fell to 18th from 16th in the standings. He is now 11:30 back from the lead, too far back to dream of matching last year’s performance.
613 2010-07-19 Desi Hits! had good timing, starting just a year before the release of “Slumdog Millionaire,” which grossed more than $140 million at the domestic box office and set off a mini-boom of interest in Indian culture in the United States. The “Slumdog” soundtrack sold nearly 400,000 copies, and “Jai Ho” won a Grammy in addition to an Oscar.

“There’s never been an infrastructure for this music,” Ms. Acharia-Bath said. After “Slumdog,” she said, “everyone saw that with some resources some of these songs really popped.”

By starting a label now, Ms. Acharia-Bath said, she hopes to “leap ahead of the competitors” and to have a first crack at signing artists.

The two companies declined to disclose financial details about the partnership.

“As India keeps building itself, there’s enormous potential,” said Mr. Iovine, whose Interscope label released the “Slumdog” soundtrack. “There’s great cultural potential that’s only started to be tapped by the West.”

Mr. Iovine said Indian-infused pop music could have a similar trajectory to Latin music, and like Latin music the artists would need to be able to sing in English. (The original version of “Jai Ho” was in Hindi, and a remix version was released in English and performed by the Pussycat Dolls.)

Vin Bhat, chief executive of Saavn, a company that distributes entertainment from South Asia, pointed to Shakira and Ricky Martin as singing stars who were able to make the language leap.

“That is something that really needs to be nurtured among the younger singers,” Mr. Bhat said. For South Asian musicians “to go really big it needs to be delivered in an accessible way.”

But Mr. Joseph cautioned that making any such comparisons could be premature. “We want to identify the right artists and go from there,” he said. “I want to be careful and not get ahead of ourselves.”

Some of the South Asian potential has already been tapped by hip-hop artists, including Maya Arulpragasam, or M.I.A., who was born in London and grew up in Sri Lanka, and Rihanna, who released a remix of “Rude Boy”with Indian beats.

Ajay Nair, an associate vice provost for student affairs at the University of Pennsylvania and an editor of “Desi Rap: Hip-Hop in South Asian America” (Rowman & Littlefield), said that as hip-hop has become a global art, it was natural for Indian music to become integrated into it.

“It should come as no surprise that Indian music and hip-hop can have a symbiotic relationship,” he said.

Interaction between Western acts and Indian music will be encouraged, Ms. Acharia-Bath said, but the goal for the label is to sign Indian artists and expose them to European and American audiences.

In the end, said Mr. Walk, the former Epic executive, “this particular partnership will hopefully produce big artists with big hits. It’s like low-hanging fruit ready to be picked.”
614 2010-07-19 The Palestinians have been reluctant to move to direct negotiations. Mr. Abbas has said that he first wants to see progress on issues of borders and security in the American-brokered, indirect talks.

Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit was the only representative of the parties to deliver a public statement after the meetings.

“The gap is still wide between both parties,” he said. If Israel made “a strong and strategic move to deepen the Palestinian trust,” he added, “we would be able to encourage the Palestinians to move to direct negotiations.”

Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League, which gave its approval for the indirect talks, said in Cairo on Sunday, “We cannot automatically move from one negotiation to another without written guarantees,” according to Agence France-Presse.

Israel is considering confidence-building measures to propel the Palestinians toward direct talks.

One sign of change came with easing of the Gaza blockade, a result of intense international pressure after Israel’s deadly naval commando raid on a Turkish boat that was trying to breach the naval blockade in late May.

Israel says it is now allowing all civilian goods into the territory through the land crossings, and is only preventing the entry of weapons or materials that could present a security risk

The move was greeted abroad with cautious praise.

“What needs to happen now,” Ms. Ashton told reporters in Gaza, “is continued international pressure to move forward.” She said that the European Union wants to see people being able to move freely in and out of Gaza, and for Israel to allow exports.

Israel has pledged to encourage economic activity in Gaza; many local industries there closed down, unable to import raw materials or export their produce because of the three-year blockade, which Israel imposed with Egypt’s help in order to pressure Hamas.

In Gaza, Ms. Ashton visited the Middle East Pharmaceutical & Cosmetics Lab Company and the Abu Eidah Company for Concrete and Construction, two beneficiaries of a European Union program to help reconstruct Gaza’s private sector. The European Union has pledged a total of 22 million euros for that end.

Ms. Ashton did not meet with any Hamas officials since the European Union, like Israel and the United States, views Hamas as a terrorist group.

Israel’s three-week military offensive against Hamas in Gaza in the winter of 2008-9 also caused widespread devastation. Reconstruction efforts were severely hampered as Israel prohibited the entry of most building materials, fearing that Hamas would use them to manufacture rockets or build fortifications.

Recently, Israel has been allowing in construction materials for specific building projects that are supervised by an international body and that have the approval of Hamas’s rival, the Palestinian Authority. More than 30 new projects have been approved or are in the process of receiving approval since the government decision, including the construction or upgrading of wastewater treatment plants, classrooms and clinics, according to an official from the Israeli government department that coordinates civilian activities in Gaza and the West Bank.

But Israeli officials have ruled out allowing construction materials for the private sector for now, as well as any imminent resumption of exports from Gaza or opening of additional land crossings to increase capacity, citing security concerns.
615 2010-07-19 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Sunday that he did not feel personally attacked by the derisive remarks by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his aides in a Rolling Stone article published last month. But he suggested that General McChrystal’s firing as the top commander in Afghanistan was necessary.

“I didn’t take it personally at all; I really, honest to God, didn’t,” the vice president said in an interview on ABC’s “This Week.” “Compared to what happens in politics, this was a piece of cake.”

Nevertheless, Mr. Biden said, six four-star generals he surveyed, whom he did not identify, said General McChrystal could no longer remain the top American commander in Afghanistan.

In the Rolling Stone interview, General McChrystal and his aides spoke critically of nearly every member of the president’s national security team, with one aide dismissing Vice President Biden as “Bite Me.” Shortly after the article was published online, Mr. Obama replaced General McChrystal with his boss and mentor, Gen. David H. Petraeus, who had led the United States Central Command.

During the half-hour “This Week” interview, Mr. Biden defended the Obama administration’s economic policies, despite a persistent high unemployment rate, and said that when Congressional elections are held in November, Americans would realize those policies were better than the Republican alternative.

“The truth is, over three million people who are now working would be out of work but for this,” he said. “The truth of the matter is, there is an overwhelming consensus that we’re not losing jobs, we’re creating jobs.”
616 2010-07-19 Kelly Wallace's move from television to the Internet embodies the lingering differences between the forms.     Ms. Wallace spent a decade in front of the camera as a reporter and anchor at CBS and CNN. Then she got the online itch, and this month ...
617 2010-07-19 Marrack I. Goulding, who for seven years as an under secretary general of the United Nations oversaw peacekeeping missions around the world — at times coming under fire himself — died Friday at a nursing home in Somerset, England. He was 73 and lived in London.

The cause was cancer, his daughter, Rachel Nickerson, said.

Mr. Goulding, a former British ambassador to Angola, led United Nations peacekeeping operations from 1986 to 1993. Before his tenure the peacekeeping office had been run on a shoestring budget, employing a handful of officials.

By 1993, when Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali transferred Mr. Goulding to the post of under secretary general for political affairs — with a mission of “preventive diplomacy” to foster peace rather than monitor it — his department had 60,000 peacekeepers in the field at an annual cost of about $2.8 billion and was carrying out 13 operations from El Salvador to Angola to the former Yugoslavia to Cambodia.

Mr. Goulding also led the planning for a command and control center at the United Nations headquarters in New York to keep officials linked day and night with all peacekeeping operations around the world.

Marrack Irvine Goulding was born in Plymouth, England, on Sept. 2, 1936, one of two children of Ernest and Gladys Sennett Goulding. His father was a High Court judge.

Mr. Goulding graduated from Oxford in 1959 and then joined the British Foreign Office. After being sent to Lebanon to learn Arabic, he was posted to Kuwait and, later, to Libya, Egypt and Portugal. He was in charge of the British Mission to the United Nations from 1979 to 1983. Then, after serving as ambassador to Angola from 1983 to 1985, he was named an under secretary general at the United Nations.
618 2010-07-20 The agency’s chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, said a number of inquiries were related to collateralized debt obligations and involved Wall Street firms and banks....
619 2010-07-20 A few of the animal-friendly design solutions created by pet owners in their homes....
620 2010-07-20 A measure that could significantly reduce air pollution that causes health problems like asthma and can shorten lives....
621 2010-07-20 An internal review results in tighter policing of city inspectors who make critical assessments of a cancer-causing material....
622 2010-07-20 Democratic Congressional Campaign Party ends June with twice as much in the bank as its Republican counterpart....
623 2010-07-20 Nickelodeon is teaming up with Marriott and Norwegian Cruise Line to present diversions on vacation....
624 2010-07-20 More on the debt records of Hoover and FDR....
625 2010-07-20 Harley-Davidson may have to move production out of Wisconsin, the company says, if it cannot come to an agreement with its workers' union that's more favorable to the company....
626 2010-07-20 The nonprofit Lifeboat Foundation has caught the attention of Google, Hewlett-Packard and others as it looks to finance programs to keep dangerous technology in check....
627 2010-07-20 Because Amar'e Stoudemire cannot be insured against a career-ending knee injury, the Knicks declined permission for him to play at the world championships next month....
628 2010-07-20 Johnson & Johnson, which reduced its 2010 earnings forecast, said it had received a grand jury subpoena in connection with a federal investigation into a Tylenol recall....
629 2010-07-20 It's amazing how many people you can offend by starting a restaurant....
630 2010-07-20 David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs, said the firm had no plans to spin off its private equity business after passage of new financial regulations that would restrict the bank holding company in allocating money to altern...
631 2010-07-20 Following the commercial disappointment of the 2009 winner, Speech Debelle, finalists for the 2010 prize include Paul Weller, Corinne Bailey Rae and Dizzee Rascal....
632 2010-07-20 Rackspace and NASA have teamed up to create an open cloud computing system that could rival services from Amazon.com, Google, Microsoft and others....
633 2010-07-20 Hoover the wild and crazy borrower?...
634 2010-07-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
635 2010-07-20 David Einhorn, the hedge-fund manager known for shorting Lehman Brothers before it collapsed, said he bought shares of Apple in the second quarter because the iPhone maker's growth is undervalued, Bloomberg News reported....
636 2010-07-20 Hundreds of small businesses are joining in the announcement of a grass-roots campaign against tax avoidance that has already drawn support from a prominent lawmaker....
637 2010-07-20 A Swiss court for the first time cleared the way for the transfer to Washington of bank data about to a UBS client, following the Swiss parliament's approval of a key tax deal, Reuters reported....
638 2010-07-20 On Tuesday, hundreds of these businesses will join in the announcement of a grass-roots campaign against tax avoidance that has already drawn support from a prominent lawmaker.

The campaign, Business and Investors Against Tax Haven Abuse, is backed by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who in recent years has investigated offshore tax havens and the large companies and wealthy investors that use them.

Senator Levin plans to announce the campaign with its supporters, a coalition of three nonprofit groups — the American Sustainable Business Council, Business for Shared Prosperity and Wealth for the Common Good. They will release a 25-page report that contends that American multinational corporations use havens to avoid $37 billion in federal taxes each year, a figure the groups call conservative.

“This $37 billion could be used to fund initiatives to support America’s small businesses — the nation’s biggest job creators — by increasing their access to capital, increasing their opportunities to invest and rewarding entrepreneurship,” the report says.

With that money, the report says, “we could establish a $30 billion Small Business Lending Fund to provide capital investments to small community banks (those with less than $10 billion in assets) to increase lending to small enterprises.”
639 2010-07-20 There have been 45 allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse against personnel in United Nations peacekeeping and special political missions worldwide this year, with 18 involving minors, according to United Nations statistics. Most cases remain under investigation.

Of the 39 reported to countries that contribute peacekeeping troops, as well as other member states, the United Nations has received responses in just 13. The standard policy is to repatriate the personnel involved, with discipline left to individual governments.

The bulk of the cases, as in previous years, involve peacekeeping troops in the Democratic Republic of Congo. But that might be partly attributed to a particularly aggressive radio campaign by the discipline team there, as well as greater interaction by the troops with the local population than in most missions, the spokesman for peacekeeping operations, Nick Birnback, said.
640 2010-07-20 The fines could be staggering, even for a company as wealthy as BP. The Clean Water Act sets a civil fine of $1,100 for every barrel of oil released in a spill, in addition to responsibility for paying for environmental cleanup and economic loss.

If the government determines that the spill was the result of gross negligence, the fine jumps to $4,300 a barrel.

On Wednesday, Mr. Markey demanded a “full flow-rate test” on the well; official estimates have put the flow rate at as much as 60,000 barrels a day. Considering such vast amounts, a disagreement over the number of barrels spilled each day could amount to enormous sums: a 10,000-barrel-a-day difference over the three months of the spill could mean $3.7 billion in fines.

Mark Salt, a BP spokesman, said the goal in retaining the cap was not to minimize the liability or give a low estimate of flow rate, but to shut off the flow of oil effectively and safely.

“The number is whatever the number will be,” Mr. Salt said. “But that doesn’t change what we want to do — which is to stop the leak.”

The decision whether to keep the well capped or resume drawing off the oil, Mr. Salt said, lies with the federal government’s incident commander, Thad W. Allen, a retired Coast Guard admiral. “We’re completely aligned with Admiral Allen,” he added.

In many cases, disputed factual issues are left to others — like a jury or a special master appointed by a judge — to determine after hearing from experts for each side.

But experts in environmental litigation do not expect the government’s case to actually go to trial. BP will almost surely settle its civil and criminal cases, said David M. Uhlmann, a professor of environmental law at the University of Michigan. “BP has nothing to be gained and a lot to lose by reliving this tragedy in an American courtroom a year or two from now,” he said.

Mr. Uhlmann, a former chief of the environmental crimes section at the Department of Justice, said he doubted that BP was trying to manipulate the well to low-ball flow estimates, since that could lead to felony charges of obstruction of justice.

“Congressman Markey’s concern is understandable, and his skepticism is understandable,” the professor said, “but it’s not in BP’s interest to proceed as he’s been suggesting.”

Mr. Uhlmann predicted that the government would seek, and get, the largest civil and criminal penalties in American history — sums in the billions of dollars “that will be adequate to punish BP and deter such behavior into the future,” he said.

He added, however, that he doubted that the government would seek the highest possible penalty for every ounce of oil spilled. “That’s just not the way life works — that’s not the way negotiations work,” he said. “The maximum penalties here, if they imposed them, would probably wipe out the company.”

Federal prosecutorial guidelines require weighing factors like the interests of a company’s shareholders, the financial security of the company’s employees, and the need for the company to survive in a way that allows it to meet its obligations to pay for the spill.

Mr. Markey said that however liability was assessed, the oil needed to be measured — accurately, and soon.

“BP’s defense lawyers will flourish in an atmosphere of ambiguity,” he said. “The federal taxpayer will flourish, legally, if the number is established with precision right now.”
641 2010-07-20 Serena Williams is questionable for the United States Open because of her recent foot injury, said a WTA Tour spokesman, Andrew Walker. Williams cut her right foot on broken glass at a restaurant shortly after winning Wimbledon. The tour said last week she needed surgery and would miss three tournaments leading to the Open — the last one coming two weeks before the Open.
642 2010-07-20 And a similar number are dedicated to CBID under the umbrella of Caijing, a highly respected business magazine based in Beijing.

These partnerships and a focus on greater China should set CBID apart from larger but more diversified international news wires, said James Ogilvy-Stuart, the venture’s chief executive. His career includes a stint as the head of Asia for the Nasdaq stock market and 17 years at Bloomberg.

“There is no shortage of information about China, but only a small subset of that ever sees the light of day in English,” Mr. Ogilvy-Stuart said in an interview on Monday. “We set ourselves the task of addressing that, of creating a much clearer picture, and to bring transparency to what’s going on in the Chinese economy.”

CBID’s revenue will come mostly through subscriptions rather than advertising, Mr. Ogilvy-Stuart said. A 12-month subscription, for example, will cost $250 a month, and a three-month subscription will be $300 a month, according to the company’s Web site. For now, the company is offering free two-week trials.

“We are unashamedly focused on the institutional corporate community — we are at the premium end of what is a niche market,” Mr. Ogilvy-Stuart said. “We have a one-way bet on China.”

CBID would not discuss its ownership structure. But the service’s founders and backers, including Richard Li, who is chairman of PCCW, the main Hong Kong telecommunications company, are convinced that they are onto a winner.

The global downturn has thrust fast-growing Asia into the limelight as an engine of world growth, prompting an influx of investment by businesses seeking to capitalize on booming economies and on the rising affluence of Asia’s billions of consumers.

“The demand for business intelligence, due diligence, advice and information is almost inexhaustible in Asia,” said Gavin Greenwood of Allan & Associates, a security and political consulting firm based in Hong Kong.

Other firms also say they have seen a big increase in global interest in Asia in the last three years.

“European and American companies and investors acutely feel the need to understand the market better and are actively looking for suppliers, customers and potential business partners in the region,” said David Legg, managing director for Europe and Asia of the Gerson Lehrman Group, which puts regional and industrial experts in touch with investors.

Copal Partners, whose 1,000 employees, mostly based in India, provide research and analysis services for banks, hedge funds and private equity firms, also has seen its Asia-related work soar.

Copal’s Mandarin-speaking team has doubled to 40 in the last 12 months, and China-related work, virtually nonexistent two years ago, now makes up 10 percent of revenue, according to its chief executive, Rishi Khosla.

“We’ve seen a substantial increase in demand for country analysis and corporate enquiry work in China in the last couple of years,” Ben Wootliff, who heads the corporate enquiries team of the political and security consulting firm Control Risks Group in Shanghai, said in an interview on Monday. “This is partly because the financial crisis has accelerated the inflow of investments here and partly because clients have become increasingly aware of the challenges and potential risks they face in doing business here.”

These, he said, include fraud and corruption and information and intellectual-property issues, policy and regulation, and, especially for firms with major long-term strategic exposure to China, wider political concerns like trade and diplomatic issues with the United States and European Union.

In the last two years, Control Risks’ China-related revenue has grown sharply, and the company is increasing its professional staff based in China by 25 percent this year.
643 2010-07-20 LONDON — On the eve of a White House meeting with President Obama, Prime Minister David Cameron on Monday stepped into the furor over BP’s lobbying for a prisoner-transfer agreement between Britain and Libya by saying he considered the release of the convicted Lockerbie bomber from a Scottish prison last year to be “completely and utterly wrong.”

Ten weeks after taking office, Mr. Cameron is making his first visit to the United States as prime minister. He and Mr. Obama have a ledger of issues to discuss, including the Cameron government’s decision to set an end date of 2015 for Britain’s combat role in Afghanistan; a radical British deficit-reduction plan that critics have said risks pushing the country toward a double-dip recession; and the controversy that has built around BP, Britain’s largest company, since the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.

Mr. Cameron’s two-day visit will include meetings in New York with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Wall Street executives. But issues involving BP are likely to provide its focal point, and the prime minister and his aides used a series of statements in the days before leaving London to stake out a position intended to limit the damage to BP — and to Britain — from the oil company’s troubles, as well as to improve the political climate for the visit.

The latest furor to involve BP has sprung from the decision by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to hold hearings on July 29 on the circumstances surrounding the release last August of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, a Libyan intelligence agent who had served eight years of a life sentence for his role in the December 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. Mr. Megrahi was the only person convicted in the bombing, which killed 270 people, including 189 Americans.

Lawmakers who pushed for the Washington hearing — including the senators from New York, New Jersey and California, home states to bombing victims — have demanded that BP explain its role in lobbying for the prisoner-transfer agreement Britain and Libya concluded in December 2007. The senators have said they want to explore possible links between Mr. Megrahi’s release and BP’s eagerness to win Libyan ratification of an offshore oil deal that company officials have said could be worth $20 billion.
644 2010-07-20 Tim McCarver backtracked Monday from the comparison he made Saturday between the Yankees’ treatment of Joe Torre’s legacy as manager to the way World War II despots, “primarily in Russia and Germany,” airbrushed former generals out of photographs “after they had shot ’em.”

McCarver made his comments during Fox’s broadcast of the Tampa Bay-Yankees game. It followed the melancholy celebration of Old-Timers’ Day, which came shortly after the deaths of George Steinbrenner and Bob Sheppard.

McCarver, a close friend of Torre’s, said Monday in an interview from Florida that his analogies between the Yankees and the Third Reich and Stalin’s Soviet Union were “inappropriate.” But he added, “In my opinion, the underlying point here remains true: Yankees management has erased Joe Torre from their history.” He said, “I don’t think the Yankees have embraced the image of Joe Torre.”

McCarver said he had seen the photographs of Torre that hang at the new stadium but that he did not believe the team does enough to honor Torre’s integral role in leading the Yankees to four World Series championships. “Retiring his number would mean embracing his legacy,” he said.

Jason Zillo, the Yankees’ director of media relations, called the Fox truck on Saturday to complain about McCarver’s comments. In a statement issued Monday, Fox Sports said that McCarver “regrets” using the World War II analogy and that it would take no action.

NO DISCIPLINE FOR UMPIRE Baseball officials will not discipline the umpire Phil Cuzzi, who missed a call at the plate and angered members of both teams Sunday in the Mets’ 4-3 win over San Francisco. The officials, however, were concerned enough about the calls, and Cuzzi’s behavior, that they spoke to him. In the bottom of the ninth inning, Cuzzi ruled that the Giants’ Travis Ishikawa had been tagged out by Mets catcher Henry Blanco at the plate. Replays showed that Ishikawa, who would have scored the winning run, was safe. Earlier in the inning, Cuzzi took his mask off, threw his hands in the air and appeared to scream at Mets closer Francisco Rodriguez after Rodriguez stared in at Cuzzi after a pitch Rodriguez thought was a strike. Cuzzi was the left-field umpire for Game 2 of last year’s American League division series between the Yankees and the Minnesota Twins, when he ruled that a ball hit by the Twins’ Joe Mauer was foul when it had landed fair. MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SUSPENSIONS FOR BRAVES Atlanta pitcher Jonny Venters was suspended for four games and fined by Major League Baseball for throwing consecutive pitches at Milwaukee’s Prince Fielder on Saturday. Manager Bobby Cox was suspended for one game. One inning after Fielder’s homer started a five-run inning for the Brewers in a 6-3 win, Venters threw a pitch over Fielder’s head. The plate umpire, Angel Hernandez, warned both benches, and Venters hit Fielder in the back with the next pitch. (AP) RAYS BEAT ORIOLES The rookie Wade Davis allowed one run in eight innings in another sparkling performance against the Orioles as Tampa Bay rolled to an 8-1 victory in Baltimore. Davis (7-9) is 9-11 in his brief career, but in three starts against Baltimore he is 3-0 with a 0.75 earned run average. ... Albert Pujols’s two-run homer in the fifth began a barrage of four home runs in six at-bats for the Cardinals in an 8-4 victory over visiting Philadelphia. ... Colorado starter Ubaldo Jimenez allowed six runs in five and a third innings, his shortest outing of the season, as the Rockies lost to the host Marlins, 9-8. (AP)
645 2010-07-20 Typically when television creators want to gather ideas, they huddle in a writers’ room or maybe head out to a long expense-account lunch. When the creators of “Minute to Win It” need inspiration, they head to Target or a hardware store.

“Minute to Win It,” on NBC on Wednesday nights this summer, is a throwback to old-time game shows like “Beat the Clock” that were ingenious in their simplicity. It requires no extreme weight loss, no tribal alliances, no consumption of cow eyeballs. Instead it relies on simple challenges using household staples like beach balls, M&M’s, pantyhose, Hula-Hoops, toothbrushes and toilet paper.

“We’ve gotten some strange stares in the checkout line,” said Heath Luman, one of the supervising producers.

Johnny Applestack, a typical challenge, involves stacking five apples into a single free-standing tower in less than a minute. It is harder than it might sound, especially when $1 million, the show’s top prize, is at stake. “Even the simplest things can become very complex,” Mr. Luman said.

Applestack and challenges like it have made for oddly successful television. When “Minute to Win It” quietly made its debut in March, it averaged 5.8 million viewers, acceptable by NBC’s standards but not a standout by any means. Having returned for the summer, when network ratings usually dip, “Minute” is increasing its viewership against stiff competition from “Big Brother” on CBS and “So You Think You Can Dance” on Fox. The first two summer episodes had an average of 6.8 million viewers.

“There are some shows that are fun to watch because they’re so big, it’s almost like entering another world,” Mr. Luman said in an interview last week. And then there’s “Minute to Win It,” during which “you can literally go to your cabinet, grab the supplies and play the games with your family during the commercial break.”

The show takes the play-along-at-home mentality of “The Price Is Right” and “Jeopardy” to an extreme, encouraging viewers to practice the games at home and post their performances on YouTube. It even publishes what it calls the blueprints to the games online at nbc.com/minute-to-win-it, essentially grooming future contestants.

That NBC can promote the homemade games as an inexpensive form of family entertainment in a difficult economy is another plus, the producers say.

The show’s creative team conjures up new games at an office in the Studio City section of Los Angeles that it calls the game lab. Craig Plestis, an executive producer, said the game makers come into work with bags of household items and stock them on shelves labeled as different rooms of a house. As the show was being developed, “it was like coming into work to a toy factory,” Mr. Plestis said.

By now the producers have pitched roughly 1,000 games. About 150 have made it onto the show. Mr. Plestis said he had a simple test for the proposals: “Do I want to play the game myself?”

He is fond of Nut Stacker, which requires players to stack eight metal nuts  on edge  by sliding them off a chopstick. Mr. Luman’s favorite, Uphill Battle, has yet to be broadcast. It involves a table on an incline, requiring players to keep three marbles on it using only the curved back of a spoon.

In the television business there are a handful of producers like Mr. Luman who specialize in creating challenges for reality shows. His credits include “Big Brother,” “The Amazing Race” and “The Biggest Loser.”

“Once I got into games, I felt like the phone rang a lot more frequently, because it was such a specialized thing,” he said.

Games are critical for reality shows of all stripes because they inject drama and weed out weak contestants, something that the first modern reality competition, “Survivor,” proved 10 summers ago with races, quizzes and ropes courses.

In the “Minute” game lab the producers know that not every game that is fun to play is fun to watch on television. The perfect game for TV is suspenseful, is quantifiable and is reproducible. And most important, Mr. Luman said, is that it can be fully covered by cameras. (The show recently experimented with a 3-D episode.) Of course telling viewers that they should try this at home can be tricky. The show says it steers clear of choking and fire hazards like tiny objects and plastic grocery bags.

Once a game is perfected, the creators try to tear it apart, thereby determining what counts as cheating and what is just clever strategizing on the part of the contestant.

They are still pitching new games this summer, even though they have dozens in the queue waiting to be televised. For the game lab producers it’s a pinch-me job.

“I’m getting paid to brainstorm and play games,” Mr. Luman said. “If somebody had told me that recess would be the most important part of my school day, I would have been totally shocked.”

Early on, the game creators instinctively tried to outdo one another with elaborate games. It gave rise to an inside joke in the game lab that features the theme song to “MacGruber,” the recurring “Saturday Night Live” sketch whose hero makes (as the theme song says) “life-saving inventions out of household materials” but never quite completes them in time.

When one of the producers starts singing the “MacGruber” tune, it is a cue that the game they’re dreaming up may be too complicated.

“If you’re using duct tape to build a game, if you need more than five sentences to explain the game, if you need more than four or five items to make the game, it’s too complicated,” Mr. Luman said. “And it’s doomed to fail.”
646 2010-07-20 A British historian will pay damages to rivals who said he defamed them in pseudonymous comments on the amazon.co.uk Web site. In the spring British literary circles were abuzz over a mysterious Amazon commenter who used the handle Historian to trash works by authors like Rachel Polonsky (“dense,” “pretentious”) and Robert Service (“rubbish,” “an awful book”) while lauding Orlando Figes, an author and history professor at Birkbeck College in London, whose book “The Whisperers” was called a “beautiful and necessary” account of Soviet history. Mr. Figes initially said that Historian was his wife, Stephanie Palmer, a lawyer and lecturer at Cambridge University. A few days later Mr. Figes said he had written the reviews and that he had pointed the finger at Ms. Palmer “without thinking this through rationally.” The Guardian has since reported that Mr. Figes and Ms. Palmer will pay unspecified damages and legal costs to the authors and have promised not to post any more reviews of their works.
647 2010-07-20 Still, the improved understanding of nicotine addiction, including evidence of a genetic influence, has offered new avenues for prevention and treatment. First and foremost, of course, is to keep youngsters from starting. Those who make it to 18 without inhaling cigarette smoke are least likely to become regular smokers.

As Dr. Chyke A. Doubeni and colleagues at the University of Massachusetts Medical School reported in June in Pediatrics, a four-year study that followed 1,246 children starting in sixth grade showed that an adolescent need not smoke daily to get hooked. As with my husband, in some youngsters, a dependence on nicotine developed after their very first cigarette.

Those who inhaled tobacco smoke at least once a month, the researchers reported, were 10 times as likely as less frequent smokers to develop symptoms of nicotine dependence, including a strong desire to smoke, withdrawal symptoms, feeling addicted and having difficulty controlling their smoking.

The more often they smoked, the more dependent they became, and vice versa. Even one symptom of dependency was enough to lead to daily smoking.

Dr. Benowitz expects that New York’s new $4.35-a-pack cigarette tax (by far the highest in the nation) will deter adolescent smoking by raising the full price to about $10. But more can be done through taxation, especially if tax dollars are directed toward tobacco control.

In The New England Journal of Medicine this month, Dr. Steven A. Schroeder and Kenneth E. Warner note that European tobacco taxes tend to be much higher; in Norway, for example, they exceed $11 a pack. The writers suggested extending smoke-free zones to vehicles in which children ride, apartments and condominiums, and public parks and beaches, as well as more public financing of cessation programs.

Nicotine provides a quick fix. With each inhalation, it is carried into the lungs, where it rapidly enters the circulation and moves quickly to the brain. There it binds to receptors and facilitates the release of various brain chemicals, especially dopamine, which induces feelings of pleasure that in turn reinforce the desire for more nicotine.

Dr. Benowitz explained that over the course of a day, as the brain continues to be exposed to nicotine, partial tolerance develops and each subsequent cigarette produces less of an effect. But during sleep, nicotine comes off the receptors and smokers awaken with an intense craving for a cigarette.

“That first cigarette in the morning has the biggest kick,” he said, and the vicious cycle resumes. He reported that as tolerance develops, the number of binding sites for nicotine in the brain increases, enhancing symptoms of craving and withdrawal and the desire for the next cigarette.

New drugs, like varenicline (Chantix), have been developed that block nicotine receptors and make smoking less satisfying; other drugs under development have nicotinelike effects that can lessen withdrawal symptoms. A nicotine vaccine is also being tested.

To be sure, cravings for nicotine go beyond its chemistry. As Dr. Benowitz reported: “Nicotine induces pleasure and reduces stress and anxiety. Smokers use it to modulate levels of arousal and to control mood. Smoking improves concentration, reaction time, and performance of certain tasks.”

He added, however, that “relief from withdrawal symptoms is probably the primary reason for this enhanced performance and heightened mood.” In other words, if they had never started smoking, most people would never know the difference.

The main exception, perhaps, may be people who suffer from depression, other mental ills, and substance abuse disorders. They are more likely to smoke and much less likely to quit because nicotine acts as a form of self-medication.

When addicted smokers try to quit, they experience irritability, depressed mood, restlessness and anxiety, symptoms typical of psychiatric patients. Many in withdrawal say they feel that there is little pleasure left in life.

Added to the brain effects of nicotine withdrawal are behavioral and environmental cues to smoke — the feel and taste of a cigarette; the association with certain moods and activities like drinking, partying, or relaxing after a meal; a habit of smoking on the job, or being with someone who is smoking — and you can see why it can be so hard for a smoker to quit.

Dr. Benowitz noted that women who smoke are more strongly influenced than men by “conditioned cues” and negative emotions. Women also metabolize nicotine more quickly, which can make them more dependent on nicotine and explain in part why it is more difficult for women to quit.

“If we understand the reasons different people smoke, we can provide specific behavioral skills to deal with them instead of smoking,” he said. “Smoking cessation has to be individualized.”
648 2010-07-20 A new study suggests that people with depression are significantly more likely to develop dementia later in life.

The analysis, published July 6 in the journal Neurology, followed 949 participants in the famous Framingham Heart Study over an average of eight and a half years, some for as long as 17 years.

In that time, more than 17 percent — 164 participants — developed dementia. But among those who were depressed when the study started, the rate was much higher: almost 22 percent.

Adjusting for differences between groups, researchers found that depression raised the risk of dementia by 72 percent. And the more severe the depression, the greater the risk of dementia later.

The lead author, Dr. Jane Saczynski, an assistant professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester, suggested that the vascular changes in the brain associated with depression might also lead to dementia. Given the study’s long interval, she said, “it is very clear that depression is a risk factor for dementia rather than a consequence of the disease.”
649 2010-07-20 Many versions of this salad are made throughout the Mediterranean. This one, slightly spicy, is North African. When grilling whole eggplants, seek out smaller ones, as they will grill more quickly and evenly than the large, bulbous ones.

2 green or red bell peppers, or 1 of each

1. Prepare a hot grill. Pierce the eggplants in several places with the tip of a knife. Grill the eggplants, peppers and chilies, turning them every four to five minutes until blackened all over and soft. The chilies will be done first, then the bell peppers, then the eggplants (timing depends upon the size). Remove the chilies and bell peppers, place in a bowl and cover tightly. Let sit 20 to 30 minutes. Transfer the eggplant as it’s done to the bowl. Cover and allow to sit for 15 to 30 minutes. Pour off any liquid from the bowl.

2. Peel and seed the peppers. Cut into small dice. Peel the eggplant if desired, and chop and toss with the peppers. Add salt to taste, the lemon or lime juice, garlic, olive oil and herbs. Stir together well, and let sit for another 30 minutes or longer if possible. Serve at room temperature.

Variation: A Catalan version of this, escalivada, omits the chilies and herbs but includes a couple of tomatoes and four spring onions, which are grilled with the other vegetables. About twice as much olive oil would be used in an authentic escalivada, but I prefer the amount called for in this recipe.
650 2010-07-20 The aviation giant Boeing said Monday that it had obtained an order for 30 of its wide-body 777 jets from Emirates Airline of Dubai.

The plane maker did not reveal the value of the deal in a statement, but the transaction would be worth nearly $7 billion at list prices.

The deal, announced at the Farnborough Air Show in Britain, is a sign that commercial aviation, and Boeing’s fortunes, are starting to recover from the global recession.

“Today’s order underscores the airline’s confidence in the airplane which forms the backbone of its fleet,“ Jim Albaugh, chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in the statement. “For that we are very grateful.”

Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, chairman and chief executive of Emirates, added: “Since we took delivery of our first 777 14 years ago, the airplane’s reliability, performance and operating economics have firmly established it as the backbone of our fleet.”
651 2010-07-20 MORRISSEY--Kevin. "Of course we will miss Kevin's leadership, partnership and insight as the leading Menswear merchant at Macy's" states, Herbert Spiegel, Chairman of Randa Accessories. "However, it is as an outstanding human being that I will mis...
652 2010-07-20 MORRISSEY--Kevin, passed away suddenly on Saturday July 17, 2010 at his home in Pelham, New York, at the age of 58. Mr. Morrissey was a 36 year veteran of Macys department store, where he rose to executive vice president and is considered one of t...
653 2010-07-21 The Securities and Exchange Commission voted unanimously to propose a reduction in the fees that mutual fund investors pay for sales and marketing activities of brokers....
654 2010-07-21 The trustee trying to recover money to repay investors who lost billions of dollars in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme is seeking $3.6 billion from the Fairfield Greenwich Group and individuals that he says enabled Mr. Madoff to operate his fraud...
655 2010-07-21 Airgas on Wednesday a sweetened buyout offer from its competitor, Air Products and Chemicals....
656 2010-07-21 A fourth week at No. 1....
657 2010-07-21 Morgan Stanley could benefit considerably from exemptions included in the new financial regulations governing derivatives....
658 2010-07-21 The Deal Professor explores how the government could use its new resolution authority to put the American International Group into receivership if it did choose to do so....
659 2010-07-21 The move comes after his arrest....
660 2010-07-21 The law is a culmination of two years of lobbying and debate over what should be the response to the financial excesses that brought on a recession....
661 2010-07-21 Microsoft is testing a new version of its free security software, Security Essentials....
662 2010-07-21 It would be hard to argue that most soccer fans in eastern Pennsylvania will be focused Wednesday night on Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia when Manchester United plays the expansion Union of Major League Soccer in an exhibition match. But ...
663 2010-07-21 Nissan recently sent out a battery warranty survey to people with Leaf reservations and those who have expressed interest in the car....
664 2010-07-21 Two designers from Brooklyn are selling stickers called Antenn-aids to fix the iPhone 4's antenna problems....
665 2010-07-21 Cheyne Capital partner Cem Habib, one of London's most high-profile hedge fund managers, has left the firm to work in a private equity role with a Kazakhstani investment bank, Reuters reported....
666 2010-07-21 It's not good news that consumer prices have fallen three months in a row, because the economy could use some inflation, an economist writes....
667 2010-07-21 While hedge fund managers may have been hoping for the return of some of the money investors took out in late 2008 and early 2009, so far, it's not happening, Reuters Breakingviews says....
668 2010-07-21 Student Opinion | Generally speaking, are school field trips worth the resources and the risk?...
669 2010-07-21 Beijing-based Camelot Information Systems, which sells business software and IT services in China, Taiwan and Japan, priced shares in its initial public offering at the bottom of the expected range on Tuesday, Reuters reported....
670 2010-07-21 Hedge funds pulled in $9.5 billion during the second quarter with nervous investors preferring to send their money to the biggest and best established managers, according to industry tracker Hedge Fund Research on Tuesday....
671 2010-07-21 As with many jobs in Washington, the real authority of the intelligence job rises and falls depending on the director’s relationship with the president. The past intelligence chief, Dennis C. Blair, had a frosty relationship with White House officials, and lamented that the Central Intelligence Agency was often successful in doing end runs around his office to advance its agenda with the president.

The rapid expansion of the intelligence bureaucracy has been under particular scrutiny this week, with a series of articles in The Washington Post detailing the growth in spending on spy programs since the Sept. 11 attacks.

The Post series was the source of a number of questions from senators about how Mr. Clapper would address bureaucratic redundancies in the intelligence world and wean agencies off their reliance on contractors.

Mr. Clapper, while defending the work of contractors, said he would like to scale back their use, although he refused to give a target for such a reduction.

He did acknowledge that the director’s staff, which has grown to more than 1,500 since the position was created in 2005, was too unwieldy. He vowed that if confirmed by the Senate, he would cut the size of the intelligence director’s office.

Despite occasionally pointed questions from members of the intelligence panel, Mr. Clapper is expected to be swiftly confirmed by the Senate.

Mr. Clapper, a retired general, is now the Pentagon’s top intelligence official, and some lawmakers have raised concerns about his close ties to the Defense Department and whether they might further a “militarization” of the intelligence community. The Pentagon controls about 80 percent of the intelligence budget, managing billions of dollars worth of spy satellites and overseas listening posts.

Mr. Clapper pledged that he would vigorously promote civilian control of intelligence agencies and said that his Pentagon background, including one tour as head of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, put him in an ideal position to understand the byzantine world of Pentagon intelligence activities.

As for the C.I.A., Mr. Clapper said that he had recently had several discussions with the spy agency’s director, Leon E. Panetta, about how he can avoid the tensions that flared between Mr. Panetta and Mr. Blair.

“He wants to make this arrangement work,” Mr. Clapper said.
672 2010-07-21 He wasn’t more powerful than a locomotive or able to leap tall buildings at a single bound.

But when 19-year-old Bill McCabe passed what later became known as the “Superman test” to become a New York City sanitation worker 70 years ago — with a perfect score of 100 — newspapers jumped on the story.

The headline in The New York Times on June 13, 1940, said, “Civil Service Finds the ‘Perfect Man.’ ” And The World-Telegram, in a play on Mr. McCabe’s boyhood in Harlem, said, “Great Outdoors of East 147th Street Produces the Perfect Specimen.”

Mr. McCabe, who got the sanitation job but soon moved on to become a police officer and later a firefighter, died Saturday at his home in Bethpage, N.Y., his son Kevin said. He was 90.

He was one of 68,000 men hoping, in those tough economic times, to become what was then called a street cleaner, at $35 a week. Calling his score “a near-Olympic record,” The Times said that “cautious examiners, who are seeking to weed out as many men as possible in selecting men for the 2,000 jobs available, seemed astounded at McCabe’s perfect performance.”

To nail that 100, Mr. McCabe lifted an 80-pound dumbbell in each hand and hoisted a 120-pound trash can to a 4-foot-6-inch ledge. He lay on his back and lifted a 60-pound barbell placed behind his head. He broad-jumped 8 feet 6 inches after a 7-yard run, dashed an added 10 yards and jumped a 3-foot hurdle.
673 2010-07-21 The Luxottica concept, especially in a staid category like eyewear, is unusual and risky. Stanton Kawer, chief executive of Blue Chip Marketing Worldwide, an ad agency specializing in retail accounts that did not work on the project, said it was a smart gamble in these troubled times for retailers.

“It’s a great hub for research and innovation,” Mr. Kawer said. Ten years ago, “we would have said leave that to Orlando and Anaheim, but today, I think that’s terrific.”

The first store opened Wednesday in Hawthorn, Australia, a suburb of Melbourne, and the company plans to build 10 to 15 more, including in the United States, China and Britain, over the next three years.

In addition to selling eyeglasses, the company, which is based in Italy, hopes to use the stores as a sort of live research and development lab — copying successful elements to use in its existing retail outlets in the coming months.

“If the Internet was perfect for everybody, obviously no one would shop at retail stores,” said Chris Beer, chief executive of Asia Pacific, greater China and South Africa for Luxottica. “The reality is, you need to create a connection, create a personal experience, and that’s what we’ve done.”

The construction for the Hawthorn store, called OPSM Eye Hub (OPSM is Australia’s equivalent of LensCrafters), began early this year and cost about two to three times as much as a regular LensCrafters outlet in the United States.

Luxottica was starting to recover from a tough 2009 — its first-quarter sales rose 6 percent from a year earlier — and hoped a new type of retail experience would help build on that recovery. Like most retailers, Luxottica is waging a two-front war: one against the economic downturn, the other against the siphoning of customers by Internet shopping.

At Eye Hub, a concierge greets customers, and, taking a lesson from a Web home page, “explains what the store has to offer, then we ask that customer how they would like to interact with the store,” Mr. Beer said.

Also drawing from the Internet, Eye Hub might display a single style of glasses in several different areas — men’s best sellers, sports glasses and glasses for round faces, for instance. “Some parts of the stores are men’s and ladies, some are just fashion, some are by look, some are by face shape,” Mr. Beer said.

In addition to the wind machine and treadmill, the store also has a machine that simulates glare on snow or water, complete with recreations of blizzard conditions or sunsets.

So that shoppers can see how they look in glasses, there are 41 touch screens that function as both mirrors and cameras. Customers can look at themselves in the screens and snap images. Eventually, they will be able to post the images on Facebook or other sites to solicit friends’ opinions before making a purchase.

Eye Hub is a stand-alone store of about 16,000 square feet and is laid out in the shape of an eyeball. The “iris” at the center houses the more expensive brands, like Dolce & Gabbana and Versace.

The Eye Hub includes sections where customers can research eye problems and prescriptions, similar to areas devoted to education at Apple stores. Also like Apple, there are ways to transact a sale other than at a cash register. Salespeople can complete a sale and perform final adjustments on glasses by pressing a button to turn a clear glass wall into a frosted screen to create a semi-private space.

Whether customers will see the new Eye Hub as a place to spend money, not just play with Luxottica’s toys, will determine how many concept stores will be built.

“This is a huge lab we’re opening,” Mr. Guerra said. “We are experimenting.”
674 2010-07-21 “I understand both sides,” Stoudemire said in a news release from Team USA. “I definitely wanted to play.”

The timing of the decision caught USA Basketball officials off guard. Stoudemire’s agent, Happy Walters, declined to comment.

The insurance concerns were common knowledge in N.B.A. circles, and in fact they were a major issue in contract negotiations between Stoudemire and the Phoenix Suns, his former team. Stoudemire walked away because the Suns would guarantee only the first three years of a five-year deal.

The Knicks, determined to add a star player, decided Stoudemire was worth the risk and gave him a fully guaranteed five-year contract. At the time, Walsh said the insurance issues were unclear. It was not until Friday that the Knicks received official word from the league about Stoudemire’s status.

The situation is complicated. Insurance policies generally run concurrently with a player’s contract. Stoudemire’s last contract with Phoenix — which was not insured against a knee injury — was scheduled to run through 2010-11. Although he opted out of that deal on June 30, the policy remains in effect through next season.

The Knicks are applying for a new policy that they hope will cover Stoudemire’s knee, but it will not take effect until the 2011-12 season. It is unclear whether the insurer will reconsider its stance.

N.B.A. teams cannot prohibit players from participating in international competition. There is an exception, however, for players with uninsurable contracts.

“We’re disappointed,” said Jerry Colangelo, the USA Basketball chairman, said in the team’s release. “But the team has the right to pull him like they did, because of the lack of insurance coverage and his pre-existing injury situations.”

Walsh said he is not overly concerned with Stoudemire’s health, noting that he played all 82 games last season and has shown no lasting effects from the knee surgery.

“We agreed to take that risk because we like the way he worked his body,” Walsh said.

Stoudemire, 27, averaged a team-high 23.1 points and 8.9 rebounds in his final season with Phoenix, leading the Suns to the Western Conference finals.

Walsh cited Stoudemire’s heavy workload and Team USA’s intensive schedule as factors in his decision. The Suns played their last game on May 29. The national team will be busy from now through mid-September. The Knicks open training camp on Sept. 25.

“He’d be playing almost all summer long,” Walsh said. He added, “And we haven’t had a chance to really work with him on our own staff and see exactly where he is.”

Stoudemire was expected to be a featured player for the United States. He was by far the most accomplished big man on the roster.

Center Robin Lopez also withdrew from the national team on Tuesday, because of a back injury. David Lee, the former Knick, injured his right middle finger in practice Tuesday, leaving his status unclear. The other power forwards and centers in camp are Tyson Chandler, Brook Lopez, JaVale McGee, Jeff Green, Kevin Love and Lamar Odom.

“It takes away really one of the explosive players in the whole world,” Coach Mike Krzyzewski said in the team release, adding that the team would have “a little bit different way that you play as a result of not having him.”
675 2010-07-21 The writer was an admissions officer at Williams College for nine years.

Ross Douthat presents the classic misdirection of conservative politics. Rather than identifying the true causes of America’s diminished meritocracy — wrongheaded supply-side economic policies that unravel the social safety net — he blames the well-known conservative bogyman: affirmative action.

The future of our nation depends less on an equitable number of “red state” students attending elite universities than on ensuring that every student in America has the financial opportunity to attend community college or that the country’s public universities have the federal support to abate tuition spikes.

Put simply, conservative policies have created the pretext for these grievances, not the prejudices of elite university admissions committees.

In “The Roots of White Anxiety,” Ross Douthat confounds two issues: the underrepresentation of low-income white students in elite universities and the low number of white Christian students at these same institutions. This association is puzzling considering that evangelical Christianity is enjoying somewhat of a renaissance in elite institutions (see “The Holy and the Ivy,” published in Christianity Today in 2005).

The lack of low-income students (of all races) at elite institutions is an issue of great concern, but I caution Mr. Douthat against naming systemic bias against white Christians as being among the primary causes of the problem.

The writer is an assistant professor in the department of educational leadership at Miami University.

I grow weary of hearing of the “disadvantages” that white working-class/red state/evangelical Christian/rural/(fill in your favored conservative identity marker) students face when trying to get into elite universities.

What Ross Douthat and the authors of the study on which the column is based don’t emphasize is that it is precisely these people who are not applying for admission to these institutions. No wonder they are underrepresented.

I served on the admissions board of an Ivy League university for six years and could count on one finger the number of coal miner’s children from West Virginia who applied during that period.

Despite energetic recruiting efforts, the most academically talented of white, rural, working-class students overwhelmingly choose to attend their state colleges and universities or religious institutions, where they feel they will fit in socially with their peers more comfortably. This problem stems in part from how they perceive elite institutions.

I am certainly not saying that the atmosphere at elite universities might not benefit from having a few more Idaho farm kids around, but beating the drums of the politics of envy à la Pat Buchanan serves no useful purpose whatsoever.
676 2010-07-21 Lon Babby, a prominent player agent whose clients include two Phoenix Suns, was named the team’s president of basketball operations Tuesday. His clients include Grant Hill of the Suns, Tim Duncan and Ray Allen. He also represented a recent Suns acquisition, Hedo Turkoglu, but said he stepped aside while the trade to Phoenix was being discussed.

The Suns’ owner, Robert Sarver, said that hiring an agent for a top front-office position was “venturing outside the norm a little bit,” but that he thought Babby’s experience representing ownership and players at various times gave him “a unique insight into this business.”

Babby said his first priority would be to hire a general manager. Steve Kerr left last month as the vice president and general manager, and returned to TNT as a basketball analyst.

¶Fourteen years after the N.B.A. voided his seven-year, $100 million deal with Miami because it put the Heat over the salary cap, forward Juwan Howard signed with Miami for the veterans minimum, $1.3 million. Howard, 37, averaged 6.0 points last season with Portland, his seventh N.B.A. team. howard

¶Cappie Pondexter scored 6 of her game-high 24 points in overtime as the visiting Liberty beat the Connecticut Sun, 82-74. The Liberty improved to 10-10, giving every team in the W.N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference a record of .500 or better. Connecticut (12-9) trailed, 61-48, with more than four minutes left in regulation, but Renee Montgomery scored 12 of her 23 points in the final 1 minutes 48 seconds to force overtime. She made a 3-pointer with 4.2 seconds left to tie the score, 72-72. liberty
677 2010-07-21 Though builders nationwide began pulling back from condominiums in 2006, some San Jose developers persisted. By 2007, 20 towers were reported to be in various stages of development. But just four projects of about 20 stories each were built — City Heights with 124 units; Axis with 329 units; The 88 with 197 units; and 360 Residences with 213 units, which opened in May. The complexes offer amenities like pools, fitness centers and doormen.

“Unfortunately, they’re coming to market at one of the most miserable times,” said Shiloh Ballard, the director of housing and community development for the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, a consortium of area business executives. “If they had come to market three years ago, all the units would have sold.”

As it stands, much of the market envisioned for the condo units — young, well-paid, single technology workers seeking an urban lifestyle who often land in San Francisco — has disappeared. They have either been laid off, suffered salary cuts or, since housing prices have fallen throughout the Bay Area, now can afford San Francisco.

The remaining potential buyers have apparently thought twice about paying as much as $700 a square foot for a high-rise condo in a market where the going rate for low-rise apartments has been at most $425.

Still, some of the high-rise developments got to market early enough to attract prerecession buyers. Construction on City Heights, developed by Mr. Swenson’s company, began in June 2005, and half its 124 units were sold by November 2007 before sales stalled, the developer said.

Guerrilla marketing tactics (including a fake picket line of “protesters” seeking “better views” to attract the attention of potential buyers) and steep price cuts to $372 a square foot have been required to move the remaining units. Penthouses originally priced as high as $1.4 million were reduced to the $600,000 range. The building is more than 80 percent sold, Mr. Swenson said, and prices have reverted to the original $550 a square foot.

Wilson Meany Sullivan, a developer based in San Francisco, built a parking garage and installed a Safeway as part of constructing the 197-unit 88, which is near San Jose State University. Plans for a second high-rise tower have been deferred for now, said Seth Bland, a partner in the development group.

Mr. Bland said the developers tried to import the sort of product — and prices — more typical of San Francisco. Purchase prices for studio apartments start in the high $200,000s, and penthouses go for more than $2 million. The building is more than half sold, said Paul A. Zeger, the president of Pacific Marketing Associates, which is marketing The 88.

The recession also significantly set back city plans to populate north San Jose — home to more than 1,200 technology companies — with permanent residents in as many as 32,000 new apartments and houses by 2030.

To create this urban hub near a light-rail system that transports passengers to downtown San Jose and other parts of Silicon Valley, construction of housing units would be connected to job growth in the area — which has largely been thwarted by the recession.

About 26.7 million square feet of new industrial space is being planned. Before the recession, condo and rental projects were on the drawing board, some with thousands of units and some in high-rise buildings, including a two-tower complex with 460 units proposed by Barry Swenson Builder. Now, only one project is under way.

The Irvine Company Apartment Communities plans to build Crescent Village, 1,750 rental apartments on nearly 40 acres near the light-rail system in north San Jose. Crescent Village will consist of five four-story “villages” atop underground parking garages.

The development will have amenities like a park, pools, fitness centers and club rooms, said Darin J. Schoolmeester, a principal with MVE & Partners, the architecture firm designing Crescent Village. He said Crescent Village would include retail space, perhaps for small markets, delis, coffee shops or restaurants.

Mr. Schoolmeester said that even though financing for such master-planned developments withered in the recession, the model was still viable.

“When the economy starts to hum again,” he said, “we’ll see a continuation of people really wanting to live in town, close to where everything is, instead of dealing with a commute.”
678 2010-07-21 Apple sold nearly 3.3 million iPads in the quarter. Consumers gravitated to higher-priced models of the tablet, helping to create a new segment of Apple’s business that generated revenue of $2.1 billion.

With 8.4 million units sold, the iPhone remains Apple’s biggest and most profitable business, generating $5.3 billion in revenue in the quarter. Most of the sales were of the iPhone 3G and 3GS, since the iPhone 4 went on sale June 24, just three days before the quarter’s end.

And Apple sold 3.47 million Macintosh computers, the most ever in a quarter, dispelling fears that the iPad would hurt those sales.

“Apple was scared that the iPad would cannibalize sales of Macintosh computers,” Mr. Munster said. “That’s not happening.”

Apple said its net income rose to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share, a 78 percent jump from a year earlier. Revenue rose 61 percent, to $15.7 billion.

On average, Wall Street analysts had expected Apple to report net income of $3.12 a share on revenue of $14.75 billion.

Investors were watching for the effect of the iPad on Apple’s profit margins; the company had warned earlier that the iPad’s margins would be lower than those of products like the iPhone. But in a conference call with investors, Apple executives said that the drop was less than expected, in part because of brisk sales of highly profitable iPhones.

Over all, Apple’s gross margin was 39.1 in the most recent quarter, down from 40.9 percent in the period a year earlier. The company also gave a bullish forecast for the current quarter.

“Apple is now a multifaceted company, and it continues to defy the economy,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst with Kaufman Brothers.

Shares of Apple had fallen nearly 9 percent since the introduction of the iPhone 4, but they rebounded 2.57 percent on Tuesday to close at $251.89. Apple released its financial results after the close of regular trading, and its shares rose an additional 3.1 percent in after-hours trading.

Problems surrounding the iPhone 4’s antenna reception made headlines in recent weeks. Shortly after the release of the device, users began to complain of weak reception and dropped calls when they touched the lower left portion of the antenna, which is built into a steel band that encases the phone.

On Friday, Apple gave its most detailed and forceful defense of the iPhone 4’s ability to receive and hold calls. In a news conference at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., Mr. Jobs said the reception problems were common ones that affected most smartphones, an assertion that several competitors rejected.

Mr. Jobs also said the iPhone’s antenna problems had been blown out of proportion by the media. But to end the controversy, he said, Apple would give customers free bumper cases that insulate the antenna from human touch.

Apple executives dismissed concerns that worries about the antenna were affecting sales.

“We are selling every unit we can make currently,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, during the conference call. Mr. Cook also said Apple was working hard to increase the supply of iPhones and iPads to catch up with consumer demand.

Apple did not give precise numbers for the cost of the free bumpers, but some analysts said they expected it to be about $178 million.
679 2010-07-21 The S.E.C. has drawn particular criticism from Congress, investor groups and other quarters for a lack of prominent enforcement cases against firms that played a major role in the financial crisis, which cost individual and institutional investors billions of dollars in losses.

Ms. Schapiro defended the commission’s record on Tuesday, telling members of a House Financial Services subcommittee that the agency’s enforcement division had been restructured and reinvigorated since she took over in January 2009.

Responding to questions from reporters after the hearing, Ms. Schapiro said the agency was looking beyond Goldman Sachs and that investors had “not necessarily” seen the bulk of cases that might stem from the financial crisis.

“We have investigations in the pipeline across products, across institutions coming out of the financial crisis,” she said. “We’ve brought a number of them. Nobody ever wants to pay attention to the ones we’ve already brought. But we’ve brought quite a few already coming out of the crisis over the last year and a half.”

In recent months, she told the committee, the S.E.C. has brought cases claiming accounting and disclosure violations at subprime lenders, misrepresentation of complex mortgage securities as safe investments appropriate for retail investors and misleading statements to investors about a fund’s exposure to subprime investments.

For example, last month the commission charged ICP Asset Management of New York with fraud and conflicts of interest related to its management of multiple C.D.O.’s and an affiliated hedge fund in 2007. The company denied the charges.

In February, the commission settled a case with State Street Bank and Trust of Boston in which the S.E.C. charged that the company misled investors about their exposure to subprime investments while selectively disclosing more complete information to certain favored clients. State Street paid $313 million to settle the case.

But the S.E.C. has not brought any cases against credit rating agencies related to the financial crisis, although those companies provided investment-grade ratings to many packaged mortgage investments that quickly turned out to be based on questionable loans to unqualified borrowers.

S.E.C. officials say they are continuing to investigate the credit rating agencies. But the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006 prohibits the S.E.C. from regulating the substance, criteria or methodologies used in credit rating models, making those inquiries more difficult.

On Tuesday, some members of Congress expressed eagerness for the S.E.C. to follow up its case against Goldman Sachs with other actions.

“I, for one, am hopeful that this legal action will be the first, and not the last, brought by the commission against the hucksters of Wall Street who spun toxic mortgages into golden financial opportunities by hiding information or defrauding investors by other means,” said Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who is chairman of the capital markets subcommittee.

The S.E.C. has only civil authority; the Goldman case was referred to the Justice Department for possible criminal proceedings. While Justice officials have said that a criminal investigation is continuing, they have also noted the difficulty of bringing such cases and have sought to dampen any expectations that charges could be imminent.

That difficulty was exhibited last year, when the Justice Department charged two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers with lying to investors about the precarious state of investments they oversaw. A federal court jury in Brooklyn found the two managers not guilty, saying essentially that while the managers made bad investments, that itself was not a crime.

The setback has not stopped further prosecutions, however. Last month, the former chairman of a lending company, the Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corporation of Florida, was indicted for his role in what the government said was a $1.9 billion fraud scheme that led to the collapse of Colonial Bank of Alabama, one of the 50 largest banks in the United States. The former chairman, Lee B. Farkas, pleaded not guilty.
680 2010-07-21 “They yanked the rug out from underneath us,” said Ms. England, who lives on $802 a month from . “I’m scared. I’m petrified. I can’t function on my own. I took care of my husband for eight years. Already I’ve given up many of my freedoms. Now they’ve taken our dignity. I’d like them to try living in my body for a week.”

Her case manager, Brandi Lemke, shook her head. “This is not saving any money,” she said.

Ms. Lemke said she feared that Ms. England would “end up in the hospital because of the diabetes” and be in assisted living by the end of the year. “If she takes a fall,” Ms. Lemke said, “she may require more than assisted living can handle.”

Nursing homes here cost the state an average of $5,900 a month; home and community-based services cost $1,500 a month.

¶ placed 69,000 people on waiting lists for home or community services last year, and more than 5,700 of them ended up in nursing homes.

¶ cut housekeeping services — useful for people who can no longer do some cleaning tasks — for more than 1,000 elderly residents.

¶ , with a $131 million shortfall, will cut independent-living services for 2,800 people with disabilities in the next year.

In , providers of Meals on Wheels have stopped adding clients because the state was not reimbursing them.

“I’m not getting a cost-of-living adjustment, and now I’m not getting food,” said Joyce Plennert, 83, who is on a waiting list for Meals on Wheels in Palatine, Ill. “Now I’m worried my home services will be cut. Without that, I’d be in a nursing home, if I could find one with room.”

, , , , , New York and have all made cuts or frozen spending at a time when the elderly population — and the need for services — is growing.

In , which faces a budget shortfall of $19.1 billion for the 2010-11 fiscal year, Gov. ’s office proposed eliminating adult day health care centers that serve 45,000 people and in-home supportive services that help more than 400,000 elderly, disabled or blind residents. The Legislature rejected these cuts but has not yet produced an alternative budget. The state already cut day care centers and assistance for caregivers.

Because Medicaid regulations require states to provide nursing home care to receive federal Medicaid money, legislators often have more leeway to cut from home services. Advocates for the elderly and the disabled worry that these cuts are just the beginning, because state ledgers tend to recover more slowly than the national economy.

“The situation is grim, and it’s safe to say that present trends are expected to continue,” said JoAnn Lamphere, the director of state government relations for health and long-term care for . “Nearly every state has proposed cuts of some sort to Medicaid. Some might seem small, but it’s death by a thousand slashes.”

The cuts in Oregon have been particularly painful to people who work with the elderly, because for more than three decades the state has been a leader in rebalancing long-term care away from nursing facilities and toward the home. The cuts here indicate how fragile these services can be against states’ needs to reduce spending.

“I’m seeing in a matter of months 30 years of work go down the drain,” said Donald Bruland, the director of senior and disability services for the Rogue Valley Council of Governments.

The state spends more than half its Medicaid long-term-care dollars on home care and has a separate $13 million program for people who do not qualify for Medicaid; on average, states spend just 25 percent of their long-term-care budgets on home and community-based care.

Bruce Goldberg, director of the Oregon Department of Human Services, said the agency did not have an estimate for how many of the people losing home care would end up in assisted-living facilities or in nursing homes — or, if they did, how the state would pay for them.

“We’re in new territory,” Dr. Goldberg said. “Long-term care is a cobbled-together system with many holes, and they just got deeper.”

Last week, the Oregon legislature’s emergency board scheduled a session for Thursday to reconsider some of the cuts.

In , Ken Poe, 66, requires assistance because of , which he got when he was 9. He has little muscle strength and requires oxygen constantly. The state provides 20 hours of care a month in his home.

Mr. Poe, a former pilot and flight instructor, lives as independently as he can, he said — he still drives, though he needs help getting to and from his car — but said he could not afford to pay his aides on the $1,300 a month he gets from Social Security. He often borrows money from a home line at the end of the month. Because of severe , he worries about falling in the shower without an aide.

“There are times when I’m struggling to get to the kitchen when I wonder how much longer I can do this,” he said. “But this is my comfort zone. It may look like a mess” — he gestured to cardboard boxes filling the living room — “but the boxes are my system for getting around. Moving to an assisted-living facility would bring on a depression.”

For states, having to cut the Medicaid programs is a double loss, because they come with matching dollars from the federal government. This creates state jobs and much-needed revenue.

Without these, said James A. Davis, a gerontologist at Marylhurst University and executive director of United Seniors of Oregon, “it really is a death spiral.”

“So often the programs to go are the early interventions that save money and keep people healthy,” Professor Davis said. “That comes back to bite you.”
681 2010-07-21 On a conference call with reporters on Tuesday, the focus remained on the S.E.C.’s suit and the after-effects of the settlement. Goldman’s chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, struck an apologetic tone when it came it to the case but insisted Goldman’s sterling image had not been tarnished.

“We acknowledge that we made a mistake, we regret that we made a mistake and we know it was not good for us,” he said. “I can’t tell you if there were calls that we didn’t get; that’s impossible to measure. We feel that our clients have been pretty supportive of us, so far as we can tell.”

Besides the weak trading results, the lackluster numbers also reflected weakness across a range of businesses, including its investment banking unit. “It was really driven by lack of client activity and lack of revenue,” said Mr. Viniar.

In a sign of just how unpredictable investors can be, Goldman’s stock jumped despite the disappointing results, as investors concluded the worst was behind the 141-year old firm. Shares of Goldman rose $3.23, to close at $148.91.

What’s more, Goldman’s employees are on track for what could still turn out to be a very good year. Goldman has set aside $9.3 billion for bonuses and other compensation so far this year — down 18 percent from the first half of 2009 — but enough to equal more than $500,000 per employee at the firm, which has a work force of 34,100.

Goldman’s traders have long aroused envy across Wall Street for their ability to prosper in markets good and bad, but they lost the Midas touch in the spring, especially when it came to trading stocks. As clients bet on rising volatility, Goldman took the other side of the trade, leaving it on the losing end when volatility did in fact surge.

“We didn’t hedge it fast enough,” Mr. Viniar said in a conference call with analysts after the earnings announcement. “Things spiked really dramatically, really fast.”

Mr. Viniar said he did not foresee any changes in Goldman’s top ranks as a result of the settlement. Nor did he foresee the firm giving up the bank status it hastily received after the collapse of Lehman Brothers. As a result of the overhaul legislation approved by Congress last week, banks will face new restrictions on trading as well as investing in private equity and hedge funds.

The new rules will still permit the kind of trades on which Goldman was caught by surprise, however, because they were done on behalf of clients, underscoring how difficult it will be for regulators to distinguish between proprietary trading and serving customers. Other financial giants, like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Citigroup, also reported disappointing results from their trading operations when they announced second-quarter results. Morgan Stanley, Goldman’s longtime rival, is to report its results on Wednesday.

In addition to the $550 million S.E.C. penalty, Goldman also had a one-time charge of $600 million for a tax on industry bonuses that was imposed in Britain.

In the second quarter, net income totaled $613 million, or 78 cents a share, down from $3.43 billion or $4.93 a share, in the same period a year ago. Revenue fell 36 percent, to $8.84 billion from $13.76 billion.

Analysts had been expecting net income of $1.23 billion, or $2.08 a share, on revenue of $8.98 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.

“It’s a weak quarter, that happens,” said Roger Freeman, an analyst with Barclays. “But I wonder to some extent whether any of this quarter’s trading results could be attributed to distractions that management was facing, both around financial reform legislation and the S.E.C. investigation. I wonder if that took away from their focus on markets.”

Goldman Sachs won court approval of a $550 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.

United States District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan granted final approval on Tuesday to the accord. Goldman acknowledged that it made a “mistake” and that marketing materials were “incomplete.”
682 2010-07-21 Chicken cooked on a beer can is served with potatoes and sweet peppers....
683 2010-07-21 MORRISSEY--Kevin. Bonnie Pressman, Kitty Silverman and the Board of Directors and staff of Women At Risk mourn the sudden passing of Kevin Morrissey and would like to extend our deepest sympathies to Susan White Morrissey and her family. Our thoug...
684 2010-07-22 The Senate voted to include a proposed $30 billion lending program in a package of aid for small businesses, as two Republicans joined with Democrats to support the amendment....
685 2010-07-22 Apple acknowledges that a bug in Safari allows malicious Web sites to collect personal information from users and promises to fix the problem....
686 2010-07-22 An ailing dog in the West Village may be the world's oldest, but time is running out as his owners seek to prove his age....
687 2010-07-22 With Lincoln's pricing of the MKZ hybrid, experts say that the days of paying a premium for the technology may be coming to an end....
688 2010-07-22 The recession is formally considered over in New York City, but try telling that to the job market....
689 2010-07-22 The S.E.C.'s efforts to limit so-called 12b-1 mutual fund fees means investors will pay for advice differently....
690 2010-07-22 "My wife and I (both senior citizens) would like to spend a week or so in Crete."...
691 2010-07-22 Fashion designers have been somewhat slow to embrace the more commercial elements of modern technology, like selling their clothes online or on mobile devices, perhaps hesitant about sullying their brands. Social media, however, they seem to have ...
692 2010-07-22 An independent inquiry enlists a lawyer who has led a variety of white-collar, product liability, financial fraud and antitrust litigation....
693 2010-07-22 SurgiVision, a medical device maker, slashed the price of its expected initial public offering on Wednesday, The Associated Press reported....
694 2010-07-22 It seems like investors were feeling pretty good about Green Dot Wednesday, as the prepaid debit card company priced its initial public offering above the expected range....
695 2010-07-22 New York City's pensions funds for police officers, firefighters and civil employees are seeking proposals from hedge fund consultants as they weigh whether to invest in the loosely regulated investment pools, Bloomberg News reported....
696 2010-07-22 Morgan Stanley's post-crisis conversion to reducing risk finally seems to be paying off, Reuters Breakingviews says....
697 2010-07-22 Spirit Finance is up for sale, with its owners, including Macquarie Group, seeking about $3.5 billion for the American real estate investment trust, according to news reports....
698 2010-07-22 Student Opinion | Do the stars induce kids to change their behaviors?...
699 2010-07-22 Google, which makes the vast majority of its money selling search ads, said Wednesday that its venture capital arm has invested in Trada, a start-up that makes it easier for small businesses to buy those ads by crowdsourcing the work....
700 2010-07-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
701 2010-07-22 Detroit’s police chief, Warren Evans, resigned after just over a year on the job, the mayor’s office said Wednesday. Mayor Dave Bing did not offer a reason for the resignation, but he reprimanded the chief after the department’s handling of a May 16 raid on a home that left a 7-year-old girl dead from a police officer’s bullet. The raid was documented by a camera crew for A&E’s reality television show “The First 48.” At the time of his appointment last July, Mr. Evans was the third chief in less than a year.
702 2010-07-22 The literary agent Andrew Wylie said on Wednesday that he would begin his own publishing venture, called Odyssey Editions, which will produce e-book editions of titles by some of his clients, including Saul Bellow, John Updike and Philip Roth.

Mr. Wylie said his new company would focus on older titles whose digital rights are not owned by traditional publishers. The books will be available exclusively at Amazon’s Kindle store for two years.

In making the announcement Mr. Wylie opened a new front, and a possible negotiating tool, in a debate over e-book rights for what are called backlist titles. Many traditional publishers have said they own the electronic rights to those books, but some authors and their estates have disagreed, arguing that since the books were published before e-books existed, the digital rights were not explicitly sold to the publishers.

“The fact remains that backlist digital rights were not conveyed to publishers, and so there’s an opportunity to do something with those rights,” Mr. Wylie said in an interview.

Digital rights are rising in significance as e-books make up a growing percentage of the book market, and publishers have struggled to capture the rights to produce digital versions of their backlist books. But agents and authors have said for months that the digital royalty rate offered by most traditional publishers is far too low.
703 2010-07-22 Morgan Stanley’s postcrisis conversion to reducing risk finally seems to be paying off. James P. Gorman, its chief executive, presided over $1.4 billion of earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter, according to earnings released Wednesday. That is the first time in a year and a half that Morgan Stanley has managed to put in a more impressive performance than most of its competitors.

That wasn’t the result of raking in more revenue, although the bank’s top line increased slightly in both debt and equity underwriting, which none of its peers managed. And a $345 million tax benefit helped the bottom line. But what made Morgan Stanley stand out was Mr. Gorman’s traders. They showed greater resilience in last quarter’s choppy markets than others.

Fixed-income trading revenue, for example, fell just 14 percent. By comparison, that of Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs tumbled 33 to 40 percent in their second quarters. Granted, Morgan Stanley got more of a boost from the nonsensical accounting rule that requires firms to mark as income any drop in value of their own debt. Even allowing for that, though, Mr. Gorman’s shop did better than its rivals.

Revenue in equities trading, meanwhile, was flat compared with the first quarter — and down just 9 percent excluding the accounting gain on liabilities. That’s in stark contrast to the fall of a third or more at rival firms. Goldman’s equities revenue, for instance, halved after traders were caught holding the wrong side of the volatility-related bets made by clients.

Morgan Stanley still has work to do. Revenue may have declined by less, but its fixed-income desks still bring in no more than two-thirds of what their biggest rivals do. While the bank’s 12.2 percent return on equity was, on its face, solid given market conditions in the quarter, the figure is cut in half once accounting and tax gains are excluded.

Still, by sidestepping the latest trading pitfalls, Mr. Gorman showed admirable restraint. He didn’t give in to the all-too-common Wall Street temptation of chasing the outsize results of rivals. That should give shareholders comfort that the firm’s 18-month-old pledge to keep risk in check is more than just talk.
704 2010-07-22 OAKLAND, Calif. — This city, which has been at the vanguard of medical marijuana legalization on everything from taxation to trade schools to the unionization of marijuana workers, voted Tuesday to permit industrial-size marijuana farms.

After hours of public testimony, the City Council voted 5 to 2 to permit large-scale indoor marijuana plantations. The struggling city, which faces a $31 million deficit and has a 17 percent unemployment rate, estimates that the marijuana factories could bring in as much as $38 million annually in fees and taxes.

“As the industry continues to emerge and grow, we know that other cities are looking at this,” said Councilwoman Rebecca Kaplan, who is running for mayor. “It’s important for Oakland to be a vital part of the growth and development of licensed facilities.”

While the city has been one of the most welcoming in the state to medical marijuana purveyors, how the drug is grown has been largely unregulated. Oakland’s new law, which requires a final vote from the City Council next week, would bring large-scale marijuana cultivators above ground, mandating that they pay a $211,000 annual fee, provide security, conduct criminal background checks on employees, install camera surveillance and fire-safe electrical systems, and buy insurance.

If the plan receives final approval, the city would begin issuing large-scale production permits in January.

Last year, the city’s four licensed medical marijuana dispensaries sold some 6,000 pounds of marijuana worth $28 million and requiring approximately 45,000 square feet of space to grow. City officials estimate that farmers in the new facilities could produce 70,000 pounds a year.
705 2010-07-22 President Obama called on the Senate to approve the bill in a statement in the Rose Garden on Monday. “We all have to continue our efforts to do everything in our power to spur growth and hiring,” he said. “And I hope the Senate acts this week on a package of tax cuts and expanded lending for small businesses, where most of America’s jobs are created.”

He also raised the issue in his weekly radio and Internet address on Saturday. The White House said Mr. Obama would continue pushing for the bill.

“Small businesses are the engine of private sector job creation, and the president will fight against any attempts by the partisan minority to block progress on legislation that helps our economic recovery,” a spokeswoman, Amy Brundage, said.

Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the small-business committee, who is a main author of the legislation, said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, seemed intent on denying Mr. Obama and the Democrats a chance to pump up the economy ahead of the midterm elections.

“I think Senator McConnell knows and believes this bill could actually create millions of jobs and doesn’t want to give the president and Democrats credit for doing what we do, which is standing up for the middle class,” Ms. Landrieu said.

“If Democrats don’t stand for small business, I don’t know what we stand for,” she added. “I don’t want to go into this election standing for Wall Street and big business.”

The main point of disagreement is the centerpiece of the legislation: a proposed $30 billion lending program that would make credit available to small businesses through local banks. Some Republicans have decried the proposal as a mini “bailout” and said they would vote against it.

The most prominent potential Republican supporter of the bill, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and the senior Republican on the small-business committee, said Wednesday that she firmly opposed the $30 billion program because it echoed the huge bailout of Wall Street, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which has become a political liability for lawmakers who supported it even though many economists say it was a success.

“It has all the quality and features of the TARP program,” Ms. Snowe said in an interview outside the Senate chamber. “I think we’ve been down that road.”

With Ms. Snowe opposed, Democrats were trying to persuade other Republicans, including Senator George LeMieux of Florida, to support the bill but seemed to be coming up short. A senior Republican aide said the bill would be approved only if Democrats dropped the $30 billion plan. In a letter to Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell, the Independent Community Bankers of America and 29 state community banking associations urged approval of the lending plan.

If it is dropped, what would be left is a package of slightly more than $12 billion in tax breaks for small businesses, including provisions that would allow quicker tax write-downs of capital expenditures, known as accelerated depreciation, as well as a break on capital gains taxes from the sale of certain small-business stock if the stock is held for more than five years. Administration officials said a pared bill would still be helpful.

The bill would also expand several Small Business Administration loan programs, increasing loan limits and, in some cases, eliminating borrower fees. And it would allow small business to carry back general business tax credits to offset their tax bills from the previous five years.

Mr. McConnell said Mr. Obama and the Democrats had only themselves to blame for the delay in acting on the small-business measure, because they had repeatedly pulled it off the floor and had also denied Republicans an opportunity to offer amendments. “If the president wants to criticize someone for slowing it down, he should point the finger at his own party for repeatedly taking it off the floor,” Mr. McConnell said.

The extension of unemployment insurance provides benefits through November to millions of Americans who have been out of work for six months or more, ending a politically charged fight.

The $34 billion unemployment measure now heads to the House, where approval as early as Thursday was expected.

Democrats were harsh in their criticism of Republicans who held up the unemployment money by refusing to vote for it unless some way was found to keep the costs from being added to the deficit.
706 2010-07-22 The city went into decline after World War II, as growing car ownership made day trips to other destinations easy and air travel enticed affluent people to travel farther for their vacations. The arrival of casinos in 1978 lifted the city’s economy and image, but residents have long complained that too few of the benefits trickle down to what remains a largely poor city.

The advent of gambling at racetracks and other sites in Connecticut, Delaware, New York and Pennsylvania in recent years poses the most severe threat to Atlantic City in generations. This year, Atlantic City casino revenue is down almost 30 percent from the same period in 2006, and the casinos have shed about 12,000 jobs since then. In the first quarter of this year, 7 of the 11 casinos posted operating losses.

The decline has been felt far beyond the Boardwalk; the casino industry pumps nearly $1 billion in taxes into state and local governments each year. Mr. Christie is proposing to create an agency to take over an array of functions from the Atlantic City government and other bodies: reducing crime, promoting the area to tourists and helping finance new development.

While the new agency would include representatives of local government and the casino industry, it would give the state a strong hand where Mr. Christie said local government had failed.

The governor’s plan reveals the internal tug of war between his stance as a small-government conservative Republican in favor of privatization and his instincts as a pragmatic politician who has been more than willing to flex his muscles.

“I’m not somebody who goes to the idea of state takeovers of anything lightly,” Mr. Christie said. But he added that the unprecedented intervention was the only hope for making Atlantic City safer and, in turn, attracting investment in new casinos, conventions and other forms of entertainment.

“Atlantic City is dying,” he said. “If anybody’s got a better idea, come forward with it.”

Thus Mr. Christie demonstrated once again his willingness to reach for big goals and break some furniture along the way, and to push the state deep into what have traditionally been matters for local government. The proposal will also test his ability to propel his agenda through the Democrats who control the Legislature; they reacted warily to the plan.

Some Democrats complained that Mr. Christie’s announcement was designed to take the air out of the gambling “summit” that the Legislature plans to hold in Atlantic City on Aug. 5. And his plan to involve the state more heavily in Atlantic City, while withdrawing from the Meadowlands, met with resistance along predictable regional lines.

“Those proposals are of grave concern to legislators who represent the northern region of the state,” said the Assembly speaker, Sheila Y. Oliver, Democrat of Essex County. Ms. Oliver said the state should instead explore introducing gambling to the Meadowlands, an idea that South Jersey lawmakers say would be deadly to Atlantic City.

Stephen M. Sweeney, the Senate president, said the governor’s plan was less than met the eye.

“He wants to attract the best casino operators?” Mr. Sweeney said. “We already have most of them. More nongambling attractions? Yeah, we knew that. Anybody can figure out you need to do something about crime and clean the streets.”

Mr. Sweeney said the best hope of aiding Atlantic City would be to overturn a federal law that limits casino sports betting to Nevada, an idea the governor did not take up.

At the Meadowlands complex, the Izod Center has lost what were once its two major tenants, the Devils hockey team, in 2007, and the Nets basketball team, this year. Meadowlands Racetrack does a dwindling business. The Sports and Exposition Authority, which operates both sites and a few others, loses $30 million a year.

The governor’s plan calls for selling or leasing the Izod Center and the racetrack to private operators, but it is not clear that any would step forward.

Some $2 billion in public and private money has already been spent on Xanadu, a retail and entertainment complex near the sports arenas. But after ownership changes, cost overruns, recession and years of delay, the state says $875 million is still needed to finish it.

Rather than abandon the project, Mr. Christie endorsed the idea of using some state financing to help complete it, but he said that most of the money must come from private sources. His commission’s report said that if work did not proceed, the state should aggressively defend its rights, “including possible foreclosure and damages.”

Six months into his governorship, Mr. Christie in his speech on Wednesday took on several of the state’s longest-running and most intractable challenges. Now, any failures could become his.

“Atlantic City, Xanadu — these are big things that he can’t just wipe his hands and walk away from,” said Patrick Murray, the director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. “He’s taking a political risk, but he has to, and I think it’s a calculated one.”
707 2010-07-22 The N.H.L. rejected the Devils’ 17-year, $102 million contract with Ilya Kovalchuk because the Devils and Kovalchuk did not believe he would still be playing hockey in the final years of the deal, which would have expired when he was 44.

In a statement released Wednesday, Bill Daly, the deputy commissioner of the league, said: “The contract has been rejected by the league as a circumvention of the collective bargaining agreement.” He said Kovalchuk, who became an unrestricted free agent July 1, could not play under the contract.

A person with knowledge of the agreement, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to discuss it, said the league considered the contract a circumvention of the salary cap because Kovalchuk was to be paid $3.5 million over the last six years, with $550,000 in each of the last five seasons.

Because Kovalchuk’s contract was spread over 17 years — an unprecedented length — the salary cap figure for the Devils would have been $6 million a year. A 10-year deal would have produced an annual $10.2 million cap hit.

Jeff Vanderbeek, the Devils’ owner, said he would have no comment on the N.H.L.’s ruling. He did not say whether the Devils planned to renegotiate the contract with Kovalchuk’s agent, Jay Grossman, who also had no comment.
708 2010-07-22 After four bosses in five years, the intelligence community needs sustained and credible leadership. James Clapper Jr., who was nominated by President Obama to succeed the ousted Dennis Blair as director of national intelligence, certainly seems up to the job.

The problem is — as it has been for years — that the job is not up to the challenges that the nation faces.

Mr. Clapper, a retired Air Force lieutenant general, spent 40 years in government service, much of it in intelligence positions, including his current post as under secretary of defense for intelligence.

Mr. Clapper on Tuesday faced the Senate Intelligence Committee, which, of course, was greatly responsible for making sure the Office of the Director of National Intelligence did not have the needed resources or authority in the first place. Mr. Clapper persuaded us that he intends to try to take charge, but we’re not sure he fully recognizes the scope of that commitment.

The director’s job — the brainchild of the independent Sept. 11 commission — is supposed to tame rivalries among 16 competing agencies and provide strategic direction. Yet Congress deprived the director of the authority to set budgets or hire and fire leaders. Other intelligence power centers — the C.I.A., White House and Pentagon — have blocked the director from doing his job.
709 2010-07-22 The United States national team lost another big man, saying David Lee will miss the world championships next month because of an injured middle finger on his right hand. USA Basketball said Lee could miss six weeks. The Americans were already missing Amar’e Stoudemire and Robin Lopez, who pulled out Tuesday. The Knicks asked Stoudemire to withdraw because of a problem insuring his contract, while Lopez is rehabilitating a back injury.
710 2010-07-22 Saban said the N.F.L. should do a better job of policing agents. If not, he said, perhaps N.F.L. scouts and agents should be banned from campuses and be made to evaluate players some other way.

“We need to create some consequences for people who are not doing the right things here, which starts with the agent, in my opinion, who is entrapping and taking advantage of young people,” Saban said. “There’s a lot of good agents out there that don’t do this stuff.”

There has been a barrage of accusations of agents giving benefits to college players, which has resulted in N.C.A.A. investigations at North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida this week. Southern California was severely sanctioned by the N.C.A.A. because Reggie Bush received improper benefits from an agent.

The N.C.A.A. is investigating an allegation that the former Florida offensive lineman Maurkice Pouncey, a first-round pick of the Steelers, received $100,000 from an agent last December before the Gators’ Sugar Bowl game against Cincinnati. Mike Pouncey, his twin brother, said here that the allegation was false.

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution is reporting that the N.C.A.A. is investigating whether Georgia players received improper benefits from agents.

“It’s an epidemic, and the epidemic needs to get fixed,” said Urban Meyer, the Florida coach. Meyer said the Gators have security around the team, not to keep away fans, but to keep agents and their representatives from contacting players.

Mike Slive, the commissioner of the SEC, said it was time to re-examine the N.C.A.A. rules related to agents, but he also said, “I don’t mean in a moment to excuse conduct that is inappropriate by student-athletes.”

Brad Blank, a Boston-based agent, said banning agents and N.F.L. teams from campus will only embolden those operating outside the rules.

“The solution is not to ban the N.F.L. and agents, it is to get the administration and coaches more involved in educating the players and bringing the agents into a proper forum,” Blank said. “There are programs where they have a period where agents can visit the players, but it is all done right in front of the coaches, and it gives the guys who are going to try and slip in the back of a dorm less of an advantage.”

Cindrich said improprieties involving agents and players work both ways. Many states have laws to prosecute agents who offer benefits, but the players and their families need to bear some of the responsibility for taking those gifts, he said.

“The players don’t have criminal liability for any of this improper contact, and each and every one of them is of age to face penalty,” Cindrich said. “If you look back at each landmark case on this issue, each and every one of the players knew what they were doing.”
711 2010-07-22 We can’t let prize educators like Joyce Irvine be victim to the perils of bureaucracy and one-sided judgment. Our children are just too important.

Using test scores to evaluate students and teachers seems like a good idea, but it ignores the realities of teaching students who have vastly different backgrounds and aptitudes.

President Obama’s Race to the Top is yet another well-intentioned program that’s far too prescriptive and ignores important classroom realities. It’s another shot in the dark by elite planners who didn’t bother listening to classroom teachers and, as a result, chose the wrong tools.

Under President George W. Bush, school districts lost federal funds if they failed to meet specific benchmarks. But President Obama’s program won’t even give the fiscally strapped states the money until certain policies are in place.

The writer is professor emeritus at the College of Education and Human Ecology, Ohio State University.

Readers of the column should understand that the formulas defining failing schools under Race to the Top and its predecessor, No Child Left Behind, are a poor fit for schools that enroll large numbers of non-English-speaking students.

Wheeler Elementary in Burlington, Vt., is an extreme example, but countless effective schools here in California and elsewhere have been sanctioned under these provisions of the law.

I hope that Race to the Top’s achievement formulas will be refined to measure these students’ yearly progress toward the goal of English literacy and school achievement, and perhaps to exempt new arrivals from testing for their first year in American schools.

The writer is a former president of California Teachers of English to Students of Other Languages, a statewide professional organization.

The search for a new principal for the Wheeler Elementary School in Burlington, Vt., should be successful. The search, required to comply with the rules for federal grant applications, should be able to find a principal who is knowledgeable about Burlington, who is a central office employee in the district, and who is an acknowledged school improvement specialist who has been successful in turning around a high-poverty school.

That person is Joyce Irvine, the former principal of the Wheeler Elementary School.

The writer is a former school superintendent in Erving, Mass., and the founder and current co-director of the Teacher Licensure programs at the Hampshire Educational Collaborative in Northampton, Mass.
712 2010-07-22 WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal regulators will take at least two more weeks to work out the details of a proposed agreement with Intel to settle charges that the chip maker violated antitrust laws.

The Federal Trade Commission said late Wednesday that it needed more time to consider and negotiate the proposed settlement, which was first announced last month.

The agency brought antitrust charges against Intel last year, accusing the company of using illegal sales tactics to preserve its dominant share of the market for computer chips.

The case, which is before an administrative law judge at the trade commission, had been delayed for a month while the two sides tried to reach an agreement. That timeline was set to run out at midnight on Thursday.
713 2010-07-22 TEHRAN — Iran fired a new salvo on Wednesday in what is becoming a bizarre propaganda war over the supposed defection and later return of an Iranian nuclear scientist, with Iran’s semiofficial media suggesting that he was a covert operative who had provided “valuable information” about the Central Intelligence Agency’s inner workings.

American officials have said that the scientist, Shahram Amiri, was a C.I.A. informant for years in Iran, providing “significant” information about Iran’s nuclear program and voluntarily defecting to the United States in 2009. Mr. Amiri returned to Iran last week, saying he had been abducted and tortured by American authorities.

Iran now appears to be turning those claims around, casting Mr. Amiri — whose fate seemed uncertain after his return last week — as the double-agent hero of a plan to outwit American intelligence agencies and provide false nuclear data. His story is being made into a television movie by a company affiliated with Iran’s state network, said the semiofficial Fars news agency.

“This was an intelligence war between the C.I.A. and us, which was planned and managed by Iran,” said an unidentified “informed source” cited by Fars, which has close ties to the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.

The person referred to as a source said Mr. Amiri had begun working with Iranian agents as soon as they were able to contact him this year, providing a list of other Iranians whom the C.I.A. intended to abduct and other information. As examples, the person cited the license plate numbers of two cars said to be used by the agency, and a code name for one of them — “spitfire.”
714 2010-07-22 Eminem has notched a fourth week at No. 1 on the Billboard album chart, beating out new albums by Korn, Newsboys, Sting and M.I.A. Eminem’s “Recovery” (Aftermath/Interscope) sold another 196,000 copies in the United States last week, Nielsen SoundScan reported. Korn’s “Korn III: Remember Who You Are” (Roadrunner) is the highest charting new release, opening at No. 2 with 63,000 sales. Other new albums included “Born Again” (Inpop) by the Christian rock band Newsboys, which reached No. 4 with 45,000 sales. Drake’s “Thank Me Later” (Aspire/Young Money/Cash Money) fell one spot to No. 3 with 50,000 sales and, in its 17th week on the chart, Justin Bieber’s “My World 2.0” (Island) sold 41,000 copies to take the fifth spot, bringing its total to just under 1.5 million.
715 2010-07-22 The company missed an interest payment in late May on part of its $640 million in bank loans. It is currently in talks with its lenders to fix its tilting finances. Oriental Trading, which mails out 300 million catalogs annually, has been hit hard by rising postal costs.

But the company, with annual revenue of about $485 million, has also struggled to shoulder the mountain of debt stemming from its leveraged buyout by Carlyle, whose private equity empire includes brand names like Hertz, AMC Entertainment, Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins.

Carlyle bought Oriental Trading from another private equity firm in a deal valued at $1 billion in the midst of the biggest buyout boom in history.

Critics contend that private equity firms sometimes saddle the companies they buy with dangerous levels of debt. So far, however, these investment firms have proven to be extremely astute at shepherding their companies through the recession. Many have negotiated with lenders to delay loan payments or ease the terms on their companies’ debts.

“The banks continue to try to work and do what they can with troubled borrowers,” said Scott Tuhy, an analyst with Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded Oriental Trading’s debt earlier this month. “It seems they would rather avoid a bankruptcy filing in many of these cases.”

Among the possible outcomes is that Oriental Trading could be sold to another firm, it could declare bankruptcy or the banks could take it over, wiping out the investment made by Carlyle.

“This investment didn’t work out the way we expected, but our overall portfolio is in very good shape,” Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Carlyle, said in a statement. He declined to make any further statements because of current negotiations.

Oriental Trading traces its history back to the Great Depression, when Harry Watanabe, a Japanese immigrant, bought a gift shop in Omaha. He built the business one Kewpie doll at a time, selling his cheap imports to traveling carnivals from a trailer hooked up to the family car, according to an article in Forbes magazine.

Later, his son, Terry, took over the business and increased sales by shipping catalogs to church groups, schools and the offices of pediatricians.

In January 2000, Brentwood Associates, a Los Angeles private equity firm, took a stake in Oriental Trading for an undisclosed amount. Six years later, Carlyle swooped in.

Terry Watanabe, who has not had any investment in Oriental Trading since 2006, has struggled in recent years. He claimed that Harrah’s Entertainment had provided him with prescription pain medication and alcohol that he claims fueled his gambling spree.

This month, local prosecutors in Las Vegas dropped criminal charges against Mr. Watanabe for the debt he owes the casino. Harrah’s and Mr. Watanabe agreed to dismiss their civil lawsuits and enter arbitration. A spokesman for Mr. Watanabe declined to comment on the case.

Sales declined at Oriental Trading, which had 30 consecutive years of revenue growth before it was acquired by Carlyle, when consumers sharply curbed their spending in 2008. Meanwhile, postal rates soared by 20 percent, causing the company to reduce the number of catalogs it mailed.

“They slowed down some of the mailings to save money, but that meant fewer customers received catalogs and fewer placed orders,” said Mr. Tuhy of Moody’s.

In an e-mailed statement, a spokesman for Oriental Trading said: “Despite a challenging economic environment the past two years, Oriental Trading Company has stabilized its revenues over the past six months.”

Early last year, Oriental Trading negotiated waivers on the terms of some of its loans with the banks after it became clear the company was going to breach them. But those waivers will expire in mid-August, and cash on its books had fallen to just $5.7 million in early April from $17.4 million earlier in the year, according to analysts at Standard & Poor’s.

“They are burning through cash,” said Mariola Borysiak, an analyst with S.& P.
716 2010-07-22 The trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s investment firm has demanded more than $3.6 billion in damages in an expanded lawsuit against a hedge fund firm and individuals who he said had helped Mr. Madoff run his Ponzi scheme.

Forty-three defendants, including Walter Noel, the co-founder of the Fairfield Greenwich Group, were added on Tuesday to the year-old lawsuit filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan by Irving H. Picard, the court-appointed trustee seeking to repay victims of Mr. Madoff’s $65 billion fraud.

In a 217-page complaint that amends his May 2009 lawsuit against three other Fairfield Greenwich defendants, Mr. Picard sought to undo several billion dollars of transfers that Fairfield Greenwich had funneled to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities.

The trustee is also trying to recover “many hundreds of millions of dollars” in stolen customer property that he said the Fairfield Greenwich defendants received from Mr. Madoff in return.

“Every dollar the defendants purportedly ‘earned,’ and every dollar they kept to unjustly enrich themselves, was stolen money,” Mr. Picard’s lawyers wrote in the complaint.
717 2010-07-22 The fees originated in the 1970s when the industry was struggling to attract assets. The theory behind the fees was that using some of the fund’s assets to attract investments would allow a fund to grow, achieving economies of scale, and lowering the cost of managing the fund that investors were charged.

But once the fees were in place, they rarely varied, and as the industry grew 12b-1 fees became a bonanza for fund companies and their sales forces. From a few million dollars in 1980, the fees ballooned to $9.5 billion in 2009; in 2007, they were $13 billion because funds had more assets before the financial crisis.

The proposal would limit the cumulative sales fee paid over the life of an investment to the highest one charged by the fund for shares that have an upfront sales fee, also known as a load fee. For example, if one class of a fund’s shares charges a 4 percent front-end sales fee, investors in other classes of the same fund’s could not be charged more than 4 percent of their investment over time.

Funds that do not charge an upfront fee for any class of shares — known as no-load funds — would have to limit their marketing and service fees to 25 basis points a year and spell out any additional fees for compensating distributors or sales agents.

John Rekenthaler, the vice president for research at Morningstar, which tracks mutual fund performance, applauded the competition and transparency that the S.E.C. proposal could produce but said that it could go further in disclosing what fund companies are paying for.

The S.E.C. proposal would allow a fund company, if it chose, to let brokers set their own sales fees rather than be bound by the upfront charge specified by the fund company in its prospectus. The intent of that is to encourage competition, much as the ending of fixed commissions for stock brokers in the 1970s led to lower commissions paid by investors. “This is a major proposal that will finally address the thorny issue of fund distribution,” said Jay G. Baris, a lawyer with Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel specializing in mutual fund issues. “I think this will create more competition, and the hopes are that out of that investors can pick and choose the services that they want to pay for.”

Robert M. Kurucza, a law partner at Goodwin Procter, which represents some of the largest fund companies, and who served as an assistant director of the S.E.C. division that oversees mutual funds, said that if the proposals were adopted, “they could have extraordinary ramifications in the marketplace for how mutual funds are sold and marketed.”

Not all of those ramifications are necessarily good, Mr. Kurucza said. In a world where investors are increasingly responsible for managing their retirement assets, intermediaries can give advice on asset allocation and performance. Limiting the amounts of money available to compensate those advisers could have the unintended consequence of limiting the advice available to investors, he said.

Exactly what the implications of the proposed changes will be is uncertain in part because the proposal is extraordinarily complicated. As published on the S.E.C.’s Web site, the proposalruns 278 pages with 575 footnotes.
718 2010-07-22 Those antidoping programs have weeded out many of the riders who dope, making it easier for clean competitors to win, Voeckler and other riders say.

The French riders are known to be some of the cleanest athletes because France’s antidoping laws, which include mandatory testing of hair samples, are so strict. Those antidoping rules were instituted over time, after a doping scandal involving a top French team at the 1998 Tour embarrassed the country.

“What I can say is that cycling has changed a lot over the last few years, and the French are benefiting because the competition is more level,” Voeckler said. “There is a lot more equality among the teams. The antidoping programs have improved a lot, so we believe we really have a chance to win.”

As many as 600 doping tests will be conducted at this Tour, said the International Cycling Union president, Pat McQuaid. So far there have been no positive tests.

Last year’s Tour had one positive test — and that result was announced after the Tour ended. Mikel Astarloza of Spain, who won Stage 16 last year, had tested positive for the blood-booster EPO about a week before the Tour began.

But the wave of doping cases in years past, with riders testing positive for previously undetectable types of EPO, steroids and other banned drugs, nearly brought down the sport. Sponsors and television stations began to turn their backs, particularly after Floyd Landis won the 2006 Tour, then tested positive for synthetic testosterone.

So the sport buckled down. In 2008 the cycling union started a biological passport program, monitoring levels of certain blood markers in every rider. Any variation in those levels may indicate doping and thus warrant further testing or an outright penalty.

Another example of the sport’s antidoping fight can be seen at the finish lines of this Tour.

Chaperons wearing black vests wait for the riders to finish, then make a frantic dash for them. The chaperons are mandated by the cycling union to watch over riders until they have provided urine or blood samples, or sometimes both, for drug testing.

Independent observers from the World Anti-Doping Agency, which is monitoring the antidoping procedures and the collection of samples, say that chaperons appeared at the Tour three years ago. Before then, riders were often not supervised before providing their urine or blood samples.

In 2003, the last time officials from WADA monitored the sample collection and drug-testing at the Tour, riders also were notified on race radio 20 minutes beforehand if they had been chosen to provide a urine or blood sample. “Some kind of manipulation could have taken place,” the antidoping agency’s final report said.

Back then, parts of the sample collection process were sloppy, with many holes in the system, the agency said in its report.

David Millar, a member of WADA’s athlete committee who rides for Team Garmin-Transitions, said that in those days it would have been easy for dopers to escape detection. He recalled the Tour’s time trial in 2003, a stage he won. He said he sat around for three or four hours after his ride “doing whatever I wanted” before ending up on the podium and providing samples for drug testing.

“One of the reasons they brought chaperons here was because they realized people had the time to tamper and find ways to alter their samples, and that people were playing around to get around the drug tests,” said Millar, who in 2004 admitted using EPO, then served a two-year suspension. “There was absolutely no guarantee that riders who were doping back then were caught.”

Millar said that a few years ago some riders were known to put a type of protein on their hands to dilute the presence of EPO in their urine samples. So now, Millar said, the riders must wash their hands or don plastic gloves before providing a sample.

“There’s a specific reason for everything in the antidoping process, based on intelligence,” he said.

“The agencies are doing everything they can to keep the sport clean.”

This year the Tour’s drug-testing process has an extra level of scrutiny. A team of two to three observers from WADA is here and will provide a report on the Tour’s sample collection process and drug testing.

“What we are doing is seeing whether they are conducting an antidoping program that is compliant,” said David Howman, WADA’s director general. “Cycling’s definitely had its big doping problems, but I don’t think there’s any doubt that they are spending a lot of time, money and effort to show that they are trying to eradicate doping in their sport.”
719 2010-07-22 Democrats, however — among them Rahm Emanuel, then the congressman in charge of Democratic House campaigns — framed the race primarily as a national referendum on the governing party and its president. They got their wish.

Now, of course, in one of those classic Washington turnabouts, it is Mr. Rove and his brethren who frame the midterm elections as a national referendum on the Democratic agenda. Republicans offered a vivid, if less-than-subtle preview of this strategy during a special election for a Pennsylvania House seat in the spring, when they unleashed several advertisements that barely mentioned the Democratic candidate and eventual winner, Mark Critz. Instead, the ads featured House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who to conservatives embodies all the excesses of the liberal status quo. In one, a 50-foot Pelosi lumbered Frankenstein-like through the helpless countryside.

This week, the Republican Senate nominee in Missouri, Roy Blunt, started showing an ad that concludes with a promise that he will “work for Missouri, not Barack Obama.”

And now it is Mr. Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, who tells anyone who will listen that elections are about choosing between divergent paths. In fact, the White House is trying to frame November in the public mind as a choice not simply between two parties and their agendas, but between two presidents and their eras.

Since the Republicans have, at the moment, no obvious elected leader, Democrats have tried to insert Mr. Bush into the role, implying that a Republican victory in November would somehow unravel the space-time continuum and land us all back in the dark days of steroid hearings and Janet Jackson’s wardrobe malfunction, a time of marauding Wall Street traders and “with-us-or-against-us” foreign policy. In a stunt this week, for instance, Democrats in Washington challenged more than a dozen Republican Senate candidates to name “two policy differences with former President Bush.” No one took them up on it.

An important question in all this is why Democrats should have to fear a referendum at all. After all, Mr. Obama inherited a perilous economy from his predecessor, and his party has passed a series of consequential laws, including a long-sought overhaul of health care and new regulations for Wall Street and credit cards. And yet all indications are that voters in much of the country — and particularly independent voters — remain furious with Democratic incumbents.

There are several trendy explanations for this “paradox,” as commentators have taken to calling it. Conservatives posit that the problem is ideological — that laws enacted by Congress have simply been too liberal for the voters. The president’s allies, meanwhile, suggest that voters are blaming the party in power for a stubbornly sluggish economy. It’s hard for Democrats to argue, for instance, that a $787 billion stimulus package saved or created some three million jobs when voters in some states are still reeling from double-digit unemployment.

It’s just as likely, though, that much of the dissatisfaction with the governing party can be traced back to this whole choice-versus-referendum conundrum. Back in 2006, when Democrats were trying to figure out how to run against the Republican majorities, there was argument inside the party about whether they needed to offer some competing framework of ideas for the nation, or whether the more prudent course was to ask for a vote of no confidence on the party in power and leave it at that.

The consensus, in the end, was that there was no point in muddying a nice, clean referendum with a lot of controversial notions of governance. So Democrats issued a pamphlet with gauzy notions of “broad prosperity” and health care for all, but almost nothing by way of specific policies or the costs involved. This campaign-by-referendum worked so well that Democrats barely altered the formula in 2008, when Mr. Obama and his party’s Congressional candidates ran, successfully, under the vague banner of “change.”

The problem with this strategy was that “change” meant wildly different things to different people, and neither of these elections amounted to a mandate for any discernible set of choices. The stimulus bill and the health care law may or may not have been good policy, but the sheer scope and cost of those agenda items seemed to jolt a lot of the independent voters who had conditionally supported Mr. Obama. Having failed to establish a rationale for such expansive measures during the campaign, Democrats were easily caricatured by their adversaries as a bunch of 1970s liberals who would spend money wherever they could.

The relevant lesson here, perhaps, is that the choice-versus-referendum question is also a trade-off, on some level, between short-term and long-term considerations. As Democrats proved in 2006 and in 2008, the path of least resistance is to seek a referendum on the current leadership, which chronically anxious voters seem inclined to jettison every few election cycles.

But as Republicans may find out if they win in November, a successful referendum only helps you gain power. Gaining the trust of voters is something different altogether.
720 2010-07-22 Not a lot seemed to faze her. She took in stride urban commotion, the assorted indignities of travel, the novelty of seat belts, in-flight movies and also elevators, escalators, yellow cabs, mattresses and the abundant forms so standard in life that could be unnerving to an illiterate whose signature is a print of her thumb.

“I already experienced the biggest change in my life,” she said, speaking a Gujarati dialect through an interpreter, “when I first got the chance to come out of my house and participate in society.”

Ms. Parmar’s moment of liberation came roughly 20 years ago, when the not-for-profit Sewa Project formed a unit in her village to help preserve endangered handicrafts and, equally, to provide the people who make them a form of alternative employment.

“We never even thought of getting income from selling this stuff before,” said Ms. Parmar, who sews patchwork embroideries that incorporate vivid threads and reflective shards laboriously cut by hand from mirror scrap she buys by the pound.

The cloth, at least, may be familiar to readers, since it is the kind used in the making of a slouchy “It” bag being hauled around this summer by Cameron Diaz, Nicole Richie and other celebrity entities.

The price tag on a satchel made from mirrored patchwork and bearing the label Simone Camille is about $2,000, a sum equivalent to two years of Ms. Parmar’s income. Yet even on the modest $60 a month she earns sewing pillow covers that require almost a week’s work and that sell in her local market for $15 a pair, she has become the family’s chief breadwinner. She holds title to her own cattle, has a personal account with a microfinance credit union and is quick to point out that while this may seem insignificant to a New Yorker accustomed to such symbols of Western wealth as reliable electricity and plumbing, it is considered a vast change in circumstance for a woman from rural India, even now.

“When I was a girl, all the assets belonged to the father or the husband or the brother,” Ms. Parmar said Friday. Squatting on the floor of the Asia Society’s grand marble lobby, she demonstrated her technique for cutting mirror shards into diamond, oval and triangular shapes and a pointed form called a “crow,” using the sharpened edge of a terra cotta roof tile. She multitasked ceaselessly, stopping to spread out pillow covers for one buyer’s approval, and explain the eye-dazzling motifs she uses to another, all the while keeping a sharp eye on the sales totals, eyeglasses perched at the tip of her nose.

“In those days, the husband was in charge of everything,” she explained to a visitor. “What could you do, with no skills and no education?”

Now as a globetrotter, an informal ambassador for Sewa and the Crafts Council of India — one of a growing number of groups committed to preserving traditional folkways in India, a country where, by some estimates, 40 million to 60 million people gain at least part of their living making handicrafts — she finds herself in circumstances she could never have foreseen.

She flies around the world on her own. She takes taxis. She shops at Walgreens and somehow manages to domesticate the experience of visiting a world-class museum like the Met by finding creative kinship there between her own utilitarian patchworks (“We never wasted a scrap of fabric,” she said) and a Malian mud cloth or a Sudanese tent divider embroidered with Venetian trade beads and cowrie shells. She proselytizes in an easy and natural way for the importance of educating women, getting them out of the house and into jobs.

Thanks to the work she does now, she says, with a high-pitched hoot, her role in family life inverts that played by the generations of women who came before her.

“Now that I have my own business and make my own money, my husband shows me respect,” Ms. Parmar said. There are even occasions, she said, when he helps her out with her accounts. “He’s my secretary,” she added with a laugh.
721 2010-07-22 WASHINGTON — President Obama signed a sweeping expansion of federal financial regulation on Wednesday, signaling perhaps the Democrats’ last major legislative victory before the midterm elections in November, which could recast the Congressional landscape.

Within minutes of the bill signing, several Wall Street groups were leveling criticism at the new regulations, reflecting Mr. Obama’s increasingly fractious relations with corporate America.

The Business Roundtable complained in a statement that the law “takes our country in the wrong direction” and may discourage investment and job growth, echoing concerns made by the United States Chamber of Commerce and other business organizations.

In a signal that Wall Street is ready to keep lobbying as regulators work out the details of how to apply the new law, Larry Burton, the roundtable’s executive director, said: “We will work with President Obama and policy makers to ensure this legislation is implemented in a manner that continues to promote sustainable economic growth and job creation.”

Still, Democrats and White House officials were euphoric about passage of the legislation, a response to the 2008 financial crisis that tipped the nation into the worst recession since the Great Depression.

The law subjects more financial companies to federal oversight and regulates many derivatives contracts while creating a consumer protection regulator and a panel to detect risks to the financial system.

A number of the details have been left for regulators to work out, inevitably setting off complicated tangles down the road that could last for years.

But “because of this law, the American people will never again be asked to foot the bill for Wall Street’s mistakes,” Mr. Obama said before signing the legislation. “There will be no more taxpayer-funded bailouts. Period.”

He was surrounded by a group of mostly Democratic lawmakers and advocates of the overhaul legislation, including the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, as well as Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairmen of crucial committees involved in developing the legislation.

The White House orchestrated a major signing ceremony at the Ronald Reagan Building across from the Commerce Department to trumpet the new law.

Mr. Obama took pains to try to show how the complex legislation, with its dense pages on derivatives practices, will protect ordinary Americans.

“If you’ve ever applied for a credit card, a student loan or a mortgage, you know the feeling of signing your name to pages of barely understandable fine print,” Mr. Obama said. “But what often happens as a result is that many Americans are caught by hidden fees and penalties, or saddled with loans they can’t afford.”

He said the law would crack down on abusive practices in the mortgage industry, simplifying contracts and ending hidden fees and penalties, “so folks know what they’re signing.”

The law expands federal banking and securities regulation from its focus on banks and public markets, subjecting a wider range of financial companies to government oversight.

It also imposes regulation for the first time on opaque markets like the enormous trade in credit derivatives.

It creates a council of federal regulators, led by the Treasury secretary, to coordinate the detection of risks to the financial system, and it provides new powers to constrain and even dismantle troubled companies.

And it creates a powerful regulator, to be appointed by the president and housed in the Federal Reserve, to protect consumers of financial products.

The first visible result may come in about two years, the deadline for the consumer regulator to create a simplified disclosure form for mortgage loans.

Mr. Obama acknowledged three Republican senators — Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts — who broke with their party to approve the bill, saying that they “put partisanship aside, judged the bill on the merits and voted for reform.”
722 2010-07-22 This Turkish grilled eggplant purée is much like the Middle Eastern classic baba ganoush, with yogurt standing in for tahini. When grilling whole eggplants, seek out smaller ones.

2 garlic cloves, mashed in a mortar and pestle with a generous pinch of salt (more to taste)

1. Prepare a hot grill. Pierce the eggplants in a few places with the tip of a knife or with a skewer. Grill until they are uniformly charred and the flesh is very soft and beginning to ooze. Transfer to a bowl, and cover tightly. Allow the eggplants to cool until you can handle them, then remove their skins and stems and discard any juice in the bowl.

2. Transfer the eggplant pulp to a food processor fitted with the steel blade or to a bowl. Mash with a fork, or purée in the food processor. Add the remaining ingredients, and combine well. Taste and adjust seasonings. The purée will be slightly runny, but it will stiffen up. Transfer to a serving bowl. Serve warm or room temperature with pita bread or crudités.

Advance preparation: Although this is best served warm, you may prepare it hours ahead and serve it at room temperature, or reheat for about 30 seconds in a microwave.

Nutritional information per serving: 65 calories; 3 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 milligrams cholesterol; 8 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 5 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 2 grams protein
723 2010-07-23 Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who was fired by President Obama last month after disparaging remarks by him and his staff members about top civilian leaders appeared in Rolling Stone magazine, retired in a military ceremony Friday night at Fort McNai...
724 2010-07-23 E-mails released by the S.E.C. show how hard it was for Dell executives to give up rewards doled out by Intel for remaining a one chip shop....
725 2010-07-23 Robert E. Diamond Jr., the president of Barclays, has a lot to say about bank bailouts, stress tests and executive bonuses....
726 2010-07-23 Wisdom, insights and observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section....
727 2010-07-23 Chuck Townsend, the chief executive at Condé Nast, talks about management and strategic shifts at the company....
728 2010-07-23 Laptop magazine rates the best support for laptop owners....
729 2010-07-23 Microsoft has signaled an intention to take more drastic action in mobile device and low power computing through a new tie-up with ARM....
730 2010-07-23 Subaru is recalling some 2010-11 Outbacks and Legacys because of a problem with the transmission....
731 2010-07-23 Saying "we can't afford any more political games,'' the president called on lawmakers to act on a small-business jobs proposal before the August recess....
732 2010-07-23 Elton John and Lee Hall are adapting a well-known novel about some pigs, and it isn't "Charlotte's Web."...
733 2010-07-23 Edward Jones ranked highest for investor satisfaction among full-service brokerage firms, according to a new study from J.D. Power & Associates....
734 2010-07-23 J. D. Power ranks Edward Jones highest for overall satisfaction....
735 2010-07-23 AMC will let fans watch the season premiere an hour before it is shown on television....
736 2010-07-23 What the pricing of the upcoming Lincoln hybrid may mean, why you may want to lose weight and other consumer-focused items from Friday's Times....
737 2010-07-23 The bill would provide up to $30 billion to banks with less than $10 billion in assets at interest rates meant to encourage small-business loans....
738 2010-07-23 Also in the Morning Buzz: Representative Rangel must face the House ethics committee; disturbing evidence is found in the rubble of a Staten Island fire; and more regional news....
739 2010-07-23 Shares of cleantech company Ameresco rose slightly in their debut Thursday, after the company priced shares of an initial public offering far below the expected range, raising $87 million, The Associated Press reported....
740 2010-07-23 The enthusiasm over Green Dot continued Thursday as its shares soared more than 20 percent Thursday in its market debut, after the prepaid debit card provider raised more than it expected in its initial public offering, The Associated Press report...
741 2010-07-23 Robust quarterly results from some of the nation's bellwether companies galvanized Wall Street on Thursday....
742 2010-07-23 A small swivel-gun, esp. one mounted on the back of a camel. Hence zumboorukchee, a gunner....
743 2010-07-23 After two losses at the Sparkassen Chess-Meeting in Dortmund, Shakhriyar Mamedyarov beat Peter Leko on Thursday, further burying Leko in last place....
744 2010-07-23 Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of the Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah, said Thursday that he had been told that members of the group would be indicted by a United Nations tribunal investigating the 2005 killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri of Lebanon, left. Mr. Nasrallah said Mr. Hariri’s son Saad Hariri, who became prime minister of a unity government last year, had told him that “undisciplined” members of Hezbollah would be accused. “We firmly reject the accusation of any Hezbollah member,” Mr. Nasrallah said.
745 2010-07-23 A Russian released from a lengthy prison term by Moscow as part of a spy exchange with the United States said Thursday that he wanted to return to Russia. The man, Igor V. Sutyagin, was one of four Russians released in a trade for 10 sleeper agents. A former arms-control researcher, he has adamantly denied that he ever spied or even handled classified information. Apparently now in Britain, he issued a statement saying he wanted to see his family.
746 2010-07-23 David Oliver failed to set a world record but still won the men’s 110-meter hurdles while his fellow American Tyson Gay matched the season’s second-best time of 19.72 seconds in winning the 200 at the Monaco Diamond League event Thursday. Oliver, on a newly refurbished track and with a slight tail wind, set the meet record in 13.01. Last week in Paris, Oliver ran in 12.89, 0.02 of a second short of Dayron Robles’s world record.
747 2010-07-23 But overall trading revenue fell 27 percent from the previous quarter, to 3.16 billion francs. Trading in bonds dropped 46 percent even as equity trading, where the bank gained market share, rose 2 percent.

Credit Suisse blamed the drop on “volatile market conditions arising from sovereign debt concerns and regulatory uncertainty resulting in client risk aversion.”

Goldman Sachs reported an 82 percent decline in profits for the quarter on Tuesday and Bank of America and Citigroup also posted declines. After a good year for trading, helped by low interest rates, clients became more cautious this year.

Credit Suisse’s chief executive, Brady W. Dougan, called the group’s earnings a “resilient performance during a difficult second quarter for the banking sector.”

Credit Suisse’s private banking business had net new assets of 13.8 billion francs in the quarter, helped especially by its business in Asia, Russia and the Middle East. But pretax profit at the unit fell 7 percent to 874 million francs on higher operating costs.

Credit Suisse offices in Germany were searched by investigators last week and data was confiscated as part of an investigation into accusations that some employees might have helped clients evade taxes.

Mr. Dougan said he hoped that “there is a recognition that we do complete our business in a very compliant way” and that the recent new client funds would show that any impact of the inquiry on Credit Suisse’s client behavior would be minimal.

Pretax profit in the investment banking operation more than halved to 784 million francs, from 1.66 billion francs in the second quarter of last year, because of weaker fixed-income sales and trading revenue, the bank said.

Credit Suisse hired 600 people for the investment banking unit over the last three months. Mr. Dougan invested in the bank’s debt trading operation by hiring staff to gain market share in an area some analysts had defined as one of the bank’s weaknesses.

When the bank was criticized by some analysts in April for not emulating the strong performance of first-quarter earnings by rivals like Goldman Sachs, Mr. Dougan said the Swiss bank’s earnings were “higher quality, lower volatility earnings.”

Credit Suisse’s risk-weighted assets in the first three months of this year were less than half of Goldman Sachs’s and decreased further to $142 billion in the second quarter, it said.

UBS and Deutsche Bank are scheduled to report quarterly figures on Tuesday.
748 2010-07-23 Udi Ofer, director of advocacy for the civil liberties union, said his group was astonished by the department’s unwillingness to alert and guide the school districts, most of which he described as probably “clueless” rather than malicious in asking for immigration documents. It is irresponsible, he added, for officials to wait for affected families to complain. “We’re dealing here with an undocumented community that is afraid of coming out of the shadows,” he said.

The state’s education law, which mandates a free public education for all residents ages 5 to 21 who have no high school diploma, allows districts to require documents that prove age and residency, like birth certificates, rental agreements and utility bills. But it is silent on any additional requirements that would violate the 1982 Supreme Court decision, Plyler v. Doe.

That ruling, considered by legal scholars to be a high-water mark of immigrant rights, held that under the Constitution, all children who live in a district must be given equal access to a public education from kindergarten through 12th grade, regardless of whether they entered or stayed in the country in violation of federal immigration rules.

To refuse them, Justice Harry A. Blackmun warned in his concurring opinion, “raises the specter of a permanent caste of undocumented resident aliens, encouraged by some to remain here as a source of cheap labor,” yet denied the basic benefits available to others.

The civil liberties union said it mailed letters on Wednesday to all the districts it had flagged, advising them that their policies and practices “discriminate against undocumented children and are unconstitutional.” The letters asked that they rescind problematic requirements and “inform students who may have been denied enrollment.”

In several of the districts, which are scattered from Westchester County to rural Chenango County, officials who learned about the issue from a reporter’s call seemed surprised and concerned that immigration-related documents were demanded in their online registration packets. Some forms, they said, had been copied from another district’s Web site; others, like one in the Rhinebeck Central School District, had not been changed in decades, even as a climate of immigration enforcement changed the context.

Among a half-dozen districts contacted, registration personnel in all but one — the Williamsville Central School District, outside Buffalo — said that no child had been rejected for lack of immigration paperwork or a Social Security number. Some districts immediately changed language they identified as troublesome.

The Williamsville district demands that noncitizen children supply a visa and uses the jargon of federal immigration classification to describe examples: “J1 or F1, etc.”

“I’m told what visas we can accept,” said Paula Colburn, its part-time registrar for the last two years. Asked if any children had been rejected because they did not have the right visa, Ms. Colburn said: “Oh, yeah. There are certain visas that we accept. Other than that, if it’s not a right visa ....” She broke off and referred the call to district officials.

The Williamsville superintendent, Howard S. Smith, said, “We have not turned students away specifically because of a single entrance criteria,” and called the civil liberties union’s objections “ridiculous.”

“The visa is only one piece of information that we may or may not look at in determining whether they’re a resident of the school district,” he added, saying that it could indicate an intent to remain. “We are fully in compliance with any state and federal requirements.”

In the Spencerport Central School District, near Rochester, cited by the advocates for glaringly discriminatory requirements, calls for comment were not returned.

More typical, however, was the response by the Fairport Central School District, also near Rochester, where officials quickly dropped a requirement for a visa or green card, and changed questions about citizenship to ones seeking verification of a child’s birth date.

“At no time ever in this district have we excluded a student based on their citizenship or immigration status,” said Barbara Gregory, the assistant superintendent. “It was certainly a good thing for us to review, because we want to be very inclusive. We have a significant number of English-language learners, and they enrich our population.”

The registrar in another district, the Springville-Griffith Institute Central School District near Buffalo, said its online registration packet had been copied from Fairport’s and would be reviewed. A similar review was promised by Joseph Phelan, superintendent of the Rhinebeck district. And William Stavisky, superintendent of the Perry Central School District, said he directed in April that online demands for a green card be dropped, after a local immigrant group alerted him to the civil liberties union’s concerns.

All the superintendents said they were used to complying with instructions from the State Education Department and had heard nothing from the department on the issue.

Civil liberties union officials began writing to the department last September, after they were alerted by a United States citizen of Hispanic descent that a school near Rochester was asking about immigration status during registration. The advocates did a cursory Internet search and found five districts making similar demands, including the City School District of Albany.

“We were shocked,” Mr. Ofer said, adding that four of the five districts had readily changed their requirements when contacted. Last week, the Web site of the fifth, the Rush-Henrietta Central School District, still stated: “If not born in this country, please provide immigration paperwork.”

Unable to persuade the Education Department to check the registration requirements of all 695 districts, the advocates did the research themselves.

A similar survey, released in 2008 by the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, found that 20 percent of that state’s public school districts were asking for information that would reveal the immigration status of a parent or child. The New Jersey Department of Education responded forcefully, threatening to cut state aid to districts that persisted.

In contrast, state education officials in New York tucked a line into a December newsletter reminding districts to check that registration requirements complied with state laws, with no mention of immigrants. In April, the department’s legal counsel wrote the advocates that “no further action” would be taken.

The department itself may have been the source of demands for a Social Security number. In the rural Oxford Academy and Central Schools District in Chenango County, founded in 1794, the superintendent said the only reason it began asking for the numbers was “because the S.E.D. is asking for that information when they get older.”

The superintendent, Randall Squier, said the Oxford area lacked immigrants as well as jobs. “Our enrollment is declining so fast, we would welcome them to our district,” he added. “We don’t need their Social Security number to educate them.”
749 2010-07-23 The 3M Company, which makes a wide variety of industrial and consumer products, said Thursday that its quarterly net income rose 43 percent and raised its full-year outlook.

The company, which makes products that range from Post-it stickers to film for flat-screen TVs, said its profit rose to $1.12 billion, or $1.54 a share, from $783 million, or $1.12 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $6.73 billion from $5.72 billion.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected a profit of $1.48 a share on revenue of $6.66 billion, and stock in 3M, which is based in St. Paul, rose $2.45, to $84.75 a share.

The chief executive, George W. Buckley, said 3M began seeing an economic recovery in June 2009, but he cautioned that economic growth could slow later this year if stimulus spending tapered off faster than the economy picked up.

“This isn’t a double-dip per se, it’s just a soft spot, and very normal as economic growth takes a breather for a while and adjusts to new circumstances such as higher interest rates, lowering stimulus, or commodity inflation,” he said. “All are very normal in my view.”

Most of the revenue growth came in Asia, which was up 42 percent, and Latin America and Canada, which were up 21 percent. Sales in the United States rose 9 percent, and sales in Europe rose 4 percent, held back by the weak euro.

Operating profits at the industrial and transportation unit, its biggest division, rose 66 percent to $476 million. The division includes renewable energy, auto parts, and industrial adhesives. The company said operating profit at all of the businesses in that unit improved.
750 2010-07-23 There’s enough to do in the parks that house the trails to make each worthy of a day trip.

For a beginner, the first order of business is getting hold of a mountain bike. Mine was refitted years ago with slick tires for faster city riding, so I decided to rent one. Many bike stores and rental companies supply hybrids, but not bikes suitable for trails. I found mine at Central Park Bike Rentals, where I paid $35 for the full day, lock and helmet included. With three businesses splitting the retail space, this has to be one of the few places where you can order a crepe, surf the Web and shop for bike gloves while your rental gets a safety check.

As for technique, Mr. Bogner suggests keeping your body loose, particularly the arms and legs, which he called “your best shock absorbers,” and getting comfortable with changing gears and using both brakes.

And now, off to the woods.

Getting to the trailhead at Cunningham Park is probably the hardest part of riding there. It’s a 20-minute bike trip from the last stop on the F train, or about 30 minutes from the 7 to the trailhead at 210th Street and 67th Avenue. But bring directions, which you can get from the mountain biking association’s Web site, nycmtb.com, because the park is large.

The trails are well defined and perfect for a first-time mountain biker. Markers point the way to the easiest or more difficult routes, and even the hard parts have easier options. The paths are one-way, so there’s no oncoming traffic, and while there are enough trails to bike for hours, you probably won’t get lost.

The riders I encountered there on a recent blazing Saturday were friendly, supportive and as diverse as Queens itself. Greg Martinez of Rego Park, Queens, invited me to follow him on a loop. Mr. Martinez, who works in tech support, said he first biked here about a year ago and now can’t stay away. “It was all downhill from there,” he said, adding that he does his bit to keep the trail clean by carrying out a piece of litter each time he rides.

We sped around banked turns, hopped over obstacles and rolled through small but exhilarating dips and inclines. The experience reminded me of a roller-coaster ride that makes you shout like a child, “Again!”

Explore more of Cunningham Park and you’re likely to find yourself biking on a shady, paved path called the Vanderbilt Motor Parkway, one of America’s original automobile roads (fascinating historical marker) that you can follow east to Alley Pond Park. West of Cunningham Park, within about a half-hour’s bike ride, are the Queens Botanical Garden and Queens Museum of Art.

Reminiscent of the Ewoks’ forest moon in “Return of the Jedi,” Wolfe’s Pond Park is the lushest of the three city spots. It is also the only one with freshwater ponds and a beach.

Unless you live on Staten Island, getting there can take awhile, but if a bike-boat-rail adventure to thick woodlands piques your interest, this is the trip.

The Staten Island Ferry has a bicycle area on the lower level, and once a search dog sniffs its approval, you park your bike and enjoy the 25-minute ride. Next, walk your bike to the Staten Island Railway. Exit about 35 minutes later at Prince’s Bay. Cross over the tracks and make an immediate left on Herbert Street. There’s the trail.

Wolfe’s Pond is good for beginners, with orange markings guiding the way, but there is more trial and error here, and a few more downed trees to circumnavigate, than at Cunningham Park. The thickness of the woods and humidity on the day I went made it feel like a rain forest, a sensation that grew when the skies opened about 20 minutes later.

On a nicer day there’s plenty more to do: go to the beach; visit Anderson’s Annex, a remote bar and restaurant near the bay; or take a 3.5-mile ride east on Hylan Boulevard to the southernmost point in New York State, Conference House Park, where the British and the Americans failed to hash things out in 1776. Back at the ferry landing, meanwhile, you can catch a Staten Island Yankees game.

If Cunningham and Wolfe’s Pond are a little bit country, then Highbridge Park is thrashing rock ’n’ roll. Forget mellow, rolling and lush; think instead of cliffs, rocks and twisting, leg-burning climbs. In mountain bike speak, the trail is technical.

It’s also easy to reach. When the uptown No. 1 train pulls into the Dyckman Street stop, you can see the green sign for a trail entrance off to the right, just across the street on Fort George Hill.

As Mr. Bogner of the mountain biking association gave me a tour of the trail he helped to create, he reminded me to walk the bike through difficult stretches, advice worth heeding as we spun through areas with names like Hellfighter, Hessian Hill and Rough Ryder.

If you want to get the lay of the land before trying a trail, take in the summer sprint racing series, a casual event for mountain bikers that begins on Friday night. The park is also home to a city pool and a water tower that overlooks High Bridge, the city’s oldest, expected to reopen in 2013 after a renovation.

We stopped to check out the dirt jump park, a feature that accompanies the trails in all three boroughs and is popular with young BMX riders.

The one downer is the litter on the trails, evidence that visitors other than mountain bikers have been having a good time here. Mr. Bogner said the park, a 45-block sliver overlooking the Harlem River, had come a long way from its low point, when miles of paved paths were buried beneath layers of garbage. But he said it was still a work in progress.

“Who would think that in the middle of the most densely populated island in North America,” he said, “that you could get an interesting, challenging wilderness experience out on trails?”

IF YOU GO

Details about parks are at nycgovparks.org; search for the park name. Besides riding the trails yourself, you can try:

PEAK BICYCLE PRO SHOP Hosts group rides (and rents bikes); Sundays at 8:30 a.m.; (718) 225-5119, peakmtnbike.com.

STATEN ISLAND YANKEES vs. the Brooklyn Cyclones, Saturday and Monday at 7 p.m.; Richmond County Bank Ballpark, St. George; (718)720-9265, web.minorleaguebaseball.com; $12 to $16.

SUMMER SPRINT RACING SERIES Beginning on Friday at 6:45 p.m.; Highbridge trails at Dyckman Street and Fort George Hill; nycmtb.com.

FREE SUMMER CONCERTS Tuesdays in August at 7 p.m.; Highbridge Park, West 155th Street, at Dyckman Street, Washington Heights; (212) 360-2777, nycgovparks.org; search “Highbridge Park.”

FREE NATURAL HISTORY WALK Led by the Urban Park Rangers; Aug. 8 at 1 p.m. Meet at 174th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Washington Heights.

NEW YORK CITY MOUNTAIN BIKE ASSOCIATION Guides to trails; nycmtb.com; click on “NYC Trails.”
751 2010-07-23 Addressing years of complaints about slow and inconsistent processing of visa applications for foreign performing artists, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services told arts groups this week that it was making an effort to speed up and improve its visa operations.

In a meeting on Tuesday in Washington, at the headquarters of the agency — a division of the Department of Homeland Security — officials said that standard applications for O and P visas, the types most often used by performers and athletes, would be adjudicated within 14 days. In some cases it has taken up to 120 days, arts groups say, with delays and demands for information that can seem arbitrary.

“What this means is that we are establishing for ourselves and our customers a standard by which our success and failure is to be measured,” Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of the agency, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. (He was not at the meeting on Tuesday.) “One thing is to deliver the adjudications in rapid time because of the needs of the community, and another is to ensure that we achieve fair and just adjudications.”

Artist advocates greeted the news as a positive but incomplete step toward fairness and efficiency in the visa system, which they say has become cumbersome and expensive to navigate, and has sometimes resulted in last-minute changes and cancellations.

“This to us represents a real breakthrough,” said Heather Noonan, vice president for advocacy at the League of American Orchestras. “We are extremely hopeful that the changes that they have planned will result in improvements for international cultural exchange.”

Managers, lawyers and other arts advocates say the problems began in mid-2001, when the government instituted premium visa processing, guaranteeing quick service at a higher fee. After that change, and with the security concerns in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, standard service seemed to lag, and puzzling variations in policy enforcement introduced a level of unpredictability that could wreak havoc with touring schedules.
752 2010-07-23 Despite worries that fearful consumers are once again cutting back on spending, shoppers are still spending money at Amazon.com.

On Thursday, Amazon said its second-quarter profit rose 45 percent from the same period a year ago as revenue grew 41 percent. But the earnings results were below the expectations of analysts, and Amazon’s stock was down about 12 percent in after-hours trading. Net income at Amazon was $207 million, or 45 cents a share, up from $142 million, or 32 cents a share a year earlier. Revenue was $6.57 billion, up from $4.65 billion in the recession-mired quarter last year.

As the economy grows increasingly uncertain, retailers have felt the pinch from wary consumers. Ebay said Wednesday that though the value of goods sold on its marketplaces was up 13 percent over last year, it had a significant slowdown in consumer spending in the last month.

Shoppers are still flocking to Amazon, in large part because it usually offers lower prices, but its pricing is also cutting into its profit margins, said Jordan Rohan, managing director of Internet and digital media equity research at Stifel Nicolaus.

“If consumers are retrenching, it’s quite possible that Amazon’s gaining share because they’re the low-price player and they’re pressing that advantage, but there’s a trade-off between margins and growth for retailers,” Mr. Rohan said. “Amazon is clearly selecting a page out of Wal-Mart’s playbook.”
753 2010-07-23 As far as Microsoft is concerned, the PC can die another day.

Microsoft rumbled to record sales in its last quarter with its Windows and Office franchises performing like faithful old friends. About 175 million licenses of Window 7 have been sold since the product was released last year, making it the fastest selling version of Windows. In addition, both consumers and corporations have increased their purchases of Microsoft’s software, reflecting that a significant PC upgrade cycle has taken hold.

“They’re doing well across the board,” said Sasa Zorovic, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott.

Earlier in the week, Apple posted quarterly revenue of $15.7 billion, as sales of its phones, music players and computers continue to skyrocket. The company has almost doubled its revenue in the last two years. Wall Street analysts wondered if Apple’s total might be too high for Microsoft to match, marking a symbolic changing of the guards from a PC-driven to gadget-driven computing culture and a new chapter in the two companies’ tumultuous history.

But not so fast.

Microsoft’s revenue total of $16.04 billion surpassed the $15.27 billion predicted by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters and arrived on 22 percent sales growth.

In addition, Microsoft posted a 48 percent rise in net income to $4.52 billion, or 51 cents a share, from the $3.05 billion, or 34 cents a share in the comparable period last year. Analysts had expected earnings of 46 cents a share.
754 2010-07-23 With altitude comes attitude. My attempts Saturday to locate a suitable rooftop destination for three friends and me illustrated the point. I called , a hotel in SoHo, to make sure its rooftop bar wasn’t closed for a private party. Experience had taught me that rooftop bars often are.

“It’s open,” the woman on the other end of the line said. “But it’s for members and hotel guests only.”

I asked, “What’s a member?” I wasn’t aware that you could join or pay dues to a hotel.

“A member,” she said, “is chosen by the hosts only.” Before I could ask who these mystical hosts were and by what mysterious criteria they made their selections, she was gone.

My next conversation, with someone at the , on the Lower East Side, was even more confusing. “We do have a rooftop bar,” she confirmed, “but I don’t believe it’s open tonight.”

“We do have private parties there sometimes,” she answered, “and sometimes we have public parties.”

And on this night?

They had neither, she said.

So why was it closed?

“I don’t know,” she said, her bored tone suggesting that she was as untroubled by her ignorance as I was exasperated with it.

Even when a rooftop bar is open, it’s rarely easily accessible. You have to find a special entrance, take a special elevator, follow a trail of bread crumbs left by the last pathetic saps who dared to dream of drinks under the stars.

Take , the bar on top of the Roosevelt Hotel, in Midtown.

The main bank of elevators won’t get you there. Instead you must go to a specific northeast corner of the hotel. On the sidewalk there I spotted an official-looking sentry dressed all in black, with a very conspicuous, secret service-style walkie-talkie. The walkie-talkie and its cousin, the headset-and-earpiece combo, allow crowd managers not just to communicate with one another but also to create an air of extreme exclusivity. Needless to say these accessories are ubiquitous among the staff at rooftop bars.

The mad46 sidewalk sentry directed my friend and me to an identically outfitted sentry guarding a rope line in front of a nearby elevator. Grimly and wordlessly this second sentry admitted us to the elevator and escorted us to the top floor, where we were handed off to a hostess, who looked us up and down before permitting us past her station, through a long, dark passageway and onto the roof. Pan’s labyrinth was less tortuous.

More rewarding too. While there are beautifully manicured hedges at mad46 and some inviting daybeds with white canopies, the cocktails are too sweet, the by the glass are pedestrian, the plastic cups in which drinks are served are flimsy, and the food is unforgivable. Sometimes a rooftop drinker gets hungry; he or she should have the possibility of an edible snack. The duck quesadilla at mad46 did not qualify. I could make a better treat out of emery boards and dental floss, and I’m not a particularly gifted cook (or cosmetician).

The clincher at mad46 was this: The view isn’t so spectacular, in part because the way the furniture is positioned in relation to the high perimeter wall means that you have to stand, not sit, if you want a real survey of the vast cityscape at your feet. And even then you don’t have an optimal vantage point.

That’s the case with many more rooftop bars than you would expect, and it’s an argument for hopping online, accessing some photographs and getting an idea of what you’re in for before you angle, grovel and prostrate yourself for admission to one of these haughty aeries.

While the recently renovated rooftop bar at the Gramercy Park Hotel, for example, has an appealing, lush greenhouse aesthetic and some (overpriced) snacks that are actually satisfying, you may have to crane your neck to see the nearby buildings, which don’t rise as high as their brethren. And that’s assuming that the glass upper halves of the surrounding walls are retracted. When I was there they weren’t. Combined with a temporary semi-opaque glass ceiling above, they succeeded in creating the impression of an indoor space, and negated the whole point of being up on the roof.

The bar atop the Peninsula Hotel, in contrast, conveys the heady sense that you’re hovering in the clouds. It too is no cinch to reach. If you take the wrong elevator, you step out to find yourself amid dim lighting, botanical aromas and soothing : the hotel . An attendant will shrug and sigh: she is accustomed to such intrusions. And she will send you back where you came from, so that you can meander through the confusing, multitiered lobby until you trip across the elevator designated for the rooftop bar, which reopened a few years ago, after a splashy redo, as the .

But once you’re in the Salon de Ning: wow. The Peninsula’s Midtown location affords you, to the north, a sweeping view of the Trump Tower to the right, a sliver of Central Park going all the way up to the dead ahead; the sleek towers of the Center far to the left. You can set your elbows and your drink on a ledge that’s not obstructively high and take it all in while the sun sets, the city’s night lights come up, the traffic below lightens, the sound of it grows fainter, and a breeze ruffles your collar. This is what rooftop drinking is all about.

For a view in the opposite direction, the Top of the Strand, a relatively new bar on the rooftop of the Strand Hotel, is hard to beat. It faces south and perfectly frames the , just a few blocks away. It is also among the least self-infatuated rooftop bars I encountered, the path to it obvious, the crowd managers relatively few. Perhaps because of that it seems to draw one of the most frumpily dressed, unglamorous crowds.

Rooftop drinking has its curiosities, like odd plastic receptacles on the tables that hark back to some little-remembered past. What could they possibly be? Ashtrays! Many outdoor bars still let you light up, so smoking is prevalent on rooftops that aren’t partially enclosed.

The dress code is different. Because some rooftop bars, like the Gansevoort Hotel’s in the meatpacking district, abut pools, your view may involve as much flesh as steel. This can be thrilling or galling, depending on the convention in town.

And you are likely to hear a particularly striking variety of languages and accents on rooftop bars, where the ratio of tourists to locals can easily reach 25 to 1. You are also likely to get awful service, in accordance with some managerial theory that open air obviates courtesy and efficiency.

A bartender at the Hudson Terrace on the West Side gave two friends and me the wrong drinks when we ordered our first round and the wrong check after we ordered our second. More proudly than apologetically, she explained, “I’m so hung over.” It was after 7 p.m.

The Hudson Terrace has all sorts of beams and woodwork that hinder glimpses of the river nearby. Not so a few blocks north at Press, the rooftop bar of the new hotel. Press has loads of space, understated furniture, a decorative pool into which you can dip your toes, and a completely transparent glass perimeter that makes you feel almost as if you’re on a platform floating over the Hudson. The view goes far up the river in one direction, over to in another, and Midtown looms spectacularly to your side. This is without question one of the city’s most attractive rooftop bars.

But the ultimate rooftop experience — one that simultaneously demonstrates the highs and lows of it all — is found at 230 Fifth, both the address for, and name of, a jarringly sprawling deck near Madison Square Park with room for 600 people, easy.

It’s not coy. The path to the elevator is so prominently marked and frequently mobbed that it calls to mind a ride at World. The elevator glows pink on the inside, like one of the planes in Virgin America’s fleet.

At the top, on the deck itself: a pink elephant statue; topiary in the shape of a giant cat; dozens of palm trees; giant yellow-and-white-striped umbrellas; small misting fans on the tables; and a menu of drinks with cutesy-poo names like Pair of Pears, Absolut-ly Peachy and Berry Berry Good. It’s a little bit beach club, a little bit country club, a little bit Vegas. And like Vegas it’s such a thorough, unabashed accretion of tacky and ridiculous effects that it achieves a florid poetry all its own, the kind that makes you groan and giggle simultaneously.

I giggled a lot, because I got lucky with the soundtrack on the night I was there, a trip back to the 1980s and their most gloriously cheesy: Missing Persons, , . I felt briefly disoriented. And isn’t that really the point of the rooftop bar, at least in New York?

It’s an exercise in dislocation, in cognitive dissonance. Although you’re in a city of tight quarters and constant confinement, seemingly removed from the natural world, the rooftop bar gives you a blast of the great outdoors, a reprieve from your usual tethers and an outlook that’s suddenly expansive. The sky’s the limit.

Because rooftop bars often schedule private parties or may not be open to the public on a given night, it's best to call before you go. Here are the Manhattan bars mentioned in this article that are open to the public:



HOTEL ON RIVINGTON Between Essex and Ludlow Streets, Lower East Side; (212) 475-2600; hotelonrivington.com; cash only.

MAD46 At the Roosevelt Hotel, Madison Avenue at 46th Street; dress code; reservations recommended for large groups: (212) 885-6095; mad46.com.

GRAMERCY PARK HOTEL 2 Lexington Avenue, at 21st Street; reservations recommended: (212) 920-3300; gramercyparkhotel.com.

SALON DE NING Peninsula Hotel, 700 Fifth Avenue, at 55th Street, (212) 903-3097; peninsula.com.

TOP OF THE STRAND 33 West 37th Street; (212) 448-1024; thestrandnyc.com.

PLUNGE BAR AND LOUNGE Gansevoort Hotel, 18 Ninth Avenue, at 13th Street, meatpacking district; (212) 206-6700; hotelgansevoort.com.

HUDSON TERRACE 621 West 46th Street; (212) 315-9400; hudsonterracenyc.com.

PRESS At Ink48, 653 11th Avenue, at West 48th Street; (212) 757-0088; ink48.com.

230 FIFTH 230 Fifth Avenue, at 29th Street; (212) 725-4300; 230-fifth.com.
755 2010-07-23 Today we thank the Southeastern Conference for reminding us it’s almost college football season, when big-time educational institutions hit the “hold” button on their ethical standards and all but light candles daily in hopes that their school does not end up at the top of the N.C.A.A. enforcement police blotter. This year, many of those hopes have already been extinguished and what was originally called the S.E.C.’s “Media Days” have officially been renamed the “Blame Everything on Those Dastardly Agents Days.”

It was a bit priceless — pun intended — that Alabama Coach Nick Saban (annual salary: $4 million) went on the offensive Wednesday, bemoaning how money is ruining this quaint little sport. He compared the agents to pimps and said they were victimizing his poor children (players).

Saban was joined in this particular rant by Florida Coach Urban Meyer (annual salary: $4 million). What spawned this frantic finger-pointing, writes Pat Forde of ESPN.com, is a rash of reports that prominent S.E.C. players were entertained by agents at a South Beach soiree. Georgia, not coincidentally, just received notice from the N.C.A.A. that its enforcers will be stopping by for a not-so-friendly visit. This, writes Jeff Schultz of the Atlanta Journal Constitution, is causing the coaches to suddenly get religion on the agent issue. As Gregg Doyel does a very good job of articulating on CBSSports.com, they are worried mostly because the N.C.A.A. showed it is finally ready to deal with the agent issue after years of ignoring it. The University of Southern California’s stiff penalties are the N.C.A.A.’s evidence of that.

So it was a bit disconcerting, writes Dennis Dodd on CBSSports.com, to hear S.E.C. Commissioner Mike Slive sounding Mike Garrett-like when he called for “education not enforcement” on the agent issue, that it might be time to talk about allowing players to sign with agents whenever they want. Everyone, it seems, would like to wash their hands of any responsibility and The Sporting News’s Dan Levy wrote that some of the blame should fall on those “kids,” players who are actually adults and should know better.

On the bright side, we have articles talking about South Beach that do not involve LeBron James. Although if you prefer to linger more on the fiasco that was James’s “The Decision,” ESPN’s ombudsman, Don Ohlmeyer, has finally weighed in on the topic after the network has absorbed two weeks of public opinion pounding. His take? It was a travesty. But we already knew that.

It does seem fitting too that Sports Illustrated picked this interlude to offer its annual rating of the 50 highest-earning athletes. It’s about the only reason these days that Tiger Woods can yell, “I’m No. 1!”
756 2010-07-23 The Sherrod flap spotlighted how Mr. Obama is caught between these competing political forces, and renewed criticism from some of his supporters, especially prominent African-Americans, that he has been too defensive in dealing with matters of race — and too quick to react to criticism from the right.

For many liberals, Ms. Sherrod’s hasty dismissal carried strong echoes of the ouster of Van Jones, an environmental adviser to the president who was forced to resign after Fox News focused attention on some of his past work and statements, and his decision to sign a petition in 2004 questioning whether the Bush administration had allowed the terrorist attacks of September 2001 to provide a pretext for war in the Middle East.

“I think what you see in this White House is a hypersensitivity about issues of race, that has them often leaning too far to avoid confronting these issues, and in so doing lays the foundation for the very problem they would like to avoid,” said Wade Henderson, president and chief executive of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, an advocacy group here.

It is not as if Mr. Obama does not have expertise in the matter. While he was running for president he made what even his critics acknowledged was a serious and thoughtful effort to address race relations, during a speech in Philadelphia in March 2008. It followed a storm of controversy about racially inflammatory statements made by his pastor.

And as Michael Eric Dyson, a sociology professor at Georgetown University, notes, Mr. Obama wrote an entire book on race: “Dreams From My Father,” in which he dealt with his own complicated biracial history and struggle to fit into a country that sees things in black and white. Professor Dyson, who is working on a book about Mr. Obama and race called “Presidential Race,” says the president at times seems either unable or unwilling to talk about it.

“You’ve got one of the great intellects on race in the presidency, and yet he is hamstrung, there’s a gag order,” he said. “Now some of that gag order is self-imposed, and some of it is at the behest of nervous white Americans who are fearful that Mr. Obama may racialize the presidency, so he’s got a legitimate concern that he doesn’t get pigeonholed. But the tragedy is that we need his leadership.”

The White House rejected the notion that he has not provided leadership, or is avoiding a conversation on race. “I don’t think anyone has confronted this issue more directly than the president,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s senior adviser.

Still, the Sherrod controversy has renewed calls for Mr. Obama to tackle race head-on. After the Harvard professor, Henry Louis Gates Jr., was arrested last summer, Mr. Obama convened a much-publicized “beer summit” at the White House — a moment of reconciliation for Mr. Gates and the arresting officer.

In interviews, both Mr. Henderson and Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a Harvard law professor who represented Mr. Gates, suggested the president should now convene a national conference on race relations. Ward Connerly, a black conservative who leads an institute devoted to fighting racial preferences, endorsed the idea.

“This president has never wanted to have his fingerprints on the issue of race, and I can understand why — if you’re a self-identified black man and you’re running for president, you know how treacherous the waters can be,” Mr. Connerly said. “But I think the president can, if he’s masterful — and he certainly is — introduce this subject in a way that he’s doing it as our leader, not as our black leader.”

Mr. Axelrod, though, threw cold water on the notion, saying Mr. Obama has “pressing matters that are significant to all Americans,” like the economy.

On Thursday, Ms. Sherrod stuck to her assertion that the White House had played a role in her ouster, even as Mr. Obama’s advisers said that was not the case. The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, was once again peppered with questions about whether the Sherrod controversy was “a teachable moment,” and if so, what the lesson was and whether Mr. Obama should be the teacher.

“I don’t think you have to have a teacher,” Mr. Gibbs replied, “for this to be a teachable moment.”
757 2010-07-23 The heavy machinery manufacturer Caterpillar reported Thursday that its second-quarter earnings rose 91 percent on a big increase in sales of equipment for industries like mining, infrastructure and energy.

The company, considered a bellwether of industrial activity, also raised its 2010 profit outlook, saying orders were growing and production would increase in the second half of the year.

Caterpillar had net income of $707 million, or $1.09 a share, up from $371 million, or 60 cents a share a year earlier.

Sales rose 31 percent, to $10.4 billion, with gains in machinery sales in all four of its global regions. Dealers built up inventories during the quarter after slashing them during the recession a year ago. Manufacturing costs also fell by $316 million, helping profits.

Analysts were looking for 85 cents a share of earnings on revenue of $9.8 billion.

For all of 2010, Caterpillar expects to earn between $3.15 to $3.85 a share, up from a previous forecast of $2.50 to $3.25 a share.
758 2010-07-23 While the course of the economy remains paramount in investors’ minds, corporate results have come to the fore this week. More than 140 companies have now reported results for the second quarter, and, by and large, the news has been good. On average, profits have increased by about a third. And the vast majority of the results have topped analysts’ estimates.

Industrial and technology shares paced Thursday’s rally. Financial shares also gained after several big regional banks, including Fifth Third of Ohio, suggested that they had finally covered losses on loans that went bad when the property market collapsed.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 201.77, or 1.99 percent, to close at 10,322.30. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 24.08, or 2.25 percent, at 1,093.67, while the Nasdaq composite index rose even more, gaining 58.56, or 2.68 percent, to 2,245.89.

The rally began early as the results began to pour out. Within a half-hour, the Dow was up nearly 200 points. As the day wore on, investors and analysts busily parsed one set of results after another.

“So far, investors are getting more encouraging news,” said Howard Silverblatt, index analyst for Standard & Poor’s. “The growth may not be what they were hoping for, but at least it’s growth.”

The question on nearly everyone’s mind is not what happened during the second quarter, but where profits go from here. Given the precarious state of the economy, particularly stubbornly high unemployment and fragile consumer confidence, many are counting on good news from corporations.

Companies like Caterpillar and 3M are considered bellwethers not only for the United States economy but also for the global economy. Both gave investors upbeat news.

“Some of them were fairly optimistic, especially today,” said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for Standard & Poor’s equity research.

Upbeat news on the housing market also helped. Home builders advanced after the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of existing houses dropped 5.1 percent, less than analysts had forecast. Shares of the Lennar Corporation and Toll Brothers both rose more than 3 percent. Home Depot’s share price was up 2.7 percent.

Many companies must still demonstrate that they can sustain their newfound prosperity. After all, the big gains in corporate profits partly reflect how weak earnings were a year earlier. The comparisons make for favorable results.

“This quarter, investors are looking to see actual revenue growth and no more making earnings grow from cutting costs,” said David Abrameto, research associate with Bernstein Research. “The companies that have done well so far look like they have been growing revenue.”

Given all the corporate and economic news looming, and the fragile state of investor confidence, traders and analysts expect the markets to remain volatile.

“I don’t know anybody who thinks they can trade this thing on a day-to-day basis,” said Jeffrey D. Saut, the chief investment strategist for Raymond James.

Prices of United States Treasury securities fell as investors rushed back into stocks. Oil and gold rose.

Adding to the buoyant mood was a growing belief that the worst of the financial crisis in Europe might be over. Friday, however, will be a big day for European markets: authorities there are scheduled to release the results of so-called stress tests assessing the health of the Continent’s banks.

While virtually all the banks are expected to pass the test, some may be compelled to raise additional capital to buttress their finances.

The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 17/32, to 104 25/32. The yield rose to 2.94 percent from 2.88 percent late Wednesday.
759 2010-07-23 The timing of Mrs. Clinton’s remarks here, at the start of a two-day stop that includes an Asian regional security meeting, suggested that she wanted to make her point and move on. She emphasized that the United States would increase cooperation on trade and investment, and would do more to help people suffering lingering effects from Agent Orange, a chemical spray the American military used as a defoliant during the Vietnam War.

Still, Mrs. Clinton’s criticism offered a vivid contrast to her visits to China as secretary of state, where she has avoided publicly raising human rights issues with Chinese officials. It came on the same day that Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was announcing in Jakarta that the United States would resume military contacts with an elite Indonesian military unit long criticized for abuses, arguing that it had reformed.

These divergent moves reflect the uneven landscape the Obama administration confronts in the region, including not only rising China and recalcitrant North Korea, but also an unreconstructed military dictatorship in Myanmar and a reformed military state in Indonesia — and a Communist government in Vietnam that is showing signs of retreating from its reformist path.

Though human rights conditions are indisputably better in Vietnam now than at the end of the war, analysts say there has been backsliding in recent years, which may reflect the growing influence of conservative political elements. In January, the government convicted three prominent democracy activists under a strict national security law.

Last week, 19 members of Congress sent Mrs. Clinton a letter, urging her to press Vietnam about these cases and censorship of Web sites like Facebook. The lawmakers said Vietnam had “escalated its aggression towards activists and taken concerted steps to silence online speech.”

Mrs. Clinton’s husband, former President Bill Clinton, oversaw the normalization of ties between the United States and Vietnam in 1995, and Mrs. Clinton spoke warmly of the memories that the country evoked. Her last visit was as first lady in November 2000, in the waning days of the Clinton presidency but in the flush of her own recent election as senator from New York.

Throngs welcomed Mr. Clinton, the first sitting American president to visit Vietnam. Mrs. Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea, delighted farmers in a dusty village outside Hanoi when they put on conical hats to ward off the tropical sun. A Vietnamese artist portrayed that moment in a large mosaic etched with rubies, sapphires, and quartz, which a Vietnamese gem and jewelry company presented to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Khiem also gave her a white tablecloth for Ms. Clinton, who will be married on July 31.

At a lunch with Vietnamese and American businesspeople, she poked fun at her zeal for the role of mother of the bride, questioning the “common sense” of juggling wedding planning with a grueling week that has taken her from a war zone in Afghanistan to the demilitarized zone in South Korea.

But Mrs. Clinton also spoke of how the United States and Vietnam had overcome the bitterness of war, and then the “profound differences” that divide a Communist state from a democracy.

“The United States will continue to urge Vietnam to strengthen its commitment to human rights and give its people a greater say over the direction of their lives,” she said. “But our relationship is not fixed upon our differences. We have learned to see each other not as former enemies, but as friends.”
760 2010-07-23 On Morton Street in the West Village lives a small poodle nearly the same color as the pavement upon which he takes his seven-times daily constitutional. He may very well be the oldest dog on the planet. But he may not live long enough to wear his...
761 2010-07-24 American missiles hit a suspected militant hideout before dawn Saturday in the South Waziristan tribal region, killing 16 insurgents, intelligence officials said. Six missiles struck the compound in the Nazai Narai area near the Afghan border in northwest Pakistan. Two intelligence officials said some foreigners were among the dead. The officials, who said the military was trying to get more information about the attack, spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the news media.
762 2010-07-24 General Electric said it would raise its dividend by 20 percent. The move came sooner than many investors had expected and sent G.E. shares up 3.3 percent, to $15.71. The dividend will increase by 2 cents a share, to 12 cents a share each quarter. That still leaves G.E.’s dividend below the 31-cents-a-share rate it had before cutting its dividend in February 2009. The company also said it would resume buying back its shares.
763 2010-07-24 Customers will not be able to buy Apple’s white iPhone 4 until later this year, the company said, conceding that making the model had proven surprisingly difficult. Apple said that its black iPhone 4 had not been affected. The newest iPhone has created a series of headaches for Apple, the biggest being the suggestion that its design was flawed because of a problem with the antenna.
764 2010-07-24 Lucas van Praag, a Goldman spokesman, reiterated that the firm was fully protected from an A.I.G. default and noted that the protection it had purchased from financial institutions required that they post cash to Goldman to cover rising exposures. “Given that we were receiving and paying collateral on a daily basis, the risk to us of not being able to collect on our hedges had A.I.G. defaulted was de minimus,” Mr. van Praag said.

For decades, Goldman and A.I.G. had a long and fruitful relationship, with A.I.G. insuring billions in mortgage-related securities that Goldman Sachs underwrote. When the mortgage market started to deteriorate in 2007, however, the relationship went sour and Goldman began demanding cash from A.I.G. to cover the declining value of the securities it had insured. A dispute ensued, and Goldman began buying credit insurance on A.I.G. to protect against possible losses arising from its dealings with the company.

According to the document, Goldman held a total of $1.7 billion in insurance on A.I.G. from almost 90 institutions. Its exposure to A.I.G. at that time was $2.6 billion.

Goldman bought most of the insurance from large foreign and domestic banks, including Credit Suisse ($310 million), Morgan Stanley ($243 million) and JPMorgan Chase ($216 million). Goldman also bought $223 million in insurance on A.I.G. from a variety of funds overseen by Pimco, the money management firm.

JPMorgan and Credit Suisse declined to comment late Friday. A Pimco official could not be reached.

Critics of the A.I.G. rescue have characterized it as a “backdoor bailout” of financial institutions that had made mortgage bets guaranteed by the beleaguered insurer. Initially, the government refused to identify these institutions, causing consternation among some in Congress, including Mr. Grassley, who thought the taxpayers should know whom they had benefited.

The issue of the rescue’s beneficiaries surfaced again last Wednesday in hearings sponsored by the Senate Finance Committee. Elizabeth Warren, the chairwoman of the Congressional panel that oversees the government’s responses to the credit crisis, testified that Goldman Sachs had declined to supply her staff with information about the insurance it had bought to protect itself from an A.I.G. failure.

Because the Congressional panel cannot issue subpoenas, Mr. Grassley suggested that his committee request the information from Goldman, subpoenaing the firm if necessary. Goldman quickly submitted the materials.

“It’s as if the New York Fed used A.I.G. as a front man to bail out big banks all over the world,” Mr. Grassley said in a statement. “It took nearly two years for the public to learn these details, and they only were revealed because Congress wouldn’t take no for an answer. Taxpayers deserve to know what happened with their money.”
765 2010-07-24 In addition, they said, the State Legislature and an array of other governmental entities already have ample oversight authority and subpoena power. If evidence ever emerges that the Police Department, either systemically or in lone cases, is flouting the law, then civil or criminal remedies can be pursued in the courts.

“We didn’t have to put teeth into what already has teeth to it,” said State Senator Eric L. Adams, the former police captain who wrote the bill with Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries, the lawyer.

“John Liu can now go into the N.Y.P.D. and audit,” Mr. Adams said, referring to the city comptroller. “The attorney general can go in to see if the N.Y.P.D. is complying. The federal government can go in. There is nothing stopping the City Council from going in and using their oversight power.”

Mr. Jeffries said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly had “given us no indications” the department would violate the law, but the senator conceded that the naturally “secretive or highly confidential” aspects of such a paramilitary organization made it hard to trust completely.

The department’s intention to comply is stated in a recent Finest Message — a cautionary note sent out from the police brass to all precincts on July 16 at 7:37 p.m., hours after Governor Paterson signed the bill. It outlined the ban against entering into a “computerized database” the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of those stopped on the street — to be questioned, and sometimes frisked — in cases in which those people are released without further legal action.

But it said officers could still stop people to ask questions, and it made clear that they were not barred from collecting people’s personal information and recording it on worksheets they must fill out after each stop, known as UF-250s. It also emphasized that those individual written records will be kept.

“Commanding officers shall ensure that copies of stop, question and frisk report worksheets are maintained in a precinct file,” according to the memorandum. “The quality assurance division shall conduct inspections to ensure that these files are maintained.”

The ability of the police to keep such paper records existed before the creation of the electronic database. The lawmakers did not address that ability, and the memorandum did not appear to be an effort to skirt the legislation.

If the police now choose to keep a stealth form of the electronic database, said Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, there are “built-in mechanisms” to expose it, including a self-policing one: a force of 36,000 officers who are notorious for complaining about malfeasance.

The Paterson administration official, though, was less sanguine. “The enforcement on this is going to be when someone sues the N.Y.P.D.,” the official said. “That is where this is headed.”
766 2010-07-24 With the steep environmental costs of fossil fuel extraction apparent on beaches from Texas to Florida — and revelations that industry shortcuts and regulatory negligence may have contributed to the BP catastrophe in the gulf — gas prospectors are finding a cold reception for their assertions that their drilling practices are safe.

“The industry has argued there are no documented cases of hydraulic fracturing contaminating groundwater,” said Dencil Backus, a resident of nearby Mt. Pleasant Township, at Thursday night’s hearing. “Our experience in southwestern Pennsylvania suggests that this cannot possibly be true.”

Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman for Range Resources, a Texas-based natural gas producer, acknowledged that the gulf spill had increased public concern about any sort of drilling activity. “However, when people can review the facts, void of the strong emotions the gulf elicits, they can see the stark contrast between high-risk, deep offshore oil drilling and much safer, much lower risk onshore natural gas development,” he said by e-mail.

In this part of the country, the potentially enormous natural gas play of the Marcellus Shale has many residents lining up to lease their land to gas prospectors. Estimates vary on the precise size of the Marcellus Shale, which stretches from West Virginia across much of Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio and into the Southern Tier of New York. But by any estimate, the gas deposit is huge — perhaps as much as 500 trillion cubic feet. (New York State uses a little over 1.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas each year.)

An industry-financed study published this week suggested that as much as $6 billion in government revenue and up to 280,000 jobs could be at stake in the Marcellus Shale region.

Fracking has been around for decades, and it is an increasingly prominent tool in the effort to unlock previously unreachable gas reserves. The oil and gas industry estimates that 90 percent of the more than 450,000 operating gas wells in the United States rely on hydraulic fracturing.

Roughly 99.5 percent of the fluids typically used in fracking, the industry says, are just water and sand, with trace amounts of chemical thickeners, lubricants and other compounds added to help the process along. The cocktail is injected thousands of feet below the water table and, the industry argues, can’t possibly be responsible for growing complaints of spoiled streams and wells. But critics say that the relationship between fracking fluids and groundwater contamination has never been thoroughly studied — and that proving a link has been made more difficult by oil and gas companies that have jealously guarded as trade secrets the exact chemical ingredients used at each well.

Several other concerns linger over fracking, as well as other aspects of gas drilling — including the design and integrity of well casings and the transport and potential spilling of chemicals and the millions of gallons of water required for just one fracking job.

The recent string of accidents in the oil and gas industries — including the gulf spill and a blowout last month at a gas field in Clearfield County, Pa., that spewed gas and wastewater for 16 hours — has unnerved residents and regulators.

“There is extraordinary economic potential associated with the development of Marcellus Shale resources,” said Representative Joe Sestak, Democrat of Pennsylvania, in a statement Friday announcing $1 million for a federal study of water use impacts in the Delaware Water Basin. However, “there is also great risk.” He said, “One way to ensure proper development is to understand the potential impacts.”

Amy Mall, a senior policy analyst with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the scrutiny was long overdue. “I think it’s all helping to shine a spotlight on this entire industry,” she said. “Corners are sometimes cut, and regulations simply aren’t strong enough.”

Fears of fracking’s impact on water supplies prompted regulators overseeing the Delaware Water Basin to curtail gas exploration until the effects could be more closely studied. New York State lawmakers are contemplating a moratorium.

At the national level, in addition to the E.P.A. study, a Congressional investigation of gas drilling and fracturing, led by House Energy and Commerce Committee, intensified last week with demands sent to several companies for details on their operations — particularly how they handled the slurry of water and chemicals that flowed back from deep within a well.

A renewed, if unlikely, push is also under way to pass federal legislation that would undo an exemption introduced under the Bush administration that critics say freed hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act.

Last month, Wyoming introduced some of the nation’s toughest rules governing fracturing, including provisions that require companies to disclose the ingredients in their fracturing fluids to state regulators — though specifically not to the public.

Gas drillers, responding to the increased scrutiny and eyeing the expansive and lucrative new gas plays in Appalachia, are redoubling their efforts to stave off federal oversight, in some cases by softening their rigid positions on fracking-fluid disclosure. Last week, Range Resources went so far as to announce its intent to disclose the contents of its fracking fluids to Pennsylvania regulators and to publish them on the company’s Web site.

“We should have done this a long time ago,” said Mr. Pitzarella, the Range spokesman. “There are probably no health risks with the concentrations that we’re utilizing. But if someone has that concern, then it’s real and you have to address it.”

Environmental groups welcomed that, but said that clear and broad federal jurisdiction would still be needed.

“Any one accident might not be on the scale of the Deepwater Horizon disaster,” said Ms. Mall. “But accidents are happening all the time, and there’s no regime in place that broadly protects the health of communities and the surrounding environment where drilling is being done.”

That was a common theme at the meeting Thursday night.

“I can take you right now to my neighbors who have lost their water supplies,” Mr. Backus said to the handful of E.P.A. regulators on hand. “I can take you also to places where spills have killed fish and other aquatic life.”

“Corporations have no conscience,” he added. “The E.P.A. must give them that conscience.”
767 2010-07-24 “I don’t know who takes him,” said an Eastern Conference scout, citing O’Neal’s diminished production.

The Dallas Mavericks had interest, but balked at O’Neal’s salary demands. Instead, they re-signed Brendan Haywood for $55 million over six years, traded for Tyson Chandler and signed Ian Mahinmi.

The Atlanta Hawks were similarly intrigued, and similarly spooked by O’Neal’s price tag. They are working to re-sign Jason Collins as their third center. The O’Neal talks are “dead,” according to a team official.

The Boston Celtics needed a veteran to fill the void while Kendrick Perkins recovers from knee surgery. They found a younger, cheaper O’Neal — Jermaine, 31, who signed for two years and $12 million.

The Houston Rockets needed insurance for Yao Ming. They signed Brad Miller.

Miami needed an enforcer behind LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, the so-called SuperFriends. Instead of calling Superman, the Heat called Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Jamaal Magloire.

In Cleveland, where he spent last season, O’Neal is superfluous. Without James, there are no title hopes and no need for an aging All-Star center.

“I think he can definitely help a contender,” the Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, said in an e-mail message. “It just didn’t work for us once we signed Brendan.”

There should be a soft landing spot for O’Neal, a future Hall of Famer: a contender who can offer one last shot at a title. The problem is that O’Neal torched the most fertile ground.

He would surely welcome a return to Los Angeles, where he won three championships with Kobe Bryant. But O’Neal alienated everyone from Bryant to staff members to the owner, Jerry Buss, before demanding a trade in 2004.

In theory, O’Neal could be a backup and mentor to Dwight Howard, the Magic’s All-Star center. But he has repeatedly insulted Howard and mocked Orlando’s coach, Stan Van Gundy. Nor would he be easily forgiven for calling Orlando “a dried-up pond” when he bolted for Hollywood in 1996.

The Heat provided O’Neal his last breath of postseason glory, a furious sprint to the title as Wade’s co-star in 2006. That bridge was burned, too, after O’Neal’s trade to Phoenix in 2008. He derided the Heat’s medical staff, ripped the roster and — as he has done in nearly every city — complained about his role in the offense.

Even O’Neal’s generally amicable departure from Phoenix last year was tinged with controversy — an allegation that he stole a television-show concept from Steve Nash, the Suns’ star point guard. No one in Phoenix is pushing for a reunion.

If O’Neal is determined to retire with a contender, he might be out of options. The San Antonio Spurs are not interested. The Denver Nuggets are inundated with outsize personalities. He is too big for Utah, too demanding for Portland and too risky for Oklahoma City.

This has always been the Shaq package: muscle, mirth and bouts of mayhem. In his prime, he was worth the gamble. In his twilight, teams must hesitate — especially at a cost of $8 million.

To make that sum, O’Neal needs a sign-and-trade deal with the Cavaliers. That, too, is a complicating factor. And the longer O’Neal holds out for his price, the fewer jobs that remain.

Allen Iverson, another fading superstar, miscalculated the market last summer and had to wait until September to find a job. He signed with the Memphis Grizzlies, a middling franchise in a small market, for $3 million. It is hard to envision O’Neal doing the same.

Yet it still seems unlikely that O’Neal will remain unemployed. Although he averaged just 12 points and 6.7 rebounds last season — both career lows — he shot .566 from the field and can be an effective deterrent in the lane.

After losing the last 29 games of the season to a thumb injury, O’Neal returned for the playoffs, looking rusty but fit. He accepted a small, defined role and seemed fine with it.

A rival executive said O’Neal looked “better than I’d seen in a long time.” But he no longer commands double teams or scrambles game plans.

If he retires now, after 18 seasons, O’Neal will leave with four championships, three finals most valuable player trophies and 15 All-Star appearances. He is fifth on the career scoring list, with 28,255 points, and second in field-goal percentage, at .581. His ticket to Springfield is ensured.

In his prime, O’Neal boasted of sending All-Star centers into retirement — Hakeem Olajuwon and Patrick Ewing, Rik Smits and David Robinson, Alonzo Mourning and Vlade Divac. Now he marks the time by watching inferior big men snap up roster spots: Aaron Gray and Timofey Mozgov, Tony Battie and Ben Wallace.

On his Twitter page, O’Neal still lists his location as “Cleveland/Everywhere.” In the background is a promotional graphic for his TV show, “Shaq Vs.” His last N.B.A.-related tweet came on July 1, the day free agency began: “Yup, I got 720 days left.”

The Big Optimist is still waiting for that final payday. But the Big Farewell might have already begun.
768 2010-07-24 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, who had landed in Washington only three hours before from a 19-hour flight from Jakarta, Indonesia, made no mention in his send-off of the reasons for General McChrystal’s retirement.

“We bid farewell to Stan McChrystal today with pride and sadness,” he said. “Pride for the remarkable roster of achievement that he has compiled as a man and a soldier, sadness that our comrade and his prodigious talents are leaving us.”

But by the time Mr. Gates finished, his voice seemed to catch as he concluded that General McChrystal was retiring “with the gratitude of the nation he did so much to protect, with the reverence of the troops he led at every level, with his place secure as one of America’s greatest warriors.”

The ceremony, on the parade ground where the accomplices to Abraham Lincoln’s assassination were hanged, occurred in sweltering Washington heat — it was still 97 degrees at its start at 6 p.m. — and within steps of General McChrystal’s 200-year-old house on what is called General’s Row. Afterward he invited guests to a reception in his home, which looks out on one of the prime bass fishing spots on the Potomac.

Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has described General McChrystal and his wife, Annie, as “crushed” by the events of the past month, but the general was stalwart in his remarks.

“Service in this business is tough and often dangerous,” he said. “It extracts a price for participants, and that price can be high. It is tempting to protect yourself from the personal and professional cost of loss by limiting how much you commit, how much you believe and trust in people, and how deeply you care.”

In conclusion, he said: “If I had it to do over again, I’d do some things in my career differently, but not many. I believed in people and I still believe in them. I trusted and I still trust. I cared and I still care. I wouldn’t have had it any other way.”

Then he added, “To the young leaders of today and tomorrow, it’s a great life.”
769 2010-07-24 Michelle Rhee, the reform-minded chancellor who took over the District of Columbia public schools three years ago, on Friday fired 241 teachers, or 5 percent of the district’s total. All but a few of those dismissed had received the lowest rating under a new evaluation system that for the first time held them accountable for their students’ standardized test scores.

“Every child in a District of Columbia public school has a right to a highly effective teacher — in every classroom, of every school, of every neighborhood, of every ward, in this city,” the chancellor said in a statement. “That is our commitment.”

All told, the district terminated 302 employees — 226 for poor performance, and 76 for other problems like not having the licensing required by the No Child Left Behind act. Besides the 241 teachers, those dismissed were librarians, counselors, custodians and other employees.

An additional 737 employees were put on notice that they had been rated “minimally effective,” the second-lowest category, and would have one year to improve their performance or be fired.

In the years before Ms. Rhee took over the district, almost all the teachers had high performance ratings and almost none were fired, but students, on average, had low achievement levels.
770 2010-07-24 The rule has proved difficult, if not impossible, to enforce. And the N.C.A.A. has yet to provide clarity over what penalties await players and programs that, knowing or unknowingly, violate it.

“There has to be a way for a kid to find out what his value is, and get advice from an adviser, and not lose his eligibility,” said University of Minnesota Coach John Anderson, a member of the N.C.A.A. Division I Baseball Committee. “They do it in basketball. Why can’t we do it in baseball?”

One reason is timing. Unlike in basketball and football, whose seasons end months before the N.B.A. and N.F.L. drafts, Major League Baseball conducts its amateur draft during the N.C.A.A. tournament each June. High school seniors and juniors at four-year colleges can be chosen without declaring for the draft. And perhaps because of the presumption that high draft choices will not pass up a professional contract, those who choose not to sign are drawing increased attention from the N.C.A.A.

In February, Kentucky barred James Paxton, a senior pitcher, from playing because he refused to speak with an N.C.A.A. investigator without first being told the allegations against him, according to his lawyer, Richard G. Johnson, who also represented Oliver against the N.C.A.A.

Paxton, with the prominent agent Scott Boras as his adviser, returned to college after reportedly turning down a $1 million bonus offer from the Toronto Blue Jays, who made him a supplemental first-round choice in the 2009 amateur draft. Quotes attributed to the Blue Jays executive Paul Beeston in a Toronto Globe and Mail blog post suggested that the team had negotiated with Boras, not the family.

Johnson said he also advised Paxton not to complete a questionnaire the N.C.A.A. Eligibility Center sent to draftees who chose to attend or return to college. Obtained by The New York Times from Arizona State through a Freedom of Information Act request, the questionnaire — a byproduct of the Oliver suit — asked players whether an adviser or anyone else negotiated a contract for them with a major league club. It also contained a release granting clubs permission to disclose details of negotiations to the Eligibility Center.

Asked via e-mail if the N.C.A.A. planned to send out similar forms to players drafted last month, and if players who acknowledged last year that an adviser negotiated a contract on their behalf were penalized and to what extent, Chuck Wynne, the organization’s director of communications strategy, would say little more than that the N.C.A.A. membership requires that it certify the amateur status of prospective student-athletes. Prospects, he said in an e-mail message, are “provided with follow-up questions after the draft to determine whether they have complied with N.C.A.A. rules before, during and after the draft process if they decide to forgo a professional opportunity to attend a member institution.”

Johnson contends the no-agent rule violates a player’s right to counsel, since many advisers and agents are lawyers. And the questionnaire, he said, attempts to violate attorney-client privilege.

“The whole reason for the rules is to put up a roadblock for these kids going pro,” Johnson said.

Before the lawsuit by Oliver, the no-agent rule was often ignored. A former major league executive said he routinely discussed contract terms with advisers, which he said was standard practice.

“You’re not dealing with the kid,” said the executive, who requested anonymity to prevent N.C.A.A. scrutiny of his former club’s draftees.

Rick Karcher, the director of the Florida Coastal School of Law’s Center for Law and Sports and a former minor league player, says the N.C.A.A.’s stance puts players at a disadvantage. Karcher was an undrafted free agent who played in the Atlanta Braves organization from 1990 to 1992. He said he signed for so little that he did not need an adviser. But with bonuses much larger now for even 10th-round picks, Karcher — who was called as an expert witness in Paxton’s suit — said athletes needed an agent or a lawyer alongside them.

“It’s just like if you went to buy a house,” Karcher said. “That’s what happens in every business transaction. Why shouldn’t it happen in the context of a multimillion-dollar signing bonus? Why prohibit the right to counsel?

“The process doesn’t violate amateurism. That’s really what it’s about. Where is the line to be drawn?”

Alan Nero, a longtime agent who advises college players, said he followed the N.C.A.A. guidelines and advises clients to fill out the questionnaire truthfully.

“The N.C.A.A. is saying you can’t be represented, you can’t have somebody with you to protect yourself against a predator, which is Major League Baseball,” said Nero, who is not a lawyer. “But it is what it is. I’m not about to take something to the Supreme Court and try to challenge it. I’m not going to do that. I’m trying to do the best I can for our clients within the N.C.A.A. rules.”

At Minnesota, which had three players and two recruits drafted last month, Anderson said he reviewed the ramifications of the no-agent rule with his players. But he and other coaches often see as many agents at college games as scouts, sitting together and talking — a thorny issue that, he said, the N.C.A.A. and M.L.B. need to resolve.

“It’s scary, believe me,” Anderson said. “Everybody knows what’s going on, but nobody wants to take control of it. No one is willing to call the other side out and risk a big pushback, a lot of bad feeling and a lot of problems. But colleges and universities are stuck in the middle. They’ve got both sides pressuring them, and they don’t know where to go.”
771 2010-07-24 Heard of this television series, “Mad Men”? A few guys and a few gals work in an agency, sell a couple ads, have a couple laughs? Are you so eager for the premiere of its fourth season that you’d leave your home and brave Times Square to watch it an hour before the rest of the East Coast? Or are you so sick of that show’s rabid fan base that you’d like to arm yourself with a few advance details so you can ruin the surprises for your “Mad Men”-worshiping friends? (Seriously, though, don’t do that.) Would you just like to meet the actress who plays Peggy Olsen? An event on Sunday night may satisfy all of these contingencies. AMC said it would show the “Mad Men” premiere in Duffy Square (between 45th and 47th Streets and Broadway and Seventh Avenue) at 9 p.m. — that’s one whole hour earlier than the poor saps who pay for cable television every month will get to see it. The screening will be preceded by “Mad Men” costume contests and other events, and is to be attended by Elisabeth Moss, an Emmy Award-nominated star of the series. Spoiler alert: Season 4 will pick up where Season 3 left off!
772 2010-07-24 Has the theater world found another “Lion King”? For their next stage project, Elton John, far left, and Lee Hall are adapting a work about talking animals that no English-language reader of the last 65 years could possibly be unfamiliar with. Oh, and before you break out your checkbook to buy tickets or to invest, you should also know that it’s a metaphor for the rise of Stalinism. Yes, “Animal Farm,” George Orwell’s not-so-adorable allegory that taught us that all animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others, is being prepared as a musical by Mr. Hall and Mr. John, the creative team behind “Billy Elliot the Musical,” The Daily Mail of London reported. Mr. Hall, who also wrote the screenplay for the film version of “Billy Elliot,” told The Daily Mail that it took about two years to secure the rights for the project, and that it would probably take another two years before the musical is finished. No producers are officially attached yet, and no actors have been announced to play Napoleon, Snowball and their oppressed and corrupted barnyard pals.
773 2010-07-24 This is the way the world will end: not with a bang, but with a woof. Or perhaps a meow. Or, more likely, both.

I don’t mean the world as in the physical planet; no cataclysmic explosion is imminent. I mean the world as in the ecosystem that features humans as the dominant creatures. Without realizing it, we have been ceding ground for some years now to cats and dogs. They were fine when they were merely our pets, but lately they have been slowly hypnotizing us by taking over the things we humans love most of all: our screens. And, as history has taught us repeatedly, those who control the screens control the masses.

This summer may represent some kind of tipping point in this unrelenting march to the end of human dominance. On Saturday night, Animal Planet will broadcast a special, “Dogs vs. Cats,” that will no doubt draw millions of viewers because it seems likely to have dogs and cats in it. On Friday will release a movie, that will no doubt draw millions of moviegoers for the same reason. (After all, the first movie in this sure-to-be series, made more than $200 million globally nine years ago, and the sequel is in 3-D.)

The National Geographic Channel, which already knows the power of pooch TV from its popular “Dog Whisperer” series, adds a two-hour special, “And Man Created Dog,” to its repertory on Aug. 8. And, of course, what with “Puppy Bowl,” “Cats 101,” the animal segments of “America’s Funniest Home Videos” and so on, you were already in danger of running into a kitty or mutt any time you turned on the tube.

Yes, TV- and movie-land seem to be — you knew it was coming — going to the dogs, and cats, to an extent that Lassie never could have envisioned. Blame the third type of screen: the computer screen. Because whatever audiences “Dogs vs. Cats” and “Cats & Dogs” draw, it will be nothing compared with the vacant-eyed armies of people who are watching idiotic cat and dog videos on the Internet.

That’s what I’ve been doing for several days now, and two things are abundantly clear:

¶One: this is no accident or fad. Cats and dogs are doing this on purpose: behaving cutely whenever they sense that a camera is running. Anyone who has owned either type of animal knows that these beasts are not stupid; they are evil masters of manipulation — cats with their haughty indifference, dogs with their unrestrained enthusiasm. The premise of that new Animal Planet special is to decide, through a series of spurious competitions and what look like amateur videos, which is the superior pet, but the supposed cat-dog rivalry underlying the show is a fabrication. These species aren’t rivals; they’re co-conspirators.
774 2010-07-24 Customers will not be able to get their hands on Apple’s white iPhone 4 until later this year, the company said Friday, conceding that making the model had proven surprisingly difficult to make.

Apple, in a brief statement, said that its black iPhone 4 had not been affected. As for the white iPhone, the company said it has “continued to be more challenging to manufacture that we originally expected.”

Apple did not provide further details in its statement or give a precise date when the white model would be available.

The newest iPhone, while selling quickly, has created a series of headaches for Apple, the biggest being the suggestion that its design was flawed because of a problem with the antenna.

The chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, at a rare news conference last week, defended the phone, but offered consumers free phone cases to address reception complaints.
775 2010-07-24 “There’s still a lot of life out there for Verizon,” he said in a call with investors and analysts after the report was released.

Mr. Killian highlighted the company’s additions to its mobile portfolio, including the HTC Droid Incredible and the Motorola Droid X, which helped woo new customers. More than 35 percent of the company’s subscribers now have 3G smartphones, he said.

“The whole Droid franchise is performing extremely well,” he said. “I can’t say enough about the opportunity we see ahead with smartphone penetration.”

Mr. Killian did not discuss whether the iPhone would be coming to Verizon’s network, as many would-be buyers have hoped. But he did say that the company was still considering the introduction of tiered pricing for data as it continues to introduce its next-generation wireless network.

Verizon, based in New York, reported a loss of $198 million, or 7 cents a share, for the quarter, including a charge for employee buyouts. That was in contrast to a profit of $1.48 billion, or 52 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

The company, which has suffered from a rapidly eroding landline business as more people come to rely on cellphones, offered a voluntary buyout to workers earlier this year. The company expects 11,000 workers to accept the buyout, resulting in a charge of $2.3 billion.

Excluding that charge and other one-time items, Verizon earned 58 cents a share, which was better than the 56 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters. Shares of Verizon jumped 3.8 percent, to close at $28.02.

Mr. Killian said he saw more opportunities to cut costs, and he expected earnings for the rest of the year to be roughly in line with Wall Street’s expectations.

Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said Verizon was handling its cost-cutting relatively well.

“It’s no secret that the wireline business is now a cost-management game,” he said. “They actually did a pretty good job with getting cost reductions in line with revenues in that business.”

Wireless carriers are increasingly looking to data plans and services like high-quality streaming video as critical sources of revenue.

“The industry is becoming much more about getting revenue from the existing base than it is about getting more subscribers on the network,” said Philip Cusick, an analyst with the Macquarie Group. “That’s still important, but not nearly as important as it was a year ago.”

Verizon said that its data revenue soared 23.8 percent from the previous year, while average data revenue per customer rose 19.4 percent.

“We’re in the early innings of wireless data,” Mr. Killian said.

Verizon’s revenue dipped 0.3 percent, to $26.8 billion, from $26.9 billion, largely the result of a $268 million one-time reduction made to account for previously recognized wireless data revenue.
776 2010-07-24 While questions about the validity of the tests remained, analysts said the results were about as expected and the market was relieved there were no surprises.

The euro rallied in choppy trading, rising to $1.2922 in New York from $1.2895 on Thursday.

“There was semi-relief that the stress tests weren’t any worse than expected,” said William J. Schultz, chief investment officer with McQueen, Ball & Associates.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed with a gain of 102.32 points, or 1 percent, at 10,424.62. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 8.99 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,102.66, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 23.58 points, or 1.1 percent, at 2,269.47.

For the week the Dow industrials rose 3.2 percent, the S.& P. 500 was up 3.5 percent and the Nasdaq gained 4.1 percent.

The increases occurred despite a cautious economic outlook on Wednesday from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.

“Earnings are driving this market higher, though we’ve had events temporarily not allowing those values to be realized in stock prices,” said Brett D’Arcy, chief investment officer at the CBIZ Wealth Management Group, referring to Mr. Bernanke’s comments and the stress test results. “But there’s a relief that’s through and they didn’t stop the markets.”

On Friday, Ford posted net income of $2.6 billion, or 61 cents a share, and said it should have more cash than debt by the end of 2011.

The company said sales in the United States rose 28 percent in the first half of 2010, nearly double the industry average, and its market share rose to 16.9 percent, from 16.4 percent a year earlier.

Verizon added 665,000 contract subscribers but posted a loss in the quarter because of a one-time charge related to employee buyouts. Excluding that charge and other one-time items, however, its results topped forecasts and its shares rose $1.02, or 4 percent, to $28.02. Kimberly Clark, maker of Kleenex and Huggies diapers, said it earned $498 million, which was up 23.6 percent from last year and beat analysts’ expectations. Its shares rose 1.65 percent, to $64.

Amazon.com, however, fell short of analysts’ estimates when it reported results after the close of trading Thursday and on Friday its shares fell $1.20, or 1 percent, to $118.87.

Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist with Janney Montgomery Scott, said 149 of the S.& P. 500 companies had reported quarterly earnings to date and 85 percent had beaten analyst expectations.

“Overall earnings season has been very strong,” said Mr. LeBas. In the previous quarter, Mr. LeBas said 80 percent of the S.& P. 500 companies had better-than-expected earnings. In the second quarter last year, he said, 65 percent beat expectations.

General Electric, which last week announced positive second-quarter earnings, announced a 20 percent increase in its quarterly dividend and a three-year extension of its share-repurchase plan to 2013. The company raised its quarterly dividend to 12 cents a share, payable in October.

Stock in G.E. rose 50 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $15.71.

As stocks rose, government securities fell. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 104 8/32 and the yield rose to 2.99 percent from 2.94 percent late Thursday.
777 2010-07-24 Their changes have not been as drastic as the waves created in South Beach, but the Lakers have also fortified their roster this off-season while aiming for a three-peat next season.     Unlike Miami, the Lakers had no pressing need to alter the c...
778 2010-07-25 Remember the, um, darn rules!...
779 2010-07-25 Bernhard Langer took a three-shot lead in the Senior British Open after shooting a two-under 69 Sunday in the third round at Carnoustie, Scotland.

Langer has yet to win on the Champions Tour but is in position to change that after outplaying his nearest rival, Corey Pavin. They set out as co-leaders at four under, but three bogeys dropped Pavin, the United States Ryder Cup captain, to a one-over 72.

Despite his lead, Langer said he was wary of Carnoustie’s fearsome reputation. “I am aware that this golf course is one of the toughest links you will ever play,” he said. “And I am aware that a three-shot lead is nothing if very little around here.”

Langer’s lead could have been bigger, but he drove into a bunker on the final hole and was forced to lay up short of the famed Barry Burn with his recovery shot.

He then hit a wedge five feet from the hole but missed the putt to save par and had to settle for a bogey and a three-shot lead at six-under 207.
780 2010-07-25 Every team has issues; some are bigger than others.

Bills: A switch to a new defense and Chan Gailey taking over as coach make for a lot of changes. But is there anything that can be done with this offense?

Dolphins: Brandon Marshall and Bill Parcells will try to coexist. This should be interesting.

Jets: Will the chemistry be disrupted by a raft of new players, and does the most high profile of them, running back LaDainian Tomlinson, have anything left?

Patriots: The focus will be on whether the defense has improved, but a healthy Wes Welker will make everyone feel better, too.

Bengals They must sift through a logjam of receivers for an offense in need of explosive plays.

Browns Jake Delhomme is the answer? Let us see where else Mike Holmgren puts his fingerprints.

Ravens New receivers like Donte Stallworth and Anquan Boldin make this a rare Ravens training camp that is all about the offense.

Steelers Is the blocking improved enough to make the running game a viable option when quarterback Ben Roethlisberger is out?

Colts Is safety Bob Sanders healthy? Will Reggie Wayne hold out? Will Peyton Manning receive his contract extension before the season starts?

Jaguars A young team so nondescript that the real question is whether the team will remain in Jacksonville.

Texans The defense, particularly in the red zone, has to improve for Houston to finally make the playoffs.

Titans With a Chris Johnson contract crisis averted, the focus should be back on defense, which gave up far too many big plays last season.

Broncos Tim Tebow is the headliner, but the most important work has to be done on defense for the Broncos to be more consistent than last season.

Chargers All eyes are on running back Ryan Mathews, who replaces Tomlinson and, the Chargers hope, brings back the running game.

Chiefs What will Charlie Weis and Romeo Crennel do as the new coordinators without the talent they had in New England?

Raiders Now we will see what a real quarterback — Jason Campbell — can do to improve the offense.

Cowboys They are a Super Bowl favorite, but the offensive line had better improve.

Eagles Yes, everybody is watching quarterback Kevin Kolb, but the defense, particularly the secondary, needs lots of work, too.

Giants From front to back, the focus will be on the defense and how the new coordinator Perry Fewell will revamp the group. On Saturday, the Giants signed linebacker Keith Bulluck to help replace Antonio Pierce.

Bears The first look at the odd couple — quarterback Jay Cutler and the offensive coordinator Mike Martz. Their rapport will determine the course of the season.

Lions They are still not good, so fans may as well watch the rookie defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh work.

Packers The offensive line is a source of concern, but of more immediate interest is replacing the suspended defensive end Johnny Jolly.

Vikings Let us assume Brett Favre is coming back. His arrival is weeks away, so it is best to focus on whether coaches can tinker with Adrian Peterson’s style enough to stop the fumbles.

Buccaneers They are still young, so there is a lot to watch, not much of it good yet. Stick with watching the second-year quarterback Josh Freeman until the rookie defensive tackle Gerald McCoy signs.

Falcons They focused on improving the pass defense and finding a starting cornerback opposite Dunta Robinson — the biggest position battle.

Panthers What will the pass rush be without Julius Peppers? Can the rookie quarterback Jimmy Clausen challenge Matt Moore for the starting job?

Saints The offense is remarkably intact, but now is the time to watch for signs of the dreaded Super Bowl hangover.

Cardinals This time we mean it: it is your show, Matt Leinart.

49ers There are a few position battles on the defense, but playoff hopes hinge on quarterback Alex Smith, who finally does not have to learn a new offensive system.

Rams Not much else here, so watch the future franchise quarterback Sam Bradford, even if it is only in contract negotiations.

Seahawks It is rare that the sideline is worth watching in camp, but the intrigue surrounds whether Pete Carroll’s style will be successful.
781 2010-07-25 FOROS, Ukraine (Reuters) — Russia’s prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, said Saturday that he had met with Russian agents swapped in an exchange with the United States this month, and promised them a good future in Russia.

“I have no doubts they will have interesting, bright lives,” Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. agent, told reporters during a visit to Ukraine.

Ten people pleaded guilty this month to being agents for Russia while living under cover in the United States in one of the biggest spy scandals since the cold war. The agents, who worked without diplomatic cover, led apparently normal lives in the United States, with some raising children and one family being described by a neighbor as “suburbia personified.”

In exchange for the agents, Russia released four people imprisoned there for suspected contact with Western intelligence agencies.

Mr. Putin did not say where he met the agents, but said he expressed his admiration and sang Soviet songs with them.

“As far as those people are concerned, every one of them had a tough life,” he said. “First was to master foreign language as your own. Think and speak it and do what you are told to do for the interest of your motherland for many years without counting on diplomatic immunity.”
782 2010-07-25 Going into the weekend, the team’s only unsigned draft pick is running back Ryan Mathews, the 12th pick over all, who is expected to replace Tomlinson.

San Diego was 13-3 last year before a home playoff loss to the Jets.

“We have a chance, and you have to go do it to have this be the best team that I’ve been with since I’ve been here,” Turner said.

San Diego made it to the A.F.C. championship game after the 2007 season, Turner’s first with the team. Including that loss at New England, the Chargers have lost three of their last four playoff games.

The absences of Jackson, who had 68 catches for 1,167 yards and 9 touchdowns, and McNeill, who protects Rivers’s blind side, cannot be overlooked. Jackson is coming off his second straight 1,000-yard season, and at 6 feet 5 inches gave Rivers another enticing target to go with the Pro Bowl tight end Antonio Gates.

“You weigh that, and I’m like everyone involved; I’d love to have all our guys there,” Turner said. “But from a coaching standpoint, I’m going to go coach the people that are there.”

Turner likened this situation to the Chargers’ 2009 opener at Oakland, when they lost center Nick Hardwick, the rookie right guard Louis Vasquez and Tomlinson to injuries in a game they had to rally to win.

“It’s like you got knocked down and had to take a mandatory count, you know, and you’re looking around and saying, ‘What are going to do, how are going to do this?’ ” he said. “And then after you get over the shock, you start figuring, ‘OK, we have to do this, this and this,’ and then pretty soon, we became a very good football team.”

Hardwick missed the next 13 weeks, forcing the Chargers to shuffle their line.

To fill in for McNeill, the Chargers have signed 35-year-old Tra Thomas, a three-time Pro Bowler. Brandyn Dombrowski, a second-year player who played right guard and right tackle last year, can also play left tackle.

“Tra Thomas brings his experience, much like four years ago when Roman Oben came in, and everyone said, ‘This is an old, broken-down guy,’ and all he did was go play for two-three years and play at a high level,” Turner said.

To fill in for Jackson, the Chargers will turn to Legedu Naanee, who is coming off foot surgery, and Craig Davis, who has often been injured and has not lived up to his billing as the team’s first-round draft pick in 2007.

“If Vincent Jackson isn’t with us, Legedu Naanee is getting the opportunity of a lifetime,” Turner said, adding, “Legedu believes he can be a dynamic, explosive receiver in this league.”

Naanee had 24 catches for 242 yards and 2 touchdowns last year, and Davis had six catches for 52 yards. The Chargers also have Malcom Floyd, who also wanted a long-term deal but signed his $3,168,000 tender in June. Floyd had 45 catches for 776 yards and a touchdown in 2009. The Chargers signed the free-agent receiver Josh Reed from Buffalo, where he had 27 catches for 291 yards and a touchdown.

Turner and the Chargers would love to forget their 17-14 playoff loss to the Jets, when the All-Pro Nate Kaeding missed three field-goal attempts, Jackson and linebacker Shaun Phillips each had a silly penalty, and cornerback Antonio Cromartie, now with the Jets, missed a tackle on Shonn Greene’s 53-yard touchdown run.

“That’s why I’m anxious, excited, about the season starting because we’ll have some other games to talk about other than that one once we get going,” Turner said.
783 2010-07-25 SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea vowed Saturday to respond with “powerful nuclear deterrence” to joint American and South Korean military exercises poised to begin this weekend, saying the drills amounted to a provocation that would prompt “retaliatory sacred war.”

North Korea routinely threatens war when South Korea and the United States hold joint military drills, which the North sees as a rehearsal for an attack on it.

The latest threat comes amid increased tensions on the divided Korea Peninsula over the sinking of a South Korean warship that South Korea and the United States say was the result of a North Korean attack. Forty-six South Korean sailors were killed when the ship sank in March.

South Korea and the United States announced last week that they would stage the drills as a message to North Korea to stop its “aggressive” behavior.

North Korea denies any role in the sinking and says any punishment will start a war.
784 2010-07-25 Things have picked up, too, in the theater community. Two Cuban theater groups, Teatro Buendía and Teatro El Público, are performing this month in the United States as part of theater festivals in Chicago and Miami. In March, a group of Cuban playwrights and designers attended a Cuban theater conference at the University of Miami.

The exchanges follow a lull in cultural swaps that began around 2003, when the Bush administration tightened restrictions on travel to Cuba.

Lillian Manzor, director of the Cuban Theater Digital Archive at the University of Miami, said visas for cultural purposes were flowing once more. “Cubans from the island are coming to the U.S. easier — not only musicians, but whole theater groups, and academics also,” she said. “It’s a cause for optimism.”

“Blind Mouth Singing,” the play being performed here, is set deep in the fecund but ruthless Caribbean countryside. Reiderico, the teenage protagonist, has an imaginary friend, Lucero, who lives down a well but wants to escape and live in the capital. Reiderico is bullied by his bitter mother and boorish brother, but has an ally in a sweet, restive aunt named Bolivia.

The play deals with familiar Cuban themes: painful longing, fractured identity and ambivalence about leaving to seek a new life. It is dedicated to Reinaldo Arenas, the barred, gay Cuban writer who fled to the United States in 1980, and it is inspired by his first novel, “Singing From the Well,” about a child who escapes the torment of his brutal family through fantasy.

Mr. Cortiñas, who was born in Miami, writes his scripts in English with a poetry drawn from his mother tongue. “Blind Mouth Singing” has also been produced in New York and Chicago.

“The idea of parting, of seeking new horizons, that’s very Cuban,” said Henry Labrada, 18, a dance student who saw the play here. “Theater is the perfect medium for us to understand that being from here, being from there, we share the same sensibility.”

Ms. Manzor said collaborations like “Blind Mouth Singing” nurtured a growing consensus across the Florida Straits that the diaspora’s cultural output formed part of the Cuban scene.

For decades after the 1959 revolution that swept Fidel Castro to power, the official canon shunned the work of Cubans who left the island. But that position has gradually shifted.

“Every work by a Cuban dramaturge, no matter where in the world it is done, forms part of Cuban theater,” said Gerardo Fulleda León, head of the Havana-based Rita Montaner Theater Company, which produced the play. “A person’s transitory circumstance is not what defines their identity. The same applies with art.”

The process of producing “Blind Mouth Singing” began in 1999, when Mr. Fulleda invited a Cuban-American director, Jorge Luis Cacheiro, to put on a play. For years, the project stalled because Mr. Cacheiro could not get financing in the United States.

Then in 2008, Mr. Cacheiro received about $7,500 in grants for travel expenses from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the Theater Communications Group and Montclair State University in New Jersey, where he teaches.

Even with the money in place, putting on the show was no picnic. The Cuban cast, which would normally spend several months rehearsing a play, had four weeks. Two actors defected to Europe before rehearsals began, and another left.

A DVD player that was part of the sound design was seized by Cuban customs. There was no wood to build the house that is the centerpiece of the set, so it was redesigned at the last minute using string that Mr. Cacheiro had brought from the United States. There was even some discussion over painting a white stool brown, because there was no paint to return it to its original color. But Mr. Cacheiro cannot wait to do it all again. “These processes are vital,” he said. “For me, they’re steps towards ending the embargo.”

He and Mr. Fulleda have plans to bring an all-American play to the Cuban capital. He is confident that, this time, it will not take a decade. “We are living in different times, and I think projects like this will happen much more quickly,” Mr. Cacheiro said. “There’s a change in the wind.”
785 2010-07-25 As Lewis, the longtime congressman, told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, he knew immediately that something was amiss with the distorted video clip of Sherrod talking to the

“I’ve known these two individuals — the husband for more than 50 years and the wife for at least 35, 40 — and there’s not a racist hair on their heads or anyplace else on their bodies,” Lewis said.

We may not have a “nation of cowards” on race, as Attorney General contended, but we may have a West Wing of cowards on race.

The president appears completely comfortable in his own skin, but it seems he feels that he and Michelle are such a huge change for the nation to absorb that he can be overly cautious about pushing for other societal changes for blacks and gays. At some level, he acts like the election was enough; he shouldn’t have to deal with race further. But he does.

His closest advisers — some of the same ones who urged him not to make the race speech after the Rev. issue exploded — are so terrified that Fox and the will paint Obama as doing more for blacks that they tiptoe around and do less. “Who knew that the first black president would make it even harder on black people?” asked a top black Democratic official.

It’s the same impulse that caused Obama campaign workers to refuse to let Muslim women with head scarves sit in camera range during a rally. It’s the same impulse that has left the president light-years behind W. on development help for . In their rush to counteract attempts to paint Obama as a radical/Muslim/socialist, Obama staffers can behave in insensitive ways themselves.

“I don’t think a single black person was consulted before Shirley Sherrod was fired — I mean c’mon, “ said Congressman James Clyburn of , a black lawmaker so temperate that he agreed with an op-ed piece in The on Friday by Senator of , which urged that “government-directed diversity programs should end.”

“The president’s getting hurt real bad,” Clyburn told me. “He needs some black people around him.” He said Obama’s inner circle keeps “screwing up” on race: “Some people over there are not sensitive at all about race. They really feel that the extent to which he allows himself to talk about race would tend to pigeonhole him or cost him support, when a lot of people saw his election as a way to get the issue behind us. I don’t think people elected him to disengage on race. Just the opposite.”

, D.C.’s House delegate, agreed: “The president needs some advisers or friends who have a greater sense of the of the African-American community, or who at least have been around the mulberry bush.”

And why does the N.A.A.C.P. exist if not to help clear a smeared champion of civil rights who gave a stirring speech about racial reconciliation at an N.A.A.C.P. banquet? Its president, Ben Jealous, shamefully following the administration’s rush to judgment, tweeted Monday night that Shirley Sherrod was a racist without even calling his Georgia chapter president or reviewing the N.A.A.C.P.’s own video of the speech.

It was , a Democratic strategist, who, after hearing the entire speech, pushed to get it out and helped clear Sherrod’s reputation on CNN.

The president shouldn’t give Sherrod her old job back. He should give her a new job: Director of Black Outreach. This White House needs one.
786 2010-07-25 LOS ANGELES — Among the pleasures of living in Southern California, none may be as wonderful as the climate, and the ability of residents to use it as a meteorological bat against the collective heads of their fellow Americans.

When there are snowstorms elsewhere, people here go tide pooling; when humidity soaks the East, Angelenos repose at 75 degrees.

Never had this chasm been more acute than during this unusually cool summer in Southern California, where people wrapped themselves in light sweaters as the rest of the nation tried to fry things on the sidewalks.

But then, it rained. That was not funny. Angelenos may like to be cruel with their cool, but it should not interrupt a barbecue.

Now, as the summer lurches toward August with barely a warm weekend to its name — to say nothing of the almost-unheard-of precipitation — people here are actually grumpy about their climes.

“I actually wish I were on the East Coast,” said Caitlin Pence, 24, who lives in Manhattan Beach, in the South Bay area of Los Angeles County. “It is so miserable here, I don’t really want to do anything. It’s like seriously, actually, genuinely depressing. I am a teacher, and so I have my whole summer off — and I’ve seen the sun probably two times the whole summer.”

The average temperature at Los Angeles International Airport in July, so far, has been 66.4 degrees, or 2.4 degrees below normal; on July 12, the airport hit a record with its lowest recorded maximum temperature of 68 degrees. That was repeated on Saturday. (The previous low for the day was 70 degrees, in 1949.)

This followed an unusually cool June — generally the dreariest month in Los Angeles. Further, there have been traces of rain four days this month, which for Los Angeles is something akin to a frost in Miami in September.

“Two degrees below normal over a month may not sound like much,” said Claudia Cox, head of operations for the National Weather Service’s Western region. “But when you average up all 30 days, it is pretty unusually cold.”

While some people may find the cool days a pleasure, it has cramped the style of beachgoers and those who like to emerge from a pool into a bath of radiant sun. “I would say our attendance is down by about 30 percent,” said Juan Arias, who works at the West Hollywood public pool.

But revenge may well come next month. “It looks like in August there are going to be above-normal temperatures,” Ms. Cox said. So it may be December before Los Angeles finds its rightful smug spot in the weather world again. JENNIFER STEINHAUER
787 2010-07-25 HOUSTON — As Tropical Storm Bonnie dissipated to a mere area of low pressure over the Gulf of Mexico on Saturday, a drilling rig and about a dozen other ships that had been working to repair BP’s blown-out oil well reversed course and began heading back to the well site.

Workers scrambled on Friday to pack up their gear and move out of the storm’s projected path, after BP and the Coast Guard decided to suspend response operations.

“We are going to continue to play a cat-and-mouse game,” Thad W. Allen, the retired Coast Guard admiral who is leading the federal spill response, said at a briefing on Saturday. “It’s just one of the things we have to manage.”

The drilling ship had sailed back to the well site by Saturday afternoon, and technicians were preparing to return to work. It will take at least a week before drilling can begin again on the relief well, which has been scheduled to be completed by mid-August. The relief well is considered likely to be the final plugging of the runaway well, which has been capped for over a week.

Once the drilling rig sets a section of steel casing into the well bore of the relief well, BP has been given permission to start pumping heavy mud into the leaky oil reservoir with the hope of killing the well in early August, before the relief well is complete.

Jane Lubchenco, the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, told reporters that the weakening storm system had produced modest waves of three to five feet in the area around the well and that the waves would grow only a bit more as it moved through. She expressed optimism that the system would dissipate the oil in the gulf, leading to faster biodegradation of it.

“The beaches may look cleaner,” Ms. Lubchenco said. But she also cautioned that storm surges could push oil farther into some bayous and marshes. “Different shorelines will see different impacts from the storm.”
788 2010-07-25 Re “Head for the Hills? No Way, He Says” (Strategies, July 18), which described Jeremy J. Siegel’s continuing confidence in the stock market:

The column quoted another professor as saying stocks should offer higher returns because they are riskier. True, but taking a risk does not mean that there will necessarily be greater returns.

Professor Siegel has been in favor of stocks for a long, long time. But looking at the last 10 years through June, the Russell 3000 stock index had a negative average total return of 0.92 percent, annualized, versus a positive 6.47 percent for the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond index.

To be fair, it would have been very profitable to have started following Professor Siegel’s advice when his book, “Stocks for the Long Run,” was published in 1994. Because of the run-up of the 1990s, stocks have had a strong total return for that 16-year period.

However, staying the course may not always be the best strategy, as there can be extended periods when more conservative investments outperform stocks. Hugh Thompson
789 2010-07-25 Here are a few suggestions, and some general lessons for regulation in other domains. The first two changes are easy.

ADD REFEREES Put at least one more ref on the field. (Basketball has three referees on a much smaller court.) The idea is under consideration by FIFA, the soccer organizing body.

This is a no-brainer for the World Cup, which generates billions of dollars in revenue, but in the world of financial regulation, adding referees is costly. Governments will need to cut budgets, not expand them, so we need to make regulators more efficient, not more numerous.

ADD TECHNOLOGY Although instant replay showed that England’s goal should have counted, FIFA officials have resisted using technology that could help. Many technological solutions, including embedding an electronic chip in the ball, would make the determination of goal scoring faster and more accurate.

Technology can help in other regulatory areas as well, and is a good way to increase efficiency. For example, requiring banks to file their compliance data electronically drastically reduces the time it takes to conduct an audit.

INCREASE SCORING In the most recent tournament, the teams together scored 2.27 goals per match, the second-lowest number in history. In early years of the World Cup, scoring was twice as high, and the problem with low-scoring games is not just that they bore uncultured Americans like me. Low scores magnify the importance of referees’ decisions. When a team is awarded a penalty kick, it scores about 75 percent of the time, and that’s very likely to affect the outcome of a low-scoring game.

In finance, a useful analogy is to increase the capital requirements for banks. By requiring banks to have a bigger security blanket, regulators themselves have greater margin for error.

REDEFINE ‘OFFSIDE’ The offside rule is now too hard to enforce. When a player passes the ball downfield, no one on his team can have any part of his body farther downfield than any defender, aside from the goalkeeper. The linesman calling these violations runs along the sideline, keeping parallel with the offensive player closest to being offside — all while watching the ball.

This requires wide-angle vision that humans don’t possess. (A bird called the woodcock, with 360-degree vision, would be good at it.) Short of eliminating the rule, we might limit offside calls to players whose entire body is ahead of the defenders. That should be easier to detect, and might lead to more goals scored.

The general point is to make the judgment tasks of regulators easier. The Securities and Exchange Commission had trouble assessing the technical arguments that strongly suggested that Bernie Madoff was a crook, but they could have easily had a rule requiring him to document his assets under management.

RETHINK PENALTIES Another idea is to adjust the silly yellow/red card penalty system. There are three levels of fouls in soccer, depending partly on whether the action is “careless,” “reckless” or “using excessive force.” It is asking too much to think a referee can distinguish between careless and reckless on the fly.

A system similar to basketball’s, in which accumulated fouls lead to expulsion, and “flagrant” fouls are heavily punished, would be easier to put into practice, especially if an off-field official kept track of the running totals.

The general principle here is that we don’t want small differences in behavior, which are difficult for a regulator to distinguish, to lead to large differences in punishment.

REDUCE FAKING Finally, there is the problem of diving. After falling, players routinely writhe on the ground until the referee either believes they’ve been injured, ignores them or, rarely, imposes penalties for “simulation.” These instant injury judgments are very difficult for a single on-field referee.

Such decisions might be turned over to referees watching video monitors — and empowered to impose stiff penalties for faking. Diving is the soccer version of the inevitable attempts to influence financial regulators. We can’t expect to eliminate special pleading by financiers for taxpayer bailouts, of course, but perhaps we can reduce the impact of such efforts by opening them to public view through increased disclosure about the process and its beneficiaries.

Thinking about revising the rules of soccer is a nice summertime relief from worrying about more serious regulatory overhaul, but it also illustrates the key principles that apply to both.

New rules in either soccer or finance shouldn’t put any more burden on individual referees. As Larry Summers, the director of the National Economic Council, said recently, in revising financial regulations, we do not want to require anyone to get any smarter.

Consider the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau now being established. Above all, I’d urge the head of this agency to devise rules under the assumption that, someday, he or she will be succeeded by a nitwit.
790 2010-07-25 In the blog, he writes, “With Windows 7, Office 2010, Bing, Xbox 360, Kinect, Windows Phone 7, in our cloud platform, and many other products, services and happy customers, 2010 is shaping up as a huge year for us.”

By encompassing just about every product category under the sun — and then calling out Apple and Google, of all targets — Mr. Shaw draws attention to Microsoft’s weak spots.

Bing, its search engine, attracted 21.4 million new users in one year, Mr. Shaw says. Very well, but he does not mention the following: in 2007, the company’s online services group lost $604 million; in 2008, $1.2 billion; and in 2009, the year of Bing’s introduction, $2.25 billion.

Mr. Shaw also points out that in its 2000 fiscal year, Microsoft’s revenue was $23 billion, and that it grew to $58.4 billion by 2009. He does not, however, go on to compare this growth with that of Apple and Google, whom he had just called upon to illustrate another point. But let’s call Apple back to the stage: from 2000 to 2009, when Microsoft’s revenue grew 153 percent, Apple’s grew 436 percent. (Google’s number, beginning from a tiny base in 2000, is too large for use as a fair comparison.)

Perhaps the most important numbers that Mr. Shaw did not include — the numbers that go a long way toward explaining the we-don’t-get-no-respect tone in his post — reflect the judgments of investors. Microsoft continues to suffer through its very own lost decade. On Thursday, Microsoft reported its strong quarterly earnings. But at the close on Friday, Microsoft’s stock was 55 percent below its price at the beginning of January 2000.

Apple also reported its quarterly results last week: the most Macs sold, ever; more than three million iPads sold — and its stock is now at $260, or 829 percent above its January 2000 price.

“Tech investors pay for growth,” says Sarah Friar, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, who believes that those investors do not appreciate the durability of Microsoft’s cash cows, Windows and Office. She has many positive things to say about Microsoft’s ability to innovate, pointing in particular to the robust sales of server and database software, which are now almost equal in size to Windows revenue.

Ms. Friar views Microsoft as a company that primarily sells to the enterprise. By contrast, Apple and Google are primarily selling to consumers. “How many companies are good at being an enterprise company and a consumer company at the same time?” she asks.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, a software analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, offers one explanation why Microsoft stubbornly believes it can sell to consumers as well as to corporate customers: Microsoft was able to do so in its early years, when its operating system software and then its Office productivity suite were bought by individuals as well as companies.

“Microsoft is used to having it all,” he says.

Mr. Barnicle is bullish on Microsoft stock, partly because he thinks the company hasn’t received credit for its almost-half-full glass: the 40 percent of its business that is not Windows or Office. He, too, praised its enterprise software business, formally labeled “Server and Tools,” as “an incredible business,” accounting, he said, for about 24 percent of the company’s revenue and with an operating margin of 40 percent.

Mr. Shaw points to the 150 million Windows 7 licenses sold in the eight months after its release last year. It’s an impressive figure; Macs, iPhones and iPads have a long way to go to catch up. But those Windows 7 sales include pent-up corporate demand for anything-but-Windows-Vista. So that figure doesn’t give investors what they want most: portents of entirely new growth.
791 2010-07-25 Despite its name, Super Duper Weenie is not just about hot dogs. It is also about a range of condiments and side dishes made from scratch, including fresh-cut French fries cooked to crispy perfection and coleslaw, prepared daily, with hints of horseradish and celery seed.

As its name does imply, Super Duper Weenie is a throwback to an era when hot dog houses made almost everything on the premises. “I wanted to create an experience that you had maybe 40 or 50 years ago, before the preservatives and all that jarred stuff was invented,” said Gary Zemola, co-owner and creator of the business.

House-made condiments include the sauerkraut and sweet relish that accompany the New Englander hot dog, along with bacon, mustard and onion; the meat chili and hot relish that are slathered on the Californian, with onion and American cheese; and the red onion sauce covering the New Yorker, with sauerkraut, mustard and hot relish.

For many years, Super Duper sold hot dogs from a truck. Mr. Zemola bought the vehicle in 1992, and then, after John and Lorin Pellegrino became his partners, he acquired a fixed address in Fairfield in 1999. On most days you’ll find Mr. Zemola manning the griddle inside that modest-looking plank-sided building.

The dogs, which are a slightly smoky blend of beef and pork in a natural casing (from $3 for a plain up to $3.75), are Super Duper’s most popular item. But the menu lists several other options, too, like a grilled chicken sandwich, tuna salad on a Portuguese roll, and various burgers ($3.25 to $7). With the advent of cooler weather in autumn, soups made from scratch will also be featured.

Super Duper Weenie, 306 Black Rock Turnpike, Fairfield. (203) 344-3647; superduperweenie.com. Open Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
792 2010-07-25 This month and next, colleges and universities are putting final touches on the class of 2014. While most institutions have wrapped things up for the fall, a few wait-listed students may yet get a fat envelope.

That’s because the admissions season for 2010 has shaped up to be one of the most competitive, and uncertain, in memory.

The percentage of students accepted at many of the nation's top institutions hit new lows, while waiting lists reached new heights, says Barmak Nassirian, executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.

Mr. Nassirian points to the economic downturn as fueling uncertainty among colleges about how many accepted students would actually attend — the so-called yield. "The underlying method by which families have historically paid for college was basically obliterated by the triple whammy that this recession has delivered,” he says.

As a result, colleges had to hedge their bets this year: some offered a waiting-list spot to more than three times as many students as their entering class, leaving hundreds, even thousands, of students dangling, sometimes into late summer.
793 2010-07-25 But even with all of Honda’s meticulous attention to detail, there are times when the whole of the VFR seems to be less than the sum of its parts — an overall feeling that these subsystems do not always work in harmony. And then there’s the aesthetic matter of the VFR’s huge wedge of a muffler and its Y-shaped headlight, both of which struck a few onlookers as eyesores.

Some riders will surely be drawn to the new VFR by its engine layout alone; Honda has a three-decade tradition of building V-4s for racing, sport riding and even cruisers. The 1,237 cc engine produces 145 horsepower (as measured by Cycle World magazine), delivering fierce acceleration (zero to 60 in 2.6 seconds). A hefty amount of torque is available from about 4,000 r.p.m. upward.

Honda engineers have tried all manner of cylinder angles and crankshaft arrangements over the years, mostly settling on a 90-degree angle between the cylinders for the V-4 models, a layout that offers virtually vibration-free running. The VFR1200F engine is another animal altogether, with its cylinders set at a 76-degree angle to each other. The resulting dynamics produce a somewhat raspy feel and an exhaust note unlike earlier V-4s, but little objectionable vibration.

There is more novelty to this engine. The front cylinders are wide apart, with the rear pair nestled between, narrowing the aft end of the engine and giving the rider a more comfortable perch and shorter reach to the ground when stopped. This ergonomic setup really works, making the bike feel smaller and lighter than it actually is.

A factor contributing to the VFR1200’s weight is its use of shaft drive — a feature once felt to bolster a motorcycle’s image of dependability — rather than a chain. A driveshaft carries penalties in cost and weight, but the VFR’s drive system was so well done that I almost forgot that it was there.

The suspension works well enough to keep the bike stable while traversing bumps, but it is excessively harsh in comparison with models from competitors that come factory-equipped with premium forks and shock absorbers. The VFR’s brakes are sophisticated, combining antilock electronics with a linking feature that balances grip front and back, depending on whether the front brake lever, the rear brake pedal or both are being applied.

In the complaints department, my test bike, No. 18 off the production line, had a distracting engine jerkiness when rolling the throttle open from idle. Adjusting the throttle cable did not cure this; Honda said that recalibrating this bike’s electronic engine control should banish the annoyance.

At $15,999 the VFR1200F costs $1,600 more than a pure sportbike like the CBR1000RR (when equipped with antilock brakes), and $1,700 less than the ST1300 ABS sport-touring model; optional hard saddlebags for the VFR cost $1,400.

Honda’s intent to catch the attention of riders who might want something between the existing categories is perhaps a good marketing strategy, though that is not a large population. Sure, the VFR outpowers many entries in the sport-touring class, but there is also a risk that power-hungry riders will walk right past it and sign up for a sportbike without pausing to learn the charms of this hard-to-classify machine.
794 2010-07-25 And while they stress their lofty indifferences, the members of the Strictly Platonic crowd are equally passionate about their desire: conversation, conversation, conversation. Live, e-mail, phone, text, chat — platonic people, it seems, want people to talk to.

A 55-year-old man wants someone to read a “nice thoughtful e-mail” from him every morning. A 40-year-old man seeks “systematic, rigorous thinkers” to talk over “philosophy, aesthetics, linguistics and economic theory.” A 54-year-old woman looks for phone talks about “job, men, losing weight, goals we hope to accomplish.” A woman imagines a group of women discussing whether “pets have spirituality, why we are here, the role of spiritual leaders and masters, sowing and reaping or the ‘law of returns,’ what possibly could happen after death and much more.”

The friends sought on Strictly Platonic fall into various categories. Widely desired are dance partners, fellow insomniacs, consorts for movies and concerts, consolers after heartbreaks, workout partners, sparring partners, cultural-exchange groups, drinking buddies and pot-smoking buddies. A surprising number of Strictly Platonic posters — especially W4W, or women looking for women — request “partners in crime,” which seems to mean companions in shopping, dieting, dancing and movies.

Some posters on Strictly Platonic want to buy things for other people; some posters want things bought for them. One woman is eager to listen to any guy, any guy at all, natter on about Park Slope in Brooklyn — “You can show me where you like to shop, tell me some history about the area or chitchat about whatever you want” — if he will treat her to a single glass of wine. Another one is willing to pick up the tab for everything and even prove that his wife knows he is on Craigslist looking for female friends, if a woman will just go see some plays with him.

A Strictly Platonic poster generally has something in the world he desires to see or enjoy — something grand, like nature, philosophy, “all the city has to offer” — and he has discovered he needs another person to help him do it. But he doesn’t want to fall in love with that person, or not just yet; so he asks for someone to go biking with — or swimming. Or bar-hopping.

The forum is enlightening because it represents a collaborative effort to define “platonic” — and define it against nearly everything else on Craigslist. You would think the word would be debased by now. But it’s surprisingly intact. Maybe that’s why we still need some notion of platonism in everyday life. Once we’ve stipulated that commercial culture is that which debases everything, we need a popular concept that helps us resist debasement.

IT'S ALL GREEK For the Hellenist who has everything, consider "Apanta ta tou Platonos. Omnia Platonis Opera," from Krown & Spellman Booksellers, available on Abebooks for $65,000. It's a 1513 Venetian edition in Greek, with a Welsh inscription.

WHAT DEBT CRISIS? Lots of localized Strictly Platonic listings contribute to the pop definition of "platonic." When it comes to Plato's homeland, however, you'll find "Party people looking for more party people!!" On Craigslist Greece.

SOUL WINDOWS Strictly Platonic is to philosophical loners as Craigslist's Missed Connections is to romantic hipsters. The New York City version of the section, where posters register fleeting glances, is heavy on eye-contact encounters on the L train to and from Brooklyn.
795 2010-07-25 When the Price Is Right

CERTAIN specters lurking in the New York City real estate market can make even the toughest buyers and sellers squirm. There are co-op boards. There are bedbugs. And there is that little tracker on listing Web sites that counts how long an apartment has lingered on the market.

During the recession, the time it took to sell a home shot up as buyers’ and sellers’ understanding of a “reasonable” price drifted into very different worlds. But according to Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and a partner at Condominium Recovery, which invests in real estate, the time that it takes to sell a place has come down considerably — so long as it is priced correctly.

In the second quarter of this year, Mr. Miller said, Manhattan apartments went into contract after an average of 105 days on the market, measured from their final listing price. That’s nearly half the selling time it took in the fourth quarter of 2009, when the average length of time on the market peaked at 204 days.

In Brooklyn the drop has also been considerable. Last quarter, apartments spent an average of 103 days on the market. The peak selling time was reached in the third quarter of 2009, when apartments sat on the market for an average of 165 days.

In the first quarter of this year, both boroughs showed considerable drops in selling time compared with the fourth quarter of 2009 — to 123 days from 204 in Manhattan, and to 114 from 163 in Brooklyn.

“That drop is the point at which buyers are looking for product that’s priced reasonably,” Mr. Miller said. “They’re done testing the water.”
796 2010-07-25 Things have only heated up since November, when the restaurant, led by the chef David Muñoz and his wife, Ángela Montero, received a Michelin star. Mr. Muñoz’s fresh-faced appearance belies an impressive résumé, including five years in London at elite Asian restaurants like Hakkasan and Nobu. Back in Madrid since 2008, Mr. Muñoz, 30, has been piling up accolades for inspired Asian preparations in which he handles classics of the Spanish larder like morcilla (blood sausage) and white asparagus with the same deft touch as mizuna and coconut milk.

I secretly hope to be underwhelmed at places with so much buzz, but Diverxo happily disappointed.

“Get over yourself, this is really amazing,” my friend Deborah said between bites of a delicate golden pancake cradling the crispy skin of suckling pig. It was a riff on Spanish cochinillo and Peking duck and was indeed amazing. Next came the meat: a delicately steamed pork hamburger nestled in an artfully cut leaf of iceberg lettuce.

My favorite dish was the strangest — a buttery “bun” that looked like a snowball but was filled with black trumpet mushrooms and served with a paper-thin slice of smoky, air-cured beef draped over a metal spike protruding out of the plate. Coming to the table, it looked like a maquette for one of Santiago Calatrava’s next architectural projects.

Diverxo, Calle Pensamiento 28; (34-91) 570-0766; diverxo.com. Dinner for two, from 150 euros, $186 at $1.24 to the euro.

Since moving into sleek new digs in late 2009, Sudestada looks and feels like a swank global supper club hovering somewhere between Hanoi and Havana. Perhaps that’s because the owner is Argentine and the chef is from Vietnam and knows his way around such Southeast Asian cuisines as Thai, Malay and especially Vietnamese. Specialty cocktails like the citrusy caipirinhas set a breezy mood, and the waiters do a great job of taking diners through the varied menu.

For first-timers like me and my two friends they suggested a trio of classic starters including nem cua — light and crispy spring rolls — samosas and Singapore dumplings bathed in a savory pork broth. In a country where chefs have traditionally turned down the heat on spices to suit local tastes, Spanish food critics rave about the authentically hot and spicy red curry with beef cheeks. For us, the sate kambing, a brochette of succulent, almost caramelized lamb was the star of the entrees.

Standouts among the cool and fruity desserts include a mango lassi topped with litchis and lemon-basil granita as well as a sweet coconut cream balanced by tart passion fruit sorbet.

In an elegant room with alabaster panels one floor above Calle Hermosilla, which links the high-end shopping district of Barrio Salamanca with the corporate expense account crowd on Paseo de la Castellana, the newest branch of 99 Sushi Bar is not a cheap date. But it’s worth the splurge to sample the Peruvian chef Luís Arévalo’s inventive Japanese cuisine.

Mr. Arévalo offers a worthwhile 65-euro tasting menu that provides an ocean-hopping range through seafood preparations (sushi, sashimi and tartares are the house specialties), but my friend and I opted to skip that menu’s standard starters like miso soup and seaweed salad and dive right in with the raw fish, choosing six dishes of our own to share for more or less the same price.

Mr. Arévalo’s take on Japanese is saucier than the standard, starting with the salmon tartare enveloped in light but robust Japanese mustard sauce. The scallop sashimi was drizzled with an orange-rind-infused syrup that gave a clean finish and some extra bite to the otherwise subtle and buttery-soft scallops. The tiger prawn tempura was lightly battered and fried, then diced up and bathed in a spicy pink rémoulade.

The 99 Sushi Roll selection (four different maki wrapped in salmon, fish roe and herbs) made for a very colorful plate. Wanting to try everything, we tacked on some individual nigiri, including butterfish and kobe beef hamburger that were fun to eat but not revelatory. A few gorgeous desserts, such as green tea mousse layered with vivid orange mango, made a bigger impression on the eyes than the palate. Regrettably, smoking is permitted everywhere but the small bar.

If your idea of exotic requires neither chopsticks nor the latest in interior design, slip into the classic Cuban restaurant Zara, a pioneer of Madrid’s international cuisine scene since 1978 and just a few steps off Gran Via. Zara’s owners, the Havana-born Inés Llanos and her Spanish husband, José Martinez, may not take reservations but they have been taking excellent care of the actors, artists and in-crowd who continue packing the dozen or so tables squeezed into the tiny white dining room beneath a very 1970s stained-glass mural of tropical foliage.

The menu lists some elegant-sounding seafood and meat preparations, but nearly everyone orders one of the “platos típicos y tropicales.” These are Cuban comfort food like tender, slow-cooked pork ropa vieja or albondigas (meatballs) that come nestled on plates heaped with white rice, fried plantains and topped with perfectly fried eggs.

Brightening the mood more than the stained glass are the famous daiquiris that are served in tiny birdbath glasses (the icy stainless-steel blender pitcher holding the overflow is left on the table for refills). They slide down so easily and inconspicuously that they could be known as the “siesta-maker.” Beyond the daiquiris, meals often start with tostones and fried yuca or the only slightly lighter avocado salad and finishes with creamy flan or arroz con leche.

As an American living in Madrid, I needed an assignment from this newspaper and the advice of three respected Spanish food critics to get me to Gumbo for dinner. I had dismissed it as gimmicky theme food sloshed out to homesick tourists, and have breezed right by it since it opened seven years ago. Once I was pushed inside however, the restaurant’s no-fuss Southern charm won me over with pistachio-green walls and salmon-colored banquettes; the fresh flowers on the bar swayed beneath whirling ceiling fans.

Matthew Scott, the owner, is a New Orleans émigré who makes very good (and rather exotic for Europeans) food that quickly won over the five other people (two Spaniards, two Germans, one American) in my party. Our boisterous conversation screeched to a halt when the appetizers — fried green tomatoes, fried eggplant, country pâté, and cheese toast — started piling up on the table. The acidic tang of the creamy herb dressing on the Cajun chicken salad was as comforting as a call from Mom here in strictly oil-and-vinegar Spain.

With appetizers so satisfying, the entrees might be Gumbo’s weak link, especially as portions are generous and you definitely want dessert. We liked the blackened tuna as a healthy, light option; delicately fried soft-shell crab was a more indulgent crowd pleaser.

In a land where desserts are made of mildly sweet ingredients like almonds, anise and apricots, Gumbo’s jumbo homemade American masterpieces like peanut butter pie, chocolate-banana cream pie and a perfectly moist (and spiced) carrot cake are the culinary equivalent of Hollywood blockbuster films.
797 2010-07-25 Four years ago, Stacy Snyder, then a 25-year-old teacher in training at Conestoga Valley High School in Lancaster, Pa., posted a photo on her MySpace page that showed her at a party wearing a pirate hat and drinking from a plastic cup, with the caption “Drunken Pirate.” After discovering the page, her supervisor at the high school told her the photo was “unprofessional,” and the dean of Millersville University School of Education, where Snyder was enrolled, said she was promoting drinking in virtual view of her under-age students. As a result, days before Snyder’s scheduled graduation, the university denied her a teaching degree. Snyder sued, arguing that the university had violated her First Amendment rights by penalizing her for her (perfectly legal) after-hours behavior. But in 2008, a federal district judge rejected the claim, saying that because Snyder was a public employee whose photo didn’t relate to matters of public concern, her “Drunken Pirate” post was not protected speech.

When historians of the future look back on the perils of the early digital age, Stacy Snyder may well be an icon. The problem she faced is only one example of a challenge that, in big and small ways, is confronting millions of people around the globe: how best to live our lives in a world where the Internet records everything and forgets nothing — where every online photo, status update, Twitter post and blog entry by and about us can be stored forever. With Web sites like LOL Facebook Moments, which collects and shares embarrassing personal revelations from Facebook users, ill-advised photos and online chatter are coming back to haunt people months or years after the fact. Examples are proliferating daily: there was the 16-year-old British girl who was fired from her office job for complaining on Facebook, “I’m so totally bored!!”; there was the 66-year-old Canadian psychotherapist who tried to enter the United States but was turned away at the border — and barred permanently from visiting the country — after a border guard’s Internet search found that the therapist had written an article in a philosophy journal describing his experiments 30 years ago with L.S.D.

According to a recent survey by Microsoft, 75 percent of U.S. recruiters and human-resource professionals report that their companies require them to do online research about candidates, and many use a range of sites when scrutinizing applicants — including search engines, social-networking sites, photo- and video-sharing sites, personal Web sites and blogs, Twitter and online-gaming sites. Seventy percent of U.S. recruiters report that they have rejected candidates because of information found online, like photos and discussion-board conversations and membership in controversial groups.

Technological advances, of course, have often presented new threats to privacy. In 1890, in perhaps the most famous article on privacy ever written, Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis complained that because of new technology — like the Kodak camera and the tabloid press — “gossip is no longer the resource of the idle and of the vicious but has become a trade.” But the mild society gossip of the Gilded Age pales before the volume of revelations contained in the photos, video and chatter on social-media sites and elsewhere across the Internet. Facebook, which surpassed MySpace in 2008 as the largest social-networking site, now has nearly 500 million members, or 22 percent of all Internet users, who spend more than 500 billion minutes a month on the site. Facebook users share more than 25 billion pieces of content each month (including news stories, blog posts and photos), and the average user creates 70 pieces of content a month. There are more than 100 million registered Twitter users, and the Library of Congress recently announced that it will be acquiring — and permanently storing — the entire archive of public Twitter posts since 2006.

In Brandeis’s day — and until recently, in ours — you had to be a celebrity to be gossiped about in public: today all of us are learning to expect the scrutiny that used to be reserved for the famous and the infamous. A 26-year-old Manhattan woman told The New York Times that she was afraid of being tagged in online photos because it might reveal that she wears only two outfits when out on the town — a Lynyrd Skynyrd T-shirt or a basic black dress. “You have movie-star issues,” she said, “and you’re just a person.”

We’ve known for years that the Web allows for unprecedented voyeurism, exhibitionism and inadvertent indiscretion, but we are only beginning to understand the costs of an age in which so much of what we say, and of what others say about us, goes into our permanent — and public — digital files. The fact that the Internet never seems to forget is threatening, at an almost existential level, our ability to control our identities; to preserve the option of reinventing ourselves and starting anew; to overcome our checkered pasts.

In a recent book, “Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age,” the cyberscholar Viktor Mayer-Schönberger cites Stacy Snyder’s case as a reminder of the importance of “societal forgetting.” By “erasing external memories,” he says in the book, “our society accepts that human beings evolve over time, that we have the capacity to learn from past experiences and adjust our behavior.” In traditional societies, where missteps are observed but not necessarily recorded, the limits of human memory ensure that people’s sins are eventually forgotten. By contrast, Mayer-Schönberger notes, a society in which everything is recorded “will forever tether us to all our past actions, making it impossible, in practice, to escape them.” He concludes that “without some form of forgetting, forgiving becomes a difficult undertaking.”

It’s often said that we live in a permissive era, one with infinite second chances. But the truth is that for a great many people, the permanent memory bank of the Web increasingly means there are no second chances — no opportunities to escape a scarlet letter in your digital past. Now the worst thing you’ve done is often the first thing everyone knows about you.
798 2010-07-25 To the Editor: As someone who travels internationally several times a year, I read your Practical Traveler column, “Delayed? They’ll Put You Up” (July 18), about how the European Union airlines compensate for delays, and wondered why United States airlines do not have similar policies for passengers. But then I remembered that until recently, United States airlines could keep passengers on planes for hours with no food, water, clean bathrooms and certainly no compensation.

Our government officials and United States airline carriers need to wake up and come up with legislation and/or rules to compensate passengers for their inconveniences like the EC 261 law.
799 2010-07-25 If you can't quite afford to live like a royal, this is your best chance to at least drive like one. RM Auctions is scheduled to sell a 1984 Daimler Double Six long-wheelbase sedan formerly owned by Queen Elizabeth II. The sale will be held during...
800 2010-07-25 For the first time in more than four years, Libya is granting tourist visas to American citizens. There is one caveat: travelers must apply through a handful of Libya-approved tour operators.     Jerry Sorkin, the president of one such company, Tu...
801 2010-07-25 Fashion designers have been somewhat slow to embrace the more commercial elements of modern technology, like selling their clothes online or on mobile devices, perhaps hesitant about sullying their brands. Social media, however, they seem to have ...
802 2010-07-25 By pricing the coming hybrid version of the luxury MKZ (due in showrooms this fall) at $35,180, the same price as its gas counterpart, Lincoln may be starting a trend toward erasing the price premium for gas-electric drivetrains.     Asked if the ...
803 2010-07-25 Q.My wife and I (both senior citizens) would like to spend a week  or so in Crete. We don't want to rent a car, so we will be dependent on buses or  taxis. Can you provide information on excursions to major tourist attractions?     Fredrick Waring...
804 2010-07-26 Chichi the ancient poodle hits the talk-show circuit....
805 2010-07-26 The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission is threatening Goldman Sachs with an investigation of the investment bank’s derivatives business by outside accountants, the F.C.I.C.’s chairman, Phil Angelides, told The Financial Times....
806 2010-07-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
807 2010-07-26 A consortium has until Wednesday to come up with a down payment for Miramax Films, or Disney could reopen the bidding....
808 2010-07-26 Our colleague Ginia Bellafante reviews and recaps the first episode of the new season on ArtsBeat....
809 2010-07-26 A rival investment group faces a Wednesday deadline for $40 million and a restructuring plan....
810 2010-07-26 A leading data-mining expert explains what will be needed to bring the field into the mainstream of business....
811 2010-07-26 Some telephone calls from Verizon landline customers east of Fifth Avenue, between 20th and 40th Streets, were not being completed due to an equipment failure. The phone company expected to have the problem fixed later Monday....
812 2010-07-26 The investment bank will remain qualified as an issuer of securities after settling civil fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission....
813 2010-07-26 Ford will begin selling the new 2011 Explorer this winter, into a market that has cooled on conventional S.U.V.'s....
814 2010-07-26 Links from around the Web....
815 2010-07-26 Advertising is beginning a more slyly aggressive effort at manipulation and Don is positioned ambivalently at the vanguard....
816 2010-07-26 Downward nominal rigidity and all that....
817 2010-07-26 The dance work, which includes a seven-and-a-half minute duet, is one of several highlights of the festival, which runs from Sept. 28 through Oct. 9....
818 2010-07-26 SKS Microfinance, the Indian lender backed by Sequoia Capital and George Soros, raised its initial public offering to as much as 16.3 billion rupees ($344 million) after six quarters of gains by the key equity index, Bloomberg News reported....
819 2010-07-26 A contested divorce between the two founders of Ikos is rattling one of Europe's oldest hedge fund groups, The Wall Street Journal reports....
820 2010-07-26 I asked our employees to rate their colleagues on each of our core values....
821 2010-07-26 Thinking about how to improve Soccer regulations comes naturally to economists, especially after a few beers, because some of the same principles should be applied to economic regulation, Richard H. Thaler writes in The New York Times....
822 2010-07-26 The stress tests conducted by European regulators last week did not give investors all the information they wanted about the condition of the region's banks, but the exercise may have given them enough to begin to answer the question of which inst...
823 2010-07-26 Jane Hall, a communication professor at American University and a former contributor to Fox News, said partisan media outlets “look for something that will get an audience and that will whip up people in some kind of frenzy, warranted or not.”

Ms. Hall said what Ms. Sherrod had endured was “classic propaganda.”

The drumbeat of racially charged stories has apparently affected the administration, which has said it wants to avoid making decisions in the churn of cable news. Ms. Sherrod said she had been told by an unnamed Agriculture Department official that she had to resign immediately because “you’re going to be on Glenn Beck tonight,” one of Fox News Channel’s biggest right-wing shows.

The incident has also renewed accusations of racism directed at Fox News, a unit of the News Corporation, which could conceivably affect Fox and its advertisers. The National Association of Black Journalists has faulted Fox for years for inaccurately portraying blacks. And Mr. Beck called Mr. Obama a racist last August, prompting an advertiser boycott that continues.

In the last month, Fox doggedly pursued an accusation of voter intimidation by a fringe hate group called the New Black Panthers on the day of the last presidential election. One news anchor, Megyn Kelly, devoted dozens of segments to the incident. (Ms. Kelly was even upbraided on the air by a Fox News contributor, Kirsten Powers, who accused her of doing the “scary black man thing.”

Last fall, Fox’s news programs gave heavy play to heavily edited tapes that appeared to show counselors at the liberal community organizing group Acorn giving advice to an ostensible pimp and his prostitute about evading taxes and setting up a brothel.

Fox’s news programs covered the story extensively. Rush Limbaugh claimed at the time that other media entities were “doing their best to cover it up by ignoring it.” Over the weekend, a former Democratic National Committee chairman, Howard Dean, accused Fox of pushing “a theme of black racism.”

“Continuing to cater to this theme of minority racism and stressing comments like this — some of which are taken out of context — does not help the country knit itself together,” he said on Fox News Sunday.

Michael Clemente, the senior vice president for Fox News, said in a statement on Sunday, “As we said this past week, some people, such as the failed candidate Dean, reflexively blame Fox for almost anything.”

Fox’s newscasts did not cover the edited Sherrod video last Monday, nor did Mr. Beck, but the opinion host Bill O’Reilly did call on her to resign.

She resigned between the time Mr. O’Reilly taped his show and when that show was broadcast.

Mr. O’Reilly apologized two nights later, and another Fox News host, Shepard Smith, asked, “What in the world has happened to our industry and the White House?”

Rich Lowry of The National Review wrote on the magazine’s blog, The Corner, that Ms. Sherrod’s “saga over the last couple of days is a lesson in how the culture of offense often works in contemporary America — chewing people up and spitting them out before they even have a chance to defend themselves.”

David Frum, a former fellow at the American Enterprise Institute who now edits FrumForum.com, said some conservatives argue that the ends justify the means in cases of faulty journalism.

“Many conservatives have worked themselves into such fear that Barack Obama is not only wasting our money but actually trying to overthrow the Constitution that those fears can justify almost anything,” he said in an interview on Friday.

Scurrilous stories meant to taint the Obama administration regularly take root online before gaining traction on television and radio. Mr. Breitbart calls this the “undermedia.”

“It’s my business model to craft strategies to make sure that the mainstream media is forced to reckon with stories that it would love to ignore because it doesn’t fit their narrative,” he said.

Equal parts a culture warrior and businessman, Mr. Breitbart is the person who last fall released the Acorn tapes to Fox News.

The video of Ms. Sherrod, the agriculture official, emerged on BigGovernment early on July 19. Mr. Breitbart said that in featuring the video of Ms. Sherrod speaking at an N.A.A.C.P. event, he was trying to defend the Tea Party movement against the N.A.A.C.P.’s claims of racism. That explanation was largely lost in translation, however.

Mr. Breitbart has cultivated his own news-and-commentary brand off the back of Matt Drudge, whose Drudge Report Web site he diligently updated for years. (His relationship with Mr. Drudge is the one subject Mr. Breitbart never discusses.) Back in 2005, Mr. Breitbart helped Arianna Huffington set up The Huffington Post. Mr. Breitbart’s work for Ms. Huffington did not last long. His marquee site, Breitbart.com, now averages 2.6 million visitors a month, according to the measurement firm Quantcast, and in the last year he has added several extensions, like the BigGovernment site.

He says he does not monitor his Web traffic closely, but allowed that last week was one of his Web sites’ most-publicized weeks ever. He did issue a correction to his account, saying the incident “shows the imperfect nature of journalism,” but said his mistakes had paled in comparison to those of the mainstream media.

Richard Prince, a media columnist for the Maynard Institute, which advocates for more diverse newsrooms and news coverage, said that stories suggesting reverse discrimination appeal to a faction of Americans who are disaffected toward the Obama administration and feel disadvantaged by the faltering economy.

“It comes down to the economic situation,” he said. “When people are in these kinds of straits, they look for scapegoats; they lash out.”
824 2010-07-26 WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner pressed the case on Sunday for letting Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire later this year.

In appearances on two television programs, Mr. Geithner said that letting tax cuts expire for those who make $250,000 a year or more would affect 2 percent to 3 percent of all Americans. He dismissed concerns that the move could push a teetering economy back into recession and argued that it would demonstrate America’s commitment to addressing its trillion-dollar budget deficit.

On “This Week” on ABC, he said, “We think that’s the responsible thing to do because we need to make sure we can show the world” that America is “willing as a country now to start to make some progress bringing down our long-term deficits.”

Mr. Geithner added, “I do not believe it will affect growth.”

Most Republicans and some Democrats in Congress strongly disagree and have pledged to launch an all-out effort to extend the tax cuts for people of all incomes. The cuts were passed under President George W. Bush in 2001 and 2003. Supporters of extending the cuts for everyone argue that raising taxes on any group, particularly one considered crucial for creating jobs, could endanger a precarious economic recovery.

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, spoke about the administration’s plans in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday.”

“The safest thing for America would be to have a provision passed this fall that said no tax increase of any kind for 2011,” said Mr. Gingrich, who is considering a run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012. “I mean the fact is, everywhere I go — and I’ve been in 10 states in the last 14 days — businesspeople say to me over and over again, ‘I will create no new jobs in this environment because the uncertainty is too frightening.’ ”

Mr. Geithner said the Obama administration supported keeping tax cuts in place for those who earn less than the wealthiest Americans, particularly the middle class. However, he said, the administration was also committed to taking steps toward shrinking America’s debt. And on “Meet the Press” on NBC, Mr. Geithner painted a less dire picture of the economy, playing down fears of a double-dip recession, while acknowledging that a full recovery remained a long way away.
825 2010-07-26 As Mac Guff gets to work on “The Lorax” and a third, undisclosed feature film with Illumination, another French studio, Buf Compagnie, is developing visual effects for “Thor,” a live-action film based on a comic-book superhero, with Walt Disney’s Marvel Studios. Other French rivals, like Mikros Image, which have largely focused on domestic production in the past, are trying to drum up business in Hollywood, too.

“We have a lot to win mutually, because the French market is small for these talents, and the American studios can benefit from our skills,” said Olivier-René Veillon, director of the Île-de-France Film Commission, which promotes the greater Paris area as a filmmaking site.

In making live-action blockbusters, Hollywood has long been looking to international talent. Films like the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, with a diverse international cast and crew, are difficult to stamp with any nationality.

But French effects and animation shops have watched with frustration in recent years as their counterparts in Britain, including companies like Double Negative and Framestore, carved out a lucrative niche in doing contract work for Hollywood studios. Opportunities for French companies were more limited.

Buf and Mac Guff, both of which were founded in the mid-1980s, have not gone entirely empty-handed. Buf, for example, worked on scenes in films like “Fight Club,” “The Dark Knight,” “The Matrix” and “Avatar.”

Until recently, however, French studios’ efforts to secure more business from Hollywood were held back by the high cost of doing business in France.

Two things have changed that. First, the euro started to fall against the dollar, making France more competitive. Then, last year, French lawmakers approved a tax rebate aimed at luring foreign filmmakers to France. It provides subsidies of up to €4 million, or $5.1 million, per film for expenses they incur in France, including work on animation and visual effects, matching a similar incentive system already in place in Britain and some other European countries.

Mr. Bled said there was another cost advantage to working with French studios. They are used to working on domestic French productions, whose budgets are typically a fraction of the size of a typical Hollywood film.

“We have practice at it,” he said. “When we have one person doing something here, maybe there are two or three people doing the same thing in America.”

A tight control over costs helped Illumination make “Despicable Me” on a budget of about $70 million — less than half the size of the outlays on other recent animated hits like “Toy Story 3” or “Shrek 4.”

While French films are not known for their reliance on computer-generated graphics, France has a strong tradition in visual effects and animation, going back to Georges Méliès, whose 1902 film “A Trip to the Moon” featured a spaceship crashing into the right eye of the man in the moon.

Walt Disney ran an animation studio in a Paris suburb, Montreuil, from 1989 to 2002, where it worked on films like “The Hunchback of Notre Dame” and “Tarzan.” But it was shut when Walt Disney restructured its animation operations, centering them in the United States.

Several French art schools, like the Gobelins academy, specialize in film graphics, regularly exporting their talent to U.S. animation studios like Pixar and DreamWorks.

“We want to keep these people here by bringing big effects movies to France,” said Julien Meesters, who heads the animation and effects operations of Mikros Image.

The partnership with Universal has significantly expanded the opportunities at Mac Guff. While the company has a full-time staff of fewer than three dozen people, Mr. Bled said, employment, including freelancers, sometimes swelled to nearly 300 over the past two years as the studio worked on “Despicable Me.”

The company, which is privately owned, was profitable last year on revenue of about €25 million, he said, bouncing back after losing money in 2007 and 2008. He did not disclose details of the deal with Universal, which declined to comment.

Over all, French employment in visual effects and animation rose by about 30 percent last year, to around 2,000, according to the Île-de-France Film Commission.

Mr. Bled said he saw no reason why French studios could not play a bigger role in the world of animation, now that Mac Guff had shown that a largely French-made film like “Despicable Me” could appeal to U.S. audiences.

The French are certainly eager for the work. Pierre Buffin, the founder of Buf, is cultivating his ties to Hollywood, which date to the mid-1990s, when the studio worked on “Batman & Robin.”

Mr. Buffin decried the cultural protectionism that pervades the French filmmaking establishment, where financial support was largely reserved for productions with a demonstrably French orientation until the new tax break was created. He said France could learn from Britain, where the work done for Hollywood studios has reinvigorated the British moviemaking scene by building the talent available to local filmmakers, too.

There is another incentive to working with Hollywood, he said, tongue in cheek: “When you work with the Americans, they place an order, you do the effects and they pay you. When you work with the French, they place an order, you do the effects and they don’t pay you.”
826 2010-07-26 PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — A United Nations -backed tribunal on Monday found a 67-year-old former prison warden of the Khmer Rouge guilty of crimes against humanity and war crimes for overseeing the torture and killing of more than 14,000 prisoners. He was the first major figure to be tried in the murderous regime since it was toppled 30 years ago.

But in a sentence that was likely to be considered shockingly lenient here, the court sentenced him to serve 19 years in prison — 35 years minus 16 years for time already served. Prosecutors had sought 40 years. There is no death penalty in Cambodia.

The defendant, Kaing Guek Eav, commonly known as Duch, had admitted in an eight-month trial to many of the accusations against him. He oversaw a system that came to symbolize a regime responsible for the deaths of 1.7 million people from 1975 to 1979.

Dressed in a blue button-down shirt, sipping sometimes from a glass of water and carrying what appeared to be a Bible, he listened impassively as a judge read out the charges and verdict against him. The packed courtroom included some survivors of the prison he ran — three of whom had testified about the torture inflicted upon them.

The tribunal, which began work in 2006, now moves to “Case Two,” for which four high-ranking Khmer Rouge officials are in custody awaiting trial sometime next year. The Khmer Rouge leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998.

Duch’s own plea was unclear. On the final day of the trial, in November, he unexpectedly asked to be set free, seeming to contradict a carefully constructed defense in which his lawyers sought to minimize his sentence through admissions of guilt mixed with assertions that he was just one link in a hierarchy of killing.

“I am accountable to the entire Cambodian population for the souls that perished,” he said at one point. “I am deeply remorseful and regret such a mind-boggling scale of death.”

But he added: “I ended up serving a criminal organization. I could not withdraw from it. I was like a cog in a machine. I regret and humbly apologize to the dead souls.”

Many of his victims, along with outside observers, questioned the sincerity of his remorse, particularly as it was coupled with a sometimes aggressive and arrogant demeanor in the courtroom and evasiveness regarding many specific allegations.

Despite those doubts, David Chandler, a historian of Cambodia, noted that Duch was the only one of the five defendants to have admitted guilt.

“He’s a guy who’s thought about it, faced up to some stuff,” said Mr. Chandler, the author of “Voices From S-21,” a book about the prison, known as S-21 or Tuol Sleng. “Duch is the only human on trial. The others are monsters.”

A former schoolteacher, Duch took obvious pride in the efficiency of his operation, where confessions — some of them running to hundreds of typed pages — were extracted by torture before the prisoners were sent in trucks to the killing fields.

He disappeared after the Khmer Rouge was driven from power by a Vietnamese invasion and was discovered in 1999 by an Irish journalist, Nic Dunlop, living quietly in a small Cambodian town, where he said he had converted to Christianity.

At one point in his testimony, in an extravagant display of contrition, Duch appeared to compare himself with Christ.

“The tears that run from my eyes are the tears of those innocent people,” he said. “It matters little if they condemn me, even to the heaviest sentence. As for Christ’s death, Cambodians can inflict that fate on me. I will accept it.”

It is more common among Cambodians — most of whom are Buddhists — to believe in spirits. Tuol Sleng is now a museum, and when part of its roof collapsed last week during a storm, some people said the ghosts of the dead were crying out for justice.

Running parallel with courtroom testimony, the tribunal has faced criticism as it tries to apply international standards of justice within a flawed Cambodian court system.

“The court has struggled to deal with allegations of kickbacks involving national staff, heavy-handed political interference from the Cambodian government, bureaucratic inefficiency and incompetence, and disturbing levels of conflict between international and national staff,” said John A. Hall, a professor at the Chapman University School of Law in Orange, Calif., who has been monitoring the trials.

“Indeed, perhaps one of the most surprising things so far is that the tribunal has not collapsed,” he said.

In an innovation, the trial made room for about 90 “civil parties,” who registered to apply for reparations and were represented in court by lawyers who acted as additional prosecutors.

“For 30 years, the victims of the Khmer Rouge waited while a civil war raged, international actors bickered and the leaders of the Khmer Rouge walked free,” said Alex Hinton, director of the Center for the Study of Genocide, Conflict Resolution and Human Rights at Rutgers University in New Jersey. “Now, for the first time, one of them has been held accountable. The importance of this moment can’t be underestimated.”

But over the years, Cambodia has moved on, with new generations, new concerns and new horizons. Many young people know little about the Khmer Rouge era, and many older people have chosen to forget.

“I go around the country and not a lot of people ask about the trial,” said Ou Virak, president of the independent Cambodian Center for Human Rights, which holds forums on issues of concern to the public. “Not even my mom — and my dad was killed by the Khmer Rouge.”
827 2010-07-26 Artists often argue that their works are wrongly categorized, and they are not alone. While introducing compositions by Terry Riley on Friday evening at Bargemusic in Brooklyn, members of the Voxare Quartet said they disagreed with the Minimalist label assigned to Mr. Riley.

The concert was the first in a three-part weekend series featuring the Voxare Quartet and celebrating the 75th birthday of Mr. Riley, best known for “In C,” his 1964 masterpiece, which boldly defied the rigid intellectual and emotionless constraints of the modernism then in vogue. With its repetitive interlocking patterns and hypnotic, uplifting mood, “In C” became a benchmark of the Minimalist movement and is now a repertory classic.

The personable and passionate Voxare players — Emily Ondracek and Galina Zhdanova, violinists; Erik Peterson, violist; and Adrian Daurov, cellist — took turns introducing the works played on Friday, some of which certainly had Minimalist hallmarks: rhythmic ostinatos, repetition and slow harmonic development. But the eclectic mix also showed that Mr. Riley, whose interests include jazz and Indian raga, is not so easily pigeonholed.

The program opened with his optimistic and visceral “Sunrise of the Planetary Dream Collector,” composed in 1980 for the Kronos Quartet, a longtime collaborator of Mr. Riley’s. During the 1970s he focused on improvisation and North Indian raga instead of formal composition, but at Kronos’s insistence he notated the score for “Sunrise.”

Still, as Ms. Ondracek explained, he wrote sections of the score on different sheets of paper so the performers could decide the order of performance. The Voxare Quartet offered a spirited, high-energy performance, vividly conveying the work’s beautiful colors.
828 2010-07-26 “Equity analysts and investors have considerably more consistent data to consider today than they had last week,” Erik F. Nielsen, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a note Sunday. “It seems to me that if indeed we don’t like the assumptions we can then rerun it all ourselves on the back of all these newly released numbers. This must be good at some level.”

There were still big gaps in the information available. Half of the 14 German banks that underwent stress tests, including Deutsche Bank and Postbank, by Sunday had not published their holdings of government debt.

The lack of disclosure will certainly raise more questions about why the banks did not release the information.

A Deutsche Bank spokesman, Ronald Weichert, said that the bank’s holdings of sovereign debt were not significant enough to pose a risk. The bank, which easily passed the stress test, may release more information in the course of the week, he added.

Analysts were also critical of authorities’ refusal to test banks’ ability to survive a default by Greece on its debt. Many analysts consider a default or restructuring inevitable, while officials insist it is unthinkable.

“What the authorities have done is contrived a series of vignettes in which most of the banks can avoid failure,” Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York, said in an e-mail message Sunday. “As a result, we expect uncertainty about banks’ financial strength to continue to plague both the banking system and the financial markets.”

The tests considered the consequences of a plunge in the value of European government bonds. But authorities argued that default was impossible because of a €750 billion, or $970 million, support package that the European Union and the International Monetary Fund agreed to in May.

“After taking such measures, to go and assume a default would be contradictory,” the E.C.B. vice president, Vitor Constâncio, said in London on Friday.

Investors and analysts were also critical last year when the United States conducted stress tests of its banks. But eventually the tests achieved their goal of restoring confidence.

“There does not need to be an absence of argument for these tests to have been helpful,” Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said in an e-mail message. Even though the tests “did not provide every piece of information desired, there is enough being made available for a serious analyst to draw their own broad conclusions.”

The U.S. Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who earlier this year pushed European authorities to conduct the tests, praised them Friday. “The E.U. has made a significant effort to increase disclosure on the conditions of individual European financial institutions and enhance market stability,” Mr. Geithner said in a statement.

The ultimate verdict on the stress tests will come from capital markets in the coming days and weeks. Analysts will be watching indicators like the prices of bank shares, the cost of insuring bank debt via credit default swaps, and the interest rates that banks charge each other for short-term loans.

In the longer term, the tests will be judged a success if interbank lending picks up and fewer banks are dependent on the European Central Bank for cash. But it will take several weeks for that to become clear.

The tests were released by European regulators after local stock markets closed Friday, but there were tentative signs that investors had found the results encouraging. The euro and U.S. bank shares rose modestly after the release of the results, which came on the same day that economic indicators showed surprisingly strong growth in Germany and Britain.

The cost of insuring against default by European banks via credit default swaps also declined for most institutions late Friday.

Mr. Véron of the Peterson Institute, who was among the first economists to urge Europe to undertake stress tests, said he would be surprised if markets rose sharply this week as a result of them. But he said markets probably would not fall, either, which was progress of a sort.

“Only the future will determine if it is a watershed moment or not,” said Mr. Véron, who is also a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels.

To pass the stress tests, a bank’s Tier 1 capital, a measure of the amount of stock and other capital that banks hold in reserve, could not fall below 6 percent of assets in the face of a new recession and a sovereign debt crisis. For the seven banks that failed, the total shortfall in capital was €3.5 billion, a tiny sum in banking terms.

According to a tally by Reuters, there were 17 banks whose ratios fell to 6 percent to 7 percent under the worst-case scenario. They included Postbank, Piraeus Bank in Greece, Allied Irish Banks, Monte dei Paschi di Siena and UBI Banca in Italy, and Bankinter and eight smaller banks in Spain.

For the banks that passed narrowly, the tests could prod them into taking steps to bolster their financial cushions. They could issue new shares, hang on to profits rather than paying dividends, or seek a merger partner or large investor like a sovereign wealth fund.

The Postbank chief executive, Stefan Jütte, said in a statement that the bank had already planned measures to bolster its capital, including retaining all earnings through 2012.

Coming weeks are certain to feature a war of words between critics and European government officials who argue that the tests show that the Continent’s banking system is in fundamentally good shape.

Many European officials, including the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, have portrayed the Continent’s banking problems and sovereign debt crisis as largely the creation of speculators out to make a profit. There was a hint of that sense of persecution Friday.

Referring to critics of the stress tests, Jochen Sanio, president of the German bank regulator known as BaFin, told reporters: “I think there must be material interests behind these people who are playing such a game.”
829 2010-07-26 Microsoft flicked a dash of mystery into the air on Friday by announcing a new, improved and extended tie-up with ARM.     In a statement, Microsoft and ARM, the chip company, were quick to point out that they have worked together since 1997. Some...
830 2010-07-26 Richard K. Lieberman lifted the lid on the piano and asked the roomful of lecturers at LaGuardia Community College, ''Who's going to play?'' No hands went up, but one of the teachers sneaked across the hall and found Eric Anderson, a 26-year-old h...
831 2010-07-27 The group, dedicated to teaching every American how to fire a bullet, ran a training course in Carmi, Ill....
832 2010-07-27 The infamous Bohemian Grove enclave in the redwood forests north of San Francisco....
833 2010-07-27 DreamWorks Animation's income grew on surprisingly good results for the Shrek sequel....
834 2010-07-27 It is my hope that when the heads roll as a result of this leak they will be those from incompetent bureaucrats and not from the brave Afghans who have risked their lives to help the U.S. war effort....
835 2010-07-27 Limiting corporate donations is popular, but polls suggest that the issue won't sway voters in fall elections....
836 2010-07-27 The head of the Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday that the agency would seek input from businesses and the public before proposing rules to oversee Wall Street and financial companies....
837 2010-07-27 Corporations are recruiting former regulators to help negotiate an avalanche of anticipated federal rules....
838 2010-07-27 The return of the creator of "American Idol" to the show reveals a split between the two companies that own the lucrative franchise....
839 2010-07-27 Celebrity authors were conspicuously absent from the list of 13 finalists for this year's Man Booker Prize for fiction....
840 2010-07-27 Apple announced its latest magical device on Tuesday, a Magic Trackpad designed to replace the traditional desktop mouse on Mac computers....
841 2010-07-27 Among the classics up for sale at the Vintage Motor Cars of Meadow Brook auction, a custom-built 1937 Packard pickup might have been, literally, one of a kind....
842 2010-07-27 Decades after they blocked city buses and protested at M.T.A. meetings, the Disabled in Action Singers are still actively pressing for rights for those who face daily limitations because of personal disabilities and public obstacles....
843 2010-07-27 The company added another device to its multitouch arsenal on Tuesday with the Magic Trackpad, a mouse replacement for desktop computers....
844 2010-07-27 As the Senate debates legislation that would require corporations and other special interests to disclose the donors behind their political advertisements, the Obama administration issued a statement formally endorsing the measure....
845 2010-07-27 General Motors announced that the Volt plug-in hybrid would cost about $8,000 more than the all-electric Nissan Leaf....
846 2010-07-27 Goldman Sachs is starting a service to facilitate central clearing for clients in all listed and privately traded derivatives asset classes...
847 2010-07-27 In the New York Online menagerie: The mayor's preference of people over geese, the ignored titmouse and the Death Bear's latest incarnation....
848 2010-07-27 MakeMyTrip, India's largest online travel company, aims to raise as much as $100 million on the Nasdaq Stock Market to become the nation's first firm to hold an initial share sale in the United States in four years, Bloomberg News reported....
849 2010-07-27 A potential multibillion-dollar judgment against Vivendi for misleading shareholders hung in the balance as a Manhattan judge weighed whether a recent United States Supreme Court ruling limited damages....
850 2010-07-27 The securitization of mortgages may have encouraged risky lending, but it also kept the weight of the housing crisis from falling entirely on banks in the United States, an economist writes....
851 2010-07-27 San Miguel Corporation, the largest food and beverage maker of the Philippines, said Tuesday that its board had approved a stock issue of about 75 billion pesos, or $1.6 billion to finance "investments and acquisitions."...
852 2010-07-27 There's no shortage of tools for monitoring news and social networking sites, but Austin Ventures is betting on a new one, investing invested $3.5 million in a start-up called Workstreamer that offers "business listening" tools, VentureBeat report...
853 2010-07-27 Exchanges on Wall Street got a strong start to a week that will end on Friday with the release of a crucial indicator: the economy's second-quarter growth....
854 2010-07-27 It’s the 20th anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act. Time for a serenade. Who better than the Disabled in Action Singers?...
855 2010-07-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
856 2010-07-27 Underdogs won the Najdorf Memorial Festival and the Andorra Open, which both ended Sunday....
857 2010-07-27 A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, on Monday reversed a ruling requiring the Tennessee Valley Authority to upgrade emission controls at three coal-fired power plants in Tennessee and one in Alabama. The ruling reverses a decision by Judge Lacy H. Thornburg of Federal District Court, who said emissions affecting air quality in North Carolina’s western mountains were a “public nuisance.” Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III of the appeals court wrote that allowing the ruling to stand would undermine the nation’s regulatory scheme.
858 2010-07-27 “That poster is shocking,” said Domonique Foxworth, a cornerback for the . “It gives people facts before they take risks. But it’s not exactly a new revelation.”

Matt Birk, the Ravens’ center, said: “To put it out there in writing in locker rooms, at least it’s publicly acknowledging that, ‘Hey, this is real.’ There’s risks in everything you do, and this one is real. You can’t sweep it under the rug anymore.”

Greg Aiello, a league spokesman, said in an e-mail message that the poster, spearheaded by the league’s new head, neck and spine medical committee and written in collaboration with the players union and the , “is intended to present the most current and objective medical information on concussions and will be distributed to the players and clubs in the near future.” He said Commissioner provided his full support.

“We took a very firm stance,” said Dr. Thom Mayer, the union’s medical director and a member of the committee who worked on the text. “This is a clear step forward in educating players.”

The poster lists symptoms that players should look out for, including headaches, confusion, problems and feeling more emotional, and warns them not to ignore symptoms.

Beyond detailing the symptoms and severity of head injuries, the poster extends the league’s broad redirection in concussion policy since last fall. Then, the league adopted stricter rules regarding when players can return from head injuries, and then only with an independent neurologist’s permission.

Other changes to playing rules, practice procedures and equipment are being considered, with history suggesting that alterations could be adopted at the college and youth levels.

The new language is a glaring departure from words used by the league’s old concussion committee, whose comments and research that played down the evidence of concussion risks eventually led to its chairmen’s resignations. Their successors, who directed the poster project, Dr. H. Hunt Batjer and Dr. Richard Ellenbogen, did not return phone messages Monday.

The league’s reversal is not necessarily complete. On April 30, an outside lawyer for the league, Lawrence L. Lamade, wrote a memo to the lead lawyer for the league’s and union’s joint disability plan, Douglas Ell, discrediting connections between football and cognitive decline. The letter, obtained by , explained, “We can point to the current state of uncertainty in scientific and medical understanding” on the subject to deny players’ claims that their neurological impairments are related to football.

Mr. Lamade did not return a message left Monday at his law firm, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld in Washington. Mr. Aeillo said the league would comment on the letter at a later time.

Brent Boyd, 53, a lineman in the 1980s, is among scores of players whose symptoms of early-onset dementia have been ruled ineligible for the considerably higher disability payments given to players with on-field injuries. That denial took place soon after the last of three plan-chosen doctors ruled in 2001 that a particular concussion Boyd sustained “could not organically be responsible for all or even a major portion” of his condition.

Denied the higher benefits by the disability board, Mr. Boyd has been fighting to reverse the decision ever since. Two months ago, another of his appeals was denied because, the reply noted, “There are no changed circumstances,” and Mr. Boyd refused to see a fourth doctor.

Mr. Aiello and a union spokesman, George Atallah, declined to discuss any possible effect the new poster might have on disability claims. Most likely, the onus will remain on players to assert that their individual conditions did derive from professional football — similar to how players must handle worker’s compensation claims — although that assertion could gain credence with the league’s imprimatur.

Meanwhile, the most immediate effects of the new poster could be on the mind-set of current and future players. Mr. Birk said that some players would still try to play through head injuries “because the culture is so strong, but it’s a good start.”

Mr. Foxworth said: “Ninety-nine percent of the people who put helmets on don’t get the payback we do, but they’re taking the same risks. It’s probably more valuable to them than it is to a lot of us.”

Chris Nowinski, a co-director of the Sports Legacy Institute and an advocate for youth concussion awareness, said he was relieved to learn about the new language. “The old pamphlet that said ‘no evidence of any long-term effects,’ it slowed down progress — it helped create a latency environment when the evidence showed great urgency for change,” he said. “There’s a greater need for culture change on the lower levels. When coaches and people around the games don’t have all the information, simple documents and simple messages are the most important.”
859 2010-07-27 Trips to and from Penn Station during rush hours, for instance, were two and a half times as likely to be late as trips taken at any other time. The disappointment among riders can be further appreciated by considering the record of specific commuter lines. For example, morning commuters on New Jersey Transit who passed through the Summit station were late on 1 of every 6 trips, nearly a third by more than 20 minutes. And commuters who traveled from Huntington to Manhattan at rush hour arrived late on 1 of every 10 trips, twice the average for the railroad.

Performance varies by railroad, with commuters from and Westchester County, who ride the , faring better than those from and .

But on any railroad, morning routines that differ by as little as half an hour can yield great consequences on professional and personal lives: commuters who arrived in the city after 7:30 a.m. were twice as likely to be late as those who arrived between 6 and 7:30 a.m.

Transit officials do not dispute the accuracy of these numbers. But the disparity between the public claims of success and the day-to-day exasperation of many riders can be explained by the way on-time performance, as it is known in railroad parlance, is measured.

The statistic encompasses every trip a railroad makes. But only a third of those trips occur during rush hours, when the vast majority of riders use the trains. That means that quieter periods, when fewer trains are running and most trips go off without a hitch, lift the figures higher than what most commuters typically experience.

Adding to the disconnect is the fact that the railroads deem a train late only if it reaches its terminus more than 5 minutes 59 seconds after the scheduled arrival time.

In interviews, officials at the three agencies said on-time performance was an important catchall statistic to gauge the overall performance of a railroad. But they acknowledged that passengers’ experiences can vary depending on their line or time of travel.

“Customers know that hearing good numbers like a 95 percent on-time performance means that, in general, they are getting good train service,” said Helena Williams, the president of the Long Island Rail Road. “Everyone is always very focused on their individual train. They want to get from Point A to Point B without any delays.”

Dennis Boyce is one of those riders. On a recent weekday morning, Mr. Boyce, 42, a computer specialist who commutes to Manhattan from Edison, N.J., was informed by a reporter that his New Jersey Transit rush-hour train arrived late 23.7 percent of the time.

“That’s all?” Mr. Boyce said. “It feels like more than that.”

Mr. Boyce’s route, which runs twice a day between New Brunswick and Penn Station, is one of the most delay-riddled in the region. Vynni Lam, a banker from Fanwood, N.J., who was also on board, said the poor performance was a major factor when she decided to move to a nearby town served by a different line.

Of course, even in ideal conditions, it would be nearly impossible for railroads to achieve a perfect performance when thousands of trains run on hundreds of miles of track every day.

And on-time performance has significantly improved over the last several decades; in the late 1960s, more than 20 percent of Long Island Rail Road trains ran late.

Like many trains on New Jersey Transit, which recorded the worst performance of the three railroads, Mr. Boyce’s train must pass through a two-track tunnel under the Hudson River that is shared with .

“Even a minor delay of one train can have a cascading effect on the other trains,” said Lynn Bowersox, an assistant executive director at New Jersey Transit.

Long Island Rail Road officials said the railroad had delays at rush hour in part because of the paucity of platforms at Penn Station, which must handle dozens of trains arriving and departing each hour.

One of the slowest routes on the Long Island Rail Road is the trip from Port Jefferson to Penn Station. That train is supposed to arrive in Manhattan at 9:23 a.m., but it was recorded as being late on 1 in 6 trips, and passengers said that statistic was generous.

“I plan on the six minutes extra; it’s part of my schedule,” said Steven Wilkins, a medical consultant who has commuted daily from Stony Brook for 16 years.

That route is also hobbled by its use of diesel engines, which the railroad says have been difficult to maintain. The route also occasionally narrows to a single track, requiring trains in one direction to idle for several minutes until others have passed.

Metro-North’s lines to Connecticut and , which have the best performance in the region, benefit from having spacious to themselves. Still, trains on the line perform worse than the others, primarily because the cars are holdovers from the 1970s and some of the track uses overhead electrical wires that are nearly a century old and prone to damage.

The confusion between the views of rider and railroad seems to stretch back to the days when mass transit began. In 1955, The Times reported that the Long Island Rail Road had quit publishing its on-time performance statistics. The reason: “People just wouldn’t believe us.”
860 2010-07-27 France is raising the diplomatic status of the Palestinian Authority in a move aimed at giving the Palestinians more legitimacy as they push for an independent state, Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said Monday. The Palestinians have been represented by a delegation, led by a general delegate. Mr. Kouchner, left, said in a statement they would now have a mission led by an ambassador.
861 2010-07-27 President Obama said he would veto any bill that included additional money for either the alternate engine, which would compete with one built by Pratt & Whitney for up to $100 billion in business, or the five more C-17s sought by Boeing.

Both the Bush and Obama administrations have tried to stop both programs. After finally persuading Congress last year to cancel the F-22 fighter jet and other weapons systems, lawmakers say, Mr. Gates has practically made it a personal crusade to scratch the extra engine and the cargo planes off the Pentagon’s project list.

As a debate over slowing the surge in military spending begins to take hold, the administration has picked up more support from House and Senate leaders to kill the programs. But the engine’s supporters have fought back.

Some — led by lawmakers from Ohio, Indiana, Massachusetts and Virginia — are seeking to preserve jobs. Others say that Mr. Gates simply picked the wrong program in anointing the 18-foot engine as the latest symbol of Pentagon waste.

The engine’s supporters, who include the House Republican leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, contend that competition could produce better engines and reduce the risks of problems with the Joint Strike Fighter, or F-35, a single-engine jet that represents the Pentagon’s largest weapons program.

Mr. Gates has questioned the potential savings and said the Pentagon could not afford the upfront costs. Estimates are $1.8 billion to $2.9 billion to finish developing the engine, which is 70 percent complete.

Mr. Dicks, who supported both the alternate engine and buying more C-17s in past years, said that given the pressure for greater spending restraint, he did not include either the engine or the cargo planes in his version of the latest bill.

Over all, the bill would shave nearly $7 billion from the Pentagon’s request for an $18 billion increase in its base budget by taking back unspent money and cutting low-priority programs, Mr. Dicks said.

But he said he expected a mix of Democrats and Republicans to join together to pass an amendment to keep financing the engine.

Mr. Dicks, who has been trying to shake his reputation as being closely tied to Boeing, said he saw little support on his panel, or in the Senate, for the extra C-17s.

In allowing a vote on the engine amendment, Mr. Dicks is breaking from the tradition of some of his predecessors as subcommittee chairman, like former Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who died earlier this year. Mr. Murtha tended to work out military appropriations bills through quiet horse-trading.

But support for the alternate engine is broad enough that the House voted 231 to 193 to keep the project in a separate military authorization bill last May.

There is less support for the engine in the Senate, which is unlikely to include it in either its authorization or appropriations bills, lobbyists say.

Senator Daniel K. Inouye, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, also had backed the engine in previous years. But he said last week that with the administration’s opposition, “and faced with a deficit, that deal is dead.”

As a result, the engine’s fate will be decided in a House-Senate conference, probably after the midterm elections in November. If it survives then, Mr. Obama will have to decide whether it is worth vetoing a broader spending bill to kill it and hold on to Mr. Gates as his defense secretary.
862 2010-07-27 Mr. Obama got applause then in urging Congress to pass legislation mitigating the problems he foresaw, but it mostly came from Democrats.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader who has marshaled his party against other Obama initiatives, has made stopping the campaign finance bill a personal priority. Before he became Republican leader, Mr. McConnell was perhaps best known for his longtime battle against what became known as the McCain-Feingold law, the act restricting campaign spending.

While Mr. McConnell is favored to win the legislative round, the White House remains confident that public opinion is on its side. Mr. Obama turned his lectern in the Rose Garden into a bully pulpit to define the debate for the so-called Disclose Act on his terms, and to make it part of his election-year portrayal of Republicans as obstructionist.

Anticipating the legislation’s defeat, Mr. Obama said: “Now imagine the power this will give special interests over politicians. Corporate lobbyists will be able to tell members of Congress if they don’t vote the right way, they will face an onslaught of negative ads in their next campaign.”

“Nobody is saying you can’t run the ads. Just make sure that people know who in fact is behind financing these ads,” Mr. Obama added.

Besides mandating disclosure of donors, the act would require someone behind a political advertisement — like a company executive, union leader or an advocacy group’s major contributor — to appear in it to take responsibility.

“You’d think that reducing corporate and even foreign influence over our elections would not be a partisan issue,” Mr. Obama said. “But of course, this is Washington in 2010.”

Just as with legislation to extend unemployment compensation and to provide tax credits and lending assistance for small businesses, “the Republican leadership in the Senate is once again using every tactic and every maneuver” to block a vote, Mr. Obama added. “On issue after issue, we are trying to move America forward, and they keep on trying to take us back.”

The president’s offensive, however, comes as Congressional Republicans are emboldened. A fragile economy and stubbornly high unemployment have helped to drag down support in the polls for the president and Congressional Democrats, threatening their party’s control of Congress this November.

One Republican senator said the expectation was that no one would break ranks to support the measure.

Mr. McConnell described the bill on Monday as a product of back-room deals that “seeks to protect unpopular Democrat politicians by silencing their critics and exempting their campaign supporters from an all-out attack on the First Amendment.”

Republicans say Democrats made a mistake in overly politicizing the issue by having the drive for the law led by Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who formerly led the campaign committee for Senate Democrats.

Democrats tried, unsuccessfully, to persuade Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, to support the measure. Two other potential Republican supporters, Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, have also indicated they will not join Democrats in taking up the issue before the elections.

Democrats had hoped to win allies with reminders that in past fights Republicans typically argued for more disclosure and transparency about political donors and spending as an alternative to constitutionally questionable limits on campaign finance.

“For years, opponents of campaign finance reform have expressed support for complete and timely disclosure of campaign contributions and spending,” Senator Russ Feingold, the Wisconsin Democrat who sponsored previous campaign finance changes, said Monday. On Tuesday, he added, “we will see if they are serious.”
863 2010-07-27 Merce Cunningham’s “Xover,” which includes a seven-and-a-half-minute duet that was one of the longest he composed in his career, will make its New York debut as part of City Center’s 2010 Fall for Dance Festival, City Center said on Monday. The work, whose title is pronounced “crossover” and which was first presented at Dartmouth College in 2007 (with Daniel Madoff and Julie Cunningham, above) will be performed by the Merce Cunningham Dance Company as part of the first of five festival programs, on Sept. 28 and 29, and will feature music by John Cage and scenery by Robert Rauschenberg. Other highlights of the festival, which runs through Oct. 9, include a new work by the classical Indian dancer and choreographer Madhavi Mudgal, called “Vistaar,” with music by her brother, Madhup Mudgal; the festival debuts of 10 international troupes, including Company Rafaela Carrasco of Spain, Shu-Yi & (Dancers) Company of Taiwan and Tero Saarinen Company of Finland; and the premiere of “Peace of Mind: The Remix,” a collaboration between the tap dancer and choreographer Jason Samuels Smith and the hip-hop dancer Mr. Wiggles, performed by Jason Samuels Smith & Friends.
864 2010-07-27 Q. Now that I am in my own apartment, I want very much to have a big dog but am told the apartment is not large enough. What can I do?

A. Don’t limit yourself to small breeds, but make sure your dog will get adequate outdoor exercise. Certain breeds have been selected by humans to be more compatible with small spaces, and they are not always the smallest dogs. Individual members of larger breeds, like some hounds and mastiffs and even Great Danes, are known to be happy living in a small space if they get a long outdoor run every day, while a small, energetic terrier may tear up even a large apartment in imaginary pursuit of the prey it was bred to hunt.

The dog genome seems to be almost infinitely pliable, with approximately 400 distinct breeds. In the approximately 14,000 years since dogs were first domesticated, humans have been breeding them selectively for desired traits of appearance and behavior, with the result that dogs of a controlled breed are far more alike than human siblings.

Recently scientists identified the canine genome factor that seems to have given rise to small size in dogs, a variant of the gene called IGF1 that emerged early in the Middle East. The research was reported in February in the journal BMC Biology. Commentators speculated that the choice to breed smaller dogs may have been related to crowded conditions as cities emerged.

However, dog behavior experts emphasize that many breeds are adaptable to limited living space and also caution that the individual dog, its background and training and its recreational opportunities will determine how adaptable it is to a studio.
865 2010-07-27 For caterpillars, what you see on the outside as they crawl is not necessarily what is going on inside.

Shaped something like an accordion, the tobacco hornworm caterpillar moves one segment at a time. First, the back legs on the last segment step forward, then the second-to-last segment and so on until finally the front segment with its head moves forward.

Researchers at Tufts University and Virginia Tech were curious about the interior biomechanics of this form of movement, so they stuck the caterpillars on a treadmill within a powerful X-ray light source at Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois.

For most creatures, including people, the innards and the outer parts are connected to something rigid like a skeleton or carapace, and the movements of the inside and the outside are synchronized.

But caterpillars are almost entirely squishy, and the researchers were surprised when they saw that the guts of the caterpillar move differently.

“It amazes me and blows my mind that there are still very unusual things to discover about such a humble creature,” said Michael A. Simon, a researcher at Tufts University in Boston who is the lead author of a paper describing the caterpillar locomotion, to be published in the journal Current Biology.

While the caterpillar crawled one segment at a time on the outside, the entire length of the gut shortened when the rear segment moved forward, then lengthened again as the head made its step forward. “It’s a very interesting form of locomotion,” Dr. Simon said. “In the middle, nothing is synchronized.”
866 2010-07-27 Mr. Osborne’s schedule includes ringing the opening bell on the Bombay Stock Exchange in Mumbai, introducing a new solar-powered mobile handset from the British telecommunications company Vodafone and delivering a speech titled “U.K. and India: A New Economic Partnership” to a crowd of bankers and businessmen.

On Thursday, when the delegation plans to be in Delhi for state visits, round-table discussions and news conferences, the emphasis will again be on trade, British and Indian officials say.

Mr. Cameron’s arrival here with a full and fiscally focused entourage is the latest sign of the global economy’s tilt toward developing nations. India’s economy is expanding rapidly, propelled by a youthful population, and the government is expected to spend tens of billions of dollars in coming years on infrastructure projects like roads and power grids.

British companies from the department store Marks & Spencer to the high-end carmaker Bentley Motors have started investing here in recent years to tap into new wealth.

India is an “incredibly dynamic market that will grow substantially in the next five to 10 years,” said Stephen Phipson, president of Smiths Detection, a British maker of security screening equipment, who is among the executives accompanying Mr. Cameron.

Smiths will supply X-ray and other screening equipment for the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi this October, and recently won a contract to screen baggage and passengers at most Indian airports. Mr. Phipson expects his company’s business in India to double over the next five years to $100 million in revenue, as India adds more border protection and port security equipment.

In contrast to Indian growth, Britain’s economy contracted for most of last year, and Mr. Cameron’s government has pledged to halve the annual budget deficit of $235 billion within five years. Most recently, the British government said it would decentralize health care, in a radical reshaping of the National Health Service that is expected to result in a significant number of job losses.

When it comes to cost-cutting, Indian businessmen say they think they may be able to help.

“We have conclusively shown that technology is the only way that you can drive efficiencies,” said Som Mittal, the president of Nasscom, a trade group for Indian information technology companies. “Given where Britain is right now and what the prime minister wants to achieve in terms of reducing the deficit,” Mr. Mittal said, Indian companies may be able to play an increasing role.

Mr. Cameron’s new push to increase trade between the countries is the latest stage in a complicated relationship tracing to the colonial era predating India’s independence in 1947. Indian companies, fueled by domestic growth, have made takeover targets of their British counterparts in recent years in a buying spree that the news media here sometimes calls “The Empire Strikes Back.”

Already, the Tata Group of India, which controls British companies including Jaguar and Corus Steel, is the largest employer in Britain’s manufacturing sector. Last year, the East India Company, the trading company started in 1600 by Elizabeth I that helped to create and define the British colonial empire, was resurrected by an Indian entrepreneur.
867 2010-07-27 Apple also said that altering the phones encouraged the pirating of applications, exposed iPhones to security risks and taxed the company’s customer support staff.

“Apple’s goal has always been to ensure that our customers have a great experience with their iPhone, and we know that jailbreaking can severely degrade the experience,” said Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple. “As we’ve said before, the vast majority of customers do not jailbreak their iPhones, as this can violate the warranty and can cause the iPhone to become unstable and not work reliably.”

But iPhone hobbyists say they simply want to have free range to use certain features and programs on their phones that Apple has limited or failed to offer.

For example, one popular unapproved application lets users sync their music and video clips with their computer over Wi-Fi, without using a cable. Another enables tethering, or the ability to share the iPhone’s Internet connection with a computer, something for which iPhone owners are supposed to pay AT&T an extra $20 a month.

An underground network of forums that walk iPhone owners through the jailbreaking process have flourished online, as have storefronts that sell the unapproved applications.

Mario Ciabarra, who operates a software store called Rock Your Phone, said the jailbreaking decision was “extremely exciting” for application developers.

“There’s been some negative connotations with the jailbreak community,” he said. “That legitimacy will go a long way in terms of bolstering our business and the apps business.”

Mr. Ciabarra said he thought that the Library of Congress’s decision could increase the appeal of the phone and attract new users who have been turned off by what many perceive as Apple’s heavy-handed approach to the phone and its application store.

“The independent community makes the phone so much more appealing to users,” he said. “There’s a whole world of possibilities for what you can do with your phone.”

Apple had not actively pursued any specific sites or developers that assist people in jailbreaking. But its penchant for exerting control over its products has kept many people on edge, said Mark Janke, who runs a jailbreaking forum called Hack That Phone.

“I was really concerned for a while,” Mr. Janke said. “People were worried about running jailbreaking Web sites or being prosecuted for bringing their jailbroken phones into the Apple Store.”

The ruling, he said, was “a big win” for jailbreaking fans.

“It gives us the ability to do the things we’ve wanted to do — should be able to do — with our phones,” he said.

The last few months have been something of a challenge for Apple, known for maintaining a kind of hermetic seal around itself and its products. Recent troubles like the leak of a secret phone prototype and the antenna problems reported by some owners of the iPhone 4 have chipped away at that image somewhat.

“They still maintain an iron fist over everything they can. That won’t change,” said Mukul Krishna, an analyst at Frost & Sullivan who follows trends in digital media. He added, “There are certain things now beyond their control.”

Even with the slip-ups, Apple is still keeping its customers captivated, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Kaufman Brothers. “Apple has gotten more scrutiny lately, but it hasn’t shown up in the sales figures yet,” he said. “People are buying their products in droves, and I’m not sure a government ruling changes that.”

In addition to this decision, the Library of Congress also granted an exception to artists who remix copy-protected video content for noncommercial work, and renewed its approval for cellphone owners to “unlock” their phones or lift controls that restrict use to one wireless carrier.
868 2010-07-27 The agreement is the latest involving overseas apparel factories in which an image-conscious brand like Nike shows its sensitivity — advocates might say vulnerability — to campaigns led by college students who often pressure universities to stand up to producers of college-logo apparel over workers’ rights.

Nike issued a statement in conjunction with a Honduran labor federation, Central General de Trabajadores, saying it had “reached an agreement to help improve the lives of workers affected” by the plant closings. As part of the deal with the labor group, Nike pledged that other factories it used in Honduras would give priority to hiring workers laid off by the two subcontractors.

“We were trying genuinely to find a way in which we can help set up a program that would be meaningful to workers on the ground,” Ms. Meyers said.

The dispute began in January 2009, when Hugger and Vision Tex — two subcontractors that made T-shirts and sweatshirts for Nike in Honduras — closed their plants. After the workers complained, the Workers Rights Consortium gave more than 100 American universities a report it did finding that the subcontractors had failed to pay more than $2 million in severance owed under Honduran law.

United Students Against Sweatshops mounted a pressure campaign, holding protests at dozens of Niketown stores and Nike retailers. The campaign adopted the slogan “Just Pay It.”

At Cornell, 1,100 students petitioned the university to end its contracts with Nike. Thirty student groups, the student newspaper and the University Assembly also endorsed that idea.

Mr. Nova of the Workers Rights Consortium said Nike at first claimed that the two subcontractors were not making college-logo apparel. On April 20, the company issued a statement saying it was disappointed that the subcontractors had not paid the severance, but added, “It remains Nike’s position that factories which directly employ workers are responsible for ensuring that their employees receive their correct entitlements, and as such Nike will not be paying severance to workers that were employed by Hugger and Vision Tex.”

Alex Bores, president of the United Students Against Sweatshops chapter at Cornell, argued that it was only fair for Nike to make good on its subcontractors’ obligations.

“Nike plays a key role in setting up the worldwide apparel system that its contractors and subcontractors work in,” Mr. Bores said. “Nike plays factory against factory, causing them to shave a penny here and a penny there, creating an ultra-competitive environment that drives down wages and gives factory owners virtually no choice but to disrespect workers’ basic rights.”

United Students Against Sweatshops estimated that Nike’s total payments, including those for health coverage and training, would exceed $2 million.

Even with Monday’s agreement, Ms. Meyers said her company would stick to its position that contractors and subcontractors were responsible for obligations like severance pay.

Workers’ rights groups say that while many brands boast that they are complying with codes of conduct to protect workers, the brands at the same time balk at assuming responsibilities when contractors’ violate their obligations to their workers.

Jane L. Collins, a University of Wisconsin sociology professor who is on the school’s licensing committee, which called on the university to end its licensing agreement with Nike, said, “If apparel companies can’t take responsibility for the factories where they have contracts, they can’t claim to be adhering to a code of conduct.”

Officials at several universities had warned Nike that unless it settled the dispute, it would face larger protests once the fall semester began.

Last November, the student movement against sweatshops got Russell Athletic to agree to rehire 1,200 workers in Honduras who lost their jobs when the company closed their factory soon after the workers had unionized. The students had persuaded 100 universities to sever or suspend their licensing agreements with Russell.

Explaining Monday’s agreement, Jack Mahoney, national organizer for United Students Against Sweatshops, said, “After we got over 100 universities to boycott Russell, Nike understood the university pressure would not simply go away.”
869 2010-07-27 It was the first time in Cambodia’s modern history that a senior government official had been made accountable for serious human rights violations and the first time such a trial had been held that met international standards of justice.

The verdict took into account mitigating circumstances that a court spokesman, Lars Olsen, said included Duch’s cooperation, his admission of responsibility and limited expressions of remorse, the coercive environment of the Khmer Rouge period and the possibility of his rehabilitation.

There is no death penalty in Cambodia and prosecutors had sought a 40-year sentence, but many people said they would accept nothing less than a term of life in prison.

“People lost their relatives — their wives, their husbands, their sons and daughters — and they won’t be able to spend any time with any of them because they are dead now,” said Nina You, 40, who works for a private development agency. “So why should he be able to get out in 19 years and spend time with his grandchildren?”

Bou Meng, 69, another survivor who testified at the trial about his torture and humiliation, said he had waited for this day to quiet the ghosts he said continued to torment him. “I felt it was like a slap in the face,” he said of the verdict.

But Huy Vannak, a television news director, said it was enough simply to have justice in a court, 30 years after the killing stopped.

No sentence could measure up to the atrocities Duch committed, he added.

“Even if we chop him up into two million pieces it will not bring our family members back,” he said. “We have to move on now.”

Others still needed more time. “Actually I’m kind of shaking inside at the moment,” said Sopheap Pich, 39, a sculptor. “I’m not sure how I should feel. I’m not happy, not sad, just kind of numb.”

For its symbolism, he said, a life sentence would seem most appropriate. “To come up with a number doesn’t seem to make sense,” he said. “I’m not sure how you come up with a number.”

Mr. Olsen said the prosecution had 30 days to file an appeal. For now, Duch was returned to the special detention house he shares with four other defendants who are awaiting trial in what is known as Case 2.

In that case, four surviving members of the top Khmer Rouge leadership are accused of crimes against humanity and war crimes. In addition to those tortured to death and executed in killing fields, many people died of starvation, disease or overwork or in the forced evacuation of Phnom Penh, in which the entire population of the city was driven out to the countryside.

The defendants include Ieng Sary, 84, who was foreign minister; his wife, Ieng Thirith, 78, who was minister of social welfare; Nuon Chea, 84, known as Brother No. 2; and Khieu Samphan, 78, who was head of state. Several other major figures have died, including the Khmer Rouge leader, Pol Pot, in 1998.

The judicial investigation in this case is expected to conclude in September with formal indictments, and the trial itself is not expected before sometime next year.

Unlike Duch, these defendants have denied guilt, and their lawyers have been active in raising legal challenges.

In their most interesting challenge, they failed in an attempt this year to exclude evidence obtained through torture — in other words, the Tuol Sleng archives of prisoner confessions that contain some of the potentially most damaging testimony about the chain of command.

The four defendants have been in custody since late 2007 and some of them hate each other, according to people familiar with the conditions of their detention.

In particular, these people say, Mr. Nuon Chea refuses to speak to Duch, who implicated him during his trial. According to testimony in pretrial hearings, Ms. Ieng Thirith, who has shouted angrily during court hearings, has been abusive to her fellow detainees on at least 70 occasions.

For his part, Duch is said to be fascinated by the court’s actions and follows reports and analyses closely on television.
870 2010-07-27 FedEx, which is reporting an increase in air freight business, is often a bellwether for the economy, said Kevin W. Sterling, an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets.

“They move so much freight both globally and domestically,” Mr. Sterling said. “If there is either growth or a slowdown in the economy, they will be the first to feel it.”

FedEx was up 5.6 percent, or $4.43 a share, to $83.39.

Last week a FedEx rival, United Parcel Service, raised its year-end outlook when it announced improved second-quarter net income. U.P.S. shares were up 1.9 percent, or $1.21, to $64.88.

The latest report on housing showed that sales of new homes rose nearly 24 percent in June from a month earlier, to a seasonally adjusted annual sales pace of 330,000. The overall pace of the sales, however, was the second-slowest on record.

Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial Services Group, said June’s figures showed that the housing market was weak but rebounding after a May decline that was revised downward to 36.7 percent.

“I would say the housing market has really been stable through this tax-credit period, and these weak numbers in May and June are not a sign the housing market is going into a double-dip,” Mr. Hoffman said. He said the low figures in May were the result of unusually high sales in April, prompted by the expiration of the federal housing credit on April 30.

Shares of homeowners rose on the housing news. The PulteGroup rose 4.73 percent; D. R. Horton 2.95 percent; and the Lennar Corporation 3.28 percent.

Mr. Hoffman said the most important economic indicator this week would be the country’s second-quarter gross domestic product, expected to rise 2.5 percent, which is to be released on Friday.

Dan M. Greenhaus, chief economic strategist with Miller Tabak, said that a weak report on gross domestic product would renew investor concerns of a double-dip recession for the second half of the year.

But Mr. Greenhaus also noted that because markets were so unsettled, any economic news — including Tuesday’s index on home prices or the consumer confidence report — could send shares off in one direction or the other.

“At this stage of the game, everything is of crucial importance,” Mr. Greenhaus said.

Mr. Hoffman said he expected the consumer confidence index to show that Americans remained concerned about the economy over all, despite feeling slightly more confident in their personal financial health.

“It measures consumer mind-set when they speak to pollsters, which is generally a lot more fickle than actual behavior,” he said.

Wall Street markets closed around 1 percent higher on Friday, rising after the widely anticipated results showed that only seven of the 91 European banking institutions subjected to financial stress tests were found to have failed. The total capital-raising requirement was only 3.5 billion euros ($4.52 billion). The seven banks that failed, five in Spain and one each in Germany and Greece, were already considered weak by analysts.

But the results drew a tepid reaction on Monday in Europe.

“Never has so much been written on so little, it seems,” Alastair Whitfield, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in a note. Fewer institutions failed than was widely expected, he noted, and the additional amount of capital required was less than one-tenth of what the market expected.

In London, the FTSE gained 38.50 points, or 0.72 percent. Frankfurt’s DAX rose 27.87 points, or 0.45 percent, and in Paris, the CAC 40 was 29.13 points, or 0.81 percent, higher.

In Asia, the Nikkei 225 closed up 0.8 percent and the Hong Kong Hang Seng index added 0.1 percent.

The euro was slightly higher, at $1.2989, having settling at $1.2922 on Friday.
871 2010-07-27 KISSELOFF--Samuel J. A long-time friend and confidant. Our condolences go out to his family. He will be missed by all the Knights. Sid and Anne Pivor...
872 2010-07-27 By official accounts, 2009 was a banner year for the commuter railroads that serve New York City. Of all the trains that ran last year, the railroads said, nearly 96 percent were on time -- one of the best performances since they began keeping rec...
873 2010-07-27 KISSELOFF--Samuel J.,83, the loving husband of Judith Kayloe Kisseloff, died Sunday, July 25, in Lake Worth, FL. He is survived by his sons Alan S. Kisseloff (Nancy) of Ormond Beach, FL and Jeff Kisseloff (Susan) of New Paltz, NY and his four lovi...
874 2010-07-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
875 2010-07-28 Managers of the biggest buyout firms are able to fulfill a dream that eludes most people -- namely, "pay as little in taxes as possible" and "have someone else pick up the tab" for any taxes that remain, according to Allan Sloan of Fortune....
876 2010-07-28 In New Jersey, the president orders a sandwich and talks about economic stimulus....
877 2010-07-28 Amanda Keppert and her hot dog business needed the help of a tool more commonly associated with third world poverty....
878 2010-07-28 Eminem fended off a new release by the rapper Rick Ross to remain in the top spot on the Billboard album chart....
879 2010-07-28 A new site aims to make it easier to tell the general mood of all the information available online about stocks....
880 2010-07-28 Social relationships are just as important to health as other common risk factors like smoking, lack of exercise or obesity, new research shows....
881 2010-07-28 Eventually, Catherine Wood Hill chose to lose the P.R. specialist, ditch the e-mail list vendors, and skip AdWords all together....
882 2010-07-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
883 2010-07-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
884 2010-07-28 A botched share swap last month in which 10 times more U.S. Bancorp shares were issued than planned, angering and confusing investors, led the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday to cancel three days of trades in the stock....
885 2010-07-28 Wall Street struggled Tuesday on reports that consumers had become more pessimistic about the job market and the overall economic recovery....
886 2010-07-28 This word has appeared 205 times in The Times over the past year....
887 2010-07-28 WASHINGTON — House and Senate Democratic leaders introduced bills on Tuesday responding to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, with provisions to overhaul the federal regulation of offshore drilling, lift liability limits on companies responsible for damaging spills and funnel more money to spill-related research and restoration projects.

The narrowly written Senate bill falls far short of the comprehensive legislation on energy and climate change that Senate Democrats and the White House have been pursuing for more than a year. Senate leaders abandoned that goal last week, conceding that they did not have the support or the time to pass any bill to begin to control the greenhouse gases that are contributing to the warming of the planet.

Both new measures call for a reorganization of the Department of Interior’s troubled agency that regulates offshore drilling, formerly known as the Minerals Management Service. They also call for tougher oversight of offshore operations, more assertive environmental monitoring and new fees on oil companies to help pay for compliance.

The 238-page House bill combines provisions from three separate bills passed since the April 20 blowout and fire on the Deepwater Horizon, a drilling rig leased by BP.

It includes a so-called bad actor provision that would deny drilling rights to any company that has had more than 10 deaths offshore or at land-based oil operations over the previous seven years. That rule would currently apply to only BP.
888 2010-07-28 Two police officers accused of using excessive force against a 28-year-old man who died in police custody in June made their first court appearance on Tuesday, in a case that human rights advocates say is a test of the government’s willingness to root out a culture of police abuse. During the hearing, lawyers for the family of the victim, Khaled Said, gave a judge a witness list, including people who they said saw the officers, Mahmoud Saleh, 33, and Awad Ismael Suleiman, 31, beat Mr. Said to death. Two autopsies conducted by the authorities concluded that Mr. Said had choked on a packet of marijuana. The two officers said nothing during the hearing, and the trial was adjourned until Sept. 25.
889 2010-07-28 In 1967, a 3M scientist, Spencer Silver, invented a glue with a slightly granular surface that prevented complete adhesion, but the company could not find an application for the underachieving adhesive. Then, in the early 1970s it introduced the Post-it Bulletin Board, essentially a photograph of a cork bulletin board coated with the substance and to which pieces of scrap paper could be attached.

“Sales were disappointing,” noted a 2005 article about the brand in The Rake magazine. “Part of the problem was that it wasn’t just documents that stuck to the board’s surface; dust did, too. Perhaps more importantly, there just wasn’t much demand for a better bulletin board.”

Then Art Fry, another 3M scientist, was practicing with his church choir and grew frustrated that slips of paper he used as bookmarks kept falling out of his hymnal. So, using some of Mr. Silver’s adhesive, he made sticky bookmarks, which evolved into notepaper.

Notepads produced for internal use at 3M were a hit, but when they were tested in four markets in 1977, shoppers showed little interest. The next year the company descended upon Boise, Idaho, for what was known internally as the Boise Blitz. Free samples were widely distributed to offices, and so habit-forming was the product that more than 90 percent of Boiseans given samples said they would buy it.

When the brand was officially introduced in 1980, using just yellow pads, the company again circulated free samples liberally, including to chief executives of Fortune 500 companies and their secretaries.

Today, more than 1,000 Post-it products are sold in 150 countries, and the notes have permeated popular culture: A Post-it Note is what a boyfriend of Carrie Bradshaw uses to dump her in a 2003 episode of “Sex and the City,” what the characters of Meredith Grey and Derek Shepherd use to write their wedding vows on in the season finale of “Grey’s Anatomy” in 2009; and what the main characters in “Romy and Michele’s High School Reunion” in 1997 claim to have invented since graduation.

YouTube, meanwhile, features many videos that capture reactions when the unsuspecting discover that their cars, offices or bedrooms have been covered with thousands of Post-it Notes.

At first the product was intended only for affixing to paper, but consumers had their own ideas.

“Suddenly we were looking at a lot of vertical applications and substrates besides paper,” said Tony Clinch, technical director of the office supplies division at 3M. Introduced in 2003, Super Sticky notes were meant to withstand gravity and stay attached to computers, doors and other surfaces not originally considered.

Using ethnographic studies, the company observes how products are used in homes, and develops products to better suit evolving uses. New or innovative products, like Post-it labels that feature full adhesive backs, introduced last year, and recycled pads with a plant-based adhesive that were introduced this year, aim to keep the brand ahead of imitators, like store brands made by Staples and Office Depot.

“Mothers will tell us, ‘If I want my daughter to see it, I leave it on her bedroom door,’ ” said Sherry Trepp, marketing research manager of the office supplies division at 3M. “Every family has a spot in the kitchen where they communicate — we call it the command center. For some it’s horizontal on a counter, for some it’s vertical on a cupboard, and for some it’s vertical on the refrigerator because that’s where the children go right after school.”

On its Web site, a “Post-it Everywhere” section suggests uses at home, in school and “on the go.”

“It’s still tilted to the office channel and still primarily an office product,” said Mr. Smith of 3M. “But it has migrated out of the office and into many aspects our life.”
890 2010-07-28 Soon after the show was broadcast, a strange thing happened. The section of Mr. Kerzic’s Web site that dealt with Amtrak all but vanished. His lawsuit was settled, and as a condition of the deal, he had to remove his writings about the episode. Now his page on Amtrak — at duanek.name/Amtrak/ — contains two words: “No Comment!”

Mr. Kerzic and his lawyer, Gerald Cohen, both said they couldn’t talk about what had become of the Web pages describing the arrest and his commentary about it. Carlos Miller, a photographer and blogger who followed the case, reported that Mr. Kerzic received a “five-figure” settlement.

But how could Amtrak — the national railroad, whose preferred stock is owned by the American public and whose chief executive and board of directors are appointed by the president and confirmed by Congress — require that a Web site criticizing the railroad be shut down as a condition of settling a lawsuit for wrongful arrest?

What qualifications does Amtrak have to function as a censor?

“Our policy has been and continues to be that ‘Amtrak does not comment on civil case settlements,’ ”Clifford Cole, an Amtrak spokesman, said in an e-mail message. “We would not have any more to say on this matter.”

Since 9/11, a number of government bodies have sought to limit photography in railroad stations and other public buildings. One rationale is that pictures would help people planning acts of mayhem. It has been a largely futile effort. On a practical level, decent cameras now come in every size and shape, and controlling how people use them would require legions of police officers. Moreover, taking photographs and displaying them is speech protected by the First Amendment, no less than taking notes and writing them up.

LAST year, a man named Robert Taylor was arrested on a nearly empty subway platform in the Bronx, accused of illegally taking pictures. For good measure, the officer threw in a disorderly conduct charge, on the grounds that Mr. Taylor was blocking people’s movement, even though it was the middle of the afternoon, the platform was about 10,000 square feet and there was hardly anyone around. The charges were dismissed, and the city paid Mr. Taylor $30,000 for his trouble. The city had already paid $31,501 to a medical student who was arrested while he was shooting pictures of every train station in the city.

After Mr. Taylor’s case, the New York Police Department reminded officers that there was no ban on taking pictures in the subway system.

In November, Antonio Musumeci, a member of the Manhattan Libertarian Party, was given a ticket while videotaping a political protest in the plaza outside the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. Citing a federal regulation that dates to 1957, agents of the Federal Protective Service gave Mr. Musumeci a summons as he recorded a man who was handing pamphlets to potential jurors. The New York Civil Liberties Union has filed a lawsuit on Mr. Musumeci’s behalf, arguing that the rules that govern photography on federal property were vague and unconstitutional. The lawsuit says people routinely take pictures on the plaza after new citizens are sworn in at the courthouse.

Since Mr. Kerzic’s run-in with the police at Penn Station, Amtrak has dropped its Web page on the “Picture Our Trains” contest.

“This photography contest,” he said, “is Amtrak’s cleverest ruse since their so-called timetable.”
891 2010-07-28 Thirty years later, Cambodia’s “killing fields” are still haunting. A Buddhist memorial displays 5,000 haphazardly arranged human skulls — a tiny fraction of the 1.7 million Cambodians butchered by the Khmer Rouge.

While the world must never forget what happened, there is at least the beginning of justice. On Monday, a United Nations-backed tribunal convicted Kaing Guek Eav, known as Duch, of war crimes and crimes against humanity — the first major Khmer Rouge figure to be tried since the regime was overthrown. He has already spent 16 years in prison, and the tribunal sentenced him to another 19 years.

Duch oversaw a notorious prison where more than 14,000 people were tortured and killed. During an eight-month trial, he admitted to many of the charges against him. His defense — he was a “cog in a machine” — is no defense at all.

We understand why many of the victims of the Khmer Rouge and their families were disappointed that he was not given life in prison. He should never taste freedom, but at least he was held to account and he will be 86 years old when his sentence is served.

Four other more senior Khmer Rouge leaders — including Khieu Samphan, the former president — are facing charges of genocide and war crimes. Their trial needs to be pursued expeditiously, and many more need to be held accountable if Cambodia is to see true justice.

The conduct of Duch’s trial raises serious concerns about whether that will ever happen. Human rights experts say most of the five international prosecutors on the case did not know the file in detail and only one had senior level trial experience. There were conflicts between the tribunal’s international and Cambodian staff, bureaucratic delays, and heavy-handed political interference by the Cambodian government.

It is disturbing that the Cambodian prime minister, Hun Sen, has said the court will not prosecute more suspects than the ones in custody. One has to ask, whom is he trying to protect?
892 2010-07-28 “While the effectiveness of any individual element certainly can be debated, there is little doubt that in total, the policy response was highly effective,” they write.

Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi emphasize the sheer size of the fallout from the financial crisis. They estimate the total direct cost of the recession at $1.6 trillion, and the total budgetary cost, after adding in nearly $750 billion in lost revenue from the weaker economy, at $2.35 trillion, or about 16 percent of G.D.P.

By comparison, the savings and loan crisis cost about $350 billion in today’s dollars: $275 billion in direct cost and an additional $75 billion from the recession of 1990-91 — or about 6 percent of G.D.P. at the time.

But the new analysis might not be of immediate solace to officials in the Obama administration, who have been trying to promote the “summer of recovery” at events across the nation in the face of polls indicating persistent doubts about the impact of the $787 billion stimulus program.

For one thing, Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi find that the financial stabilization measures — the Troubled Asset Relief Program, as the bailout is known, along with the bank stress tests and the Fed’s actions — have had a relatively greater impact than the stimulus program.

If the fiscal stimulus alone had been enacted, and not the financial measures, they concluded, real G.D.P. would have fallen 5 percent last year, with 12 million jobs lost. But if only the financial measures had been enacted, and not the stimulus, real G.D.P. would have fallen nearly 4 percent, with 10 million jobs lost.

The combined effects of both sets of policies cannot be directly compared with the sum of each in isolation, they found, “because the policies tend to reinforce each other.”

Told about the findings, another leading economist was unconvinced.

“I’m very surprised that they find these big impacts,” said John B. Taylor, a Stanford professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. “It doesn’t correspond at all to my empirical work.”

Mr. Taylor said the Fed had successfully stabilized the commercial paper and money markets, but he argued that its purchases of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities have not been effective. And he said the Obama administration’s stimulus program has had “very little impact and not much to show for it except a legacy of higher debt.”

The disagreement underscored the extent to which econometric estimates are heavily reliant on underlying assumptions and models, but Mr. Blinder and Mr. Zandi said they hoped their analysis would withstand scrutiny by other scholars.

“When all is said and done, the financial and fiscal policies will have cost taxpayers a substantial sum, but not nearly as much as most had feared and not nearly as much as if policy makers had not acted at all,” they write.
893 2010-07-28 GIVEN the continuing partisan rancor over the health care reform act signed in March, how can responsible policymakers in the White House and in state capitols move forward to expand access to health insurance and reduce health care costs, goals that both parties share?

The answer is simple: health insurance exchanges, which have long had bipartisan support. These exchanges, which the health care act requires states to establish, allow individuals and groups to purchase coverage, under some form of risk pooling, from a network of insurers. The next step is for the White House to help state governments put these exchanges in place.

Public health insurance exchanges are not a new idea. Perhaps the best example of the model is the 50-year-old Federal Employee Health Benefits program, which provides a nationwide network of some 250 plans to more than eight million government employees, retirees and their dependents. Many states operate programs like this for their own employees and those on municipal payrolls.

Starting in the 1980s and 1990s, California, Texas and other states experimented with exchanges for small businesses as well. But these were less successful than the ones for public-sector employers — the combination of heavy-handed coverage mandates and cherry-picking by insurers selling to healthier individuals outside the exchanges drove up rates and forced them to close.

At the start of this decade the Internet breathed new life into the exchange concept, as free-market reformers promoted Web-based portals that would allow consumers to compare their options, select their plans and, thanks to the resulting competition, drive down premiums.
894 2010-07-28 EATALY, a giant Italian food hall opening in a month or so on West 23rd Street near Fifth Avenue, is a culinary extravaganza, from arancini to zabaglione.

Patterned after the original in Turin, Italy, and created by the restaurateurs Joseph Bastianich and Mario Batali, the complex will have more than 20 retail departments, most with their own dining area.

Among the options for shopping and eating in the 36,500-square-foot space will be antipasti, salumi, pizza, fresh pasta, crudo and other seafood, roast meats sold by the pound, panini, dessert items, gelati and coffee.

Some retail areas will have dining counters. The fish monger and the produce area (where a “vegetable butcher” will prep your artichokes and such to order for cooking at home) will also have restaurants with waiter service.

The most elaborate dining area will be Manzo, a full-scale white-tablecloth Italian steakhouse with 80 seats. It is the only named restaurant in the place, and the only dining area that will take reservations. Michael Toscano, formerly of Babbo, is the chef.
895 2010-07-28 The Greenmarkets are fragrant with the lush aroma of peaches, as more farms than ever pick their fruit when ripe. Weeks of hot weather without much rain have helped concentrate their flavor; the best peaches are on the small side. They drip juice with the first bite. Handle them with care and plan to use them without delay. Any bruised ones can be cut up into muffin batter, chutneys, mousses or simply swirled into the morning yogurt.

In the Union Square Greenmarket on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and at several other locations, peaches from Caradonna Farms in Marlboro, N.Y., are among the best, at $1.50 a pound. Locust Grove Farm and Breezy Hill Orchards also have excellent peaches, both $3 a pound.
896 2010-07-28 But the Lion also seems to have swapped the warm exclusivity of the Waverly for a kind of populism that is more inclusive, but also far louder and less pleasant.

Investors in the Lion include, among others, Dan Abrams, the chief legal analyst for NBC News; and David Zinczenko, the editor of Men’s Health. (Mr. Carter stayed home.) The owners may have hoped to ape the Waverly’s booking practices and serve customers whose names sometimes show up on the manifests of private planes. Les Moonves has made the scene there. But many JetBlue customers have come as well.

There is a bouncer in front every night, standing on the stairs that lead down into the restaurant’s cool, dark entranceway. The bar is crowded beyond belief with Delta Taus and other frat packers, men in distressed jeans aspiring to six-pack abs, women skating on the thin ice of fashion and yapping into mobile phones.

Beyond them, down a hallway that leads past a busy open kitchen, is a dining room that soars up to a stained skylight evoking both Paris and the musical “Rent.” There are packed green banquettes, heavy tables and chairs, a stairway up to a private mezzanine and table. Art is on every wall, all of it hung salon-style and badly, with overlapping frames, a double-height gallery of prints: Basquiat; LaChapelle; a lot of work pulled from the photography archive of The Daily News.

The bedlam of images is meant to evoke a modern history of New York. (Calvin Klein did a better job all by himself one night, staring out from his table of supplicants in back as if alone, or lost.) Beneath the frames sits the city’s present: a shouty crowd with corkscrew necks looking to see who will be next into the dining room, who next on the stairs.

If that’s your glass of pinot, you can eat and drink well enough, all the way through to an excellent dessert of cheesecake in a jar, beneath a buzz of graham cracker. The Lion’s staff is well trained and patient, versed in the menu, accustomed to the eccentricities of Manhattan wealth and privilege. The sommelier is on her game. It can be a jolly space, and enjoyable.

A yellowfin tartare with pickled vegetables and ginger-fiery lime vinaigrette is a pleasant way to begin a summer evening in the heat, and that lobster potpie — which you’d think too rich and creamy for July consumption — is its natural successor, surprisingly light and deeply flavorful.

Asparagus may be long gone from your farmers’ market, but it is still growing somewhere: the Lion’s is served sweet, tangy and luscious, with trumpet mushrooms, a slow-cooked egg and a hollandaise of great delicacy. (In contrast, avoid the heavy béchamel with the restaurant’s already leaden artichoke fritters.) And Mr. DeLucie’s handle on the preparation of beets remains firm, in a pretty salad that combines them with their greens and an airy goat-cheese mousse.

There are some pastas as well, the best of which comes with braised octopus, guanciale and a sauce of San Marzano tomatoes. (The loser is the sheep’s milk cavatelli, gummy and overdone.)

For entrees, Mr. DeLucie offers a high-end, low-end menu similar to the one he used at Waverly: steaks and fancy fish on the one end; burgers and excellent fries at the other.

The lobster aside, he generally does better in the meat department than in fish. Dover sole, while cooked to a buttery golden hue, is dry and mushy, far less interesting than the luscious hamburger he pairs with pork belly, provolone, smoked cheddar and caramelized onions. A rare Delmonico steak with béarnaise sauce and fries is superior to dry buttered scallops with crushed peas and a wax-bean salad. (Whatever you get, add fries.)

Only a Berkshire pork chop with fermented black garlic and what the menu calls “applewood smoke” really disappoints. It arrives at the table on a wooden cutting board, beneath a glass dome filled with acrid smoke. The flavor it imparts seems to be that which might have been achieved if someone had simply stubbed out a glowing Marlboro on the meat.

Such a misstep rankles, and more than it might if the restaurant did not lack what Thackeray, in the actual “Vanity Fair,” called “the elegances of fine society and the confidence and affection of a home.”

This was the true genius of the Waverly Inn, after all, what allowed it to serve truffled macaroni and cheese for $55 and have the world laugh.

The Lion is a different animal. You can get a table there whenever you like, if only you call far enough ahead. And then that pork chop arrives. Who wants club food if anyone can have it?

SOUND LEVEL Very loud in the bar area up front, diminishing to merely loud in the dining room.

WINE LIST Ask the sommelier to keep it in the $40 to $60 range and you’ll do well off this moderately sized list of classics. There’s galloping inflation north of there.

PRICE RANGE Appetizers and salads, $12 to $15; entrees, $17 to $45.

HOURS Sunday to Thursday, 5:30 p.m. to midnight; Friday and Saturday to 1 a.m.

RESERVATIONS Recommended, at least two weeks ahead.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The restaurant is down a flight of stairs and fearsomely crowded. The restrooms are not accessible.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
897 2010-07-28 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who caucuses with the Democrats and expressed support for taking up the bill, was absent to attend a funeral. And the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, switched his vote to “no” at the last minute — a procedural step that allows him to call for a revote.

At a news conference and in an impassioned floor speech, the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, denounced the legislation and chided Democrats for diverting the Senate’s agenda from a bill aimed at helping small businesses in a bid to take up the campaign finance disclosure measure.

“This bill is about protecting incumbent Democrats from criticism ahead of this November’s election — a transparent attempt to rig the fall election,” he said.

Mr. McConnell, who throughout his career has opposed efforts to restrict financing of political campaigns, added, “By taking us off the small-business bill and moving to this one, Democrats are proving the jobs they care about the most are their own.”

The House has approved the campaign finance bill, called the Disclose Act, for Democracy Is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections.

The bill would have barred spending on political campaigns by corporations that have $10 million or more in government contracts, as well as by American corporations that are controlled by foreign nationals.

It would also have established an array of requirements and restrictions on American corporations and interest groups, including a prohibition against their coordinating campaign spending with candidates or political parties.

The bill was intended to counter the Supreme Court ruling that the federal government may not ban political spending by corporations and other advocacy groups, like labor unions. The ruling overturned two precedents, including a 1990 ruling that upheld limits on spending by corporations in support of political candidates.

The 5-to-4 court decision, in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, prompted a remarkable rebuke of the Supreme Court by Mr. Obama in his State of the Union address, and Congressional Democrats moved quickly to respond.

But even some Republicans who have made efforts to work collaboratively with the Democrats said there had not been sufficient cooperation on the bill to generate bipartisan support.

“I know that the new routine for legislating these days is to ram and jam, but these issues deserve time,” said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who Democrats had hoped would support the bill.

Calling a vote on the bill premature, she said, “We have no had hearings, no vetting, no attempt, I think, to bring people together to work on an issue that responds to the Supreme Court’s decision.”

The American Civil Liberties Union applauded the blocking of the bill.

“We can only truly bring positive change to our elections if we continue to respect our cherished free speech rights and, unfortunately, the Disclose Act does not do that,” Laura W. Murphy, director of the group’s Washington legislative office, said in a statement.
898 2010-07-28 2. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Slice half the tomatoes, and set aside. Seed and chop the rest. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat in a large, heavy skillet, and add the red pepper. Cook, stirring often, until tender, five to eight minutes. Add the remaining garlic, and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Add the chopped tomatoes, red pepper flakes, paprika and salt to taste. Cook, stirring often, until the tomatoes have cooked down somewhat, about 10 minutes. Add half the chopped mint or parsley, and stir in the beans and 1 1/2 cups of broth (reserve what remains in the bowl). Transfer to a baking dish, and arrange the sliced tomatoes on top.

3. Place in the oven, and bake one hour. Check from time to time to make sure the beans aren’t drying out. If they are, add about 1/2 cup of the reserved broth. Remove from the heat, and sprinkle the remaining parsley or mint over the top. Serve hot or warm.

Advance preparation: You can make this dish in advance through step 1 or through step 2 and keep it in the refrigerator for up to five days. The finished dish will also keep for three or four days in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per serving: 177 calories; 5 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 26 grams carbohydrates; 9 grams dietary fiber; 10 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 9 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com.
899 2010-07-28 The new law calls for the S.E.C. to draft regulations that could, for example, govern corporate disclosure of executive compensation, allow shareholders to nominate candidates for company boards, tighten oversight of credit rating agencies and, together with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, impose new capital and margin requirements on derivatives trading.

The S.E.C. began the first of the act’s required studies on Tuesday, asking investors for feedback on whether the practices of stock brokers and investment advisers should continue to be subject to different regulatory standards.

By law, the S.E.C. regularly seeks comments on proposed rules after a regulation has been drafted and published, a practice that will continue. By expanding the process beyond the legal requirements, Ms. Schapiro said “the idea is to offer maximum opportunity for public comment and to provide greater transparency.”

All comments submitted to the new Web site will be posted for public viewing, Ms. Schapiro said. In addition, when industry or consumer groups meet with members of the commission’s staff to discuss rule proposals, the meeting’s agenda will be publicly released, she said. The commission will also conduct public hearings on selected topics.

Ms. Schapiro cautioned, however, against using the process as a forum to debate the requirements of the law. “The regulatory process is not designed to re-debate issues that Congress has resolved,” she said.

The commission’s study of the effectiveness of existing standards of care for broker-dealers and investment advisers will help the S.E.C. determine whether the two groups should continue to be governed by different rules.

Currently, brokers are governed by what is known as the “suitability rule,” under which they are required to have reasonable grounds for believing that an investment recommendation is suitable for a customer.

Registered investment advisers, however, are required to exercise “fiduciary responsibility” in their dealings with clients, a legal requirement that the interest of the investor comes first, before the adviser’s possible financial gain.

The S.E.C. is asking for the public to weigh in on whether retail customers understand that there are different standards for the two groups and on the effectiveness of each standard. The commission is also seeking comments on the potential impact that changes in the requirements for either group would have on fraud protection and on access to personalized investment advice and securities recommendations.
900 2010-07-28 Lobbying and law firms here have always turned to former regulators to navigate the bureaucracies of Washington. But the financial regulations passed by Congress and signed into law by have left most of the real decision-making to the S.E.C. and other agencies, making these agencies more powerful than ever. On a scale that analysts say they have never seen, government regulatory agencies will spend the coming years enacting rules on everything from the definition of a “systemically important” mega-bank to limits on debit card fees.

Federal agencies will decide the details of at least 243 financial rules and conduct 67 studies, according to an assessment by the Davis Polk law firm.

The S.E.C. alone is responsible for developing 95 rules on topics like the trading of derivatives, standards for and disclosure of executive bonuses. The must develop 61 rules, the Federal Reserve has 54, and two agencies just created by Congress — the and the Financial Stability Oversight Council — have 80 rules between them.

Credit card companies will look to maintain higher fees on debit cards. Derivatives investors will seek to define themselves as “end users” of a particular product who should be exempted from some restrictions. Niche industries like payday lenders and check-cashing services will push for less burdensome federal regulation. And in many cases, the industries will rely on former regulators to make their cases to the federal agencies.

Many directives in the Congressional legislation are written so broadly that the agencies have wide discretion in drafting rules.

“It’s 2,300 pages that affect every facet of the financial services industry,” said Justin Daly, a former counsel at the S.E.C. “If you look at a lot of the important provisions, Congress delegates authority to the agencies to make the really tough determinations. There’s no question that this bill empowers regulators in a way that we’ve never seen before.”

Mr. Daly will now be working those issues from the other side — as a lobbyist. He left the S.E.C. in February and joined the lobbying firm of Ogilvy Government Relations. Although Mr. Daly was a senior lawyer at the S.E.C., he was not senior enough to fall under a one-year “cooling off” period that bans lobbying by former employees.

Last week, Ogilvy, fourth among lobbying shops last year with $21.7 million in revenue, brought in another former government regulator to work with Mr. Daly — De’Ana Dow, a lawyer at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for 22 years until 2002. In announcing Ms. Dow’s hiring, Ogilvy stressed the government résumés that she and Mr. Daly brought to the job and said the pair had “the experience and expertise to provide tremendous value to our clients as the regulatory agencies implement the legislation.”

According to the analysis done by the Center for Responsive Politics, nearly 500 officials have gone through the “revolving door” between government financial agencies and the private sector. Of that group, 148 former regulatory officials were registered to lobby the government last year or this year, representing virtually every regulatory agency.

Executives at some leading law firms and lobbying shops said in interviews that they began increasing their hiring of former regulators in 2008, soon after the economic crisis hit, in anticipation of the current push for tougher regulations.

These past associations can be influential. Government officials and lobbyists agree that former agency officials have a much easier time getting phone calls or e-mail messages returned from their old colleagues, and that access often extends to greater credibility in arguing their clients’ positions.

One corporate lobbyist who worked as a regulator, asked whether he believed he had an inside edge in lobbying his ex-colleagues, said: “The answer is yes, it does. If it didn’t, I wouldn’t be able to justify getting out of bed in the morning and charging the outrageous fees that we charge our clients, which they willingly pay.”

The lobbyist, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns about alienating government officials, added that “you have to work at an agency to understand the culture and the pressure points, and it helps to know the senior staff.”

But that access and familiarity has proved problematic at times for regulators, particularly at the S.E.C. The issue has received so much attention that the financial legislation approved by Congress directs the to do a review of the revolving-door problem at the S.E.C.

In addition, the inspector general for the agency has identified a number of recent investigations in which ex-agency lawyers appeared to have undue influence with their former colleagues in matters involving current and former major firms like , and the , which was implicated in a multimillion-dollar .

In one case, an S.E.C. official, asked about the agency’s lenient treatment of an equity firm suspected of fraudulent practices, said he had probably given the company “the benefit of the doubt” because it was represented by a former S.E.C. official.

Generally, most senior officials at federal regulatory agencies are banned from lobbying their former agencies for a year after leaving the government. The Obama administration has gone further in imposing restrictions on its political appointees once they leave the government.

Craig Holman, a government affairs lobbyist at , a watchdog group that has studied the revolving door, said he was hopeful that the new restrictions might help prevent corporate lobbyists “from capturing the agencies that regulate them.”

For their part, the regulatory agencies say they are girding for the intense interest their deliberations will draw.

“We believe that hearing from all interested parties leads to better rule-making,” said John Heine, a spokesman for the S.E.C. To ensure transparency, he said the agency would take public comments even before its proposals were issued, and anyone wanting to meet with staff members would be asked to submit a written agenda that would become part of the public record.
901 2010-07-28 Inside the Green Zone still controlled by the Americans, Admiral Mullen did not discuss his meetings with political leaders but joined a chorus of officials urging Iraq not to drag out the deadlock, which he said insurgents would seek to exploit.

“We don’t see anything right now that will affect the transition and the continued troop drawdown,” the admiral said, adding, “Certainly sooner is better in terms of government formation.”

He and Jacob J. Lew, the deputy secretary of state for management and resources, emphasized their desire to strengthen ties with Iraq by helping build its security forces and democratic institutions, but the admiral also said many decisions must await a new government.

An audit by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction offered new evidence of the disarray that has historically troubled American rebuilding efforts here.

The audit said that the Department of Defense had failed to account adequately for $8.7 billion of the $9.1 billion it received from 2004 to 2007 from a fund authorized by the United Nations to redistribute Iraq’s oil revenue.

Investigators blamed weak financial and management practices among several agencies within the department that had received the funds and had released them for reconstruction projects. While the report did not address the question of whether money had been wasted, it said the Pentagon “could not provide documentation to substantiate how it spent $2.6 billion.”

In written responses, Pentagon officials did not dispute the findings generally and agreed to improve record keeping. “The documents that would account for much of the $8.7 billion are likely archived at a stateside location,” the United States Central Command wrote, though it did not elaborate why they were not found during the months-long audit.

After elections in December 2005, it took nearly six months for Mr. Maliki to emerge as a compromise prime minister, though a much swifter outcome was expected after the March elections.

Despite a constitutional deadline to choose a president, who would then appoint a candidate for prime minister, within 30 days, Parliament had delayed the next session until Tuesday — and now indefinitely. The body’s senior lawmaker, Fouad Massoum, who serves as acting speaker, said that the main issue was who would become prime minister and who would fill other top jobs.

Though they have yet to work, the new members of Parliament did collect their first monthly paychecks, which Iraqi newspapers mocked given the current state of affairs. Members receive monthly salaries of $10,000, along with $50,000 for guards and protective services — staggering sums amid Iraq’s poverty.
902 2010-07-28 KABUL, Afghanistan — The body of a missing American sailor who was captured in Logar Province was found Sunday, according to a statement released Tuesday from a NATO spokesman.

The dead sailor was one of two Americans captured by the Taliban on Friday, and a large-scale search was undertaken to find them. The search for the other sailor is continuing, a NATO spokesman said.

The sailor’s body was found at 11:30 p.m. Sunday, said Din Muhammad Darwish, the spokesman for the Logar governor. “The body was laid down on the ground in a mountain area of Tatanak in Logar Province,” he said. The Defense Department identified the sailor as Petty Officer Second Class Justin McNeley, The Associated Press reported. He was captured along with Petty Officer Third Class Jarod Newlove.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for the capture of the sailors over the weekend and said that one had resisted and that he had been killed while the other was being held.

NATO officials declined to say why the two servicemen went to Logar, or whether the trip was sanctioned by the military.
903 2010-07-28 The carmaker said it would also lease the Volt for $350 a month, hoping to attract consumers who want lower monthly payments or would hesitate to buy the vehicle until they were more comfortable with its technology.

Joel Ewanick, G.M.’s vice president for marketing, said that the Volt’s 1.4-liter, range-extending engine made it “a better value.”

Nissan’s Leaf is expected to have a range of about 100 miles on a fully charged battery, but it does not have a backup power source. The Volt’s engine — which will require premium fuel, G.M. said — will give the car a range of about 340 miles, Mr. Ewanick said.

Jesse Toprak, vice president for vehicle trends and insights at , a Web site that tracks vehicle prices, said the Leaf and Volt were largely aiming at different sets of consumers, and call for prices thousands of dollars apart.

“The Leaf is a second or third car,” he said. “The Volt can replace your existing commuter car or even your family car, if you don’t have a big family, and do just fine.”

Both G.M. and Nissan are counting on the government’s $7,500 tax credit for plug-in cars to go a long way toward making their vehicles more affordable. The credit, which buyers must claim when filing their tax return, begins to phase out after 200,000 qualifying vehicles are made.

In the case of leases, the leasing company is eligible to claim the credit. Including payments due at delivery, lessees would pay $349 a month for the base model of the Leaf, or $14,563 over three years, and $15,100 over three years for the Volt.

Mr. Toprak of TrueCar.com said he expected at least 60 percent of the cars to be leased, though leasing would be limited at first.

“Pretty much anybody that’s in the market for a new car can afford this payment,” Mr. Toprak said. “It actually starts to make sense for someone in , versus in .”

G.M. plans to build 10,000 Volts by the end of 2011 and 30,000 in 2012, and most dealers expect a waiting list.

“Between this year and next year we’re only getting 10 or 12,” Yale Kahan, the general sales manager at Boardwalk Chevrolet in Redwood City, Calif., said. “We’ve already got more orders than we’ve got cars.”

Nissan said in May that the Leaf was already sold out for this year, with 13,000 preorders in the United States.

G.M. does not expect to earn a profit from early generations of the vehicle, which even after the tax credit costs twice as much as the anticipated similar-size Chevrolet Cruze.

Instead, G.M. hopes the Volt will improve its reputation among environmentally conscious consumers and demonstrate the capabilities of battery-powered vehicles, eventually generating earnings as the technology becomes less expensive.

Only 600 Chevrolet dealers in G.M.’s initial markets will be able to sell the Volt at first. People who live outside the areas where it will initially go on sale can buy the vehicle if they travel to a participating dealer, but they will not be allowed to lease it until sales are expanded nationwide by 2012, G.M. said.

G.M. limited the Volt’s introduction to six states and , so that it could train dealership personnel to properly educate buyers and to service the Volt. “This vehicle comes with the highest degree of training requirements of any vehicle launched in the history of General Motors,” Mr. Ewanick said.

The Volt connects to a standard 120-volt outlet to charge its 400-pound battery. G.M. said each charge would cost owners $1 to $1.50, depending on electricity costs. The battery is covered under warranty for eight years or 100,000 miles, three years longer than G.M. guarantees its gasoline engines. Nissan said it would offer an identical warranty on the Leaf’s battery.

G.M. said the Volt would have a built-in navigation system, hands-free telephone capabilities and other features not normally offered as standard equipment, as well as five free years of the company’s OnStar communication service.
904 2010-07-28 “Over all, this report is consistent with recent economic indicators which have been on the low side of expectations,” Mr. Sweet said of the Conference Board report, released after news of modest gains in private jobs and weak existing-home sales data. “We think the recovery is going to be very vulnerable this summer before growth accelerates during the fourth quarter of this year and into 2011.”

The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 12.26 points, or 0.12 percent, to 10,537.69. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 0.10 percent, or 1.17 points, to 1,113.84, and the Nasdaq was down 0.36 percent, or 8.18 points, to 2,288.25.

In the bond market, the price of a 10-year Treasury note declined 16/32, to 103 25/32. The yield rose to 3.05 percent, from 2.99 percent late Monday.

Stronger earnings news from several companies failed to help the markets keep their momentum. DuPont beat analyst expectations, reporting second-quarter income of $1.2 billion and revenue of $8.6 billion. DuPont also raised its outlook for the year to $2.90 to $3.05 a share, from $2.50 to $2.70. Shares of DuPont were up 3.57 percent, to $40.38.

Lexmark, the maker of printers, announced a 14 percent increase in revenue, to $1.03 billion, in the second quarter. The company also raised its outlook for the third quarter. Shares of Lexmark increased 8.47 percent, to $37.76.

Despite the consumer confidence report, some analysts saw positive signals.

“I think what’s driving the market now is a growing view that at minimum the economy will muddle through, that double-dip risks have evaporated and the downdraft in the stock market during the spring was overdone,” said David A. Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist with Gluskin Sheff. “For a variety of reasons there’s a general view that even though the economy may be on soft ground, it’s less soft than what was previously perceived at the margin.”

Other indicators in the next couple of weeks, including Friday’s report on second-quarter gross domestic product and the unemployment report late next week, could bolster the markets.

In the latest snapshot on housing, the Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities increased 1.3 percent in May from April, on a nonseasonally adjusted basis.

Economists said a federal housing credit distorted prices upward as homebuyers took advantage of the offer that expired at the end of April.

“It’s encouraging to see prices edge up a little bit. Unfortunately, it’s going to be short-lived,” Mr. Sweet, of Moody’s Analytics, said. “More foreclosures are going to hit the market, which will put additional downward pressure on prices. Overall housing prices have been choppy, but they’re not going to bottom until early next year.”

Last week the National Association of Realtors reported the median existing-home price in June was 1 percent higher than a year ago, at $183,700. Existing-home sales slipped 5.1 percent in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.37 million units.
905 2010-07-28 KISSELOFF--Samuel J.,83, the loving husband of Judith Kayloe Kisseloff, died Sunday, July 25, in Lake Worth, FL. He is survived by his sons Alan S. Kisseloff (Nancy) of Ormond Beach, FL and Jeff Kisseloff (Susan) of New Paltz, NY and his four lovi...
906 2010-07-29 A sparkling Saturday puzzle....
907 2010-07-29 In taking up the issue of voting rights for felons, the Supreme Court is forcing a public conversation about race on the Obama administration....
908 2010-07-29 Senator Jim DeMint, the South Carolina Republican, endorses Dino Rossi's Senate campaign in Washington....
909 2010-07-29 As a primary care doctor in a city hospital clinic, I see patients from all cultures, speaking all languages. But lately there have been patients from a new culture-the recently -laid-off-now-without-insurance culture....
910 2010-07-29 When he called the vote, Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, thought he had one Republican on his side....
911 2010-07-29 Times reporters discuss the Afghanistan documents and the search for a consumer protection chief in this week's podcast....
912 2010-07-29 A look at Mississippi....
913 2010-07-29 Signs that the danger is being appreciated....
914 2010-07-29 Nissan announced its rollout plan for the Leaf and, surprisingly, New York will not get the electric car until late 2011....
915 2010-07-29 The financial overhaul bill extends the end date of a law providing more protection for renters in foreclosed properties, and it also clarifies who the protections apply to....
916 2010-07-29 Thirty-six stories of eco-friendly hotel rooms at Eighth Avenue and 44th Street....
917 2010-07-29 The Web site ifixit took apart Apple's Magic Trackpad showing a detailed view of what is under the hood of this new mouse replacement....
918 2010-07-29 An investment banking giant works to reshape the restaurant and hotel landscape of its new neighborhood....
919 2010-07-29 Priceline.com expands its Hotel Negotiator app to include rental cars....
920 2010-07-29 In a new paper, James Bullard of the St. Louis Fed says the central bank's stated policy of maintaining interest rates "exceptionally low" for "an extended period" could lead to one of two steady states....
921 2010-07-29 Liquidationism rides again....
922 2010-07-29 On the tee sheets for the United States Senior Open, he is listed as Richard Parker Jr., Lebanon, N.H., but around Dartmouth College, he is just "Coach" or "Rich." That is also how he is mostly known by the listeners of his Saturday morning radio ...
923 2010-07-29 The latest move in the e-reader price war, why hotel prices in New York could be rising and other consumer-focused items from Thursday's Times....
924 2010-07-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
925 2010-07-29 Citigroup is backing a $100 million fund that will invest in low- and moderate-income housing in New York, the bank said Wednesday....
926 2010-07-29 Talking small business with a small-business owner in Congress....
927 2010-07-29 In a case made for a hot summer, International Dairy Queen, the ice-cream company owned by Warren E. Buffett, has asked a court to stop a southern California rival from selling a frozen yogurt with a name similar to Blizzard, its biggest-seller....
928 2010-07-29 An Indian company that makes tiny loans to villagers aims to raise up to $354 million in an initial public offering, a move critics fear will encourage India's largest microfinance lender to put shareholders above the poor it serves, The Associate...
929 2010-07-29 At the core of some of the major policy fights in Washington these days is a ferocious competition between Republicans and Democrats over which party is the champion of America's small businesses - a mantle that each side views....
930 2010-07-29 The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, told Congress on Wednesday that he did not know how many of his agents had cheated on an important exam on the bureau’s new policies on surveillance, a situation now being investigated by the Justice Department’s inspector general. Mr. Mueller said that despite the inquiry, the bureau understood the rules and was following them. He himself appeared shaky on the rules during the questioning, however. At one point he said the F.B.I. could not conduct surveillance unless it suspected wrongdoing. In fact, F.B.I. rules allow agents to conduct surveillance proactively, without any evidence that a crime has been committed. After the hearing, Mr. Mueller let committee members know that he had misspoken.
931 2010-07-29 This analysis of nuclear power is on the money. Safety is a concern that needs to be uppermost in the minds of those in the headlong rush to institute a “nuclear renaissance.” It’s not.

The cost of nuclear power and the radioactive waste it produces are two other critical issues. And there are more, like the threat of terrorism and the likelihood of nuclear weapons proliferation when there are more reactors in countries with unstable political environments.

We would be much better off if we took the huge federal loan guarantees for nuclear power and used them for renewable-energy and energy-efficiency programs. There would be a significantly greater and faster return.

We should be looking toward a true “decarbonization” of our energy economy. This would create more jobs, more quickly and at less cost, and provide significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions much sooner.

The writer has a blog about climate change for the Foreign Policy Association and teaches at New York University’s Center for Global Affairs.
932 2010-07-29 Even so, Parker is plotting no competitive comeback, and he labors under no misapprehensions about his game. “When I’m out here, I feel like I belong here,” he said in a phone interview. “When I’m at home, I feel like I belong at home. The difference is, when I’m at home, I have three kids and a wife, so I know I belong at home.”

Back when he was trying to play golf for a living, Parker’s United States Open experience was at Medinah Country Club, where Irwin won the last of his three Opens. At the time, he was playing on the Hogan Tour (now the Nationwide Tour), teeing it up each week against eventual PGA Tour winners like Tom Lehman and Olin Browne, with whom he played a practice round this week.

After missing the cut at the 1990 Open, and after one final run at the touring pro life in 1994, Parker settled down in Lebanon. He kept his game sharp, winning PGA player of the year honors in Vermont (1997) and New Hampshire (1999) and building the program at Dartmouth into a winner since taking it over in 2006.

But like all athletes who once competed against the best, Parker never lost the desire to test his game again. This time, though, he prepared differently. He was often accompanied at evening practice sessions by his daughters — Virginia, 15, a member of the Lebanon High School golf team, and Anna, 12 — and his son Trey, 9, a Little League player who shagged practice shots with a baseball glove.

And now that he will be breaking out his game on the big stage, he wants to enjoy the experience more than he did in 1990, when he wore himself out before the event began. His attitude is relaxed. Browne said in a text message that his old friend was still “Jack Benny in a crew cut.”

“I know there’s a ton of people in New England who are following this, and this whole thing is awesome,” Parker said. “If I play good, awesome. If I don’t, hey, I’m not trying to go to the moon or something. This is golf. It won’t be the last time I play.”

AN APPEALING PITCH Although this will be something of a home game for the Seattle-born Fred Couples in the Senior Open, there is nothing regional about Couples’s appeal as a pitchman. The makers of Ecco shoes have found out that Couples appeals to shoe buyers of all ages and will be using this week’s Open to build on the success they had with him wearing their “Golf Street” sneakers at the Masters.

Before the Masters, the company had forecast selling 2,000 pairs of the style for the entirety of 2010. The company increased production of the shoes afterward and said that it would deliver close to 100,000 pairs this year in the United States and that it had increased its international projections by “tens of thousands of pairs.”

WOODS TO PLAY IN OHIO Tiger Woods will play at the W.G.C.-Bridgestone Invitational at the Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio, a tournament he has won three of the four times since Bridgestone assumed sponsorship and four of the previous seven times, played in 1999-2005, when N.E.C. was the sponsor. The tournament runs Aug. 3-8.

Woods, who said he was pleased with most aspects of his play at the British Open at St. Andrews two weeks ago, will try to rediscover his putting touch on the fast greens of the South Course at Firestone.

TEENAGER SHOOTS 57 Bobby Wyatt shot a 57 at the Alabama Boys State Junior Championship. Wyatt, who is bound for the University of Alabama, turns 18 this weekend.

Wyatt had 12 birdies, an eagle and five pars on the par-71, 6,628-yard course at the Country Club of Mobile. His birdie putt hung on the lip on the 18th green, and he had to settle for par. Wyatt needed 23 putts total and shot a nine-under-par 26 on the front nine. Wyatt has won the state’s junior championship the past three years.

Ryo Ishikawa’s 58 in the final round of the The Crowns tournament on the Japan Tour on May 2 is the lowest score on a major tour. (AP)
933 2010-07-29 Larry Scott, the Pacific-10 commissioner, intends to start a television channel like the one that the Big Ten started in 2007.

That is no surprise. With two major universities in each of four Western states, and the addition of Colorado and Utah in 2011 or 2012, the conference can better brand itself (Pac-12) and create a profitable asset. But Scott wants to diverge somewhat from the strategy that the Big Ten followed when it carved out a schedule of football and basketball games for its network from the rights it sold to ESPN in a long-term extension.

“We’re not that far along in our planning,” Scott said.

But his goal is to have “more premier programming” than the “third-tier” games he said were on the Big Ten Network. The selection process for Big Ten football games greatly favors putting better games with greater ratings potential on ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC.

Elizabeth Conlisk, a spokeswoman for the Big Ten Network, declined to discuss Scott’s characterization of the games the channel carries. But she said, “Every home game is televised on ESPN, ABC or the Big Ten Network.”

Scott will have to negotiate the games that a Pac-10 network would have with the media company that acquires the conference’s cable and broadcast rights. Currently, the conference has football contracts with ESPN/ABC and Fox Sports Net, or FSN, and a basketball agreement with FSN. Each football contract expires after the 2011 season and the FSN basketball deal after the 2011-12 season. The risk Scott will face is reducing how much ESPN, FSN or any other network suitor, like TBS or Comcast, would pay in a traditional rights deal.
934 2010-07-29 The swastika now shows up so often as a generic symbol of hatred that the Anti-Defamation League, in its annual tally of hate crimes against Jews, will no longer automatically count its appearance as an act of anti-Semitism.

“The swastika has morphed into a universal symbol of hate,” said Abraham Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League, a Jewish advocacy organization. “Today it’s used as an epithet against African-Americans, Hispanics and gays, as well as Jews, because it is a symbol which frightens.”

Observing the trend, he said that his group had decided it would examine reports of scrawled swastikas for contextual clues. If it appears Jews were not the target, the incident will not be included in the league’s annual audit of anti-Semitic hate crimes.

“A year ago, there was a swastika put on Plymouth Rock,” Mr. Foxman said in an interview. “We saw it as a symbol of hatred against America, maybe against immigrants, I don’t know. But to count that swastika as an anti-Semitic incident would not be accurate.”

Using the new measure, the Anti-Defamation League logged 1,211 anti-Semitic incidents in the United States in 2009. It included 422 cases of anti-Semitic vandalism like swastika graffiti, as well as violent episodes like the murder of a security guard at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.

The tally was down from 2008, which found 1,352 incidents — in part because of the new approach to swastikas. (The group is considering whether to issue a separate report on swastika incidents that were excluded from its audit).
935 2010-07-29 WASHINGTON — The Pentagon is reviewing tens of thousands of classified battlefield reports made public this week about the war in Afghanistan to determine whether Afghan informants were identified and could be at risk of reprisals, American officials said Wednesday.

A Pentagon spokesman, Col. David Lapan, said that a Pentagon assessment team had not yet drawn any conclusions, but that “in general, the naming of individuals could cause potential problems, both to their physical safety or willingness to continue support to coalition forces or the Afghan government.”

Speaking in Kabul on Thursday, the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, called the disclosure of the names of Afghans who had cooperated with NATO and American forces "extremely irresponsible and shocking."

"Whether those individuals acted legitimately or illegitimately in providing information to the NATO forces, their lives will be in danger now," said Mr. Karzai, who spoke at a press conference just after he said he discussed the issue with his advisors. "Therefore we consider that extremely irresponsible and an act that one cannot overlook."

A search by The New York Times through a sampling of the documents released by the organization WikiLeaks found reports that gave the names or other identifying features of dozens of Afghan informants, potential defectors and others who were cooperating with American and NATO troops.

The Times and two other publications given access to the documents — the British newspaper The Guardian and the German magazine Der Spiegel — posted online only selected examples from documents that had been redacted to eliminate names and other information that could be used to identify people at risk. The news organizations did this to avoid jeopardizing the lives of informants.

The founder of WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, has said that the organization withheld 15,000 of the approximately 92,000 documents in the archive that was released on Sunday to remove the names of informants in what he called a “harm minimization” process. But the 75,000 documents WikiLeaks put online provide information about possible informants, like their villages and in some cases their fathers’ names.

Asked on NBC’s “Today” show on Wednesday if the killing of an Afghan as a result of the WikiLeaks disclosure would be considered “collateral damage” in his efforts to make details of the war public, Mr. Assange said, “If we had, in fact, made that mistake, then, of course, that would be something that we would take very seriously.”

National security officials, meanwhile, are worried that the attention WikiLeaks has received in the past week has elevated its profile and could be used to entice disgruntled officials to send classified information to its Web site, which solicits “classified, censored or otherwise restricted material of political, diplomatic or ethical significance” and asserts that “submitting confidential material to WikiLeaks is safe, easy and protected by law.”

One United States official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigation, said government lawyers were exploring whether WikiLeaks and Mr. Assange could be charged with a crime. One question, some lawyers say, is whether they could be charged with inducing or serving as co-conspirators in violations of the Espionage Act, a 1917 law that prohibits the unauthorized disclosure of national security information.

Indeed, at a press club in London on Tuesday, Mr. Assange told reporters that before the most recent disclosure of documents, WikiLeaks had been warned by officials in the United States government that there had been “thoughts of whether I could be charged as a co-conspirator to espionage, which is serious.”

“That doesn’t seem to be the thinking within the United States anymore, however,” he added. He did not elaborate.
936 2010-07-29 Republicans, with support from the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business, have begun making the case that allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire for the top two income brackets would harm small-business owners, impede the recovery and perhaps even lead to a double-dip recession.

Democrats counter that just 3 percent of tax returns in the top two brackets show any business income, meaning that most small-business owners stand to benefit from the Democrats’ push to continue the tax cuts for individuals earning less than $200,000 and families earning less than $250,000.

And then there is the small-business bill itself, which has languished in the Senate for weeks.

With the midterm elections just three months away, Senate Republican leaders see little reason to hand Mr. Obama another legislative achievement, let alone one that would bolster the Democrats’ efforts to debunk the image that the Republican Party has long cultivated as the primary champion of small businesses.

Democrats on Tuesday evening introduced yet another version of the legislation aimed at winning over Republican supporters. But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Democrats should only blame themselves for the delay in passing the bill, noting that it was repeatedly shelved to deal with other issues.

Mr. McConnell also sharply criticized the Democrats’ economic policies. “Spending, debt, regulations, more government — none of it has worked,” he said. “And now they want to raise taxes on the very small businesses that are trying to create jobs.”

To counter the Republican opposition, Democrats are turning to groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the independent business federation — traditionally Republican allies — in hopes that they will help twist the arms of some Republican senators into voting for the bill.

The House has already approved a package similar to the one in the Senate, which would extend and expand tax cuts for small businesses to invest and hire, and create a $30 billion lending program within the Treasury Department, to be administered through community banks.

In a crucial test vote last week, two Senate Republicans, George LeMieux of Florida and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, voted with Democrats in favor of the $30 billion lending program, even as other Republicans denounced it as a mini “bailout” that would encourage community banks to make risky loans.

Buoyed by that vote, Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the small-business committee, continued to make a forceful case for the bill on the Senate floor on Wednesday even as Democratic leaders struggled to resolve procedural disputes with the Republicans that threatened to kill the measure.

“Eighty-one percent of the jobs lost in America were from small business,” Ms. Landrieu said. “If we do our job right,” she added, “this is the bill that will jump-start, jolt, be a catalyst.”

Ms. Landrieu met Wednesday morning with a number of advocacy groups who are supporting her bill and urged them to press Republicans to support the measure. The bill’s fate seemed likely to be decided in a procedural vote on Thursday.

Democrats say that the Republicans’ reputation as an ally of small business is undeserved, and that advocacy for small businesses is really a way of cloaking efforts to help big, wealthy corporate interests.

“The American people know one thing: They are the party of big business,” the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in an interview. “All you have to do is look at what they voted against here in the United States Senate. I have nothing against big business, but to think that they are good for small business is a stretch of the imagination.”

Mr. Obama sought to take the fight out into the country on Wednesday with his visit to the tiny but popular Tastee Sub Shop, which was cleared of customers as counterterrorism agents patrolled its low roof.

Mr. Obama ordered a six-inch “super sub” — he declared that at nearly 49 he can no longer eat the 12-inch variety — and sat down at a table with the owner, Dave Thornton, and the owners of three businesses in nearby towns. “We’ve weathered the storm well here at Tastee,” Mr. Thornton told the president.

According to administration officials the other business owners — of an Italian restaurant, a paper manufacturer and a home energy services company — had benefited from lower-cost government loans and tax cuts.
937 2010-07-29 Trying to offset the effect of sanctions on the country’s nuclear program, Iran said Wednesday that it would increase domestic gasoline production by converting two petrochemical plants so they could produce gasoline by processing benzene. Iran is the world’s fifth-largest exporter of crude oil, but a lack of refining capacity forces it to import about 30 percent of its gasoline. The plan to increase production was announced by the oil minister, Masoud Mirkazemi, who predicted that Iran would become a net exporter of gasoline by 2015. Benzene, a product derived from natural gas, can be further processed to produce gasoline for use in cars and other vehicles. Experts said, however, that the product would burn poorly and contain more impurities than regular gasoline, causing damage to engines.
938 2010-07-29 The two deadlocked over the appointment of the agency’s head of investigations. Ms. Ahlenius, a Swede, maintained that she had the right to appoint her own staff, while Mr. Ban said he had final say over such a senior appointment.

Ms. Ahlenius fired a broadside at Mr. Ban as her five-year tenure ended on July 16, issuing a 50-page memo that essentially accused him of neglecting the administrative side of his job for the more glamorous role of a globe-trotting diplomat, adding for good measure that he was none too successful at that, either.

“There is no transparency; there is lack of accountability,” she wrote in her internal end-of-assignment report, accusing Mr. Ban of trying to undermine internal investigations because the facts often proved embarrassing. “I do not see any sign of reform in the organization.”

Angela Kane, the United Nations under secretary general for management, issued the first extensive official response on Wednesday, saying senior officials would consider the constructive criticism offered in the report. But she also characterized it as containing “many inaccuracies, misrepresentations and distortions.”

The war of words is emblematic of a larger problem, according to diplomats, lawyers and others familiar with the issue.

Investigations into serious financial fraud have virtually ceased in the far-flung United Nations system, diplomats and lawyers say. Some complain that Mr. Ban and Ms. Ahlenius fought “like children,” with investigator jobs going unfilled, tips about potential fraud ignored and no real deterrent for any United Nations official who put a hand in the till.

Although senior officials say Mr. Ban is committed to fighting corruption, diplomats and others have expressed concern that he avoids antagonizing influential member states that complain vociferously when their citizens are singled out.

“They are not making use of the resources they might have had to pursue corruption and fraud,” said Bea Edwards, director of international reform for the Government Accountability Project, which defends whistle-blowers in the United Nations and elsewhere.

Diplomats and lawyers contend that no important cases of financial fraud have been identified since the independent task force ceased to function, and that most allegations are simply bounced back to the agency where they originated.

The task force had identified all manner of embezzlers in the system, including an American accused of siphoning off at least $480,000 by having caviar and snails flown into Kabul, Afghanistan, rebuilding his house and taking trips to Las Vegas.

A senior aide to Mr. Ban said the internal watchdog agency had been working diligently since then. But diplomats contend that most of the 175 or so leftover possible cases from the independent task force have since been dropped or closed.

Farhan Haq, a spokesman for the United Nations, said that 66 cases involving procurement and fraud were investigated from June 2009 to July 2010.

The United States Mission to the United Nations issued a statement saying that it was troubled by the problems at the watchdog agency and that it hoped the new director would bring change.
939 2010-07-29 When Amazon introduced the Kindle in 2007, Mr. Bezos described it as a must-have for frequent travelers and people who read “two, three, four books at the same time.” Now, Amazon hopes that at $10 less than the least expensive reading devices from Barnes & Noble and Sony, the new Kindle has broken the psychological price barrier for even occasional readers or a family wanting multiple Kindles.

“At $139, if you’re going to read by the pool, some people might spend more than that on a swimsuit and sunglasses,” Mr. Bezos said.

Some analysts are predicting that e-readers could become this year’s hot holiday gift. James L. McQuivey, a principal analyst specializing in consumer electronics at Forrester Research, said a price war could for the first time reduce at least the price of one e-reader to under $100, often the tipping point for impulse gadget purchases.

Amazon has slashed the price of the Kindle at a speed that is unusual, even for electronic gadgets. By last year, the price of the device was to $259, down from its starting price of $399 in late 2007. In June, hours after Barnes & Noble dropped the price of its Nook e-reader to $199, Amazon dropped the price of the Kindle to $189. The Kindle DX, which has a larger, 9.7-inch screen, is $379.

With Amazon’s latest announcement, it is again waging a price war. Barnes & Noble offers a Wi-Fi version of the Nook for $149 and Sony offers the Reader Pocket Edition, which does not have Wi-Fi, for $150.

Of course, price is just one factor people consider before making a purchase. The quality of the product, adequate inventory and appealing marketing are just as important, said Eric T. Anderson, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management.

But as the e-reader marketplace has grown crowded “there are lots of substitutes out there so the only way they can create demand is by lowering the price,” he said.

Still, the iPad’s $499-and-up price tag has not stifled demand for that device. Though the iPad does much more than display books, customers often choose between the two, and are willing to pay much more for the iPad because it is an Apple product, said Dale D. Achabal, executive director of the Retail Management Institute at Santa Clara University. “The price point Apple can go to is quite a bit higher than the price point other firms have to go to that don’t have the same ease of use, design and functionality,” he said.

Apple says it has sold 3.3 million iPads since introducing it in April. Amazon does not release Kindle sales figures, but says that sales tripled in the month after its last price cut.

Two of the most compelling aspects of the iPad — a color display and touch screen — are elements that some customers have been yearning for on the Kindle. Keep waiting, Mr. Bezos said.

“There will never be a Kindle with a touch screen that inhibits reading. It has to be done in a different way. It can’t be a me-too touch screen,” he said. Earlier this year, Amazon bought Touchco, a start-up specializing in touch-screen technology, but current touch-screen technology adds reflections and glare and makes it hard to shift one’s hands while reading for long periods of time, he said. Color is also “not ready for prime time,” Mr. Bezos said.

The new Kindles, which will ship Aug. 27, have the same six-inch reading area as earlier Kindles but weigh about 15 percent less and are 21 percent smaller. The Kindles have twice the storage, up to 3,500 books.
940 2010-07-29 The 33rd annual Nantucket Antiques Show, Friday to Monday, is scheduled to have 22 dealers from the United States and Europe, including William Nickerson Antiques, which will show 18th- and 19th-century furniture and Shaia Oriental rugs, and the Silver Fund, a London firm specializing in Georg Jensen silver. Phoebe Booth Antiques, a Manhattan firm that sells English furniture and decorative items, will show a number of pieces, including an Arts and Crafts ebonized fireside chair, circa 1890, at left, that has its “original woven rush seat,” Ms. Booth said (it is listed at $2,850).

Proceeds from the show, to be held at Nantucket High School, will go to the Nantucket Firemen’s Association. Tickets for the preview party on Thursday are $50; admission to the show is $10. For information or to reserve party tickets: (757) 220-0400.
941 2010-07-29 Future vintage collections might consist entirely of this store’s surviving re-creations of designer style, the vintage T-shirts of 2050. Ace deemed a tight black sweater ($19.80) with ruching at the shoulders “very Veronique Branquinho” and a lavender romper ($29.80), one of the store’s cheekier pieces, a direct lineal descendant of Marc by Marc Jacobs. During Bolt’s trip, she mulled over whether she could tolerate the poor leather quality on the navy purse that was a blatant, um, celebration of the Proenza Schouler PS1 bag.

Fleur braved the line at the fitting room, reporting back that some of the items she had picked out were already ripped. Of the intact pieces, a white-on-navy nautical-theme shirt ($9.50) paired with a white tulle skirt ($17.80) was charming. (A note: all materials mentioned in this article are approximations.) Later, she pronounced an alluring ribbed black sheath ($27.80) Khloé Kardashian manqué — in the best way. Eyeing her from the line was a young woman wearing cardboard-color ankle socks under black slip-on sneakers, a brilliant flash of orthopedic style, and the only genuine stroke of fashion I witnessed in both visits.

Spending hours in the store delivered a disorienting funhouse effect. Near the jewelry section, I tried on a huge black bow on a headband ($4.80) that would let me pass for Tavi Gevinson at any future runway show. Fleur put on a surprisingly elegant pendant with white feathers ($10.80) and absent-mindedly began walking around the store while overhead speakers quietly spit out songs by Vampire Weekend and Dirty Projectors — or perhaps, by Chinese and Vietnamese bands that sound almost the same but cost a lot less.

We made our way to the prom-wear section: rosettes, rosettes everywhere, even on the black one-shoulder jumpsuit on the mannequin, like formal wear for the gym. Of the Forever 21 subcultures, this was the worst, thoughtlessly thick fabrics draped by a curtain-maker.

Exponentially better were the sub-lines: Faith 21, the plus-size line, which had by far the most exciting prints in the store; Twist, which has prime placement at street level, had the most current and clever designs. Everyone agreed on the knit vest, in black and orange, with darts of bold color across the chest ($19.90), something you’d find at Beacon’s Closet and swoon over.

It was in the Twist section that I found my favorite piece, a women’s varsity jacket in royal blue and gray ($22.80), which I would have bought had it come in sizes beyond large.

It was more chic than anything in the men’s department, which glumly occupies a third of one of the lower floors, full of formless striped cardigans, all sorts of abused denim and one boxy black dinner jacket with white piping ($46.90), the lone bright spot. I tried on a pair of saggy dust-colored jeggings ($26.90) that didn’t want to get on and, once on, didn’t want to get off: a literal interpretation of the sign that blared, “GET YOUR JEGGINGS ON.”

These jeans, or ones like them, looked fine, though, on the sales staff. Overwhelmingly attractive and smartly turned out — especially one young man in drop-crotch pants, a cross earring and black Doc Martens — they were accessibly warm and completely under-informed, when I could get their attention between bouts of folding and refolding. At one point, I was holding a magnificent print dress I’d selected for a friend, and a clerk asked me where I’d found it. She’d never seen it before.

A shame, because it should have stood out among the oodles of duller fare. After fingering a sleeveless peach top with ruffles choking the neck, Bolt declared, “All this stuff looks very Whitney Port to me,” then bolted for the lingerie room, focused on a collection of neon underwear: orange panties ($3.80), yellow boy shorts ($4.80). Later, clutching the neon underwear and some tights in the checkout line, Bolt reframed the debate: “It’s like grocery shopping.” Not war, after all.
942 2010-07-29 FRANKFURT — Business loans were harder to come by in the second quarter of 2010, the European Central Bank said Wednesday, as banks themselves had trouble raising money to lend to customers.

“Negative spillover effects from the sovereign debt crisis appear to have worsened banks’ ability to obtain funding,” the central bank said in releasing the results of its quarterly lending survey.

The results reinforced central bank data released Tuesday that showed that loans to companies, excluding banks and other financial businesses, fell at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in June after declining 2.1 percent in May.

“It is likely that tight lending criteria will remain for some time, which will hamper growth in the euro zone in the next couple of years,” Marie Diron, an economic adviser to the consulting firm Ernst & Young, said in a note. She said data published as part of official bank stress tests last week should make it easier for the strongest institutions to raise money.

The survey contained some good news, as the decline in demand for credit by business slowed from the first quarter. Consumer demand for loans increased, the bank said.

In Germany, businesses had an easier time getting credit, the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich said Wednesday in a separate report. The number of businesses complaining about restrictive bank lending policies fell to 31.6 percent in July from 34 percent in June.
943 2010-07-29 “Secret Selves,” an exhibition of 26 color photographs, 11 of them life size, opens at Mass MoCA here on Saturday; it is Mr. Nimoy’s first solo show at a major museum. He got the idea for it from the passage in Plato’s “Symposium” speculating that humans were originally double-sided creatures, split apart by jealous gods and doomed forever to seek their lost other halves. Over a couple of very long days in 2008, he photographed 95 or so residents of nearby Northampton, Mass., who had been encouraged to reveal their hidden natures any way they chose.

In a foreword to the catalog (which includes 62 more photographs and a DVD documenting the shoot), Joseph C. Thompson, the director of Mass MoCA, writes, a little loftily, that despite a “haunting overabundance of id,” the photographs remind him of “caryatids — columns that cross-dress as figural sculpture.”

He adds: “This equivocation between’s the subject’s plastic, almost sculptural presence, and its literal groundedness, makes for compelling work, all the more so since these are our neighbors caught there.” Or, as one of the participants put it, the whole “Secret Selves” experience was “kind of like being at an awkward costume party.” A few of the subjects came forward in response to a newspaper article about the project, but most were rounded up by Richard Michelson, who owns a local gallery and is Mr. Nimoy’s primary dealer. Both in real life and on the museum wall they form a fairly representative cross-section of Northampton, an artsy college town known for its vigorous gay and lesbian community and for harboring a generous share of eccentrics and free spirits.

A local painter showed up for his session with Mr. Nimoy as a sort of wood sprite, covered in leaves and mud, and a foster-care mother parted her fur coat to show that she was wearing nothing underneath. One woman came with a sheep. Another, a psychotherapist, wielded a chainsaw. A rabbi came bare-chested and wearing leather, and Barry Moser, the well-known engraver and printmaker, immediately stripped naked and posed with his English mastiff. A transgendered former Marine appeared in a cancan costume. And a father and son posed together, dad dressed as a gangster and his teenage son, for some reason, as a shark — or more precisely, as he points out on the DVD, a shark with arms that shoot lasers.

“I tried to get some bankers, but they all turned me down,” Mr. Michelson said. “They told me they were just as boring on the inside as they are on the outside.” He did manage to recruit the mayor of Northampton, who showed up with an electric guitar, and the chief executive of an advertising firm, who had dressed himself as a wizard.

Because of some of his previous work — especially “The Full Body Project,” nude photographs of plus-sized women — several people showed up expecting just to take their clothes off, Mr. Nimoy said, and there were some others he felt uncomfortable with. “I sensed something too intensely felt, and I just didn’t want to get into that territory,” he said. “But mostly I was surprised by people’s openness and vulnerability. I had no idea what to expect.”

Typically, Mr. Nimoy chatted with his subjects for a few minutes, and then, not unlike a film director, encouraged them to express their inner selves. Most responded warmly and immediately, though Matt Mitchell, the wood sprite, said that at first he had trouble with Mr. Nimoy’s instruction.

“He wanted me to pose like a tree and I was like: ‘A tree? I’m supposed to be like the earth itself.’ ” (Mr. Mitchell had initially been reluctant to pose, he added, until he realized that in his own work, painting portraits of Americans who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, he asks people to expose themselves in a very similar way.)

For at least two of the subjects, the experience of being photographed proved transformative. A writer who posed with a violin but had to be shown how to hold it has since taken up the instrument for real. And Tammy Twotone, the transgendered former Marine, decided to stop living a double life. “During the day I would switch back to living the life of a male,” she explained at Mr. Michelson’s gallery, joking that she was Clark Kent during the daytime and Rita Hayworth at night.

“I had been wanting to fully transition for years but couldn’t figure out how to make the change,” she went on. “Mr. Nimoy was very blunt and straightforward. He sort of whittled things down, trying to get a sense of who I am, and at one point he asked, ‘How do you do it?’ I was stumped. No one had ever asked me that before. How do you do that? And a week or two after meeting him I decided to fully transition. I became much more relaxed, and it seemed like everything was a lot simpler.”

Mr. Nimoy visited Mass MoCA on Friday and saw the show for the first time. “Oh my,” he said. “I’m very, very happy with this.”

Looking at one of the life-size portraits, he added: “So many people have said that the project has made them wonder about whether they have a secret self, and inevitably some of them ask about my secret self. Are you kidding? I’ve had 60 years of acting out my other selves. Been there, done that. I’ve been the good guy, the bad guy, the psycho, the alien. I’ve done it all. They’re all out there.”
944 2010-07-29 As a result, Mr. McNerney said, Boeing will review whether there is an “opportunity beyond” plans to increase its monthly production of the single-aisle 737 to 35 planes in 2012 from 31.5 now.

“I’d say there’s some upside just based on a market view,” he said.

But before Boeing could raise that rate further, it needs to decide, probably by this fall, whether its suppliers could handle additional investments and training to pick up the pace, he added.

Mr. McNerney also said for the first time that “on balance” Boeing’s customers were “sort of pushing us” toward building a new plane to replace the 737 rather than just buying more fuel-efficient engines to battle foreign competitors.

He said the crucial question, which Boeing hopes to decide by year-end, was when the technology for a new plane, and the airlines’ willingness to pay for it, would come together.

He said it “makes no sense” to replace the engines on the current 737s if Boeing was going to build a new plane before 2020. But if the replacement would not arrive until well after that, he said, “then the case for the new engine strengthens.”

Mr. McNerney made the comments in a conference call on Boeing’s second-quarter results, which reflected a sharp drop in plane sales caused by the recent recession.

Boeing said its profit fell 21 percent to $787 million, or $1.06 a share, from $998 million, or $1.41 a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Revenue declined 9 percent to $15.57 billion from $17.15 billion.

The company’s shares fell $1.30, to $67.32 on Wednesday.

Still, the share price has more than doubled from its low in March 2009, partly on optimism that carriers in Asia and the Middle East would lead a revival in orders, as they are doing now.

The shares also rose as Boeing cleared manufacturing problems with its 787 Dreamliner, a midsize plane made largely of lightweight composites that has attracted record advance orders.

Mr. McNerney said Wednesday that the 787 had completed more than half of its flight tests without any major problems. He said Boeing hoped to deliver the first one by year-end, though that could slip into early 2011.

But as the growth in the Pentagon’s budget slows, Boeing’s military business, which accounts for half its revenues, is slipping.

“There is no question that the overall cost structure of that business has to come down,” Mr. McNerney said.

And its best hope for Congress to buy $1.2 billion more of its C-17 cargo planes dissolved Tuesday when a House panel rejected the idea.

Mr. McNerney said Boeing was looking overseas for more military sales.
945 2010-07-29 KELLNER--Emil. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of Emil Kellner, beloved father and father-in-law of our dear friends and Benefactors Marcia and Ronald Lissak. The Lissaks are generous ...
946 2010-07-29 KELLNER--Emil. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of Emil Kellner, beloved father and father-in-law of our dear friends and Benefactors Marcia and Ronald Lissak. The Lissaks are generous ...
947 2010-07-29 With his hopes of playing in the world championships dashed because of the Knicks' inability to insure his nearly $100 million contract, Amar'e Stoudemire has apparently embarked on another  intriguing international adventure.     Several reports ...
948 2010-07-30 The organization is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year, but its numbers have been falling....
949 2010-07-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
950 2010-07-30 A look at how the most recent downturn compares to those that came before it....
951 2010-07-30 Nissan is recalling the Cube and Toyota is recalling the Avalon and Lexus LX 470....
952 2010-07-30 Consumers, trade flows and local governments are, in the latest report on economic growth....
953 2010-07-30 Venture out to the city's infinitely varied waterfront sometime in the next few days and send us a photo of what you find. You, and we, will be glad you did....
954 2010-07-30 President Obama heads to Michigan on Friday, where he will tour Chrysler and General Motors plants....
955 2010-07-30 No, the BOJ doesn't like deflation....
956 2010-07-30 Everything changes when you're in the liquidity trap....
957 2010-07-30 For its second season, "Jersey Shore," the reality show that taught viewers the meaning of GTL, seemed especially heavy on the T....
958 2010-07-30 Moody's said its review took into account the country's growth prospects and the challenges it may face in implementing fiscal austerity....
959 2010-07-30 Goldman Sachs has begun to unveil the designs it has on remaking its new neighborhood of Battery Park City....
960 2010-07-30 More than ever, the biggest investors are entrusting their money disproportionately to the largest hedge funds. But, Reuters Breakingviews says, they may discover that bigger isn't always better....
961 2010-07-30 Jesse Chehak was born in the West, but returned to chronicle it with a prospector's eye. Celina Fang traces the journey....
962 2010-07-30 Senate Republicans on Thursday rejected a bill to aid small businesses with expanded loan programs and tax breaks, in a procedural blockade that underscored how fiercely determined the party's leaders are to deny Democrats any further legislative ...
963 2010-07-30 Asian markets fell on Friday, overlooking strong earnings from some of the region's biggest companies as Japanese shares tumbled on dour economic figures and a strong yen....
964 2010-07-30 A subtle but significant shift appears to be occurring within the Federal Reserve over the course of monetary policy as the economic recovery is weakening....
965 2010-07-30 The founder and early investors in the microlender will reap millions from the share deal, but it was unclear how donors would benefit....
966 2010-07-30 NEWARK — A judge dismissed all charges against the former Democratic Party chairman of Bergen County on Thursday, citing a recent ruling by the United States Supreme Court that narrows the law on the theft of “honest services.”

The former party leader, Joseph A. Ferriero, who was convicted in October of conspiracy and mail fraud, beamed as Judge Stanley R. Chesler of United States District Court terminated the case against him. What Mr. Ferriero had been charged with is no longer considered a crime, and “the indictment, as drafted, is legally insufficient,” Judge Chesler said.

The Supreme Court ruling came in a case involving Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron. The court ruled that theft of honest services was relevant only in cases involving bribes and kickbacks.

In light of that ruling, the United States attorney’s office in Newark agreed that Mr. Ferriero’s conviction should be set aside, but prosecutors want to retry him. Mr. Ferriero and Dennis Oury, a lawyer in Bergenfield, N.J., were accused of not disclosing their ownership of a consulting firm that solicited contracts in towns where they had political influence.
967 2010-07-30 St. Luke’s “has to be a world-class hospital, not just an afterthought,” said Supervisor David Campos, who represents District 9, where the hospital is located. “We want to make sure that quality health care is accessible in an equitable way for all San Franciscans.”

Tom Ammiano, a Democratic member of the State Assembly, said he was watching closely to see what type of patients the new hospital would cater to.

“Cathedral Hill is looming,” Mr. Ammiano said. “Is that going to be a showplace or a place that treats every San Franciscan equally?”

California Pacific officials said the new hospital would draw patients from around the city and the country with state-of-the-art specialized services, including organ transplants. They say consolidating such services would enable the hospital to provide quality care for city residents.

“We don’t have the luxury of just looking neighborhood by neighborhood,” said Judy Li, a vice president of health system innovation and community benefit with California Pacific. “We are looking to build a system that is viable for all of San Francisco.”

Last week, the San Francisco Planning Department published a draft of the environmental impact report on California Pacific’s development plans. To meet state seismic requirements, California Pacific is pushing to win approval before the end of the year and break ground in January 2011 with hopes of opening by 2015.

Citing obsolescence and lack of demand, California Pacific had hoped in 2007 to turn St. Luke’s into an outpatient facility in 2007. A public outcry ensued. Some feared that nearby San Francisco General Hospital would be overwhelmed with patients. Others lamented that southeast San Francisco would lose important medical services.

A panel was convened to study the future of St. Luke’s, with participants ranging from the city’s public health director to community leaders. Following the panel’s recommendations, California Pacific agreed to keep St. Luke’s open as a community hospital. Yet, it hopes to do so on a smaller scale, proposing a new $250 million, six-story building with 80 beds to replace the main 12-story tower, which would be razed.

California Pacific administrators said St. Luke’s was currently larger than what the Mission needed. “To put a 200- or 300-bed hospital here would be insane,” said Geoffrey Nelson, director of enterprise development for the medical center.

On a recent afternoon, almost half of the rooms in the St. Luke’s intensive-care unit were vacant. Three visiting children played at an abandoned nurses station, where they spun on the chairs. The I.C.U. was treating just eight patients, although there were rooms for as many as 15.

Critics contend the Mission needs a sizable hospital , but aging facilities and service reductions keep more patients away — especially wealthier ones with private insurance coverage. Bob Prentice, director of the Bay Area Regional Health Inequities Initiative, a collaboration of public health officials and specialists, said California Pacific was keeping St. Luke’s alive to placate opponents of its development plan.

“Anybody who believes that they’re seriously investing in this hospital for any purpose other than to gain the political support that they need to get Cathedral Hill hospital is delusional,” said Mr. Prentice, the former director of the public health division at the San Francisco health department. “We want them to invest equitably in Cathedral Hill and St. Luke’s. They can relocate some of the beds to St. Luke’s and have specialty services there.”

The Coalition for Health Planning, a collection of more than 30 unions and political and community organizations, is calling on San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors to oppose California Pacific’s plans until they are revised to expand St. Luke’s and shrink the proposed new hospital. The coalition is asking that California Pacific commit to providing in-patient care for acutely ill patients for at least 40 years after St. Luke’s is rebuilt.

Advocates for St. Luke’s hope the city will press California Pacific to modify its plans.

“The big negotiation is going to be what concessions the City of San Francisco is going to be able to get from C.P.M.C.,” said Mr. Prentice, who was among the participants in the panel about the future of St. Luke’s.

Other groups, including the California Nurses Association, which is in a contract dispute with California Pacific, and the Chinese Progressive Association, also oppose the development plans. On July 15, opponents presented more than 1,000 postcards from local residents to St. Luke’s administrators, imploring them not to cut services.

“We need a hospital in the Mission. We need a hospital in the southeast,” said Teresa Almaguer, youth program coordinator for People Organizing to Demand Environmental and Economic Rights, a nonprofit group that helped organize the postcard drive. “We do not need them to move to an area where there is already a concentration of hospitals.”

Administrators hope that a smaller, rebuilt St. Luke’s will attract patients from wealthier neighborhoods like Noe Valley and Bernal Heights, helping to make the hospital more financially stable.

Ms. Michelucci, the nurse, was skeptical. “I just don’t see an 80-bed hospital being viable into the future,” she said. “And they’ll be able to do what they originally intended to do, which was to make us into a clinic.”
968 2010-07-30 Toyota, the Japanese automaker, said Thursday that it was recalling almost 373,000 of its 2000 to 2004 Avalon sedans because of a steering problem that could cause a crash.

The automaker said it was also recalling about 39,000 2003-7 Lexus LX 470 sport utility vehicles for a different steering defect.

Avalon’s problem, Toyota said in a statement, involves “the improper casting” of part of the steering interlock system. It is possible that the casting could crack and eventually the lock bar could break.

The interlock system could be difficult to unlock when the vehicle is parked, Toyota said.
969 2010-07-30 Both companies and Ford each posted profits in the first quarter, the first time that has happened in a quarter since 2004. G.M. has already repaid a $6.7 billion loan and it is talking about going public in the fourth quarter, a move that would give the government a way to slowly sell its majority stake in the company’s stock.

Nine of G.M.’s 11 plants, including the Hamtramck, Mich., facility that Mr. Obama is to visit on Friday, canceled the usual summer shutdowns to keep up with consumer demand, and G.M. and Chrysler have added shifts.

While the automakers’ earnings have turned positive, the politics of the bailout are so negative they could prove impossible to turn around.

In the run-up to the midterm Congressional elections, a reaction against big government — as epitomized by the bailouts of banks, two of the three biggest automakers and the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac — has driven the Tea Party movement and a more general criticism that the Obama administration has overreached.

Moreover, many unknowns remain. Chrysler has significant loans left to repay, which it says it will do by 2014. The value of the government’s stock in G.M. is still unclear — and it could not sell all of its shares at once even after its public offering.

And no one is quite certain whether the United States will ever see the more than $20 billion that President George W. Bush poured into the carmakers in the last days of his presidency — with few conditions for change inside the companies. Brian Deese, an economic adviser at the White House who played a central role in the auto bailouts under Mr. Obama, said only that “taxpayers will not end up footing the bill.”

“Every stakeholder” — unions, management and investors — “had to sacrifice in the G.M. bankruptcy,” said Mr. Deese, a member of the administration team that essentially dismantled G.M. and arranged for the government to take a 60 percent stake. “But in the end, the financial discipline that was imposed in the process made it clear that a lot worse things would have happened if the president hadn’t made the decision he did.”

At the White House on Thursday, three other administration advisers met with reporters to preview the White House insistence that, properly structured, the auto bailouts did far more good than harm, at little cost.

Ron Bloom, the former investment banker and union adviser whom Mr. Obama tapped last year to help engineer the companies’ makeovers, said that the bailout’s benefits went far beyond G.M. and Chrysler. He said the intervention stabilized the entire industry, including Ford, which did not take a bailout, and a vast network of parts suppliers that employ more people than Detroit’s Big Three combined.

“This is an incredibly interdependent industry, and if G.M. had failed a very large number of suppliers would have immediately failed,” Mr. Bloom said.

With his visits to the G.M. and Chrysler plants and, next week, a Ford plant in Chicago, the president will take the lead in making the argument that his strategy worked.

Aside from the bailouts, the administration has steered money from the economic stimulus and other programs to encourage the automakers to produce electric batteries and high-mileage vehicles. The Ford assembly plant in Chicago, for example, is adding another shift of 1,200 workers after receiving an Energy Department loan, Mr. Bloom said.

“We think we’re positioning the United States automobile industry to lead the world in the future,” he added.

Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, was asked if the administration was in effect saying “we told you so” to conservative critics like Rush Limbaugh who have continued to denounce the auto bailout.

Some wanted to walk away, Mr. Gibbs said. But he added, “The president didn’t think that walking away from a million jobs in these communities made a lot of economic sense.”
970 2010-07-30 Even 15 months ago Baghlan was not like this. It had a few trouble spots, according to Afghans and Americans working on development projects, but for the most part it seemed safe.

Afghan politicians, local leaders and local citizens all said they felt that the Afghan government, coalition forces and development groups had focused so intensively on the south, funneling tens of thousands of troops and billions of dollars to communities there, that they had missed the danger signs.

“Even two years ago the Taliban had a very small influence in Baghlan and we were telling the government, ‘If you don’t deal with their small activities, they will grow,’ ” Mr. Mohsini said.

There are no major NATO bases in Baghlan. The nearest is in Kunduz, and until recently it was manned exclusively by the Germans who focused on turbulence in that province. Now the United States Army’s 10th Mountain Division has arrived with some 3,000 troops and begun operations in Baghlan, but so far they have brought only temporary quiet.

Insurgents have resurfaced elsewhere in the province, said Alyson McFarland, the only American civilian working with the development team in Pul-i-Kumri.

Last week a group of at least 80 Taliban fighters briefly took over the main bazaar in another of the unstable districts, Dahana-i-Ghori, engaging in gun battles for several hours. Although the police ultimately forced the Taliban to retreat, eight officers were killed after firing their weapons until they ran out of ammunition, said Gen. Abdul Rahman Rahimi, the provincial police chief.

Since then, the Taliban have blocked most roads to the district and attacked any government or development workers who have tried to pass, local elders said. The police have returned but are all but confined to a 500-yard area around the district center, said Obidullah Khan, an Uzbek tribal elder in Dahana-i-Ghori.

A corrupt judiciary and the lack of government services have made it easy for the Taliban to gain a foothold in rural areas. At least the Taliban judicial system is swift and free of bribes, said Nuria Hamidi, a provincial council member. “They are solving issues quicker than the government, and people in the bazaar say, ‘I had this problem or that problem and the Taliban solved it,’ ” she said.

The Taliban have also been able to exploit ethnic differences, suggesting that the Tajik-dominated local government does not care for the Pashtuns here.

Indeed, underlying the drift toward chaos is a fractured society where cracks have been papered over and have never fully healed. Baghlan, like many other areas of the north, has long been a political and ethnic crossroads of Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras. They made up the Northern Alliance that fought the Taliban, whose ranks are dominated by Pashtuns.

The three allied ethnic groups live uneasily alongside the minority ethnic Pashtuns, who feel abandoned by the central government, which has allowed local security forces to be dominated by non-Pashtuns. The lack of development is another common complaint. “A lot of developmental progress is in the south, even though they are killing and fighting,” said Mohammad Khalil Anwari, another provincial council member.

There is little electricity, and rutted roads are common even in the cities. Resentments were fueled when a group of investors that included one of President Hamid Karzai’s brothers, Mahmoud Karzai, bought a local cement factory, then cut many of its jobs and paid those who remained lower salaries, according to provincial council members.

Baghlan’s governor, Munshi Abdul Majid, himself a Pashtun, did not deny the problems and also seemed frustrated by neglect from Kabul, urging the central government to confer with him and local officials about security.

A group of Pashtun elders who had gathered at the home of a local senator last weekend discussed the province’s security problems as they sat in a traditional open-air tent, eating green melon in the heat of the afternoon. The Taliban began to encroach several months ago, and now the elders find themselves accused of being Taliban by the police, many of whom are Tajiks, even though most people who live in the area oppose the Taliban.

“Is the president a Pashtun?” said Sarwar, a former commander who like many Afghans uses only one name. “Before he came to power no one had done such cruel things to us. Since he came, he has been killing Pashtuns from Helmand to here.”

In another troubled Baghlan district, the only protection other than a few police officers is a local armed group of 100 to 120 men, known as an arbeki and set up by the National Directorate of Security. They seem to operate without any government control or supervision other than that of their local commanders. They are a nightmarish reminder of the early 1990s when strongmen with guns made people follow their orders.

“To be honest, the people prefer the Taliban,” said Mr. Khan, the tribal elder. “These arbeki men are cruel, violent, taking everything by force from the shopkeepers. They are walking in the bazaar with their rifles, extorting the drivers and traders.”

General Rahimi, the police commander, would not discuss the arbekis but made it clear that he was opposed to President Karzai’s proposal for creating a new local police force in a number of troubled districts that would help the police defend their areas. “The only way to bring peace and security is to equip the national army and national police and increase the number of our trained troops and give us more, better weapons,” he said.

Nonetheless, the Baghlanis are deeply loyal to their area.

“My hopes are still very high,” said Mohammed Wakhil, 20, who is studying to be a nurse and looks after his family’s small storefront, where they sell plastic flowers and ornaments for wedding celebrations.

“I want to see our city become more beautiful than Paris,” Mr. Wakhil said.

“We need unity in this place; if we can all unite, then. ...” he added before his voice trailed off.
971 2010-07-30 But the I.P.O. for SKS, one of the field’s biggest stock offerings yet, has caused its own type of controversy.

The disputes involve two charitable microfinance organizations that helped Mr. Akula put SKS on its feet and financed it through its early days. It is not clear what will happen with the money those groups will make from the I.P.O.

At one of those groups — five Indian trusts that now hold the assets of Mr. Akula’s original nonprofit version of SKS — two board members resigned in March over his plan to steer funds toward his original nonprofit group rather than granting them to many charitable entities.

The other nonprofit ensnared in controversy is a Seattle-based group called Unitus, which holds a stake in SKS that will be worth millions after the I.P.O. The group’s board shocked the nonprofit community this month by saying that all of the organization’s 40-person staff would be laid off and that Unitus would no longer be involved in microfinance activities.

That stunned donors of Unitus, which was set up a decade ago specifically to support microfinance. As recently as June, a newly hired chief executive at the group had been discussing ambitious new projects with potential supporters, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

In charity circles, people wondered about the motives of the Unitus board members, at least four of whom had invested in SKS Microfinance themselves and thus would reap profits from the I.P.O.

“If Unitus is closing down, that shows what is the real result of this I.P.O.,” said Muhammad Yunus, an economics professor who is considered the father of microfinance and has been critical of the SKS stock offering. “You are now encouraging the profit-maximizing part, and the nonprofits are closing down.”

Joseph Grenny, the chairman of Unitus’s board and an SKS investor, declined to say what would happen to Unitus’s proceeds from the offering. Because Unitus is listed as a “promoter” of the stock offering, he said he could not comment without violating Indian law.

“That’s all speculative at this point, anyway,” he said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Grenny said he and the other board members would be donating the proceeds to charities — although he would not say whether Unitus would be among them. In two of the cases he said, the investments were made through charitable foundations the directors were involved with and the proceeds would go to those foundations.

One big Unitus donor is the Omidyar Network, the philanthropic and investment venture of an eBay founder, Pierre Omidyar. The Omidyar group’s managing partner, Matt Bannick, said he was surprised by the Unitus board’s decision to scale back, because he was impressed by its plans for future nonprofit microfinance projects.

“I felt that not only had Unitus done a tremendous amount of good with that model, but also that it remains highly relevant,” Mr. Bannick said.

Omidyar Network had been concerned enough about the structure of the Unitus board that last autumn it paid for a study by a management consultant. According to two former Unitus executives, the study concluded that some directors had too many nonprofit and for-profit roles with Unitus — particularly one, Geoffrey Woolley, who was chairman of the investment fund running Unitus’s profit-making investments and was an investor in those funds and in SKS.

Mr. Woolley resigned from the board last fall, but Mr. Grenny said he would now be brought back to help plan Unitus’s future beyond microfinance. Mr. Woolley declined to comment.

The unwinding of Unitus stands in contrast to the way Acción, another nonprofit group that focuses on microfinance, handled a $140 million windfall from the 2007 public offering of the Mexican microlender Compartamos. Acción, which still holds a 9 percent stake in the Compartamos, has used the money to expand its microfinance operations, and its executives and directors had no investments in the operation.

The Unitus board, in the news release announcing its decision to withdraw from microfinance, said the group’s remaining assets would directed into “new early-stage, poverty-focused philanthropic activities.”

But with Unitus’s remaining skeletal staff expected to be gone by autumn, and with Mr. Grenny declining to discuss the matter, it is not clear who will manage the group’s soon to be sizable financial holdings, or how they will be used.

“The board members aren’t full-timers or experts,” said Timothy Ogden, a philanthropy consultant and editor of the blog, Philanthropy Action. “I don’t know how you avoid wasting the millions of dollars the organization is supposed to get through the I.P.O. and its stake in SKS, if you don’t have the staff to make smart choices.”

In India, there are also questions about how nonprofit assets will be handled after the SKS I.P.O.

SKS’s roots lie in a nonprofit microfinance organization, known as SKS Society, that Mr. Akula set up in 1997. To help it grow faster, in 2005 Mr. Akula set up a profit-making offshoot, SKS Microfinance, to attract commercial financing.

No one doubts that the money SKS Microfinance raises in the offering will enable it to make even more loans to needy applicants. As of March it had about 6.8 million borrowers, holding $624 million worth of microloans, making SKS among the biggest of the world’s 1,800 or so microfinance organizations.

The controversy lies in the five trusts that served as the bridge between the original nonprofit SKS Society and SKS Microfinance.

When Mr. Akula started the profit-making SKS Microfinance, virtually all of the company was owned by the trusts. Over time, as other investors came in — including the American firm Sequoia Capital and the Silicon Valley venture capitalist Vinod Khosla — the trusts’ stake was diluted to 15 percent.

But the trusts still stand to benefit in a big way from the public offering. They are selling shares worth up to $42 million and will continue to own a stake worth as much as $175 million — collectively making them one of the biggest endowments in India.

A new, supposedly independent board was created last fall to oversee the trusts and the new wealth they will have. But that structure quickly fell apart.

After the board’s first meeting in March, two of the handful of directors resigned: Narayan Ramachandran, who previously headed the Indian operations of the investment bank Morgan Stanley, and Anu Aga, a prominent philanthropist and former chairwoman of an Indian industrial company, Thermax.

Mr. Ramachandran and Ms. Aga referred requests for comment to the company. But several people close to the situation said the two had left over differences with Mr. Akula — who at the time was not a member of the trust board — about how to spend money from the offering.

Mr. Akula wanted the trusts to support education, health and other programs for borrowers of SKS through the nonprofit SKS Society. The two board members reportedly preferred instead to establish a grant-making institution similar to a private foundation that could funnel that money to other, already established social programs.

Mr. Akula declined to discuss the trusts or other specifics relating to the I.P.O., citing Indian and American securities rules. He and a friend, who is a professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, are the only board members. The company’s prospectus says three independent directors are being recruited.

Mr. Khosla, the Silicon Valley investor, said Mr. Akula’s approach would measurably help SKS borrowers. Giving grants, he said, would spread the money too thinly to too many groups.

Mr. Akula has become something of a celebrity in India, and some people who know him — including his ex-wife, Malini Byanna — said he wanted to continue controlling the trusts and SKS Society because he has political ambitions in India.

“You have to understand — every loan is a future vote,” said Ms. Byanna, a Chicago-based lawyer who has been involved in a long legal battle with Mr. Akula over custody of their son, Tejas.

But at a news conference in India on Monday, Mr. Akula, who was born in India but grew up in Schenectady, N.Y., and is still an American citizen, denied that he had political ambitions. “I will continue with SKS until poverty is eradicated in India,” he said.
972 2010-07-30 Of all the grave questions news organizations are grappling with these days, one that is truly stumping them is which superlative to attach to Chelsea Clinton’s wedding.

A game of “Biggest Wedding of the (insert time element here)” is unfolding on gossip Web sites, in newspaper pages and on network news programs.

On  “Today” on NBC, Meredith Vieira called it “the wedding of the decade.” The Daily News saw it in grander terms and has stripped a banner across the top of its pages of wedding coverage that reads “Wedding of the Millennium.” This seems to be a revelation that came to The News only in the last two days because on Tuesday the paper printed references to the ceremony as the wedding of the year, century and decade all in one article. (This paper settled for “the wedding of the year.”)

That no one has the irrefutable answer seems to be a running theme for news media coverage of the wedding of Ms. Clinton, 30, to Marc Mezvinsky, 32. The Clinton family has been parsimonious about even the smallest details (it will take place on Saturday), prompting journalists to rely on rumor and speculation as they scramble to ferret out any information they can.

Television anchors have interviewed wedding planners who have nothing to do with the Clintons, prodding them to engage in highly speculative discussion of what the affair might look like. Reporters have mused about many details, like how expensive the rented portable toilets will be and what Bill Clinton’s demeanor might be like on the big day.
973 2010-07-30 Yani Tseng shot a four-under-par 68 in the opening round of the Women’s British Open at Royal Birkdale in Southport, England, on Thursday, and is tied for the lead as she pursues her third major title.

Tseng shot a bogey-free round that included a birdie and an eagle on the two finishing holes, putting her in a tie for the lead with the Australian Katherine Hull.

“I played really, really solid,” said Tseng, who already has won the Kraft Nabisco Championship this season to go with the L.P.G.A. Championship she won in 2008. “I hit all greens but one today and I putted pretty well.

“The last two par 5s were just like long par 4s with the wind, so I stayed relaxed and tried to make birdies. It was pretty good.”

Hull was among the last players on the course and also made an eagle on the 18th hole — in front of nearly deserted grandstands — to join Tseng at four under. Hull dropped a stroke at the fourth hole before rattling off three birdies in a four-hole stretch beginning at No. 7.
974 2010-07-30 In Europe, government officials say that anyone who wanted to market meat or dairy products from clones would need to seek permission under the European Union’s “novel foods” regulations, which were generally meant to cover newly developed ingredients. So far, no one has.

Meat and dairy products from the offspring of clones, however, currently receive no prior assessment or approval.

The Swiss Federal Office of Public Health reported in a relatively obscure part of its Web site that “dairy products and meat derived from such animals have probably been used in food, then sold in Switzerland.”

“Other countries in Europe face the same situation,” it said.

The technique has even infiltrated one of the Continent’s most ancient traditions: in May, one of Spain’s grandest breeders produced the first cloned fighting bull.

“It’s absolutely historic, and it’s remarkable that we achieved this with the symbol of Spain,” said Julio César Diez, a veterinarian who worked on the project.

Got, as the bull was named, will never face a matador — or end up on a dinner plate. He is expected to spend his life a stud, siring other bulls for the ring for the Guardiola family, which has bred the Pedraja line of bulls in the region of Seville for several generations.

At today’s prices, the family could expect to make around 1.5 million euros ($2 million) from selling the bulls that Got fathers — naturally — during his lifetime.

Much bigger stakes are in sight for the meat and dairy industry, which argues that cloning can give more farmers access to star animals with leaner meat, bigger milking potential and enhanced disease resistance.

Far from being outlandish, they say, cloning is among a number of breeding techniques that are becoming mainstays of the industry.

Europeans already are deeply involved in related businesses that have grown rapidly in recent years as breeders seek the most productive animals. Some of the biggest cattle genetics companies and cooperatives in the world — including Alta Genetics, CRV, Genus and Viking Genetics — are European-owned.

Fierce public opposition has limited the use of cloning in Europe, however, leaving producers fearful of falling behind competitors in the United States and elsewhere.

“We mustn’t build up a fortress against cloning and the offspring of clones,” said Arnaud Petit, a director at Copa-Cogeca, the largest European association of farmers and cooperatives. “We have to produce more food with fewer resources and less impact on the environment, and cloning could be one of the ways forward.”

This month, the European Parliament voted to ban the sale of meat and dairy from cloned animals and from the offspring of clones.

But European governments — weary from battles over genetically modified crops — are wary of fomenting a new trade war with major agricultural trading partners like Argentina, Brazil and the United States.

They will begin negotiating in September with Parliament members to finish the rules.

In the last three years in Britain, farmers used imported embryos to produce at least three animals. But that prompted a storm of criticism in the national media, while opponents of cloning warned that foods were about to appear in supermarkets without proper safety checks.

An employee at Humphreston Farm, near Birmingham — the farm at the center of that storm — said the owners, Michael and Oliver Eaton, had since sold their herd and were growing crops instead.

The employee, who would not give his name, said the Eaton family did not want to comment on what had happened to their cows bred from clones.

Another British dairy farmer said he was using milk from a cow bred from a clone as part of his daily production. He also said he was selling embryos from the same cow to breeders in Canada.

The farmer insisted on anonymity, saying that the British public regarded cloning as so distasteful that buyers would stop taking his milk.

He also said that he did not want to be required to get rid of a valuable cow. His activities appear to be at odds with the position of the British Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. A spokeswoman for the department said last week that, as far as officials were aware, no meat or dairy from the offspring of clones bred from imports of semen or embryo had entered the food chain in Britain.

In Switzerland, famous for its cheese and chocolates, the government says “several hundred” cattle that are second- or third-generation descendants of clones are in the country. It notes, however, that that is a “very low” percentage of the 1.5 million head of cattle there.

The race to produce the first cloned fighting bulls in Spain initially involved two rival teams. But ViaGen, a large biotechnology company based in Texas, has slowed down its efforts in Spain, citing the controversy over the procedure in Europe.

“We just didn’t want to rock any boats,” said ViaGen’s president, Mark Walton.

Yet Mr. César Diez, who performed the insemination that led to Got, said he expected clones and their offspring to become more common in a few years for livestock farmers in Europe because of the growing demand for high-quality meat at affordable prices.

“When you can select animals that produce so much more meat per kilo of grain feed, the logic of cloning is inevitable,” he said.
975 2010-07-30 Opening with a sobering quotation from Andrew Solomon’s 1998 confession of suicidal depression in The New Yorker, “Helen” dives into this painful mental illness with sensitivity and grace.

As Helen, a successful music professor and contented wife and mother, Ashley Judd is, initially, gleamingly serene. But as the first ripples of sadness swell to a paralyzing crescendo of distress, she never loses her grip on a character that is unrelentingly embattled. Unable to communicate with her appalled husband (Goran Visnjic, tone perfect) and teenage daughter (Alexia Fast), Helen finds comfort only in the company of a self-destructive student (an excellent Lauren Lee Smith) who is struggling with her own psychological demons.

Drawing inspiration from the suicide of a childhood friend, the writer and director, Sandra Nettelbeck, orchestrates a story that somehow avoids punishing the audience as much as its heroine. Demanding patience but not blood, the film keenly conveys the profound isolation of mental illness and the futility of searching for someone, or something, to blame. In roles that could have devolved into arias of melodrama, the cast never overplays its hand, fighting the omnipresent melancholy in small ways rather than large.

Shot (by Michael Bertl) in the damp spaciousness of Vancouver, British Columbia, the film — from leafy exteriors to sterile hospital rooms — has a cool, unsettling beauty. If only depression were always this pretty.

“Helen” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). A knife to the chest and electrodes to the brain.

Written and directed by Sandra Nettelbeck; director of photography, Michael Bertl; edited by Barry Egan; music by David Darling, score by Tim Despic; production designer, Linda Del Rosario; costumes by Bettina Helmi; produced by Kirk Shaw, Jens Meurer, Simon Fawcett, Chris Curling, Robbie Little, Larry Sugar, Andrew Spaulding and Doug Mankoff; released by E1 Entertainment. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 59 minutes.
976 2010-07-30 He is persuaded to demonstrate with a plastic knife on a nervous young villager how he pulled back the heads of prisoners and slit their throats. “I slit so many throats that my hand ached, so I switched to stabbing in the neck,” he recalls.

These peasant executioners were often given wine to loosen their inhibitions. Soldiers stood by to cover the mouths of children when they screamed as they witnessed their parents’ murders. One farmer recalls acquiring a taste for drinking human gall, even though it was bitter. The stench of blood was worse than buffalo flesh, another remembers. As bodies decomposed, the waterlogged fields bubbled as if they were boiling, one woman remembers. Another refuses to drink the water in this now placid tropical landscape because of bodies buried there.

The film’s journalistic coup is Mr. Thet Sambath’s persuasion of Nuon Chea, the chief ideologue of Pol Pot, the Cambodian Communist leader who died in 1998, to explain what happened. Mr. Nuon Chea, also known as Brother No. 2, is a proud, gaunt man in his 80s with missing teeth, who lives with his family in a cabin in the woods. Mr. Thet Sambath visited him regularly for three years before he agreed to tell the truth.

By his account, the Khmer Rouge government, which he describes as “clean, clear-sighted and peaceful,” was determined to be more Communist than Communist China by abolishing all private property. Its enemies — “spies who attacked and sabotaged us from the start” — belonged to the party’s more moderate, Vietnamese-sympathizing faction.

“If we’d let them live,” he says, “the party line would have been hijacked.” He and Pol Pot, he says, were in perfect accord, but the revolution failed because they had no experience in governing. For every question that is answered, 10 more are left hanging.

“Enemies of the People” reserves its biggest emotional punch for the end of the film, when Mr. Thet Sambath, who has lied to Mr. Nuon Chea about the fate of his own family, finally tells him about their loss. Mr. Nuon Chea, after a pause, thanks Mr. Thet Sambath for his “graciousness” over the years of their relationship, and then expresses his deep apologies.

As the final interviews with Mr. Nuon Chea were conducted, he and other high-level Khmer Rouge officials were waiting to be arrested for war crimes and genocide by the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, a United Nations-backed tribunal.

On Monday Kaing Guek Eav, commonly known as Duch, the head of the Khmer Rouge’s Tuol Sleng prison, was sentenced to 35 years in prison for charges that included crimes against humanity. In 2011 Mr. Nuon Chea will be the tribunal’s second case.

Produced and directed by Rob Lemkin and Thet Sambath; written by Mr. Lemkin; directors of photography, Mr. Lemkin and Mr. Sambath; edited by Stefan Ronowicz; music by Daniel Pemberton; released by International Film Circuit. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. In English and Khmer, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated.
977 2010-07-30 With 60 votes needed to advance the legislation, the tally was 58 to 42, with Democrats unanimously in favor and Republicans all opposed. The majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, switched his vote to no at the last minute, a parliamentary step that allows him to call for a re-vote.

Some lawmakers said a deal was still possible. Meanwhile, the Senate turned to a bill that would provide $26.1 billion in aid to states to help cover Medicaid costs and prevent teacher layoffs.

The vote on the small-business bill followed several emotional exchanges on the floor.

“That is the tradition in the United States Senate: majority rules, but you accommodate the rights of the minority,” said Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, who is the senior Republican on the small-business committee. “We’re faced with a procedural impasse here because we’re being denied the opportunity to offer some amendments.”

She also chastised Democrats as dillydallying on the measure, repeatedly pulling it off the floor to deal with other matters. “We need to create jobs in America,” she said. “This bill has been on the floor for three weeks and three substitutes — 81 days.”

Ms. Landrieu harshly criticized Mr. McConnell for blocking the measure, and warned that some businesses might fail.

“Our businesses have picked up enough weight; they can’t handle that weight,” she said in a floor speech. “And if we don’t give them some help now, today, many of them aren’t going to be here — I want the senator from Kentucky to know — when we show up in September.”

The bill would create a $30 billion lending program within the Treasury Department, to be administered through local banks. It would also provide more than $12 billion in tax breaks, and would expand or enhance existing lending programs.

The three Republican amendments that Democrats seemed open to debating would eliminate a provision in the new health care law requiring businesses to file 1099 forms reporting when they buy more than $600 in goods from other businesses, extend a tax credit for biodiesel fuel and extend a credit for research and development.

Republicans had also wanted amendments on other topics, including the estate tax, nuclear loan guarantees, border security and the expiring Bush tax cuts.

Senator George LeMieux, Republican of Florida, who helped draft the bill, said Democrats had taken a bipartisan measure and created a partisan fight over it.

“This small-business bill should pass, and it should pass with relevant amendments,” Mr. LeMieux said. “Before I am a Republican, I am a Floridian and an American, and this bill is good for our country.”

With tensions running high, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, noted that “if just one” Republican had voted with the Democrats — a pointed reference to Mr. LeMieux — the bill would move forward.

Mr. LeMieux shot back, “Half the truth is no truth at all.”
978 2010-07-30 KABUL, Afghanistan — The United States military has recovered the body of the second of two American sailors abducted last week in a dangerous region south of Kabul, but it was not clear precisely how he had died.

The body believed to be that of Petty Officer Third Class Jarod Newlove was found Wednesday afternoon in Yousuf Khiel, a village in the Baraki Barak District. The area, in southwestern Logar Province, is adjacent to Charkh District, where the two sailors were abducted last Friday after they drove their armored sport utility vehicle from a military base in Kabul.

American and Afghan forces had been engaged in a wide hunt for the sailors and their kidnappers. Ghulam Mustafa Muhsini, the Logar provincial police chief, said a villager reported finding Petty Officer Newlove’s body to the Afghan police about noon on Wednesday. A team of NATO and Afghan forces then recovered the body, which was still clad in a uniform, he said.

The body of the first sailor, Petty Officer Second Class Justin McNeley, had been recovered on Sunday. According to local Afghan authorities, Petty Officer McNeley was believed to have been wounded during a firefight when militants abducted the two sailors on Friday and died from his wounds. A Taliban spokesman also said the first sailor had died from wounds sustained during the abduction.

On Thursday, Chief Muhsini of the Logar police said that he did not know how Petty Officer Newlove had died and that among members of the recovery team that retrieved the body only the Americans were allowed to get close enough to have observed any wounds.
979 2010-07-30 With his remarks on Thursday, Mr. Bullard appeared to join other Fed officials already seen as sympathetic to the view that damage from long-term unemployment and the threat of deflation are the greatest challenges facing the economy. They include the Fed bank presidents Eric S. Rosengren of Boston and William C. Dudley of New York.

Those so-called inflation doves are likely to be joined soon by three new members of the Fed’s board of governors.

President Obama has nominated Peter A. Diamond, an economist, and Sarah Bloom Raskin, a bank regulator, to the Fed’s board, along with Janet L. Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed, to be vice chairwoman of the board. All have also expressed serious concerns about unemployment.

Whether the Fed should take additional measures to support the economy is certain to be the top item when the Federal Open Market Committee, which shapes monetary policy, meets on Aug. 10. The committee includes the Fed’s board of governors, along with the president of the New York Fed and a rotating group of the other bank presidents.

Of 10 current members on the committee, two are openly concerned about inflationary risks; three, now including Mr. Bullard, are somewhat worried about deflation; and five centrists, including Mr. Bernanke, have not expressed a firm leaning either way.

Mr. Bullard, in an conference call with reporters on Thursday, said that if any new “negative shocks” roiled the economy, the Fed should alter its position that interest rates would remain exceptionally low for “an extended period,” or resume buying long-term Treasury securities to stimulate the economy. He emphasized that he was not calling on the committee to act right now, but wanted to “try to get a debate going.” And he expressed hope his fears would not come to pass, saying, “The most likely possibility is that the recovery will continue into the fall, inflation will start to move up and this issue will all go away.”

Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor, said of Mr. Bullard’s new position: “This is very significant. He has been one of the most hawkish members, but he is now calling for the Fed to ease aggressively.”

Until now, Mr. Rosengren had been perhaps the Fed official most outspoken on the prospect of the economy getting stuck in a deflationary cycle.

“While I am not anticipating we will be in a deflationary period, it’s a risk that I do take seriously, and we should continue to monitor what’s happening with prices,” Mr. Rosengren said in an interview last week. “A heightened risk of deflation is something that we should react to.”

That view is not universally held, however.

Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Kansas City Fed and an inflation hawk, said in an interview Thursday that the comparisons to Japan were overstated. He likened the debate to the situation in mid-2003, when a sluggish recovery from the 2001 recession prompted predictions of deflation that did not come to pass. “I don’t think we should find ourselves picking up every piece of short-term data and jumping to conclusions,” he said.

Two others associated with the hawkish camp, which is focused on continued vigilance on inflation, offered similar perspectives in separate interviews.

“I think the fear of deflation in and of itself is probably overblown,” Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, said last week. He said that inflation expectations were “well anchored” and noted that $1 trillion in bank reserves was sitting at the Fed. “It’s hard to imagine with that much money sitting around, you would have a prolonged period of deflation,” he said. And Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, said this week, “Reasonable people can argue that there’s a risk of deflation, but we haven’t seen it in the numbers yet.”

Starting in 2007, the Fed lowered the benchmark short-term interest rate to zero and pumped some $2 trillion into the economy with an array of emergency loans and purchases of government debts and mortgage bonds.

Those purchases were phased out in March, but there is now talk of resuming them. Doing so would further enlarge the central bank’s balance sheet, which has more than doubled, to $2.3 trillion.

The Fed has been saying since May 2008 that it would keep interest rates “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” The markets have over time interpreted that phrase to mean that the Fed will probably keep the federal funds rate at its current level — a target of zero to 0.25 percent — through 2011.

But in his article, Mr. Bullard wrote, “Promising to remain at zero for a long time is a double-edged sword.”

Mr. Bullard said that inflation expectations had fallen from about 2 percent earlier this year to about 1.4 percent now, as judged by one measure, five-year Treasury inflation-protected securities.

The outcome could be an “unintended steady state” like Japan’s slow-growth economy. “The U.S. is closer to a Japan-style outcome today than at any time in recent history,” he wrote.
980 2010-07-30 Exxon said second-quarter production was 4.0 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, up 8 percent from the same period a year earlier, while its smaller rival Shell said output was up 5 percent at 3.1 million barrels.

Shell has suffered seven years of falling output and Exxon’s performance has also been anemic over the period. Philip Weiss, an oil analyst with Argus Research, said the impressive headline output numbers were driven by gas, with Shell’s crude production up 1 percent and Exxon’s down 1 percent.

Oil accounted for only 58 percent of Exxon’s output, compared with 64 percent in the same period last year, and Shell’s oil weighting dropped to 53 percent from 59 percent.

A global gas glut because of the economic crisis and a big increase in shale gas production means the outlook for gas prices is uncertain, which could put pressure on future earnings.

Exxon, now the largest natural gas producer in the United States after its $30 billion stock deal to buy XTO Energy, plans to accelerate drilling in gas-rich shale fields in North America in the second half of this year.

“It’s our expectation that overall drilling activity would continue to increase,” David Rosenthal, an investor relations executive with Exxon, told analysts in a conference call.

Shell’s chief financial officer, Simon Henry, said the gap between gas and oil prices grew in the last year as oil prices rose faster than gas prices.

BP, which is based in London, said Tuesday that its underlying result rose 77 percent. The company is still battling to permanently seal a blown-out well in the Gulf of Mexico that has caused the worst oil spill in American history.

High oil and gas prices were the main driver of the gains, although the higher output and a recovery in refinery margins also helped.

Crude oil prices were 30 percent higher in the quarter than a year before, averaging $77.81 a barrel, while global refining margins rose 10 percent, according to BP data.

Shell’s results included a $56 million charge related to the United States moratorium on deepwater drilling, imposed after the BP oil spill three months ago.

Shell’s chief executive, Peter Voser, told analysts in a conference call that he would think about reclaiming the money from BP. BP declined to comment on the potential for a Shell claim, but pointed out the compensation fund they agreed to pay into did not cover such items.

Shell added it had exceeded restructuring targets, achieving annual cost savings of $3.5 billion and cutting 7,000 jobs, allowing it to conclude its overhaul six months quicker than planned.
981 2010-07-30 WASHINGTON -- When President Obama steps into a General Motors plant on Friday morning -- as the majority shareholder surveying the government's investment in a company the White House called ''moribund'' just 18 months ago -- he will be doing mor...
982 2010-07-31 Bite into today's juicy acrostic....
983 2010-07-31 Northwest Airlines has agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to fix the prices of air cargo, the Justice Department said. Northwest agreed to plead guilty to a single felony count that its now-shuttered Northwest Airlines Cargo conspired to fix prices. It agreed to pay a fine of $38 million. Delta said the price-fixing occurred before it bought Northwest in 2008. Sixteen airlines have pleaded guilty or agreed to do so in the department’s inquiry into price-fixing in air cargo.
984 2010-07-31 Valdes gave up a two-run homer to Kelly Johnson that put Arizona back in the lead by one, but Valdes said he was not tired from excessive bullpen work.

“It didn’t have anything to do with anything,” Valdes said through an interpreter. “Just a bump in the road. Everything was up. I paid the price.”

The next three batters also got hits off Valdes, the third a home run by Miguel Montero — all of this made possible by the error by Reyes.

“It’s a routine ground ball,” said Reyes, who had three of the Mets’ seven hits. “I have to make that play.”

The result ended a seven-game losing streak for the Diamondbacks, who are in last place in the National League West. Arizona had not won since sweeping the Mets in Phoenix last week.

One pitcher they beat then was Pelfrey, who has one victory in eight starts since June 13. He threw 118 pitches Friday but seemed to find a groove late and retired eight of the last nine hitters he faced, the only exception being Kennedy.

“I’ve got to start pitching a lot deeper into games,” Pelfrey said. “I’ve kind of taken a step back. I feel like I’m getting there. I definitely plan on getting this turned around.”

Catcher Henry Blanco, who also had an error — his first since July 24, 2008, with the Cubs — said Pelfrey “got a little frustrated” by a small strike zone early from the umpire Chad Fairchild.

“He is trying to be too fine; he’s trying to be perfect,” Blanco said of Pelfrey. “That’s why he’s getting down in the count.”

The teams exchanged three-run first innings — the Diamondbacks with four hits and a walk against Pelfrey, the Mets with Wright’s three-run homer to left against Kennedy.

Arizona went up again, 4-3, in the third when Pelfrey gave up doubles to Montero and Stephen Drew. But Wright answered in the bottom of the inning with a two-run homer against Kennedy to give the Mets a 5-4 lead.

Wright’s second home run landed over the center-field fence, just to the left of the big apple that rises from its bunker to celebrate such occasions.

Wright took a rare off day during Thursday’s 4-0 victory against St. Louis and said he had “some fresh legs.” He had three hits and five runs batted in and raised his batting average to .305.

The Atlanta Braves defeated the Cincinnati Reds, 6-4, to extend their lead over the third-place Mets to seven and a half games in the National League East.

“It’s getting to the time where we’ve got to make our push,” Wright said.

BAY GOES ON D.L. The Mets played without left fielder Jason Bay, who went on the 15-day disabled list (retroactive to Monday) with headaches after a concussion sustained a week before in Los Angeles. Jesus Feliciano was recalled from Class AAA Buffalo to take his place.

Bay missed a three-game series against St. Louis this week as the Mets hoped his condition would improve.

“He’s still having some symptoms,” Jerry Manuel said. “There will be a period of no activity.”

Bay hurt himself July 23 while running into a fence as he caught a fly ball in Los Angeles.

Bay later delivered a three-run double. He also played Saturday and Sunday but complained of headaches to trainers on the flight home Sunday night.

He saw a doctor in New York on Tuesday, when the concussion was diagnosed. Manuel said he learned of Bay’s situation on Tuesday before the game.

It was more important, Manuel said, for General Manager Omar Minaya to know because Minaya was in charge of making trades before Saturday afternoon’s nonwaiver trade deadline.

Bay is batting .259 with 6 home runs and 47 R.B.I. Feliciano played 21 games with the Mets earlier this season and hit .291 while playing all three outfield positions. Manuel said Feliciano was likely to fill in Sunday for center fielder Carlos Beltran.
985 2010-07-31 BEIJING — Greenpeace is raising questions about whether the Chinese government has been underreporting the size of one of the country’s worst oil spills, near the northern port city of Dalian.

The spill occurred two weeks ago, after a pipeline explosion at an oil terminal. Chinese officials, who reported a spill of about 11,000 barrels, which caused a 170-square-mile slick, reopened the terminal 13 days later. This week, the mayor of Dalian declared the cleanup “a decisive victory.”

But Rick Steiner, an American marine conservationist working with Greenpeace who visited the affected area, said Friday that more than 430,000 barrels of crude oil might have been released into the Yellow Sea.

He said that a full storage tank collapsed as a result of the explosion and that large amounts of oil had been collected by clean-up crews. “I’ve seen spills all over the world and this was a big one,” he said in an interview. “The magnitude is far more extensive than the official figures.”

Greenpeace said that Mr. Steiner’s estimates were probably on the low side, because firefighters emptied several other oil tanks threatened by fire at the terminal to lessen the risk of damage to a nearby tank of the highly toxic chemical dimethylbenzene.

The terminal belongs to the state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation, the country’s largest producer of oil and gas.

Mr. Steiner, who is based in Alaska, spent years working on the Exxon Valdez disaster and is frequently consulted on oil spills. He praised the Dalian cleanup efforts, which involved more than 1,000 boats.
986 2010-07-31 But Mr. Risell is among a handful of people circulating an even bolder idea: moving Red’s, which, in various incarnations, has drawn crowds to the corner of Main and Water Streets since the 1930s.

“My message to Red’s,” said Morrison Bonpasse, who lives in neighboring Newcastle and leads a community group opposed to the bypass option, “is, ‘You’re a wonderful business, you’re good people, but please, you have to move.’ ”

His group, Route One Alternative Decisions, dismisses the proposed bypass as a waste of money — and eventually of gas, since it would take drivers on a longer route. In addition to moving Red’s, they want a pedestrian bridge or tunnel, off-street parking and other less costly alternatives. “It just seems like an awful lot of money to waste on a seasonal issue,” Mr. Risell said of the bypass plan. “In the middle of winter, you could go out and sleep on Route 1.”

Others, including Sean Rafter, a ninth-generation Wiscassetite, want a bypass but not along the federally approved route, which the Army Corps of Engineers in May deemed the “least environmentally damaging” of three proposed corridors. Mr. Rafter — who, like Mr. Risell, lives near that route — said it would keep traffic too close to town, ruin the view of the tidal river that borders it and displace too many residents who would have to surrender their land.

He, too, would like to see Red’s move. But state transportation officials, who have studied the traffic problem for decades, said the lobster shack was only a small piece of it.

“The vehicles are already pretty well stopped at that point,” said Kat Beaudoin, chief of planning for the Maine Department of Transportation. “So it’s hard for us to conceive that that is all of the problem.”

Debbie Cronk, who took over Red’s with her siblings after their father, Allen Gagnon, died in 2008, has refused to even respond to the idea.

“I don’t want to give them any ammunition,” she said minutes after Red’s opened on Thursday, a line of customers already snaking around the corner in sweaty pursuit of the $14.95 lobster roll. “It’s an institution. It’s an icon.”

Ms. Cronk said she would not reveal where she stood on the bypass issue because her customers were divided over it. She did, however, say that business has been “fabulous” this season, that Red’s was just written up in a Norwegian newspaper and that her new book, “Red’s Eats: World’s Best Lobster Shack,” written with Virginia Wright, was doing well.

Ms. Beaudoin said that some 25,000 vehicles passed through Wiscasset on peak summer days, compared with roughly 15,000 in the winter, and that the state hoped to move ahead with the bypass project.

“If we walk away today on the basis of Wiscasset’s dislike,” she said, “we are not coming back. We would have such a hard time reinitiating the process and getting through the environmental regulations. It’s not getting any easier, and the money is getting scarcer.”

Shopkeepers on Main Street, as U.S. 1 is known in town, are as divided as everyone else on the bypass. Some think it would hurt business to divert traffic around the town; others, like Robert Snyder, an owner of American Antiques & Folk Art, said it would save Wiscasset.

“We want people to come to town,” Mr. Snyder said, “but we also want the right kind of business. Nobody wants more and more and more tourists. Nobody would benefit from that — except maybe Red’s.”

Even Red’s customers, he posited, must not like “sitting there and getting truck exhaust blown in their face.” The shack is too tiny for indoor seating, so diners eat at picnic tables out back or stand on the street — a less attractive option not only because of traffic, but because precious bits of lobster might tumble to the ground.

Ms. Beaudoin said a completed bypass was 10 years away at the very least. Mr. Snyder said he no longer expected to see it in his lifetime, and Mr. Rafter, whose mother asked that her ashes be driven across the bypass once it was built, has wondered whether his own children will have to do him the same favor.

Outside Red’s, some who waited in lines of up to an hour this week said they would keep coming regardless of whether a bypass someday diverts drivers around town. Patrick McMenemy of Saco, Me., said he could not help stopping every time he passed through.

“You figure if the lines are that long,” he said, “it has to be good.”
987 2010-07-31 About 10 minutes before Friday’s game, the Rays held a moment of silence in Steinbrenner’s memory.

“That’s a great gesture on their part,” Girardi said. “He would be in my office sometimes, either today or tomorrow or even Sunday. We know that he’s with us, but we’re not going to physically see him, and that’s different.”

The Yankees have not arranged any official trips to his mausoleum or to visit the Steinbrenner family away from Tropicana Field. On this trip, the team is staying in St. Petersburg, about an hour south of where Steinbrenner is buried, in Trinity.

Asked whether he had or was planning to pay his respects at Steinbrenner’s mausoleum, Jeter answered diplomatically.

“If I did, I wouldn’t tell you,” Jeter said. “So, there’s the answer.”

RODRIGUEZ STILL SWINGING Camera flashes provided a movie-set backdrop to Tropicana Field, hoping to record history as Alex Rodriguez stepped to the plate for his first at-bat Friday in quest of his 600th home run.

For the record, Evan Longoria had already warned Rodriguez what would happen to the ball should the homer hit the outer catwalk that rings around the deep outfield here. This pregame exchange took place along the third base line as Longoria awaited his turn in the batting cage — and chided Rodriguez about the ball possibly deflecting back toward the Tampa Bay Rays third baseman.

“Hey, Alex, if you hit the catwalk, you better believe that thing is going in my back pocket,” Longoria shouted.

Longoria informed him it would be ruled a home run, and repeated his threat to hold hostage the ball hit for No. 600.

“Don’t worry,” Rodriguez said as he turned away to stretch with his teammates. “The way I’m swinging right now, they’ll just be ground balls to you at third base.” TOM SPOUSTA

FAN INJURED Robinson Cano broke his bat on one of Wade Davis’s fastballs in the sixth inning, sending a large splinter about five rows behind the Rays’ dugout, where it appeared to strike a man on the side of his head. Fans around him immediately stood and motioned for medical personnel. The man did not look seriously hurt but had a large bandage where the bat hit him.

TOM SPOUSTA PETTITTE MAKING PROGRESS Andy Pettitte, who has been rehabilitating his strained left groin at the Yankees’ complex in Tampa, is scheduled to be evaluated Sunday by the trainer Gene Monahan.

The Yankees initially expected Pettitte, on the disabled list since July 19, to miss four to five weeks, but they will have a better sense of his progress by the end of the weekend. Joe Girardi said he had received positive reports on Pettitte, but cautioned that he had yet to pitch off a mound.
988 2010-07-31 Chevron posted a threefold jump in profit on Friday, beating estimates as its refinery margins improved.

The oil company raised its 2010 oil and gas production growth forecast to 3 percent. Energy giants like Chevron and its peers Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell, which reported results on Thursday, have benefited from renewed demand for fuel as the global economy crawls out of the recession.

Chevron’s second-quarter net income jumped to $5.41 billion, or $2.70 a share, from $1.75 billion, or 87 cents a share, a year before. Analysts had expected a profit of $2.44 a share, according to the average on Thomson Reuters.

Revenue rose 32 percent, to $53 billion. Chevron has so far felt only a modest impact from the drilling moratorium now in place after the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

George L. Kirkland, Chevron’s vice chairman and head of upstream operations, told analysts in a call he saw the 2010 impact from the halt in drilling at less than 10,000 barrels a day.

Mr. Kirkland said Chevron was pushing ahead with its deepwater plans in the Gulf of Mexico, and that final investment decisions on its Jack/St Malo and Big Foot oil projects would be made later this year “assuming the moratorium is lifted.”
989 2010-07-31 Kerr did not have any problems, posting the low round for the tournament with a five-under 67. She made a 10-foot putt for birdie on each of the first two holes, dropped a stroke at the eighth, then picked up four more birdies to join Lincicome and Yang at four under.

“I played really well today,” Kerr said. “I was determined to be more relaxed out there. I’ve been putting a lot of pressure on myself since getting the No. 1 ranking, and I hadn’t really realized that’s what was going on. So I just went out and did my thing today.”

Lincicome had a birdie at the second, then dropped four strokes in a three-hole stretch beginning at the 11th. She also took advantage of an easy finish at Royal Birkdale, with a birdie at No. 15, an eagle two holes later and another birdie at 18 for her one-under 71.

Juli Inkster shot herself into contention with a two-under 70 that left her five strokes off the lead, doing so in the worst of the weather. Suzann Pettersen of Norway shot a 68 and Sun Young Yoo of South Korea had an even-par 72 to join Inkster in a tie for fifth.

Michelle Wie failed to take advantage of an early start time, hitting her first tee shot out of bounds. She ended up shooting a four-over 76 that left her 10 strokes off the lead.

LANGER LEADS SENIOR OPEN Bernhard Langer has himself in position for a second consecutive major championship.

Langer overcame a shaky front nine with an eagle and a birdie on the back to take the lead at three under in the second round of the United States Senior Open at Sahalee Country Club in Sammamish, Wash.

A fog delay of more than two hours brought play to a halt just before 8 a.m. When the round resumed, Langer shot a two-under 68, making key putts on the back nine. Langer won the Senior British Open last Sunday at Carnoustie.

J. R. Roth (66), John Cook (68) and Tommy Armour III (68) were two shots back. Tom Watson and Fred Couples shot 70s to stay three back at even par. Loren Roberts (72) and Michael Allen (71) also were even through two rounds.

OVERTON LEADS GREENBRIER Jeff Overton shot an eight-under-par 62 to take a four-stroke lead midway through the inaugural Greenbrier Classic in White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.

Overton, winless in five years on the PGA Tour, shot the low round of the tournament, using wedges on all but one approach shot during a bogey-free round on the Old White course. He was at 14 under.

Boo Weekley, finally healthy after tearing a labrum in his left shoulder a year ago, was 10 under after a 63.

Jimmy Walker (64) and the two-time heart transplant recipient Erik Compton (68) were nine under. Compton, the first-round co-leader, is playing on a sponsor’s exemption.

Aaron Baddeley (65), Briny Baird (65), Chris Stroud (63) and Charles Howell III (67) were six strokes back at eight under.

LOW SCORES IN IRELAND Ross Fisher shot a 10-under-par 61 to take a three-stroke lead heading into the third round of the Irish Open.

Fisher had 10 birdies in 12 holes — including six in a row — in a bogey-free round to reach 12-under 130 at the Killarney Golf and Fishing Club.

Francesco Molinari of Italy was in second after shooting a 66, and nine players, including Padraig Harrington (67) and Rory McIlroy (68), were tied for third another two shots behind.

Fisher was in position to become the first player to shoot a 59 on the European Tour after getting to 10 under on the 14th hole. However, he missed three late birdie putts — one from 5 feet and another two from 15.
990 2010-07-31 The chairwoman of President Dmitri A. Medvedev’s human rights advisory council abruptly stepped down on Friday, apparently after growing disenchanted with the political situation in Russia. The official, Ella Pamfilova, left, gave no official explanation for her resignation but also offered no public words of support for Mr. Medvedev’s policies. “This is my personal decision; no one coerced me,” she told the Interfax news agency. Mr. Medvedev has promised to strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law in Russia, but he has come under criticism from advocacy groups, which contend that he has carried out few significant changes since he took office in 2008.
991 2010-07-31 Once again, the food industry objects to tougher advertising standards. It claims its own voluntary guidelines are sufficient to protect public health, even though these rules label Froot Loops and other high sugar, fat and calorie products as healthy. Independent research has consistently shown that the food, alcohol and tobacco industries fail to enforce or comply with their own voluntary standards and that these standards do not achieve their health objectives.

Inadequate federal oversight of the financial and energy sectors has recently created acute economic and environmental crises. Failure to safeguard the public against the misleading and deceptive marketing of the food, alcohol and tobacco industries has contributed to slow-motion crises of epidemics of obesity, heart disease, diabetes and some forms of cancer.

American voters will need to decide if we are willing to sacrifice the health of current and future generations to the ideology of unfettered markets.

The writer is distinguished professor of public health at the City University of New York School of Public Health at Hunter College.

Limited progress has been made on establishing standards for advertising food to children. This comes as no surprise since too much emphasis has been given to micromanaging cuts in sugars and fats. This can only lead to incremental change. It’s time to reset the rules of engagement.

If we are really interested in solving childhood obesity, focus must be placed squarely on the reduction of calories. Arguing whether 8 grams of sugar in cereal is a monumental improvement over 10 grams is like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.
992 2010-07-31 On Thursday evening, a capacity audience at Dixon Place greeted the 55-minute premiere of “Smithsoniansmith,” by Scotty Heron and Hijack Dance, with cheers so prolonged that the performer-creators returned to the stage to take more bows than the casts of some Broadway plays do. It seemed that one person alone watched the proceedings in unbroken bafflement, and I take no pride in that.

The opening scenes of “Smithsoniansmith” are so strikingly mysterious that they prompt a certain excitement. First, on one side of the stage, a trembling vertical pile of old denim garments slowly turns this way and that, with an underlay of taped slow, orchestral music that heightens the suspense: Who is under all the denim? What might the denim signify or suggest?

Next, in the opposite corner, a naked man (his legs apart, his pants or shorts halfway down his thighs), lying horizontally like a patient on an operating table, slowly writhes while a standing woman administers to him like a nurse or surgeon. The scene is so bizarre, and its details — like the brown-paper attachments to her breasts, rendering them more pendulous — so peculiar, that you look forward to what follows because you hope for, if not explanation, poetic or intellectual coherence. But “Smithsoniansmith” is a string of dissimilar and largely unconnected episodes (several of which amused a very few in the audience tremendously, a few of which amused most of the audience a good deal, and a number of which were watched in rapt silence) that grows more incoherent as it proceeds.

It’s part of the Dixon Place Hot! Festival, which celebrates queer performance and culture, and everything about the performance was also queer in the old-fashioned sense. What was strangest, and most disappointing, was the tone of inconsequentiality and triviality that marked it all. When the three performers danced, the dynamics were sketchy, throwaway, stunted, as if they were doing the blah-blah-blah version of something they’d do properly later on. (In terms of meter and spatial arrangement, the dances were otherwise highly conventional.) The same tone characterized a long passage of dialogue: campy, nonsensical, unspontaneous on purpose.

There is plenty of alternating nakedness and denim: Mr. Heron often wears a denim frock (sometimes hot pants), while Kristin Van Loon and Arwen Wilder, the women who make up Hijack, usually wear full-length jeans. Denim seems to be a theme, as in an elaborate scene in which the performers take some trouble to hang up a clothes line, suspend three denim garments from it, and then pay keen attention to these items.
993 2010-07-31 Why so much? Implants typically involve the work of both a surgeon and a dentist. Several office visits may be needed to put in the screws and to add the prosthetic teeth.

More dental insurance plans are covering the costs, but the annual reimbursement limit is typically $1,500, an amount that hasn’t changed in four decades. That may be enough to cover half the cost of a single implant; you will end up paying the rest.

Still, many patients may find it a worthwhile investment. Implants typically last a lifetime, with a failure rate of less than 5 percent.

Let’s say you lose one tooth. If you opt for a bridge, which costs almost as much as an implant but is more often covered by insurance, the dentist will grind down the two adjacent teeth to create a structure that secures the replacement tooth.

The ground teeth become more vulnerable to decay and nerve damage, and there’s a good chance you will require a root canal in the future, said Dr. Karl Gruendl, a dentist in Fenton, Mo., who advises insurance plans.

A study done for Washington Dental Service, the largest insurance carrier in Washington State, found that over a five-year period the maintenance costs for people with bridges were higher than for those who had implants.

“For a single tooth replacement, over the long run we think it’s more beneficial to get the implant,” said Dr. Ron Inge, dental director for Washington Dental Service. And that’s an insurance executive talking.

If you need to replace most or all of your teeth, dentures are clearly the cheaper alternative, costing around $2,500 for a set (upper and lower jaws). But the implants won’t move around, nor interfere with your sense of taste, as a denture might.

Implants also will help protect your bones over time. “The screw in your jawbone will trick the body into thinking you still have teeth,” said Dr. Ira Cheifetz, president of the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. “The bone continues to grow and thrive.”

Implants aren’t appropriate for every patient, particularly those who smoke or already have substantial bone loss. If you are a candidate for the procedure, consider these cost-saving strategies.

YOUR PLAN BENEFITS If your dental insurance covers implants, bravo. If it does not, ask the carrier to give you an allowance toward what a bridge or conventional denture would have cost, Dr. Gruendl suggested.

See a dentist who belongs to your insurance network. Dental plans negotiate discounted rates with their network providers, which means the overall cost of the implant will be substantially less than the “retail” charge, said Evelyn Ireland, executive director of the National Association of Dental Plans.

How much less? Depending on the carrier, it might be as little as 5 percent of the standard price, or as high as 40 percent.

FINANCING OPTIONS Most dentists are willing to offer some kind of discount to patients who expect to have large bills. If you don’t have insurance or your plan doesn’t cover implants, ask your dentist for the rate provided to in-network insured patients.

Some dentists may let you pay them directly in installments. Mr. Panko, for example, is still paying off the $45,000 bill for the implants he got four years ago from Dr. Pick. Mr. Panko is pleased it worked out that way: “I have a longstanding relationship with my periodontist, and we worked out a payment plan.”

Many dentists also participate in financing programs, such as CareCredit and Wells Fargo Health Advantage, that let patients pay bills over time with no, or minimal, interest. With CareCredit, for instance, you pay no interest if you pay off your balance in full within two years. Ask your dentist about financing plans if you’re worried about paying your bills all at once.

AN ALTERNATIVE PROVIDER Dental schools sometimes have clinics where advanced students do implant procedures at reduced rates. Check the Web site of Oral Health America for help finding a clinic near you: oralhealthamerica.org.

START AN F.S.A. If you know you need one or more implants, but it’s not an emergency, fully fund your flexible spending account for next year. F.S.A.’s, offered by many employers, allow you to use pretax dollars to pay health care expenses. Depending on your tax bracket, pretax dollars can amount to an extra 20 percent to spend on the dental bill, compared to using taxed income.
994 2010-07-31 Updated: Fixed a typo in the second paragraph     The next time you're talking with your insurer about filing a claim, you may want to watch what you say....