1 2013-11-01 In our latest issue, we explore the many definitions of luxury....
2 2013-11-01 Ride along with the Times contributor Tom Voelk as he test-drives the newest cars on the market.
3 2013-11-01 Restrictions enacted after the Enron scandal mean advisory services employees at Booz & Company could end up battling with PricewaterhouseCoopers accountants over clients....
4 2013-11-01 Mercy for Animals, an animal rights organization, released video this week documenting what activists are calling the torture of pigs by workers at a Minnesota pork farm that supplies Walmart....
5 2013-11-01 A longtime risk communicator says industry should drop its fierce opposition to GMO labels....
6 2013-11-01 “If I were a woman, I think I would wear high heels,” said Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York. But not everyone agrees. Last week an executive took a photograph of a woman wearing spiky heels at a business event and then sent out an opinionated tweet with the hashtag “brainsnotrequired.”

Many said the tweet was sexist. But its originator defended it, saying stilettos were inappropriate because they were a poor health choice. Are they?
7 2013-11-01 Tips, examples and a quiz to help students think about what the opening lines of an essay or article must do — and how to use what they learn to make their own writing stronger....
8 2013-11-01 Some adults with Medicare may be able to buy dental coverage on the new insurance exchanges, but there are many drawbacks....
9 2013-11-01 Fully three in 10 New Yorkers who go to the polls on Tuesday are likely to have been born abroad, a modern high for the city....
10 2013-11-01 With the publication of a new book surveying his visual practice, the pioneering composer reflects on the relationship between his art- and music-making....
11 2013-11-01 Assessing the government shutdown’s impact. Stores plan to be open longer on Thanksgiving. How to ask people for stuff via email....
12 2013-11-01 Sophie Fiennes’s second collaboration with the public intellectual Slavoj Zizek, sets out a daunting task. Titling a film that way, even tongue in cheek, recalls the Monty Python sketch about summarizing Proust, only with an even broader remit.

Less dynamically than in this film’s predecessor, “The Pervert’s Guide to Cinema,” Mr. Zizek again harvests insights and subtexts in movies, with a bit of current events thrown in. He performs — with harangues, halting delivery and a deadeyed stare — in sumptuously designed and shot sets that evoke “The Sound of Music,” “Taxi Driver,” “Jaws” and other golden oldies of critical interpretation. He even dons costumes and adopts poses from the films, commenting from within his chosen text.

The false freedoms and insidious ubiquity of ideological systems drive much of the lesson. Mr. Zizek’s daisy-chained improvisations amount to an argument on behalf of complexity and unseen depths, and, like much academic writing, it risks monotony and becoming as reductive as it can be seductive. Mr. Zizek also has a frustrating tendency to dead-end into jargon or sidestep at pivotal moments.

He speaks the truth much of the time, yet all the whipping back of the curtain ends up covering up other realities about movies and life. But maybe I’m just being a casualty of ideology.
13 2013-11-01 The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit was unwise to put a stay on the necessary remedies Judge of Federal District Court in ordered in August in response to the civil rights violations of New York City’s policy. And it overreached in taking the extraordinary step of removing Judge Scheindlin from the long-running litigation.

The appeals panel said the judge improperly used the assignment process that led to her presiding over three stop-and-frisk cases. It also said that she created the “appearance of impropriety” by granting a series of press interviews while the case was pending before her. In one of the interviews cited in the appellate court order, Judge Scheindlin reasonably defended herself from what she described as “below-the-belt” attacks by the city, which sought to portray her as unfair to the .

The city, however, did not raise these issues in its motion for a stay of the remedial measures, which include an independent monitor who would oversee reforms of police training, discipline and other matters — while the case was on appeal. The appeals court went out of its way to take up issues that were not before it.

The court did not overturn the August ruling, in which Judge Scheindlin rightly found that the tactics underlying the stop-and-frisk program violated the rights of minority citizens. She castigated city officials for being “deliberately indifferent” to police practices that were racially discriminatory.

The case turned on statistics showing that about 4.4 million people — mostly young black and Hispanic men — had been stopped between January 2004 and June 2012. About 12 percent led to arrests or summonses. But 88 percent of those cases resulted in no further action, meaning that those detained or frisked were not breaking the law. As Judge Scheindlin noted in her ruling, the population that was stopped was overwhelmingly innocent, not criminal — which undercut the city’s argument that it had justification for focusing on minority citizens.

Judge Scheindlin did not strike down the program, which, when properly used, is an important crime-fighting tool. But she sensibly ordered the city to use it in a manner that does not discriminate against minorities and that complied with constitutional protections against unreasonable search and . Under the Fourth Amendment, police officers can legally detain people on the street when there is a reasonable suspicion that the person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a crime. In addition to violating people’s rights, the program, as practiced for years in New York, undermined trust in the Police Department in black and Hispanic communities throughout the city.
14 2013-11-01 While some opposition lawmakers from the secular Republican People’s Party, or C.H.P., expressed opposition, much of the Turkish public seems ready to move beyond the issue: More than 70 percent of the public, in an October survey, supported lifting the ban, according to Ozer Sencar, the director of Metropoll, an Ankara-based polling firm.

“It’s an unnecessary and useless debate,” said Saban Kardas, a professor at Ankara’s University of Economics and Technology. “C.H.P. is digging itself deeper.”

“Last weekend, I was at a wedding and the bride was wearing a head scarf and the witness was wearing modern dress and a short skirt,” Dr. Kardas added. “This is modern Turkey.”

Still, some lawmakers protested: one female member of C.H.P. wore a T-shirt that bore the face of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the modern Turkish republic from the remnants of the Ottoman Empire after World War I and imposed a secular system.

Another C.H.P. member made a different argument: that the head scarf issue, while portrayed by the governing party as an advancement for individual liberties, has served to mask a spotty record on women’s rights.

“I expect them to explain why my country is 120th in a global ranking on women’s rights,” the lawmaker, Safak Pavey, said in Parliament. She added, “The greatest insurance for religious freedom is not about controlling our future with religious guidance but providing flawless secularism.”

The ban on head scarves in Parliament was not enshrined in law but part of the Assembly’s traditional dress code. The code also bans pants for women.

The lifting of the head scarf ban comes at a time of deep polarization here, even if the country is not as divided as it once was over the matter of female dress. Those divisions — between the rural, pious classes and a more secular urban elite — were laid bare by violent protests that began in May in Istanbul and swept across the country.

The protests represented the most severe political crisis faced by Mr. Erdogan in his decade in office, and highlighted the degree of anger against his style, which a growing number of Turks view as authoritarian. While advancing democracy on a number of counts — including overcoming a history of coups by securing civilian authority over the military — he has alienated a significant segment of the population by telling women how many children they should have (sometimes it is three, sometimes five), and involving himself personally in controversial urban development projects in Istanbul, the original catalyst for the protests.

Still, Mr. Erdogan, who maintained his core constituency of religious conservatives, who make up about half the electorate, emerged from the protest crisis with much of his domestic power intact, even as his image was tarnished abroad.

The C.H.P. chairman, Kemal Kilicdaroglu, said the lifting of the head scarf ban was timed by Mr. Erdogan to rally his base before an election cycle that will begin in the spring with a vote for municipal leaders, followed by a presidential election in the summer and end in 2015 with parliamentary elections.

Outside Parliament on Thursday afternoon, Nurcan Dalbudak, an A.K.P. lawmaker, cast it in different terms.

“There is no longer this issue in Turkey, it has been excluded from the agenda,” she said. “Today is a historical, beautiful day.”
15 2013-11-01 When it comes to Brian McCann, the free-agent catcher who has spent his entire career with the Atlanta Braves, the phrase most often used is old school. A big, burly, bearded catcher with a picture-perfect left-handed swing, McCann is easy to imagine playing in baseball’s early days.

His reputation as someone not of this era was cemented in September when a preening Carlos Gomez of the Milwaukee Brewers circled the bases after a home run. As Gomez rounded third, McCann transformed into baseball’s version of Gandalf the Grey, standing in front of home plate, his mask on top of his head, his face bright red and his body language saying clearly to Gomez, “You shall not pass.”

It was, in the end, a pointless protest against Gomez’s cartoonish antics; the run was counted on an obstruction call against McCann. But that did not stop scores of writers from singing the praises of McCann, 29, for protecting baseball’s unwritten rules.

McCann’s fire, determination and leadership have some observers projecting a contract worth $100 million over six seasons. But given his position, his recent decline in durability and an expected drop in production as he enters his 30s, he appears to be the most likely of this off-season’s big-ticket free agents to end up becoming an albatross for the team that signs him.

The off-season is a bit of a misnomer in baseball. On Thursday, one day after the World Series ended, hundreds of players became free agents. The current class, headlined by Robinson Cano, Jacoby Ellsbury, Carlos Beltran, Shin-Soo Choo, Curtis Granderson and McCann, is in a five-day waiting period in which the players’ current teams can offer a one-year qualifying offer for $14.1 million. The players will then have seven days to decide whether to accept that deal or enter the open market.

Last season, nine players received qualifying offers, and all nine declined to accept. Of the nine, only David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox ended up staying with the same team.
16 2013-11-01 WASHINGTON — Business activity in the Midwest surged beyond expectations in October as new orders hit their highest level since 2004, countering recent evidence of soft economic growth.

Meanwhile, weekly claims for unemployment benefits fell, in a sign that the nation’s labor market is on the rebound after the impact of a partial government shutdown on furloughed federal workers diminished.

The Institute for Supply Management said on Thursday that its Chicago business barometer jumped to 65.9 from 55.7, the strongest reading since March 2011 and substantially higher than the most optimistic forecast in a Reuters poll.

The Labor Department said initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped by 10,000 to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the latest week.

The nation’s job market has apparently slackened in recent months, with private sector employers hiring fewer workers in October after the uncertainty caused by the federal budget showdown in diminished confidence among consumers and businesses.
17 2013-11-01 Full Moon on the Quad — normally celebrated beneath the academic year’s first full moon but this year held on Oct. 22 because of a conflict with Homecoming Week — is an event unique in American education: an orgy of interclass kissing reluctantly but officially sanctioned by the university.

It is a domestic example of a new field in public health, “mass-gathering medicine.” The best-known example is Saudi Arabia’s multimillion-dollar efforts to keep the annual pilgrimage to Mecca as epidemic-free as possible.

For Stanford, the struggle is: Since officials can’t outlaw it (yes, they have tried), how can they make it safer?

The first step, said Dr. Ira M. Friedman, director of the Vaden Student Health Center, is to make consent paramount. “We try to create an environment in which they don’t feel they must participate in the exchange of oral secretions,” he said.

His center also offers shots against what it can fight: flu and meningococcal meningitis, a rare but sometimes dangerous infection known as “freshman meningitis.”

To make it safer, the evening is overseen by student sobriety monitors and decorated with hand-drawn signs — of the ilk that usually say “Beat Cal” — but bearing slogans like “Consent is Sexy.”

But the most crucial role is played by the “peer health educators” who live in each dorm.

They meet with freshmen before, and ask any with cold symptoms to feel free to watch, but not to kiss anyone.

“We tell them, ‘Don’t floss beforehand, don’t brush, don’t do anything that could create microabrasions in your gums for germs to get in,” said Michelle Lee Mederos, a former educator who graduated in 2011. “And we have tables where we offer mints and little Dixie cups of mouthwash.”

Mouthwash is the main line of defense. This year there were two tables dotted with paper cups, along with condoms and other sexual health supplies.

The educators also have square latex dental dams to offer, “but they’re generally made fun of,” said Ms. Mederos, who used them in dorm demonstrations of how to safely perform oral sex on a woman. “In two years of ordering supplies, I had to order them only once — for those demonstrations.”

Although the conventional wisdom is that mononucleosis spikes after the event, the health center has never compiled that data, Dr. Friedman said.

“It’s also flu season,” he said. “But we do think the event is a potentiator.”

The event’s origins are lost in the fog of history; legend holds that it began in the late 1800s with senior men presenting freshman women with roses.

Later, it waxed and waned, reputedly practiced sometimes by some fraternities. Many graduates over age 40 have never heard of it.

In 1988, several student officers made it formal.

“It was folklore,” said Julie Lythcott-Haims, one of those officers. “We took it off the shelf and dusted it off. We had roses, a string quartet, maybe some champagne. A couple of hundred students showed up.”

When she returned a decade later as an administrator (she eventually became the beloved “Freshman Dean Julie”), it had “become a thing,” she said. “Thousands were showing up. It was crazy, it was wild. There were concerns about alcohol and safety.”

Starting in 2002, deans debated outlawing it, rejected that as futile and decided to impose order instead.

Now the Quad is barricaded. Campus police check student IDs. Paramedics stand by. A concert is held so nonkissers have something to do.

It has been canceled only once: in 2009, the “pandemic swine flu” year.

After East Coast schools, which open earlier, reported outbreaks, “we decided we couldn’t live with the risk,” Dr. Friedman said. “So we made a very unpopular decision.”

Francisca Gilmore, a freshman that year, said in an email interview from an internship in Cambodia that she and some classmates braved the odds anyway.

“Unofficially, a bunch of overeager freshmen and intoxicated upperclassmen gathered on the Quad and upheld the tradition,” she wrote.

Dr. Friedman conceded that the ban “didn’t work 100 percent, but I think it made some difference.”

Lots of students got flu, “but we weren’t as high as national or even regional rates,” he said.

Since 2002, new traditions have emerged, leaving yesterday’s roses looking wilted.

One co-op’s contingent attends wearing just body paint. There is a “same-sex kissing” area.

And many kissers wear “bingo boards” naming 25 types of kissees they seek: one from each freshman dorm, for example, a rower or a fencer, a redhead, a pothead, a pair of twins, someone over 6-foot-5, someone who got 2,400 on the SAT, and so on. Bingo is five in a row, blackout bingo is the whole board.

The middle square is always the Tree — the Stanford marching band’s mascot. By unwritten rule, the Tree kisses all comers, of all sexes. Its escorts, the Tree Protection Service, keep count.

“Never kiss the Tree,” warned Amanda Ach, who graduated in 2012. “He’s like Patient Zero.”

Clearly, few take that advice. Everyone acknowledges that the Tree holds the record, though no one is sure what it is.

Last year’s Tree, Nicoletta von Heidegger, told The Stanford Daily before the 2012 Full Moon that she had heard it was more than 1,000, set by a previous female Tree in 2002.

She was taking vitamins and “excited but a little nervous,” she said then, because she was both “very competitive” but “quite a germaphobe.”

In a telephone interview this year, Ms. Heidegger declined to reveal her total.

When last seen at the event, this year’s Tree, Calvin Studebaker, was standing under the arch as it broke up, shouting, “I only need 10 more to break the record!”

Charlotte Martin, his mouthwash bearer, swore that he was germ-free.

“He doesn’t have mono!” she insisted. “He gets a shot of Listerine every three kisses!”

He kissed 566, he said three days later.

“I’m pretty sure that’s the male Tree record,” he said. “How am I? I feel great.”

Caroline Doyle, a freshman, said later: “My friend and I decided to go for 100, and we reached it. We split it down the middle.”

The next morning, she had a “little bit of a sore throat” and went to the health center.

All her tests were negative, she said, “but, yes, they told me there’s an incubation period.”

Ms. Gilmore did get flu in 2009, she wrote, but returned anyway in 2010, 2011 and 2012, sometimes keeping tally on her forearm with a Sharpie. She got strep throat twice.

“The repercussions were brutal, and I wish I had done better on the Econ 1A final I took later,” she admitted. “But I think in the long run, getting to tell people I’ve kissed over 50-plus people in a night is worth it.”
18 2013-11-01 Despite Mr. Byrne’s substantial advantage in campaign money and endorsements, Republican consultants and voters here say that the zeal of Mr. Young’s Christian conservative supporters puts the outcome of the runoff at even odds, suggesting that the fight over control of the is likely to be long, hard and unpredictable.

It is a reality that has some of the Washington lobbyists and political consultants who are helping orchestrate the anti-Tea Party push concerned, particularly given that extreme conservatives tend to be more reliable voters.

Mr. Young’s voters are drawn by his declaration that homosexuality “always has been, always will be” wrong, his full backing of using a government shutdown “to stop Obamacare,” and his insistence that people “have the right to acknowledge God in schools and in the public square.”

Supporters of moderate Republican candidates worry about whose voters will turn out.

“We can have all the money in the world, but if we can’t get the center-right Republicans to the polls on Primary Day then it does not matter,” said Steve LaTourette, a former congressman who is now trying to build an $8 million “ ” to help support more mainstream Republicans in 2014 primaries.

In the aftermath of the shutdown last month, business leaders from Washington and around the nation have vowed to play a greater role in coming primaries like this one.

They are increasingly concerned that a core group of anti-establishment conservatives in the House is threatening to derail their agenda, not just in terms of keeping the government open for business, but also when it comes to passing a comprehensive new law, revising the nation’s code and making changes to the , instead of just trying to kill it.

A second test case already emerging is in , where business groups are aligning behind Brian Ellis, a Grand Rapids investment manager who is trying to oust Representative Justin Amash, a Republican who was one of the core House lawmakers who supported the shutdown.

Mr. Byrne, who early in his political career was a Democrat before running as a Republican for state senator and then unsuccessfully for governor again as a Republican in 2010, clearly has the party establishment behind him. Two of the three congressmen who have held this House seat since 1965, two of the Republican candidates who lost in the September primary and the have all endorsed him.

“We have a big choice to make and it’s an important choice, and if we make the wrong choice we can send somebody to Congress who’s a show horse and not a workhorse,” Mr. Byrne said at the debate on Wednesday night, presenting himself as a candidate who can make deals and get things done rather than pick fights on principle.

The Chamber of Commerce has contributed money in House Republican primaries before, but it expects to play a role in a greater number of these intraparty fights in the coming year.

Rob Engstrom, the chamber’s national political director, explained this strategy on Tuesday, when he flew in to endorse Mr. Byrne, standing on a stage next to him at the warehouse in Foley.

“The No. 1 goal of the U.S. Chamber’s political program is to protect the pro-business majority in the House of Representatives,” Mr. Engstrom said to the crowd. “In addition to protecting that majority, we are also very interested in what is the composition of that majority. We want to find candidates who come from the private sector, we want to find candidates who come from the chamber family.”

Contributions from corporate America have been pouring into Mr. Byrne’s campaign in recent days. Just in the first three workdays of this week, for example, $5,000 checks came in from political action committees run by , the pharmaceutical giant; the National Beer Wholesalers Association; the Independent Agents and Brokers of America; the Corporation, the chemical company; and the National Association of Home Builders, among others.

And on Tuesday, the Chamber of Commerce, which also contributed $5,000 to the campaign, disclosed that it had spent $185,000 in so-called independent expenditures to help Mr. Byrne’s cause, with the money going to a Washington-area political consulting firm to send out mail to voters and to take out Internet advertisements.

David French, the chief lobbyist at the National Retail Federation, whose members such as have contributed to Mr. Byrne’s campaign, said that in House districts like this one in Alabama, the Republican nominee is almost certain to win the seat when the full election takes place in December. That means the business community has one shot to influence the outcome.

“If you don’t play in the primaries, you are not going to take part in those races,” Mr. French said.

Among the business elite there is anxiety about the runoff, and many believe that an angry electorate has found what it is looking for in Mr. Young’s brand of aggressive — but by all accounts sincere — politics.

Recent elections in Alabama have proved that politicians with a strong Christian conservative following can win big races, even when significantly outraised. Aware of this, some in the Byrne camp have quietly reached out to Democrats, hoping to attract non-Republicans to the polls. But it is unclear whether that will happen, or would be enough.

“We are hungry for bold, B-O-L-D, all caps,” said Linda King, a retiree who is volunteering for Mr. Young’s campaign.

For Ms. King and her fellow volunteer Joy Hansel, the endorsement of the Chamber of Commerce — a group that supports immigration law change — only reinforces their belief that they are supporting the right man for the job.

“Every endorsement comes with an expectation,” Ms. Hansel said. “We’re relying on a higher power.”
19 2013-11-01 Sales of a promising leukemia drug, Iclusig, are being suspended because of “the risk of life-threatening blood clots and severe narrowing of blood vessels,” the Food and Drug Administration said on Thursday.

The drug, also known as ponatinib, has been linked to severe and sometimes fatal heart attacks and strokes, blindness and loss of blood flow in the extremities serious enough to require amputation. In some cases, the problems or deaths occurred as soon as two weeks after patients began taking the drug, the agency said in a statement. It also said some of the people affected had no risk factors for heart disease, and some were in their 20s.

Iclusig was approved less than a year ago to treat chronic myeloid leukemia. The risk of blood clots was known, and the label carried a warning. But over time, the problems turned out to be much worse than they appeared in the studies performed before the drug was approved. In those studies, 8 percent of people taking the drug had serious blood clots in their arteries, and 3 percent had blood clots in veins.

Now, the F.D.A. reports, 24 percent of patients studied a median of 1.3 years and 48 percent studied a median of 2.7 years had “serious adverse vascular events.”

“Those are pretty significant numbers,” Stephanie Yao, an F.D.A. spokeswoman, said. “We can’t let a drug continue to be marketed with that profile.”

Ms. Yao said the drug was not being permanently withdrawn. She said the F.D.A. would work with the company to try to identify certain types of patients who might still benefit from the drug. Chronic myeloid leukemia can be fatal, and Iclusig may be able to keep some people alive when nothing else works. For now, patients who wish to keep taking the drug can do so, Ms. Yao said.
20 2013-11-01 ATLANTA — The United States Department of Justice said Thursday that it had opened a formal review of the death of a 17-year-old boy found in a rolled-up wrestling mat at his Georgia high school in January.

The death of the student, Kendrick L. Johnson, has been the subject of persistent questions since his body was found in the upright blue mat at Lowndes High School in Valdosta, Ga., on Jan. 11, a day after his mother reported him missing after a basketball game.

Although the state and local authorities determined that Mr. Johnson’s death was an accidental one caused by positional asphyxia, his parents, Kenneth and Jacquelyn Johnson, disagreed and called for a renewed inquiry.

Their lawyer, Benjamin L. Crump, said in a telephone interview, “It defies all logic, the laws of physics and common sense that a 17-year-old, an above-average athlete, would climb into a wrestling mat, get stuck trying to reach for a shoe and suffocate.”

The family commissioned a private autopsy that said “unexplained, apparent nonaccidental blunt force trauma” killed him.

Mr. Crump, who has also represented the family of Trayvon Martin, said the Johnsons were pleased that the Justice Department had chosen to intervene. In deciding to investigate, Michael J. Moore, the United States attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, said, “There are several questions that must be answered or confirmed,” including whether criminal misconduct was involved.
21 2013-11-01 Riding a surge in demand for new fuel-efficient planes, Boeing said on Thursday that it would increase production of its top-selling 737 jets to 47 a month by 2017, from 38 now.

Boeing, based in Chicago, previously announced it would increase production of the single-aisle jets to 42 a month next year. The additional increase by 2017 will come as a new version of the plane, the 737 MAX, enters regular production, and will represent an increase of nearly 50 percent in monthly production since 2010.

Airbus, Boeing’s rival, now builds 42 of its competing A320 planes each month. A new version of those jets, called the A320neo, has gotten more advance orders so far than Boeing’s 737 MAX.

Both companies are pushing to build as many of the planes — among the smallest jets in their families — as they can to increase profits and ease huge order backlogs. Aircraft makers in China, Russia and other countries are hoping to break into the market with new planes of their own. Boeing and Airbus are turning to new engines and other fuel-saving technologies to hold on to their lead.

Boeing said last week that the 737 MAX would offer a 14 percent fuel savings over today’s most efficient single-aisle planes.

Boeing has delivered more than 7,700 of its 737s since the late 1960s. Because it produces the planes so efficiently, they are highly profitable.

Raising production will give Boeing more cash as it introduces new versions of its midsize 787 Dreamliner and undertakes a major redesign of its larger 777s.
22 2013-11-01 Fannie Mae sued nine of the world’s largest banks on Thursday, accusing them of colluding to manipulate interest rates and seeking more than $800 million of damages.

In a complaint filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, Fannie Mae, the government-controlled mortgage company, accused the banks of conspiring for many years to suppress the London Interbank Offered Rate, known as Libor, including during the 2008 financial crisis.

Libor underpins hundreds of trillions of dollars of transactions and is used to set interest rates on such things as credit cards, student loans and mortgages.

But according to Thursday’s 71-page lawsuit, “defendants’ promises and representations regarding the legitimacy of Libor were false,” causing Fannie Mae to lose money on swaps, mortgages, mortgage securities and other transactions.

American and European regulators have been investigating claims that many banks manipulated Libor and other rate benchmarks to increase profits or appear healthier than they actually were.
23 2013-11-01 The targets of the hacking ranged from politicians and socialites to Milly Dowler, a 13-year-old who was abducted in 2002 and later found dead. The paper broke into her voice mail account while she was missing, to listen to messages left for her by her parents. The paper also hacked the phones of competing journalists.

“Throughout the relevant period, what Mr. Coulson knew, Mrs. Brooks knew, too,” Mr. Edis said. “What Mrs. Brooks knew, Mr. Coulson knew, too. That’s the point.” He argued that none of the illegal acts undertaken by the paper’s journalists or the freelancers it hired were likely to have been unknown to the top editors, and that they were unlikely to have kept such secrets from one another.

The relationship came to the attention of the police when investigators found a letter addressed to Mr. Coulson at Ms. Brooks’s home, written in February 2004 when Mr. Coulson was trying to end the affair. “The fact is you are my very best friend, I tell you everything, I confide in you, I seek your advice, I love you, care about you, worry about you, we laugh and cry together,” the letter said, as Mr. Edis read it in court. “Without our relationship in my life, I am not sure I will cope.”

Mr. Edis asserted that he was not trying to embarrass the two defendants, to intrude into their private lives or to make a moral judgment.

“Mrs. Brooks and Mr. Coulson are charged with conspiracy and, when people are charged with conspiracy, the first question a jury has to answer is, How well did they know each other? How much did they trust each other?” he said. “And the fact that they were in this relationship, which was a secret, means that they trusted each other quite a lot with at least that secret, and that’s why we are telling you about it.”

The trial, with a total of eight defendants, is expected to last many months. Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson are accused of conspiring with others to hack phones and of conspiring with others to commit misconduct in public office, a reference to payoffs made to the police and other officials. Ms. Brooks also faces charges of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Her husband is accused of helping her to hide evidence.

All eight defendants deny the charges against them.

On Wednesday, Mr. Edis revealed that four other people had pleaded guilty to having hacked phone accounts on behalf of The News of the World. He argued that the jury should consider those pleas as evidence of a conspiracy, and that senior editors must have been aware of the acts of underlings.

“They must have known where these stories came from, or they never would have got in the paper,” he said.
24 2013-11-01 When Uber, the San Francisco-based company that allows customers to order rides with a cellphone app, expanded its operations to Texas, it chose Dallas as its starting point.

But the company’s arrival has caused friction with the city’s cab and limousine drivers, and raised debate over what regulations should apply to it. As officials deliberate whether to change the city code to address Uber’s operations, the company is continuing efforts to expand in Dallas and other Texas cities. But cab and limo business representatives say that if Uber is not subject to the same regulations they face, they could go out of business.

Soon after beginning operations in Dallas in October 2012, the city sent Uber a cease-and-desist letter, telling it to halt operations because it did not have the proper licenses.

"We’ve seen this conversation happen before,” said Leandre Johns, general manager of Uber’s Texas operations. He said Uber was a technology company, not a transportation company, because it connected riders with drivers it did not employ. He said that though it met or exceeded many standards that govern transportation companies — screening drivers and tracking customer satisfaction, for example — it was different. Uber makes money mainly by taking a portion of its drivers’ fares, Mr. Johns said.

A technology company would be exempt from many of the taxes, fees and regulations that affect taxi and limousine companies in Dallas. That includes providing transportation to all parts of the city and for customers with disabilities.
25 2013-11-01 Convinced that the Rothschild name will appeal to new buyers who may be devotees of wine from the family’s fabled vineyards, Christie’s experts are showing the manuscript in Moscow and Hong Kong. “It’s a first for us to take a Renaissance manuscript to Russia and Asia,” Mr. Hall said.

It’s not unusual for an auction house expert, when visiting a client’s favorite work of art, to discover something of value that is totally unexpected. Seven years ago when a Sotheby’s representative went to look at a piece of furniture belonging to a client in Northern Europe, he spied on a stair landing a creepy marble figure of a satyr, wearing an oversize comedy mask. He suspected the satyr might be rare and sent his colleague Florent Heintz, head of Sotheby’s antiquities department, an email describing it.

The object, Mr. Heintz discovered, was a marble imperial Roman figure from the first century A.D. lost to scholars for over a century. Now Sotheby’s plans to sell it on Dec. 12, when Mr. Heintz expects it will fetch $3 million to $5 million.

“It had been known to scholars through 19th-century photographs and 17th-century drawings,” he said. The earliest mention of the figure was in an inventory of Alessandro Ludovisi’s collection compiled upon his death in 1623, two years after he had become Pope Gregory XV.

The sculpture has been on loan to the J. Paul Getty Museum at the Getty Villa in Malibu, Calif., since 2011 and was shown at Sotheby’s as part of “Divine Comedy,” an exhibition at the auction house in 2010. Recognizing the growing number of contemporary art collectors interested in buying antiquities, Sotheby’s will be showing it in its York Avenue galleries in Manhattan during its contemporary art sale, starting on Nov. 9.

The five-term senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, who died in June, was known for fighting the alcohol and tobacco industries. Beyond his public persona, however, he was a collector of mostly American artists, including Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Ed Ruscha, Cindy Sherman and Andy Warhol. He liked photography too, buying examples of midcentury names including Walker Evans, Robert Frank and Alfred Stieglitz.

Christie’s is selling the art from Mr. Lautenberg’s estate in a series of several events beginning this month. He embraced all things American: flags; stars and stripes, images of former presidents, touchstones of the vernacular landscape. “Everything has a story line,” said Laura Paulson, international director of Christie’s department of postwar and contemporary art. “He sought out artists as well as imagery that reflected his interest in American history.”

Among the star works at Christie’s postwar and contemporary art auction on Nov. 12 is an untitled canvas by Mr. Ruscha of a billowing American flag, estimated to sell for $1.5 million to $2.5 million. A collage by Rauschenberg, made to raise money for the Congress of Racial Equality in 1965, incorporates a photograph of John F. Kennedy Jr., an American Indian, a stop sign and the Manhattan skyline. It is expected to fetch $300,000 to $500,000. (The image of Kennedy is one Rauschenberg used many times in his famous series of silk-screen paintings from 1964.)

Also for sale is “Flags 1,” a color print by Jasper Johns from 1973 that is being offered on Nov. 13 and is expected to bring $250,000 to $350,000.

Mr. Lautenberg also embraced this country’s road culture. His collection includes 10 prints from Mr. Ruscha’s “Twentysix Gasoline Stations,” his seminal 1962 portfolio, which will be auctioned on Nov. 12 and is estimated to bring $60,000 to $80,000.

Since David Zwirner opened his London outpost on Grafton Street in Mayfair last year, he has primarily been importing the work of American artists like Donald Judd, Fred Sandback and Christopher Williams. Slowly, however, Mr. Zwirner is building a stable of London-based artists. In addition to Oscar Murillio, the 27-year-old Colombian-born painter whose work is hot, Mr. Zwirner has just taken on Bridget Riley, 82. She is a household name in England, but not in the United States. Mr. Zwirner said he planned to show her work in London next spring, her first major exhibition since her retrospective at Tate Britain in 2003.
26 2013-11-01 PARIS — To beat back the British, the United States Davis Cup team is prepared to get dirty.

John Isner, the highest-ranked American man at No. 16, said team members and their captain, Jim Courier, had been discussing hosting their February Davis Cup match against Britain on clay, a surface that American players in recent generations had considered Kryptonite. The United States has not hosted a Davis Cup series on clay since 1992, a streak of 28 home series played on hardcourts, grass or carpet.

“There’s a bit of a chain email going on between captain Courier, myself, Sam and the Bryan brothers,” said Isner, referring to Sam Querrey, Mike Bryan and Bob Bryan. “We’ve brought that up. I, for one, would actually like that.”

Recent top American men, including Pete Sampras, Andy Roddick, James Blake and Mardy Fish, have been at their least comfortable on clay, which has made it a natural choice for European and South American countries that host the American squad.

But the 6-foot-10-inch Isner, who prefers slower, higher-bouncing surfaces, said the current American lineup, which features four players taller than 6-3, was suited for clay-court play.

“We’re not a typical tennis team,” he said. “We look more like a basketball team.”

Isner won his first clay-court title last April in Houston; he had reached the final of two other clay-court events. Querrey has also won a title on clay, beating Isner in a final in Belgrade in 2010. The Bryans have played some of their best tennis on clay, winning 21 titles on the surface, including the French Open twice.
27 2013-11-01 But Judge Scheindlin ruled in August that the Police Department not only had violated the Fourth Amendment’s guarantee against unreasonable searches and seizures, but had also violated the 14th Amendment by resorting to a “policy of indirect racial profiling” as the number of police stops soared in minority communities over the last decade.

The police, Judge Scheindlin found, were routinely stopping “blacks and Hispanics who would not have been stopped if they were white.”

Lawyers for the city had gone to the Second Circuit to ask for a stay of Judge Scheindlin’s ruling and of the court-ordered mandates. In granting the stay, the circuit went beyond what the city had requested and unexpectedly ordered that the stop-and-frisk lawsuit, known as the Floyd case, be randomly reassigned.

The new judge, John Koeltl, was instructed to put off “all proceedings and otherwise await further action” from the panel. The appeals court has not yet taken up whether Judge Scheindlin’s decision reached the correct constitutional conclusion regarding the police tactics.

“We intimate no view on the substance or merits of the pending appeals,” the two-page order stated.

The panel set a schedule for the appeals process that extends into 2014, after Mr. Bloomberg leaves office. The judicial stay leaves open the question as to how the next mayor will approach the appeal, and whether he will accept or challenge the court-ordered mandates.

Bill de Blasio, the Democratic nominee for mayor, whom recent polls have shown to be far ahead of his Republican opponent, Joseph J. Lhota, said he was “extremely disappointed” by the decision.

“We have to end the overuse of stop-and-frisk, and any delay only means a continued and unnecessary rift between our police and the people they protect,” Mr. de Blasio said in a statement.

Mr. Lhota applauded the ruling. “As I have said all along, Judge Scheindlin’s biased conduct corrupted the case,” he said in a statement, adding that the next mayor “absolutely must continue this appeal.”

Lawyers involved in the lawsuit said they would appeal the panel’s decision, which put off a number of changes Judge Scheindlin had ordered. Those included installing an outside lawyer to monitor the Police Department’s compliance with the Constitution and directing some officers to wear cameras in a pilot program to record their street interactions, and holding community meetings to solicit public comments on reforming the department’s tactics.

One civil rights lawyer who brought the stop-and-frisk case, Jonathan C. Moore, said the Second Circuit’s criticism was misplaced, and expressed shock that the panel would remove Judge Scheindlin.

“I think it’s a travesty of justice for this panel of the Second Circuit to take this case away from a judge who worked very hard for the last five years to resolve very important, serious issues involving the civil rights of the residents of New York,” Mr. Moore said.

The city’s police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, characterized the ruling as “an important decision for all New Yorkers.”

“I have always been — and certainly I haven’t been alone — concerned about the partiality of Judge Scheindlin,” he said.

In its ruling, the panel of three judges — John M. Walker Jr, José A. Cabranes and Barrington D. Parker — criticized Judge Scheindlin for granting media interviews and for making public statements while the case was pending before her, including articles in The New Yorker and by The Associated Press. In criticizing the judge for bringing the stop-and-frisk case under her purview, the three-judge panel also cited an article by The New York Times in a footnote.

At issue is the related-case rule, which allows lawyers to steer similar lawsuits before the same judge. But the Second Circuit said Judge Scheindlin had improperly applied that rule, citing her comments in 2007 to civil-rights lawyers who sought to reopen a long-settled stop-and-frisk lawsuit. If “you got proof of inappropriate racial profiling in a good constitutional case, why don’t you bring a lawsuit?” she said, according to a transcript quoted in the order on Thursday. “You can certainly mark it as related.”

Not long after her remarks, the lawyers did in fact file the Floyd lawsuit.

Judge Scheindlin issued a statement late Thursday explaining her use of the related-case rule, suggesting that encouraging the plaintiffs to file a new action made procedural sense.

She added that in her interviews with the media, she had avoided talking about the Floyd case.

“Some of the reporters used quotes from written opinions in Floyd that gave the appearance that I had commented on the case,” the judge said. “However, a careful reading of each interview will reveal that no such comments were made.”
28 2013-11-01 Unfortunately, nothing fundamental is being changed. Libor lives on. Regulators who wanted to change that, most notably Mr. Gensler, have been outmaneuvered by those who did not want to risk damaging one of the biggest and most lucrative markets around.

This week’s penitent financial institution, Rabobank, showed just how international a fraud this was. The bank settled with authorities in the Netherlands, Britain, Japan and the United States. The authorities said the fraud was carried out by more than two dozen traders and managers at the bank’s offices in London, New York, Utrecht, Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong. The bank’s chairman resigned.

When the Libor scandal exploded last year, with Barclays as the initial villain, there was a narrative that made the violations seem understandable and perhaps provoked at least a little sympathy for the banks. They had lied about their borrowing costs during the financial crisis, concealing how difficult a time they were having. Perhaps they should not have done so, but who was really harmed?

It turns out that the financial crisis did not cause the fraud; it merely made it so obvious that regulators finally noticed. It had been going on for years, aided by an international culture that treated market manipulation as a matter of course. If a bank did not have its own good reason for manipulating the market, then a trader would agree to do so as a favor for a trader at another institution. Why not? Maybe he would need a favor on another day.

“You know, scratch my back, yeah, and all,” a Rabobank trader said after he agreed to a request from a “geezer at UBS” to submit a figure as low as possible. “Yeah, oh definitely, yeah, play the rules,” replied the broker who had relayed the request. The complaint filed by the C.F.T.C., which included the exchange, helpfully explained that the “geezer” was a senior yen trader at the Swiss bank. It did not give his age.

Libor — the London interbank offered rate — is supposed to represent the costs that each bank would face if it received an unsecured deposit from another bank. Each day, banks report Libor rates for maturities ranging from overnight to 12 months, in numerous currencies. The announced Libor rates are based on averages of bank submissions. In Europe, there is a similar Euribor. Banks cheated on both.

“In the U.S.,” Mr. Gensler said in his speech, “Libor is the reference rate for 70 percent of the futures market and more than half of the swaps market. It is the reference rate for more than $10 trillion in loans.”

Such a huge market created ample incentives to cheat. Sometimes traders wanted to influence the rate so that their derivatives positions would benefit. Other times banks knew that a lot of loans they had made had interest rates that would reset on a certain day, based on a particular Libor rate. Then they wanted to push that rate up, if only for one day.

At Rabobank, the people who submitted the Libor number each day were not even trained to determine what the real market rate was. If there was no request from someone at the bank to push rates up or down, the submitters were told to just repeat the previous day’s number.

All of this makes it appear as though Rabobank got off easy, even though it will pay more than $1 billion to settle with all the prosecutors and regulators.

The C.F.T.C. settlement attributed the bank’s violations to a lack of internal controls, even as it noted that a “senior manager” was involved. The Justice Department agreed to a deferred prosecution agreement, which will permit the bank to avoid a conviction if it is not caught again. “Rabobank has significantly expanded and enhanced its legal and regulatory compliance program,” the department explained.

Libor has always been run by the British Bankers Association. The prime change being made is to move the responsibility to the New York Stock Exchange, whose London office is preparing to take control early next year.

“As the new administrator, we plan to return credibility, trust and integrity to Libor, by bringing the essential combination of strong regulatory framework and market-leading validation techniques, administered by a pre-eminent market infrastructure provider,” the exchange promises.

But the language may not be matched by reality. When the scandal first broke, and Robert Diamond was forced to resign as chief executive of Barclays, there was talk of the need for an interest rate indicator to reflect actual transactions. But that goal fell by the roadside. The new promise is that the rate will be “anchored” in “relevant transaction data.”

What does that mean? It means that banks may use the rates they pay on certificates of deposit, or on commercial paper, or on repurchase agreements, or by observations about other markets, and adjust those rates as appropriate. The Libor rate is supposedly a rate for unsecured loans between banks, but there do not seem to be many such transactions these days. The N.Y.S.E. says that it may be appropriate for banks to use the rates they pay on insured deposits in estimating the Libor rate.

If all else fails, “expert judgment should be used to determine a submission,” wrote Martin Wheatley, whose report set the course for allowing Libor to continue without fundamental reform. Mr. Wheatley is now chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority, a British regulator.

A spokeswoman for the Big Board assured me that the exchange “will put in place stringent surveillance systems” but will not require exact procedures. “How they adjust other transactions is for each individual bank to take into account. The important thing is to monitor it over time, ensuring that when the relationship changes, there is good reason for the change.”

In other words, rather than reflecting actual loans to banks, the Libor rate submissions can be based on any sort-of-similar transaction, adjusted in whatever way the bank thinks is fair. It is sort of like estimating gasoline prices by looking at the cost of home heating oil, or even natural gas. Traders in energy futures would never stand for that, but it is taken for granted that those who depend on financial futures will not be so finicky.

There are market rates that conceivably could have been used, as Mr. Gensler proposed. But the banks did not want to make such a big change, and it was not clear how those rates would affect existing Libor contracts.

So what will change? Presumably there will be no more incriminating instant messages, emails and taped phone calls. Traders are not that stupid. But those who submit rates will retain considerable latitude and their banks will continue to have trading desks whose profits or losses will be determined by how Libor rates change.

The frauds being prosecuted now involved interest rate manipulations of only a few hundredths of a percentage point. In the future, proving that submissions were made in bad faith could be virtually impossible.

At Rabobank, as part of the settlement with the C.F.T.C., the people who determine what rates the bank will submit must “not be located in close proximity to traders who primarily deal in derivative products” based on Libor. “The two groups should be separated such that neither can hear the other,” the settlement states.

So a bank that committed fraud through coordinated actions by people in six countries will assure future compliance by moving some desks around. There is no mention of a requirement that the two groups of people not use the same restrooms or drink at the same bars.
29 2013-11-01 PARIS — The Czech Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that former Prime Minister Petr Necas was not entitled to immunity from prosecution for the period when he was head of government, clearing the way for prosecutors who have been seeking to charge him with corruption.

If prosecutors proceed as expected, he will be the highest Czech official to face such charges since the overthrow of Communism in 1989.

A bespectacled, churchgoing father of four, Mr. Necas became prime minister in 2010 after vowing to sweep away a culture of graft and corruption that has blighted the country. But he resigned in June after his chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, was accused in a bribery and illegal spying scandal.

Ms. Nagyova, with whom Mr. Necas was having an affair, was charged with misuse of office after prosecutors said she used the intelligence services to spy on Mr. Necas’s wife, whom he has since divorced. Ms. Nagyova is also accused of trying to bribe three rebellious members of Parliament with jobs in state-owned companies. Ms. Nagyova, who has denied the charges, subsequently married Mr. Necas.

Prosecutors have been investigating whether Mr. Necas was involved in the granting of the state jobs, which Mr. Necas has characterized as legitimate political deal-making. He has vehemently denied any wrongdoing and has not been charged with any crime.
30 2013-11-01 The administrator of the F.A.A., Michael P. Huerta, said he expected that, with rare exceptions, airlines would allow the use of tablets, MP3 players and smartphones in “airplane mode,” with their cell network connections turned off. The airlines will have to conduct tests on their equipment and submit the results to the F.A.A. for approval, he said at a news conference at Ronald Reagan National Airport, outside Washington.

Soon after Mr. Huerta spoke, Delta Air Lines and JetBlue announced that they had submitted plans for passengers to use electronics in flight. JetBlue also planned to introduce a high-capacity Wi-Fi service by the end of the year that may work at lower altitudes, said a spokeswoman, Jennifer Dervin.

The rule banning use of personal electronic devices during some parts of the flight had become an increasing source of frustration for passengers who saw it as outdated in a technology-dependent age, a point that Mr. Huerta acknowledged.

Jodi Fleisig, who lives in Atlanta with her husband and two boys, ages 11 and 9, welcomed the change. “It’s great when you have kids, because you can get them settled in and settled down, and it makes a huge difference in the quality of the flight,” she said. “They can play games on their iPads, or they can read or watch a movie.”

Ms. Fleisig, a senior vice president at Porter Novelli, a public relations firm, added that “As a business traveler, I’m in the air a lot, and the fact that I can sit down and start working right away and get incredible amounts of work done is a lifesaver.”

Mr. Huerta stressed that passengers would be told to turn off their electronics when the flight attendants gave preflight safety briefings about what to do in an emergency, and that the airlines would have to develop new rules about stowing electronics during takeoff and landing.

While flight attendants have no effective way to determine whether a cellphone or tablet is really in airplane mode during flight, Mr. Huerta said, “There’s no safety problem if they’re not, but you’re going to arrive at your destination with a dead battery,” because the device would continue looking for a cell connection and would not find it.

Mr. Huerta also noted that change would not be universal. “In some instances of low visibility, 1 percent of flights, some landing systems may not be proven to tolerate the interference,” he said. “In those cases, passengers may be asked to turn off personal electronic devices.”

Mr. Huerta said the airlines had favored the change, to “enhance the customer experience,” but that they did not have a uniform position. The industry’s main trade association, Airlines for America, supported the decision in a statement.

Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who had pressed for the change, praised the announcement as well. “This is great news for the traveling public,” she said in a statement, “and frankly, a win for common sense.”

The president of the Association of Flight Attendants, Veda Shook, said the change was “welcome news.”

“We’re not going to run away from technology,” she said, “but we’re not going to run away from safety, either.” Flight attendants would be relieved of the job of making passengers turn off their devices when the plane descended, she added, but they would have to enforce new rules about what had to be stored under a seat or in an overhead bin, and what could be held or put in a seat back pocket.

She said she hoped the rules would be uniform across the airlines, to minimize confusion among passengers

And, she said, the old rules were still in force now, although she added, “I’m pretty sure people are going to think they can do this today.”

The new rule applies to all United States carriers. The European Aviation Safety Agency, which participated on the F.A.A. review panel, said on Thursday it would analyze the decision before clarifying its own policy.

“The position the F.A.A. announced today is actually a step in the direction of the way it works in Europe,” Dominique Fouda, a spokesman for the European agency in Cologne, said in an email. In Europe, he said, “there is per se no ban” on the use of mobile phones and other personal electronic devices. Rather, it is the responsibility of the airlines to demonstrate that they do not interfere with cockpit equipment.

One winner in the new policy is Amazon, which makes the Kindle e-book reader and whose representative worked on the F.A.A. panel that made the recommendation. Drew Herdener, a spokesman, said: “We’ve been fighting for our customers on this issue for years — testing an airplane packed full of Kindles, working with the F.A.A. and serving as the device manufacturer on this committee. This is a big win for customers and, frankly, it’s about time.”
31 2013-11-01 Greenwald lives with a sense of exile but is pesky in his determination not to relent. He has been embraced as a hero by Brazil after revealing American spying on President (who postponed a planned state visit to Washington), but he has resisted one request to hand over documents and is determined, here as elsewhere, to keep his distance from power.

He is on a double mission: to push back in the name of freedom against the post-9/11 “surveillance state” with its dragnet data trawling, and to reinvigorate journalism through “an aggressive and adversarial position to political and corporate power,” an undertaking he will pursue through a new online publication backed with $250 million from the billionaire Pierre Omidyar, the same amount of paid for The (a sobering reflection on the standing of legacy newspapers today).

On the first of these fronts, he says he is only halfway through the reporting of Snowden’s documents “with a lot of huge revelations to come.” On the second, explored in a recent exchange with my colleague Bill Keller that will be taught in journalism schools, he has already made about 10 hires. (He and Omidyar have never met, which must be some sort of first for such a venture.)

“Our style will be to encourage and empower combative journalism that can be a real force against powerful people,” he says. “We want our journalists to follow their passion.”

He continued: “The reason why journalism is important, why it is protected in the Constitution, is to be one of the institutional checks on abuse of power, and for that you have to keep those in power at arm’s length, hold them accountable.”

For Greenwald, American journalism has been defanged by the “patriotism compulsion” after 9/11 and by the culture of big media corporations. He alludes to ’s speech at in 2005: “Never, never, never let them intimidate you. People are always going to try in all kinds of ways. Sheriffs, generals, presidents of universities, presidents of countries, secretaries of defense. Don’t let them.”

Of course, this admonition is sacred to plenty of old-school journalists. Greenwald overstates the conformity of mainstream papers, whose investigative journalism is often vigorous and fearless. But he is right that journalism got engulfed, with grave consequences, in America’s great post-9/11 . And there is no question that journalism will benefit from having the personal, open-with-its-bias reporting Greenwald proposes alongside the impartiality-seeking traditional media. “Biased and balanced” — the blog formula — is an important component of the new media landscape. Each form can spur the other, keep it honest.

American society will also benefit from Greenwald’s ongoing revelations about out-of-control surveillance. He has testified before the Brazilian Senate, and should be allowed to testify before the . He says, “I am definitely going back, I refuse to be exiled for a lie.”

He deserves assurance that he can return to the United States without facing arrest.
32 2013-11-01 Mr. Assad’s opponents have bitterly denounced the accord as a distraction, and they were dismayed that the chemical weapons attack in August that American officials say killed 1,400 men, women and children near Damascus led not to American military intervention, as President Obama initially threatened, but to an agreement that allows Mr. Assad’s supporters to portray him as a statesman.

The deal also created a de facto expectation that Mr. Assad would remain in office at least until mid-2014, when the elimination of the weapons is supposed to be complete under the agreement, critics say. And Syrians — supporters and opponents of the government alike — widely considered chemical weapons a side issue that global leaders were focusing on, rather than finding ways to end the war and its humanitarian disaster.

The government’s international opponents emphasized on Thursday that the deal was still incomplete and that they still hold Mr. Assad accountable for the suffering of Syrians. The British Foreign Office said in a statement that while the destruction of chemical facilities was “an important first milestone, it brings no relief to the Syrian people,” since the government continues to use artillery, air power and “siege tactics” against civilians.

In a statement on Thursday, the international chemical weapons watchdog group, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said Syria had disabled all of the chemical weapons production and mixing facilities it declared to inspectors, rendering them inoperable, ahead of the deadline of Friday.

The organization said that its inspectors and United Nations officials had visited 39 of the 41 facilities at 21 of the 23 sites that Syria had declared to them. While the two remaining sites — where chemical weapons are developed, stored and tested — were too hazardous to visit because of fighting, chemical-making equipment had been moved to other sites that the inspectors could visit, the statement said.

“The joint mission is now satisfied that it has verified — and seen destroyed — all of Syria’s declared critical production and mixing/filling equipment,” the weapons organization’s statement said. “Given the progress made, no further inspection activities are currently planned.”

In Washington, at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, questions were raised about why only 23 sites were mentioned in the statement as opposed to the 45 that American officials had said existed. Thomas M. Countryman, the State Department’s assistant secretary for international security and nonproliferation, said that the discrepancy might stem from how sites were defined, but that other details were classified and that there would be a subsequent hearing on the matter.

The weapons organization’s statements throughout the process have consistently suggested that the Syrian government was putting up no apparent resistance. Some government supporters — and indeed, some rebel fighters — have criticized the deal as giving up weapons that belong to the Syrian people and are needed as a deterrent against Israel, which maintains an undeclared nuclear arsenal.

But Syrian officials said that the weapons were of little practical use and that giving them up allowed them to claim new moral standing and draw attention to the push for the elimination of Israel’s nuclear weapons.

They have blamed the rebels for the deadly chemical attacks while independent experts analyzing a United Nations report on the attacks have said the evidence points to government culpability and to the weapons having been fired from government bases overlooking Damascus.

In a recent interview in Damascus, the deputy foreign minister, Fayssal Mekdad, portrayed the Syrian government as restrained and pragmatic.

“We behaved responsibly against a potential attack by the U.S., which could really endanger the situation in Syria and in the region and beyond,” he said. “We have fulfilled our responsibility. It shows once again the success of Syrian diplomacy and the care it gives to the interests of the people and the region and world peace.”

He added that those concerned about nuclear and chemical weapons in the Middle East “should only focus their eyes on the Israeli arsenal.”

On Thursday, the Israeli newspaper Maariv reported that senior Israeli officials had met in Switzerland recently with representatives of all the Arab states to discuss holding a conference on disarming weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. It was the first time Arab and Israeli officials had met to discuss such a proposal, Maariv said.

The article quoted “American sources” as saying the United States would not pressure Israel to give up its nuclear weapons before reaching a deal with Iran over its nuclear program, which Iran says is peaceful but which Israel believes is aimed at building nuclear weapons.
33 2013-11-02 Success signing up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act has been elusive for some and a dream come true for others. It often depends on geography....
34 2013-11-02 76ERS 109, WIZARDS 102 Thaddeus Young scored 29 points, and Philadelphia moved to a surprising 2-0 after pulling away in the fourth quarter at Washington.

After stunning the two-time defending champions, the Miami Heat, on Wednesday, the 76ers rallied from a 12-point second-half deficit and ruined the home opener for the Wizards, who have lost two games to start a season that has essentially been labeled playoffs-or-bust by their owner, Ted Leonsis.

“It’s only two, but we sure are happy,” said Brett Brown, Philadelphia’s first-year coach.

MAGIC 110, PELICANS 90 Arron Afflalo had 30 points, and Maurice Harkless added 20 points and 8 rebounds as host Orlando got its first win of the season, hammering New Orleans.

Anthony Davis led winless New Orleans with 26 points and 17 rebounds, and Jrue Holiday added 17 points and 5 assists.

“Let’s face it: We’ve got some players who aren’t playing that well,” Pelicans Coach Monty Williams said. “We’ve got to play much harder than we played. We just did not play with a sense of urgency on every possession.”

HAWKS 102, RAPTORS 95 Al Horford scored 22 points, three other Hawks starters reached double figures, and Atlanta defeated visiting Toronto to give Mike Budenholzer, formerly a longtime assistant with San Antonio, his first victory as coach.

“It’s a good feeling,” Budenholzer said. “But I mostly feel good for our group because of how hard they’ve worked for the entire coaching staff. Just the energy, the effort, the focus and intensity they bring every day, that gives me a good feeling. To go out and get the win, that’s icing on the cake.”

BOBCATS 90, CAVALIERS 84 Kemba Walker had 23 points and 7 assists to help Charlotte beat Cleveland in its home opener.

Walker hit a 3-pointer over Kyrie Irving with 58 seconds left to break a tie. The Cavaliers had two chances to tie, but the Bobcats’ Josh McRoberts came up with a steal, and Jarrett Jack had an air-ball on a 3-pointer with 12 seconds left.

ROCKETS 113, MAVERICKS 105 James Harden scored 34 points, and Dwight Howard had 13 points and 16 rebounds in Houston’s victory over Dallas.

The visiting Mavericks scored 8 straight points, 5 from Monta Ellis, to take the lead, 91-83, with eight minutes left. But Dallas lost its star and its momentum a couple of minutes later when Dirk Nowitzki fouled out on Harden’s fast-break layup.

Nowitzki had 22 points to lead the Mavericks, and Ellis added 20.

T’WOLVES 100, THUNDER 81 Kevin Love had 24 points and 12 rebounds, and Ricky Rubio added 14 points, 10 assists and 5 steals to lead host Minnesota to a victory over Oklahoma City.

Nikola Pekovic had 15 points and 10 rebounds for Minnesota, which played surprisingly good defense against Kevin Durant and the Thunder. Derrick Williams had 10 points and 7 rebounds for Minnesota after not playing in the opener.

Durant scored 13 points on 4-of-11 shooting against a Timberwolves team that was supposed to be porous on defense. GRIZZLIES 111, PISTONS 108 Mike Conley scored 22 points, Zach Randolph and Tony Allen added 16 each, and Memphis beat visiting Detroit in overtime. Memphis outscored the Pistons, 11-2, to start the extra period en route to its first victory. BLAZERS 113, NUGGETS 98 LaMarcus Aldridge scored 9 of his 25 points in the fourth quarter to help Portland hold off Denver, spoiling the home debut of Nuggets Coach Brian Shaw.
35 2013-11-02 Chevron said net income fell 6 percent in the third quarter as weak refining results and higher operating costs offset higher oil and gas production and prices. The company posted net income of $4.95 billion for the quarter on revenue of $56.6 billion. The company earned $5.25 billion on revenue of $55.66 billion during the same quarter last year. The latest earnings amounted to $2.57 a share. Analysts had expected earnings of $2.69 a share, on average, according to FactSet. Higher oil prices in the United States and abroad, and higher natural gas prices in America also helped bolster revenue. But higher operating expenses and exploration costs offset those gains.
36 2013-11-02 Pictures From the Week in Business
37 2013-11-02 Dr. Michael Mauro, a leukemia specialist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said that 23 leukemia specialists and three patient advocacy groups had sent the drug agency a letter saying they were concerned that the sudden withdrawal of the drug would interrupt treatment for patients with no other good options.

Iclusig, also called ponatinib, was approved in December 2012 to treat patients who had chronic myeloid leukemia that did not respond to other drugs. The disease is a relatively uncommon form of leukemia, with about 5,000 cases a year and 600 deaths in the United States. The wholesale price of the drug was $115,000 a year.

Iclusig was given accelerated approval by the drug agency under a program that allows some important drugs to reach the market quickly, without the full evidence of safety and efficacy that the agency usually requires but subject to further studies to confirm the drug’s benefit.

Critics might say Iclusig’s approval is a sign that accelerated approval can allow dangerous drugs on the market. But supporters of the program say the fact that marketing of Iclusig is being suspended is a sign that the system is working as intended.

Iclusig is part of a new generation of “targeted” drugs that act against specific biochemical defects that fuel the explosive growth of certain types of cancer. The first of these drugs for chronic myeloid leukemia was Gleevec. (Dr. Druker was one of its developers.) It revolutionized the treatment of the illness and transformed it from a death sentence into a chronic disease that people could live with for many years.

Iclusig is one of several drugs developed for patients who did not respond to Gleevec, or who became resistant to it.

But even though these powerful new drugs are specifically designed to fight cancer cells, they also find their way to other targets, including the cardiovascular system.

In a bulletin on Thursday, the drug agency said that 24 percent of patients taking Iclusig who were studied for a median of 1.3 years, and 48 percent studied for a median of 2.7 years, had suffered “serious adverse vascular events.” Those figures are unusually high, and higher than what was reported from the initial studies done before the drug was approved.

The events included blockages in blood vessels that led to heart attacks, strokes, blindness and lack of blood flow to the extremities. Some of the patients were young, in their 20s, and some had no risk factors for heart or artery disease.

A spokeswoman for the drug agency, Stephanie Yao, said that in studies of the drug to date, which involved 530 patients, at least 14 had died from cardiovascular problems.

Dr. Frank Haluska, the chief medical officer of Ariad Pharmaceuticals, the Cambridge, Mass., company that makes the drug, said the company was working with the drug agency to analyze the problems and hoped to return the drug to the market. Over all, he said, about 2,000 people have taken the drug.

In an article published Friday by The New England Journal of Medicine, Harvard researchers said that the reports of cardiovascular problems linked to ponatinib and other newer drugs (not Gleevec) lacked the kind of details that doctors need to figure out whether side effects could be prevented.

One of the authors, Dr. Javid Moslehi, a co-director of the cardio-oncology program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, said in an interview that if, for instance, the problems were known to occur because of excessive blood clotting from a cancer drug, then patients could also be given another medication to prevent clots. Or, if the cancer drug were causing plaque to build up in the arteries, patients might be given a statin to try to prevent it.

“What we don’t want to have happen is for a good drug, ponatinib, to be killed and not given to patients,” Dr. Moslehi said.

The setbacks for the drug have also shaken its maker. Ariad’s stock has lost about 85 percent of its value since Oct. 9, when it first announced that the drug agency had halted further enrollment in clinical trials of Iclusig because of the safety concerns.

On Oct. 18, it canceled a clinical trial aimed at winning approval for the drug as an initial treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia, rather than as a treatment used only after other drugs have failed. Such an approval could have greatly expanded sales of the drug.

Some Wall Street analysts say they think that the drug can remain on the market, but might be only for those whose cancer cells have a particular mutation for which other treatments do not work.

“We expect a meaningful delay for the drug to potentially return to the market and a more modest opportunity if this were to occur,” Jonathan Eckard, an analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a note Thursday.

Analysts expect that Ariad will have to sharply cut expenses, including its work force, to preserve cash.

On Friday, Ariad’s board approved a poison pill defense apparently aimed at preventing the acquisition of additional shares by Sarissa Capital, a hedge fund that might seek to change the management. Ariad said the move was designed to preserve its ability to use accumulated losses to offset future taxes.
38 2013-11-02 “I went very hard on the hill and he could not respond,” Mtolo said of Espinosa.

Mtolo became an instant hero in South Africa, a nation desperate for positive news and positive performances, especially from one of its black citizens.

He received a Mercedes — which he sold back to the marathon’s organizers — but also prize money and a bonus.

Last week, 20 years later, I sat across from Mtolo again. At a Harlem restaurant, I listened as he described a new mission, a new passion: the Mandela Day Marathon, an event he and his agent created two years ago. “In 20 years, I would like this to be as popular as New York,” he said.

The underlying idea of the Mandela Day Marathon is to participate and finish the grueling course, he said, not necessarily to achieve a world-class time. “It’s to say that you competed and you participated,” Mtolo said.

The course, in the Umgungundlovu District, is shellacked in symbolism, beginning at the location where Mandela made a surprise appearance at a rally in 1961 — his last speech at Manaye Hall in the Imbali township — and ending near where he was arrested in Howick a year later.

The Mandela Marathon assumes a political and social significance at a time when South Africa continues to undergo an intense and rapid transformation as it recovers from the cultural, political and psychological aftershocks of a century of oppressive white rule.

South Africa has successfully hosted major sporting events, highlighted by soccer’s World Cup in 2010. Although the African National Congress, under Mandela and others, has held political control since 1994, lingering issues of poverty and unequal distribution of resources persist.

The road to healing is indeed a long-distance journey.

“Remember the apartheid regime said that a black man must not grow above the status of being a slave to the white man,” said the district’s mayor, Yusuf Bhamjee, who accompanied Mtolo and his agent, Ray Devries, to New York this week. Bhamjee, who became mayor in 2008, has been a supporter of the marathon.

“Apartheid took something away from the black man — and inculcated in the mind an inferiority complex,” he said. “We have to remove that from our psyche.”

He added: “Progress is slow in anything. We must accept the inequities we have inherited. A marathon is the loneliness of the long-distance runner: you must take that concept and say to South Africa, ‘We will get there.’ It took 100 years to fight against apartheid. It may take 100 years for us to see the benefits.”

Mtolo helped highlight the process in 1992 with his victory in New York. He is also training young South African distance runners and working feverishly with Devries to build the Mandela Marathon into a recognized name. This will take time.

In 2006, Bhamjee’s wife was stabbed to death in what remains an unsolved case. He refuses to speculate about whether there was a political motivation for her murder, saying only that her death and others are memorialized by the Mandela Marathon, which he called “forgiveness in action.”

“There have been many who have had tragedy in their lives,” he said. “I am but one. My activism has forced me to live with it and continue. That is what my wife would have wanted. She was an activist in her own right. Her death has inspired me to keep on.”

Mtolo listened as the mayor talked. Nearly everyone in South Africa has been touched by loss, and their hope is the Mandela Marathon will be a symbol in the long, arduous recovery process.

Twenty years ago, Mtolo felt pressure to do well in the New York City Marathon as a symbol of South Africa — especially black South Africa — that was only then emerging.

Twenty years later, he is back in New York, as an advocate, not a runner.

“Even though I am not running in the marathon, I feel even more pressure,” he said.

He is an ambassador, feeling the pressure of building a monument to perpetuate a great man’s name.
39 2013-11-02 The Knicks (1-1) are hardly the only team searching for continuity at this early stage. No less a collection of superstars than the Miami Heat came to the same conclusion Wednesday night after being upset by the Philadelphia 76ers, a team that could set records for futility this season.

The Bulls, a championship contender, endured stretches in Thursday’s game when they were completely baffled by the Knicks’ defense.

While Rose was transcendent in the final moments, his game-winner overshadowed an otherwise uneven effort: 18 points and 7-of-23 shooting from the field. In his first two games since missing last season with a knee injury, Rose has averaged 15 points while shooting 28.9 percent.

“We need to get our rhythm back,” Chicago forward Carlos Boozer said. “We’ll get back in the lab and work on our offense a little bit.”

In other words, the Knicks have leaguewide company when it comes to the pursuit of chemistry. To start, Woodson said he would prefer to settle on regular rotations. He likes stability, and he likes for players to know their roles. But that luxury does not exist for this team, at least not yet.

J. R. Smith will miss three more games, including Sunday’s contest against the Minnesota Timberwolves, for violating the league’s drug policy. Amar’e Stoudemire and Kenyon Martin, aged and injured, are supplying the team with extremely limited minutes in the frontcourt.

Andrea Bargnani finally flashed some potential against the Bulls, scoring 9 points on 4-of-7 shooting in 24 minutes. Still, his defense remains a work in progress — for now and for the indefinite future — and Woodson opted to go with swingman Tim Hardaway Jr. late in the fourth quarter.

Woodson said he was pleased with his team’s effort. When the Knicks arrived in Chicago at 2 a.m. Thursday after Wednesday’s win over the Milwaukee Bucks, Woodson expected that the game would be a challenge.

The Knicks had not played their best basketball at United Center in recent seasons, and the game seemed sure to double as an impromptu celebration for the Bulls and their fans, who were eagerly anticipating Rose’s first regular-season home game since 2012.

The Knicks could have come unglued after Rose connected on consecutive 3-pointers in the early moments of the second half, baskets that helped Chicago build a double-digit lead. Instead, the Knicks clogged the paint and threw defenders at Rose, whose frustration and misses mounted.

The fourth quarter featured some of the Knicks’ stingiest defense in recent memory, an especially satisfying stretch given their inability, or at least general reluctance, to guard anyone in the preseason.

The Bulls shot 2 of 15 from the field in the fourth quarter. Chicago sank its last attempt, though, and it mattered.

As Woodson noted after the game, the Knicks were one of the league’s better late-game defensive teams last season, and he wants them to have the same approach. Through two games, the anchor has been Chandler, who appears re-energized after an injury-marred postseason. He had 19 rebounds against Chicago.

“The way he’s been playing on the defensive end, we feed off that emotion and feed off his energy,” Anthony said. “As a whole, man, we’re just all on the same page on the defensive end. We’re talking, we’re communicating, and everybody’s doing their job.”

That the Knicks were even in position to win, despite shooting 36 percent, was a credit to their defense and perhaps even some early solidarity. For a team hoping to build a foundation, it was a start.
40 2013-11-02 A leaked draft of a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said that climate change could reduce output and send prices higher in a period when global food demand is expected to soar....
41 2013-11-02 Federal officials identified the gunman as Paul Ciancia of Los Angeles, who had previously lived in New Jersey. A senior federal official said that he had a note with “antigovernment and anti-T.S.A. ramblings.” Mr. Ciancia was being treated at a Los Angeles hospital, officials said. F.B.I. agents were searching his apartment on Friday night.

His family lives in Pennsville, N.J., and contacted the police chief there shortly after the shooting after the suspect’s younger brother received a text message saying he might harm himself.

“The way it was written they had some concern about it,” said the chief, Allen Cummings, speaking Friday night outside the family’s home. He said the text message did not include the word “suicide.”

Chief Cummings then contacted the Los Angeles police and asked them to check on Mr. Ciancia’s well-being. He said the family was unaware that he owned weapons or had any antigovernment leanings.

Former classmates at the Salesianum School, a private boys’ school in Wilmington, Del., said Mr. Ciancia was a quiet student. He played the tuba in the school band for all four years he attended, 2004 to 2008, said Jesse Sooy, 23.

“He was a really quiet kid,” Mr. Sooy said, describing a slight young man, no taller than 5-foot-7, with dark brown hair, who rarely spoke unless spoken to. “His dream was to work in his dad’s collision company,” Mr. Sooy said, naming it as Salem County Collision, an auto repair shop in Pennsville, N.J. “I was so shocked that he was even at LAX.”

In Pennsville, neighbors of the Ciancia family described them as hard-working people who had lived in the community for at least 20 years and kept to themselves.

“Paul, the father, has been a well-respected businessman here for many years, and has always taken care of people well,” said Gary Hankins, who lives across the wooded street in the suburban South Jersey community of about 14,000.

Rich Garry, 68, of Fullerton, Calif., said he had been at Terminal 3 on Friday morning headed for a flight to New York to visit family members. He said that a security officer had just checked his boarding pass and that he was waiting in line at the security checkpoint when he heard two shots.

“I heard a ‘pop-pop’ and I looked down a floor below, and the T.S.A. guy was on the floor,” he said. “He had been shot.”

Mr. Garry said he believed it was the same security officer who had inspected his boarding pass.

As the gunman moved through the terminal, Mr. Garry said, “he was very calm. When he got to the top of the stairs where the security checkpoints are, he looked around. If he would have come up the ramp, he would have had a field day with all the people lying on the ground, like me.”

Mr. Garry said he and several others crawled to a nearby elevator and went to the ground floor. Once there, he saw police officers for the first time, and told them to go to the second floor.

Joseph James, 32, who said he had just gotten off a flight in Terminal 3 and was leaving the building when he heard several shots behind him, said, “Several people were yelling, ‘Bomb! Bomb!’ and that’s what terrified me the most.”

Leon Saryan, a traveler from Milwaukee, told the Milwaukee radio station WTMJ: “I was in the hallway cowering when the guy came through. And he had a rifle in his hand, and he looked at me, and he said ‘T.S.A.?’ And I shook my head, and he just kept going.”

Many passengers dropped their bags as they rushed away from the terminal, leaving police officers with hundreds, if not thousands, of bags that they needed to screen.

At a news conference on Friday evening, Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles said the gunman had at least 100 rounds “that could have literally killed everyone in that terminal.”

A spokeswoman at Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center said that the hospital had admitted three male patients, two with gunshot wounds. One of the men who had been shot was in critical condition, and the two others were in fair condition.

The T.S.A. identified the slain agent as Gerardo I. Hernandez, 39. Officials said he was working as a behavior detection officer, responsible for spotting suspicious activity.

Airport officials said 746 flights were affected by the shutdown and 46 flights were diverted to other airports. They said the backups would not be resolved quickly and advised passengers using Terminal 3 to check with their airlines on Saturday to see if operations had resumed.

The shooting was bound to raise new questions about security procedures at airports.

“This shows what kind of risks our agents take,” said J. David Cox, the president of the union that represents T.S.A. agents.

Officers from the airport police and the Los Angeles Police Department had undergone training in recent weeks in how to respond to a shooting, said Chief Patrick M. Gannon of the airport police, who said officers told him the drill was “critical” in preparing them for Friday’s shooting.

Travelers threw themselves to the ground on orders from the police, then rushed in every direction, shouting “Run, run!” from what they believed could be a terrorist attack.

After the suspect was arrested, thousands of passengers milled outside Terminals 2 and 3 as a police bomb squad arrived. With the airport closed and major freeways in the area blocked by police cars, hundreds of would-be passengers took their luggage and walked away from the airport down Century Boulevard, turning what is normally a major route to the airport into an eerily empty walkway.

Police officials rushed to assure the public that there was no longer an immediate danger. But as the day dragged on, many passengers were left stranded on the sidewalk outside the airport for hours, waiting to collect their bags.

Flights that landed around the time of the shooting were kept locked at the gate for several hours.

“As soon as we pulled in, around 9:30, the captain announced, ‘We’ve got an issue here,’ ” said Bryant Mitchell, 36, who was traveling from Houston on business. “I was on the Southwest plane for four hours, sitting there eating peanuts. Only peanuts and crackers, and all-you-can-drink ginger ale.”

On July 4, 2002, a man armed with two handguns and a knife killed two people and injured several more at the airport before an El Al Airlines security guard seized him and another shot him dead.
42 2013-11-02 Following an investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Ford says it will recall about 2,500 of its 2012-14 Focus Electric because of a power-loss problem.

Ford told the safety agency that a software issue in the powertrain control module could cause a loss of power to the front wheels. However, the automaker said the steering and brakes would work normally and that it was not aware of any accidents related to the defect.

Ford told N.H.T.S.A. that by the middle of August it had received 16 reports from Focus Electric owners who had experienced the problem. The company’s critical review group was given the task of reviewing the problem at that time. Ford decided on Sept. 5 to refer the issue to its customer satisfaction forum because of a “low occurrence rate.”

But the next day, the agency said it would investigate 12 consumer complaints that it had received about the power loss. Those complaints included one owner being stranded on a highway in what she thought was a hazardous location.

On Sept. 10, four days after the agency announced its investigation, the Ford customer satisfaction forum “reviewed the concern and recommended further analysis of the reports from the field.” Ford says that analysis, including further reports of problems, led to the recall. Ford was “following our process. As we were conducting our evaluation, N.H.T.S.A. opened its investigation,” Kelli Felker, a Ford spokeswoman, wrote in an email.

Ford described the recall as voluntary. However, once a manufacturer is aware of a safety problem it must — within five business days —inform the agency of its plan for a recall or face a civil fine.
43 2013-11-02 The simple fact, that neither side wants to accept is that Mr. Erdogan’s government is advancing democracy on some levels, while curbing it on others.

This is happening because while Mr. Erdogan is a passionate defender of electoral democracy (he keeps winning), he is not terribly fond of liberal democracy. Some key principles of political liberalism, such as limited government, checks and balances, and a fully independent press, do not seem to count for much in his political vision. In fact, some members of his team have openly described these as unnecessary constraints on the “national will,” which is represented by whoever wins at the ballot box. (They might have been further persuaded by the American government’s recent shutdown, which didn’t exactly cast the system of checks and balances in the most glowing light.)

Mr. Erdogan’s patriarchal personality plays a role in all this as well. He sees himself as a loving, caring father to his nation — an attitude that resonates here. The upside of this vision has been 10 years of enormous advances in the economy, health care, education and transportation. The downside is that when his opponents don’t universally praise his achievements, he perceives them as disobedient children who deserve to be reprimanded. This has led to public outbursts about critical newspaper columnists and this summer’s heavy-handed police crackdown on anti-government protesters.

The irony is that despite many liberals’ opposition to his rule, the Erdogan era has in fact advanced a number of unmistakably liberal causes. His Justice and Development Party, known as the A.K.P., came to power in 2002 with a bold message of change. The “Old Turkey” was too militaristic, too nationalist and too oppressive. The A.K.P. vowed to liberate not just its own voting base — the religious conservatives who feel they have been humiliated by a zealously secularist elite — but also all marginalized groups, such as the Kurds, Armenians and Greeks.

This is why much of Turkey’s intelligentsia — which always dreamed of liberal democracy but never had the mandate to build one — supported Mr. Erdogan. That is also how the “Islamist-liberal alliance” became the bête noire of the old elite, which includes former army generals who are now in jail for planning a coup against Mr. Erdogan.

Some Turkish liberals still support Mr. Erdogan for dismantling the “Old Turkey,” but others have abandoned him, arguing that his “New Turkey” has created new problems that are piling up as the years pass and as power corrupts those who wield it.

At a time when no major opposition party seems capable of offering a better vision, it is naïve to hope that liberal democracy will emerge from any single party or some revolutionary moment. Rather, it will come through gradual reform. When Mr. Erdogan takes steps like the “democratization package” he announced on Sept. 30, he should be supported. When he takes illiberal steps like cracking down on peaceful protests or demonizing opponents with extravagant conspiracy theories, he should be criticized. The recent Turkey Progress Report by the European Commission is a good example of such balanced, objective analysis.

And for all the A.K.P.’s illiberal tendencies, it is worth remembering that the staunchly secular pre-Erdogan era, which some nostalgic Turks still portray as a bygone democratic idyll, was in fact much less free in almost all respects.

Contrary to the alarmism of those who long for the old days and attack the current government at every opportunity, Turkey is not on the path to becoming another Iran or Saudi Arabia — or something like Vladimir Putin’s Russia. But it certainly is not a fully liberal democracy yet.

To make it one, Mr. Erdogan and his allies must accept that they can’t advance democracy merely by taking pride in correcting the misdeeds of their predecessors. They also have to look hard at their decade-old rule, recognize their mistakes and then correct them.

Mustafa Akyol is the author of “Islam Without Extremes: A Muslim Case for Liberty.”
44 2013-11-03 WEISS--Phyllis Joan, 84, October 27, 2013. Loving wife of Sheldon, mother to Mitch and Suzinn. Grandson, Harrison. We will miss her dearly....
45 2013-11-03 A plea deal for SAC Capital Advisors would resolve a criminal case involving insider trading charges, but the firm’s owner, Steven A. Cohen, would still face a civil lawsuit....
46 2013-11-03 Joseph Donald McClatchy (left) and Charles Iacone Kidd were married Friday at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau in New York. James Mitchell, a staff member of the City Clerk’s office, officiated.

Mr. McClatchy, 68, is known as Sandy. He is an adjunct professor of English at Yale and the editor in chief of The Yale Review. He has written several books of poetry and wrote the libretto for Tobias Picker’s opera “Dolores Claiborne,” an adaptation of the Stephen King novel. From 2009 to 2011, he was the president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He graduated summa cum laude from Georgetown and received a Ph.D. in English literature from Yale.

He is the son of the late Mary Jane Hayden McClatchy and the late J. Donald McClatchy Sr., who lived in Haverford, Pa.

Mr. Kidd, 49, who is known as Chip, is the associate art director of book jacket design at Alfred A. Knopf, and the editor at large of graphic novels at Pantheon books in New York. He is the author of several books about comics, as well as “Batman: Death By Design,” a graphic novel published by DC Comics in 2012, and illustrated by Dave Taylor. He graduated from Penn State.

Mr. Kidd is a son of Ann Iacone Kidd and Thomas I. Kidd of Wyomissing, Pa.
47 2013-11-03 Andy Dorman and Kelyn Rowe scored in the second half to lead the host New England Revolution to a 2-1 victory over Sporting Kansas City in the first leg of their Major League Soccer Eastern Conference semifinal series.

■ Santi Cazorla and Aaron Ramsey led Arsenal to a 2-0 home win over Liverpool, extending the Gunners’ lead to 5 points at the top of the Premier League. Chelsea lost ground in the title race with a 2-0 surprise loss at Newcastle.

■ Bayern Munich returned to the top of the Bundesliga after coming from behind on the road to beat Hoffenheim, 2-1. It was Bayern’s 36th straight game without defeat.

■ A late goal by Paul Pogba steered Juventus to a 1-0 win at Parma in Coach Antonio Conte’s 100th match in charge. Juventus kept close to Roma, the Serie A leader.

■ Real Madrid nearly wasted a brilliant performance from Cristiano Ronaldo but held on for a 3-2 win at Rayo Vallecano in Spain’s top league.
48 2013-11-03 “It’s not accurate to say this is Somalia, but this is a critical situation,” she said. “We have a middle-income country that is transforming itself into something a lot more like Somalia.”

While the war has prevented a precise accounting of the number of people affected, evidence of hunger abounds. The government is using siege and starvation as a tactic of war in many areas, according to numerous aid workers and residents, who say that soldiers at checkpoints confiscate food supplies as small as grocery bags, treating the feeding of people in strategic rebel-held areas as a crime. Rebel groups, too, are blockading some government-held areas and harassing food convoys.

But even for those living in more accessible areas, what aid workers call “food insecurity” is part of Syrians’ new baseline. Inflation has made food unaffordable for many; fuel and flour shortages close some bakeries, while government airstrikes target others; agricultural production has been gutted. Though the World Food Program says it is providing enough food for three million Syrians each month, its officials say they can track only what is delivered to central depots in various cities, not how widely or fairly it is distributed from there.

One aid worker — who, in a sign of the political challenges of delivering aid in Syria, asked that his organization not be identified — said he recently met Syrian health workers who reported a dozen cases of apparent malnutrition in a government-held Damascus suburb. He suspected that the situation could be far worse in rebel-held areas.

Lack of medical care and clean water exacerbates the problem. So does the fact that Syrians have little experience diagnosing or treating malnutrition. Particularly troubling, aid workers say, are reports of mothers who stop breast feeding, unaware that it is the best way for even a malnourished mother to keep her child alive.

Some aid groups are trying to train Syrian doctors to use simple tools that measure upper arm circumference to assess malnutrition, as convincing data on its prevalence could help spur a stronger international response. Aid workers caution against overblown claims that could discredit such efforts. Some government supporters even dismissed the images of bone-thin children from blockaded areas as propaganda after several thousand civilians were evacuated from the encircled Damascus suburb of Moadhamiya in recent weeks, looking exhausted, shellshocked and thin, but not on the verge of starving to death.

But an entire population does not have to appear skeletal for malnutrition deaths to be real, the experts say. Malnutrition, they say, strikes the most vulnerable first: babies and children; those suffering from diarrheal diseases; those who need extra nutrition to recover from wounds or manage chronic illnesses; and those who lack the money or connections to obtain the food they need.

In traumatic situations, cases may go unnoticed until they are advanced, when victims reach “a point of no return,” said Dr. Vincent Iacopino, a senior medical adviser to Physicians for Human Rights. Unable to absorb calories, many do not recover without sophisticated medical care, even if given the food portions of others, he said.

Regardless, aid workers say, the fact that military blockades are preventing people in such acute need from receiving aid is in itself a human-rights violation. It matters little, they say, whether those suffering are technically the first victims of incipient famine, something no organization has the access or data to determine, or simply sick people who need treatment.

“It shouldn’t have to take people starving to support these people,” said another aid worker.

The very unlikelihood of hunger in Syria galls those suffering from it. “It’s very strange to know that the food is only five minutes away from you,” said Qusai Zakarya, a spokesman for a rebel council in Moadhamiya, who said he recently spoke on the phone to a friend who was eating a cheeseburger in the wealthy neighborhood of Mezze just a few miles away.

Syrian Arab Red Crescent workers and residents say that signs at checkpoints around Moadhamiya and other Damascus suburbs read, “Kneel or starve.” One Red Crescent volunteer said in a Skype interview that a soldier at a checkpoint recently told him that he would desert the army sooner than follow any order to allow food in to “the ones who are shooting us.”

But civilians suffer, too. Sawsan, 33, a widow in rebel-held Hajar al-Aswad, said in a Skype interview that her family, including a child with kidney failure who has not had dialysis in six months, has “an eating rotation — not everyone eats every day.”

Abu Hazem, 43, a taxi driver in Moadhamiya, said he fed his five children a dwindling supply of lentils, sometimes mixed with grass, and once shot a dog for food “because there are no birds flying over Moadhamiya.” The children no longer cry from hunger; they are used to it, he said. “They start singing sometimes when they are hungry.”

Umm Hamza, who fled Moadhamiya with her two children and gave only a nickname for fear of reprisals, described eating mainly greens after her stores of pickled food ran out and a rebel-run bakery closed for lack of flour and fuel. “We spent days with no water and no food at all,” she said in a recent interview near a government shelter in Qudsaya, her face yellowish and her eyes weary. She said she knew several people who had lost children for want of food and medicine.

Moadhamiya has gone without meat, eggs and milk for months, and in August, after pasta stocks ran out, leaving mainly olives, leaves and greens, people started to die, Mr. Zakarya said. He provided medical reports and videos.

First there was Ammar Arafa, 8, a disabled child who lived mainly on the formula PediaSure, which, like his medications, became unobtainable. Then Ibrahim Khalil, 4, his limbs skin and bone. Imad Sawan, 5, was wounded during shelling and recovered poorly from a bowel operation, a procedure that requires extra nutrition to heal. A similar fate befell Mona Ragab, 30.

Rana Obaid, the grocer’s daughter, Mr. Zakarya said, lived her first months in a house of roses — real ones in the courtyard outside, and inside, the fabric flowers that Moadhamiya was long known for producing. The family was not wealthy but lived decently, with a motorbike and enough money to give to the poor.

Born small and weak, Rana eventually grew normally, even after her family’s house was shelled and they moved to a relative’s abandoned apartment. Yet after months without protein or formula, Rana grew thin and sick, eventually unable to swallow olives, her family’s main food.

By September, her arms and legs were bone-thin. She was filmed lying on a makeshift hospital table, her bright eyes briefly fixing the camera with an intense gaze as a doctor gently palpated her bloated stomach, her prominent ribs, her bleeding gums. A subsequent shot showed her still, stick-figure corpse.

“My dear daughter, she was like a ghost. I felt helpless,” Abu Bilal, who has a surviving 7-year-old, told Mr. Zakarya recently. “But I feel relief now. I know she’s with her God and feels peace. There is no hunger there. There is no cold, and no shelling.”
49 2013-11-03 Less than two weeks after Mr. Popovic was sentenced, and after international human rights and legal groups had publicized his case, a group of 106 prominent American lawyers signed a petition asking President Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia to free him.

The signers included Ramsey Clark, the attorney general under President Lyndon B. Johnson; Telford Taylor, a lead prosecutor at the Nuremberg war-crimes trials after World War II; and Cyrus R. Vance, the president of the New York City Bar Association, who would be named secretary of state by President Jimmy Carter the next year.

An appeals court suspended Mr. Popovic’s sentence in late May, though it banned him from practicing law for a year.

Mr. Popovic (his full name is pronounced SIR-ja POE-pa-vich) went on to represent more dissidents. In 1984, he was asked to defend many of the so-called Belgrade Six, a group of Yugoslavs charged with holding meetings for the purpose of “abolishing the existing government.”

The dubiousness of the charges — the meetings were public and had gone on for years — and the Yugoslav authorities’ treatment of Mr. Popovic drew international attention. As he was preparing his case, prosecutors listed him as a potential witness, disqualifying him under Yugoslav law from serving as a defense lawyer.

After Yugoslavia splintered and Mr. Milosevic rose to power in the late 1980s advocating Serbian nationalism, Mr. Popovic was among the first to speak out against him. A magazine he started in 1990 — its title, Vreme, means “time” in Serbian — became a leading anti-Milosevic voice.

“When Milosevic ‘cleansed’ the media, we suddenly got a lot of reporters,” Mr. Popovic said in a 2011 interview with a Slovenian weekly. “This was an excellent opportunity to do something.”

He left Yugoslavia the next year to live in the United States, in part because of the political climate under Mr. Milosevic. Later, as the Bosnian war expanded, he accused many Serbs, even opponents of Mr. Milosevic, of allowing Serbian nationalism to blind them to their complicity in widespread brutality.

“The people are sunk in their passivity because they know they are guilty,” he told The New York Times in 1997. “They know the lies they took in — they know they triumphed when Sarajevo was bombed. As a nation they have lost all self-respect.”

He returned to Belgrade in 2000, after Mr. Milosevic was ousted.

In recent years, he represented the family of the former Serbian prime minister Zoran Djindjic, who was assassinated in 2003. Mr. Djindjic, a reformer who sought alliances with Europe, allowed for Mr. Milosevic and others to be extradited to The Hague to face war-crimes charges. Mr. Popovic argued that the assassination was essentially a coup attempt by nationalist supporters that involved far more than the 12 members of the secret police and organized crime who were convicted in the killing in 2007.

Mr. Popovic was born on Feb. 24, 1937, in Belgrade. His name sometimes appears with the middle initial M., a Serbian custom that signifies the first letter of his father’s first name. He received his law degree from the University of Belgrade in 1961.

His survivors include his wife and four children. He is not related to a prominent younger man of the same name who was among the leaders of Otpor, a student group whose demonstrations helped lead to the ouster of Mr. Milosevic in 2000.

In the 1970s, Mr. Popovic was a founding partner of the World Association of Lawyers, which focused on international legal issues. In the 1980s he was part of a prominent group of lawyers who tried to end the death penalty in Yugoslavia, where executions were carried out by firing squad. In the early ’90s he was president of the European Movement in Serbia, which supports integration with the European Union.

Mr. Popovic represented a wide range of clients, not just those whose political views he might share. He represented people accused of war crimes and political leaders who supported brutal violence. In the shifting and often confusing alliances and divisions of Balkan politics, he said one constant should be the right of everyone to an honest justice system.

“My father had an idealistic understanding that a lawyer is most needed for those who have many enemies, and those are political prisoners,” he once said. “Against them are the media, the state, the court, the prosecution, and sometimes even their family.”
50 2013-11-03 But some would-be visitors, fearing that sections of the house will no longer be on view after the next mayor moves in, have rushed to book tours. The conservancy has already taken reservations into 2014, but visitors might see no more than they saw when Rudolph W. Giuliani was mayor, when the second floor was off limits.

“If you don’t get here by the end of the year, that may be it,” said Paul Saryian, a retired New York Police Department captain from Staten Island who arrived early for the 11 a.m. tour last Wednesday and pulled out his cellphone, showing off a snapshot of him taken with Mr. Bloomberg at a recent 9/11 tribute. “I was honored to meet him,” Mr. Saryian said, “even though I didn’t agree with a third term.”

The federal-style house, on a bluff on the East River, would be a significant change for Mr. de Blasio, who lives in a rowhouse in Park Slope, Brooklyn. The gentrifying renovation craze of Park Slope apparently passed the de Blasios’ house by. They have embraced a shabby chic that stands apart in renovation-mad Brownstone Brooklyn: their kitchen is an unglamorous affair, with worn cabinets and aging appliances.

Gracie Mansion, by contrast, has a $1.25 million kitchen that is less than a year old. And it is surrounded by the 14 acres of Carl Schurz Park.

Gracie Mansion’s immediate neighborhood is, to some Manhattanites, isolated — the closest subway station, at 86th Street and Lexington Avenue, is more than three-quarters of a mile away — and privacy is complicated because the house has a tradition of tours on Wednesdays. But the de Blasios have given every indication that they would move in, assuming they can work out transportation to school for their son, Dante, who attends Brooklyn Technical High School.

Mr. Lhota has also said that he would expect to move in if elected. He now lives in a penthouse duplex in Brooklyn Heights.

By Colonial standards, Gracie Mansion is not a large house — it is no Mount Vernon or Monticello. The second floor has five rooms, including the two-room master suite, but if that seemed small, “somebody could live up in the attic,” said Susan Danilow, the conservancy’s executive director. “It’s a bit more rustic-looking than the rest of the house, but it’s totally nice.”

The curator, Diana Carroll Toole, said the beds are antiques but had been upgraded “to be comfortable for modern users.” So has the wiring, a potential concern for a household with cellphones and laptops. “Having enough outlets in an old home is a challenge,” Ms. Toole said, “but we have them.”

The mansion was built on the foundation of an earlier Colonial house that had burned during the Revolutionary War after it was hit by a British shell.

By the time Alexis de Tocqueville sailed by on a steamboat in 1831, Gracie Mansion was part of a colony of summer residences that de Tocqueville said were as “big as boxes of candy.” Archibald Gracie’s was the only one that survived. But Mr. Gracie, a shipping magnate, lost the house to creditors in the 1820s, Ms. Danilow said. The house fell into the city’s hands in the 1890s after a later owner failed to pay the taxes.

It became the first home of the Museum of the City of New York in 1923, Ms. Danilow said. But Robert Moses, whose titles included parks commissioner, had grander ideas for whose home it should be: the mayor’s.

The first mayor to live there was Mr. La Guardia, who called it “the mayor’s house” or “Gracie Farm” because he considered “mansion” pretentious. He paid the utility bills himself.

Mr. Giuliani moved out as his marriage to Donna Hanover deteriorated and returned in 2003 to marry Judith Nathan.

And the children of some mayors left their marks. Mayor Robert F. Wagner’s son, also Robert — himself a future deputy mayor and president of the Board of Education — signed the ceremonial guest book when he came home from school. Margaret Lindsay and Caroline Giuliani carved their initials into the glass by the door.

Mary Lindsay, whose husband, John V. Lindsay, became mayor in 1966, was not happy about the intrusions when staff members arrived for early meetings. Jay L. Kriegel, an aide to Mr. Lindsay, said that “we were denied kitchen privileges” for a while when Mrs. Lindsay declared the refrigerator off limits. He said she also banned public tours of the living quarters when the children were doing homework.

Another problem, he said, had plagued Gracie Mansion under Mr. Lindsay’s predecessor, Mr. Wagner. Guests sometimes wandered into the private quarters during receptions and walked off with the towels. An addition completed as the Lindsays arrived solved that problem, as Norval White and Elliot Willensky noted in the “A.I.A. Guide to New York City,” because it “permits the mayor to use the house while others think they are using it.”

Former Mayor Edward I. Koch faced situations at Gracie Mansion that did not arise in his rent-controlled apartment in Greenwich Village, where he spent his weekends. He once described the night he heard the doorbell, and he himself opened the door to find a man he called an “intruder” asking for the mayor.

“Wait a minute, I’ll get him,” Mr. Koch said, walking off to summon someone from his security staff. (Nowadays there is a metal gate and a police booth outside the mansion, along with a scanner that visitors must walk through on the way in.)

Mr. Koch also remembered when Mr. Begin, then the prime minister of Israel, was staying at the mansion. Mr. Koch came home late after an event, only to be confronted by two of Mr. Begin’s own guards, with Uzis.

Margaret Picotte, Mr. Lindsay’s daughter, recalled escaping over the back fence one night to join friends (setting off a citywide search) but said that she and her siblings had generally followed her mother’s advice, which she passed along for the next occupants: “Be as normal as you can, protect your privacy, don’t do stupid things, don’t get caught.”
51 2013-11-03 Scientists know very little about them because they are “virtually never caught in nets or by hooks, and they’ve only been observed under water a handful of times,” Dr. Love said. “So you’re kind of left with these not random but rare events, and that’s the only way you can study them.”

It is known that oarfish are notoriously bad swimmers; their long bodies remain still while their undulating fins handle most of the propulsion, yet they have apparently learned to avoid nets, Dr. Love said.

Precisely what will be learned from the two newfound fish, which were dissected and divvied up among a handful of research institutions, remains to be seen. “You can only learn so much from a dead fish,” Dr. Love said. But by last week, a coterie of researchers, including a comparative ophthalmologist and a gill expert, were lining up to study them.

Early observations revealed that the second fish, found in Oceanside, was apparently ready to spawn. “There were probably hundreds of thousands of eggs in those ovaries,” said H. J. Walker, the marine biologist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography who extracted the eggs. Its stomach was nearly empty, supporting the theory that a strong current, possibly the northeast-flowing Kuroshio, had carried it and the other oarfish, a male, away from their preferred environment and food sources.

A variety of parasites, including large larval tapeworms and a spiny-headed worm, were found in the intestines of the male, potentially giving a clue about where these particular oarfish lived and fed. Their species, Regalecus russelii, is most populous in the Western Pacific.

Oarfish fans noted with excitement that the male was missing some of the posterior part of its body, colloquially known as the tail. Tyson Roberts, an ichthyologist with the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute who is widely regarded as the world’s leading oarfish expert, has long hypothesized that oarfish can jettison sections of their bodies below the abdomen, much the way lizards can shed their tails.

As the world’s largest bony fish, oarfish have no known natural predator, so unlike with lizards, any shedding of the body is probably not done in self-defense, Dr. Roberts said. Such behavior is more likely meant to make swimming more efficient, among other reasons. “There may also be energetic benefits in shedding the posterior part of the body if it does not have much survival value, as apparently is the case in oarfishes,” he added.

Even oarfish experts disagree on some basic facts. Most refer to them as deep-sea creatures, contending that they live 500 to 1,000 feet below the surface. Dr. Roberts says that is not so.

“Mostly they spend their time quite near the surface, suspended vertically with their heads up, just passively floating,” said Dr. Roberts who championed the idea that there was more than one species of oarfish. He also believes that they have the capacity to change gender. “It may be that all individuals pass through a stage in which they are males and then pass through a stage in which they’re females,” he said.

Just how deep the oarfish resides may become clearer in the coming months as researchers study the eyes of the new specimens, possibly learning whether they are designed to see in the low light of the deep ocean. “There’s not much information on the oarfish eye, which is unusually large,” Dr. Walker said.

At California State University, Fullerton, Misty Paig-Tran, a biomechanist, will use CT scans to make a three-dimensional model of the female specimen, most of which she now possesses (the head will soon be delivered to Dr. Walker). Her preliminary X-rays gave researchers a closer look at the structures that support the dorsal fin, which may help explain the animal’s unusual way of swimming.

Oarfish have been a source of fascination for centuries. With long bodies, toothless jaws and giant red dorsal fins that protrude from their heads, they are often mistaken for monsters. “Most biologists will tell you it probably is the species responsible for the sea serpent legend,” Dr. Walker said.

An ancient Japanese myth holds that washed-up oarfish are a sign of an impending earthquake, a theory that regained popularity after about 20 oarfish beached themselves in Japan before the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. In Japan, the oarfish is known as ryugu no tsukai, or “messenger from the sea god’s palace.”

In California, the one-two arrival of the latest oarfish brought feverish speculation that an earthquake was imminent. But researchers said there was little science behind the myth. “If something about tectonic movement is killing these fish, why aren’t the other fish in the environment doing the same thing?” Dr. Love said.

The Catalina specimen might still be under water had Jasmine Santana, 26, a marine science instructor at the Catalina Island Marine Institute, not spotted it about 15 feet down while snorkeling on her day off. “I recognized it because my colleague had shown me pictures of it,” she said. After dragging the fish to land, she and some of her co-workers placed it on ice in a ditch outside the institute.

“We wanted the kids to see it,” said Jeff Chace, a program director at the institute. “We dissected it on the Wednesday after we found it, then packed up all the organs, tissue samples, skin samples and eyeball samples and sent them off to various institutions.” Dr. Chace has put the rest of the carcass in deep freeze until he can find someone who can clean and mount the skeleton.
52 2013-11-03 A day in the life of Gary Vaynerchuk, an entrepreneur whose energy seems endless....
53 2013-11-03 Although Singer declined to discuss specific conversations with individual politicians, other Republicans have told me that he is close to, and has discussed gay rights with, Gov. of , who recently backed off a legal challenge to gay marriage in that state, which became the 14th in which gays and lesbians can legally wed.

I’ve also been told that Singer has had such talks with Senator , the Republican who came out for gay marriage, citing his love for his gay son. Singer also has a gay son — and a gay son-in-law. The two men are married.

His vision of how Republicans must evolve was echoed in a subsequent conversation that I had with , another New York hedge-fund billionaire who has given lavishly to conservatives. Loeb is Singer’s principal financial partner in the H.R.C. international project; Singer has already committed $1.5 million, and Loeb has promised a similar amount over its first years.

When I asked Loeb if opposition to gay rights would increasingly hurt Republicans in elections, he said: “Absolutely. It’s where the country’s gone, and if they don’t go with it, they’ll lose a very important demographic. They already have lost some young people.” Surveys show that more than 70 percent of Americans under 30 favor marriage equality.

The party’s relationship with gay rights will be tested anew this coming week when the Senate takes up the Employment Nondiscrimination Act, or ENDA, which would protect people from being fired or barred from a job because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.

All of the 55 senators in the Democratic majority have endorsed it, as have four Republicans, excluding Portman, who appears to be leaning that way. His vote would give supporters the 60 they need to overcome a .

BUT the bill’s odds aren’t great in the House, whose Republican majority is more conservative on gay rights than the Republican electorate nationally seems to be. According to internal party polling that I saw, 56 percent of Republican voters indicated support for a federal law like ENDA.

The risk that Republicans take by opposing gay rights isn’t necessarily that the party’s social moderates will bolt for that one reason. Singer, for example, has stayed put, because while he’s more in line with Democrats on gay rights, that doesn’t override his solidarity with Republicans on economic and other matters.

But to appeal on a national level to independent voters, young voters and minorities, the party badly needs to amend its ossifying image as an archaic refuge for scolds at odds with modernity itself. An embrace of gay rights, even a partial one, is a great place to start. It could give Republicans a chance to stanch some of the bleeding from the federal shutdown and from continuing rifts over .

“At a time when folks in this city can’t agree on anything, this is an issue that’s increasingly seen as bipartisan,” said Chad Griffin, the president of the H.R.C. Singer’s advocacy underscores that, and Griffin welcomes it, noting: “There is not a single battle that we’re looking at that we can win with the support of just one party or the other.”

ENDA, which has kicked around in various forms for decades, is a case in point. The fresh focus on it, along with the new international initiative, reflects a desire by L.G.B.T. advocates not to be too confined to, or defined by, marriage equality.

And the international initiative has a fascinating wrinkle. In addition to training L.G.B.T. advocates outside the United States and publicizing the failings of especially repressive countries, it intends to name and shame American religious zealots who sponsor antigay campaigns abroad. So Republican money may wind up challenging a constituency within the party. (We’re most definitely not in anymore.)

In Singer’s view, gay rights are consistent with a Republican philosophy of individual liberty, and gay marriage is “an augmenter of social stability, family stability and stability in raising kids.” In other words, it’s conservative.

He has contributed significantly to marriage-equality campaigns in many states, and has convinced wealthy peers in the financial industry, including conservatives, to do likewise.

Last year he started the American Unity PAC, which backs Republican candidates who are generally supportive of gay rights. This year he added the American Unity Fund, an offshoot for lobbying, which has spent about $375,000 — two-thirds from Singer — to promote ENDA.

All in all, he has pumped more than $17 million of his own money over the last decade or so into gay rights. And he privately tells Republicans leaning toward pro-equality positions that if they face fire from antigay groups, he’ll help them round up retaliatory funds.

The battlefield isn’t what it used to be. From the 30th floor, I could see that most clearly of all.
54 2013-11-03 Of course, the market is not in perpetual upward motion; it fluctuates daily. After reaching a high on Tuesday, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped on Wednesday, dipped slightly Thursday and rose on Friday. But whether the news has been good or bad, investors have remained remarkably unruffled — and stock prices have trended higher, without a major break, for a very long time.

Based on valuations like the price-to-earnings ratio, we’re not in a full-blown asset bubble at the moment, in Mr. Yardeni’s view. Corporate earnings have increased steadily, and he contends that they will keep doing so, providing the foundation for a rise in the stock market for some time.

But he says there is now a significant danger that excessive exuberance could threaten the market’s climb.

“I expect the market to rise,” he said. “But I’m worried that it could just go through the roof. If it does that, we could have a nasty correction afterward, maybe a bear market, and that could cause serious problems for the economy.”

After all, there hasn’t been a significant market correction — defined as a drop in average share prices of more than 10 percent — since a 19.4 percent decline in the S.& P. 500 in 2011. (After stock prices drop 20 percent, a correction becomes a bear market, in Wall Street parlance.)

And since the start of 2012, the market has never been in negative territory for a calendar year. Since the market nadir in March 2009, the S.& P. 500 has already returned more than 180 percent, including dividends. Under conditions like that, it’s been hard not to make money, if you’ve been wise or lucky enough to have had money in the stock market.

There are many signs that people are no longer worrying all that much about the possibility of another market meltdown, of the kind that occurred in 2008, when the S.& P. 500 returned a negative 37 percent, dividends included. A global financial crisis and recession brought the economy to a perilous state back then, but for several years now, the Fed and other central banks have been flooding the world with liquidity.

In its meeting last week, the Fed again delayed carrying out an exit strategy, or taper, from its bond-buying program known as quantitative easing. Janet L. Yellen, the Fed’s current vice chairwoman, has been nominated to succeed Ben S. Bernanke at the helm, and she will have to deal with some delicate issues for the markets.

Short-term interest rates remain extraordinarily low, and with the debt-ceiling crisis and partial government shutdown already fading into the past, medium- and longer-term rates have receded, too. These ultralow rates have made equity prices a bargain, at least in comparison with bonds, according to most financial models.

As the Fed’s balance sheet has swelled — it is heading toward $4 trillion, according to a new Fed study, up from $800 billion before the financial crisis — the stock market has risen, and many investors have noticed the correlation. While there is still plenty of money on the sidelines, many investors are responding enthusiastically now — excessively so, in Mr. Yardeni’s view.

One widely followed gauge of market sentiment, the Investors Intelligence Bull/Bear Ratio, soared last week to 3.19 from 1.96 two weeks earlier. (The percentage of market bears fell to 16.5 percent, the lowest since May 2011.) Ratios of 3.0 or higher have often signaled the onset of corrections or bear markets.

Mr. Yardeni isn’t the only longtime bull to note the possibility of a melt-up. Laszlo Birinyi, an independent strategist based in Westport, Conn., did so in his current newsletter, called Reminiscences. “Historically, bull markets of this length and strength have a period of exuberance,” he said. “It doesn’t have to happen but it usually does and we would certainly leave the door open for what is termed a melt-up.”

Still, he reiterated his conviction that the bull market’s legs are strong enough to carry it considerably further — if excesses or external shocks don’t batter it too badly. And so did Mr. Yardeni, picking an easy-to-remember target of 2,014 for the S.& P. 500 next year. (It was nearly 1,762 on Friday.) “I just hope the market doesn’t blow right past my target in the next few months,” he said.
55 2013-11-03 It was not easy to see beyond the damage sustained by Ghiberti’s masterpiece in the epic flood of Nov. 4, 1966 — an event still remembered by Florentines who heard the doors, unlocked by the surging waters, banging ominously throughout the night. But Ghiberti’s rendering of deep perspective, motion and emotion, marking the transition from a ritualized Gothic aesthetic to the Renaissance, somehow penetrated my ignorance even as it outshone the murky encrustation left by the flood.

I was able to see, through the filth on a panel depicting the story of Abraham, a muscular Isaac quivering as his father’s hand was stayed by an angel. Although I knew nothing about art, I did know the Bible. For me, the image of the imminent sacrifice embodied a loathsome submission ordered and arbitrarily canceled by a higher power. That a reverent onlooker might just as readily discern divine mercy only underscored the genius of a goldsmith-sculptor who could bring forth human feeling from metal in a fashion new to his contemporaries.

From that day forward, I understood that art could teach me about life in ways that I had never imagined.

Throughout the Middle Ages, baptistery doors were often called gates of paradise for the literal reason that without baptism, there was no salvation. It was Michelangelo who, in the 16th century, observed with a touch of irony that Ghiberti’s gates of paradise were the first to be “truly worthy” in an artistic sense of the religious honorific.

The 10 panels depicting Old Testament scenes represented 27 years of work for the artist before their installation, in 1452, in the place of honor facing the cathedral with its famous dome by Filippo Brunelleschi. In his autobiographical “Commentaries” (another first in art history) Ghiberti wrote that he fashioned the doors with “the greatest diligence and the greatest love.” He even had the chutzpah to carve his own balding head amid the most sacred stories of Western religion.

In Ghiberti’s depiction of the creation, Adam is pulled to life by God in the lower left corner but the panel’s centerpiece is Eve, who arises from the rib of a sleeping Adam at the Creator’s touch. She enters the world with a self-conscious, almost independent poise not associated with women in previous Christian art.

The first time I saw the doors, the creation scene was missing because, along with four other panels, it had been wrenched from its mounting by the floodwaters. Fortunately, the detached panels were caught between the door and a guard rail, installed only a few years earlier to discourage touching. (Ghiberti’s self-portrait was a special magnet for tourists’ fingertips.)

The storm-damaged panels were cleaned and restored under the supervision of Florence’s distinguished restoration institute, the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, and returned to the Baptistery for most of the next two decades. In 1990, however, the originals were replaced with replicas to prevent further environmental damage.

Thanks to the support of donors from around the world, the Gates of Paradise have since been thoroughly cleaned through a combination of high-tech laser procedures as well as old-fashioned hand craftsmanship, and are now displayed in an airtight case in the nearby Museo dell’Opera del Duomo. They will be joined in 2015 by Ghiberti’s first set of doors, as well as by older panels crafted for the Baptistery in the 1330s by Andrea Pisano. The restoration of the first panels has been largely financed by donations to the Guild of the Dome, an organization engaged in the unending task of seeking support from private philanthropists at a time when government support for Italy’s artistic heritage has greatly diminished.

While it will never be possible to see the doors again as people saw them 550 years ago, I can attest to the enduring power of the Gates of Paradise — however they are displayed.

In 2007, the Duomo museum allowed three restored panels to travel for the first and last time. I attended the exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York with the man I loved, who had Alzheimer’s disease. As he gazed upon the creation scene, the dullness vanished from his eyes and was replaced by an attentiveness approaching adoration. He remembered having seen the panels in Florence many years earlier and said, “It’s miraculous to recognize this.”

I will always recall those words, pulled from a mind struggling against darkness, as the ultimate tribute to the power of art.

In Florence, Ghiberti’s doors now await some other young woman whose parents had no interest in art, or some other stricken person who can still summon up memories of glorious human achievement from a failing brain. And in the Detroit Institute of Arts, the old masters are also waiting, for poor and rich alike.

Anyone can enter the gates of paradise, wherever they may be — as long as the public and its governments are willing to pay to keep them open.
56 2013-11-03 1. Lean In by Sheryl Sandberg with Nell Scovell (Knopf). The chief operating officer of Facebook urges women to pursue their careers without ambivalence.

2. Outliers by Malcolm Gladwell (Back Bay/Little, Brown). Why some people succeed — it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent.

3. Extortion by Peter Schweizer (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt). A Hoover Institution fellow argues that politicians shape legislation in order to extract donations.

4. The Everything Store by Brad Stone (Little, Brown). The story of Jeff Bezos and Amazon.

5. Focus by Daniel Goleman (Harper). The author of “Emotional Intelligence” relies on research on attention to argue that high achievement requires three kinds of focus.

6. Hundred Percenters by Mark Murphy (McGraw-Hill Education). Challenging employees to perform at their highest level. (†)

7. Do You Speak Shoe Lover? by Linda Meadow and Kelly Cook (Wiley). Stories from customers and employees of the shoe retailer DSW. (†)
57 2013-11-03 This 2007 list of the National Security Agency’s major missions illustrates the sweep of the agency’s goals for signals intelligence (Sigint) or electronic eavesdropping, which include not only such obvious targets as terrorist groups and Iran’s nuclear program, but the diplomacy and economic policy of friendly countries.

On the idea that N.S.A. cannot cover everything, the document designates targets that can be set aside if necessary — in this case, minor terrorist groups and their supporters.

Top agency priorities include intelligence on the threat of disease epidemics and threats to the president and other top American officials.

The influence of Venezuela’s leftist leaders and their allies in Latin America are a surprising priority, here described as “Bolivarian Developments.”

N.S.A. was looking out for “intrusions” from foreign cyberattackers (including code names for certain Chinese and Russian hacking groups).

The agency engages in “military deception” and other actions to mislead adversaries, though no examples are given.

N.S.A. watches out for new technologies that could give an edge to rivals — including allies as well as hostile countries.

While officials often describe N.S.A. as a counterterrorist agency, it also tries to intercept diplomatic communications of friends and enemies for an advantage in negotiations and policy making.

Among the countries identified as the most aggressive in spying on the United States are not just obvious rivals like China and Russia, but Israel, France and South Korea.

Economic policy and data are a major target of N.S.A. spying, though officials insist that it is used only by the government and not shared with American companies.

Of the six countries described as top N.S.A. targets, perhaps the most surprising is Venezuela, viewed as an important rival for influence in Latin America.
58 2013-11-03 In 2015, the Medical College Admission Test will change, with added sections on social science, psychology and ethics, but sorry, orgo will remain prominent. “The organic chemistry on the MCAT is chemistry that students need to know to succeed in medical school,” said Karen Mitchell, senior director of the MCAT Program.

So what is organic chemistry, anyway? And why is it so difficult? Basically, orgo examines how molecules containing carbon interact, but it doesn’t require equations or math, as in physics. Instead, you learn how electrons flow around and between molecules, and you draw little curved arrows showing where they go. This “arrow pushing” is the heart and soul of orgo. Figure 1 (pictured above left) shows the arrow pushing mechanism for a simple reaction, adding acidified water (H3O+) to a carbon molecule called an alkene (don’t worry, this is all the orgo you’ll have to learn).

Learning how to interpret the hieroglyphics is pretty easy. The hard part is learning where to draw the little arrows. To do this, you learn rules about how molecules behave. For instance, in the third step of the drawing above, you can see an arrow pointing from the “O” (oxygen) of OH2 to a plus sign (a positive charge). This means oxygen is donating electrons to a positively charged carbon atom. After you draw oxygen donating electrons to a positive carbon a zillion times, it becomes second nature. An arrow pointing from a plus sign toward oxygen then seems viscerally wrong, like ketchup on sushi.

But the rules have many, many exceptions, which students find maddening. The same molecule will behave differently in acid or base, in dark or sunlight, in heat or cold, or if you sprinkle magic orgo dust on it and turn around three times. You can’t memorize all the possible answers — you have to rely on intuition, generalizing from specific examples. This skill, far more than the details of every reaction, may actually be useful for medicine.

“It seems a lot like diagnosis,” said Logan McCarty, Harvard’s director of physical sciences education, who taught the second semester. “That cognitive skill — inductive generalization from specific cases to something you’ve never seen before — that’s something you learn in orgo.”

To develop orgo intuition, you solve problems and draw arrow-pushing mechanisms again and again, until they become instinctive. This takes a huge amount of time, for me 20 to 30 hours a week. The class turned me into a bore, a sleep-deprived, orgo-obsessed grind who saw the shapes of molecules in every sidewalk crack and snack cracker.

My study partners and I called orgo the “bad boyfriend,” because it stole so much time from our personal lives. As in, “I just blew off Thanksgiving dinner to hang out with the bad boyfriend.” Once, my 3-year-old clung to my leg as I tried to leave for class. “Mama, don’t go!” he cried. “No more chemistry!” Sorry, little buddy. Bad boyfriend’s calling.

This is one thing that orgo is testing: whether you have the time and desire to do the work. “Sometimes, if a student has really good math skills, they can slide through physics, but you can’t do that in orgo,” Mr. McCarty told me, adding, “You can’t slide through medical school, either.”

At first, this commitment of time and psyche did not pay off. On the first exam I scored well below the mean. My problem sets came back with whole pages slashed out in red pen. I felt stupid and demoralized. But slowly, orgo awakened my long-dormant spatial-reasoning skills, and I (occasionally) started to enjoy some of the problems.

Second semester, I had a breakthrough. On the third exam, stuck halfway through the final problem, I tried a new strategy. I put down my pencil, leaned back and stopped thinking. For a moment, nothing happened. Then the answer sprang into my mind’s eye. “Oh, my God!” I thought. “I actually have orgo instinct!” After that, everything started clicking.

When the final exam came, I was ready. I chugged through the first few pages, then stopped. There lay the giant jellyfish-spider, streaming carbon chains like tentacles. Draw the arrows? I didn’t even know where to start. Next problem, just as bad. The test became not a showcase of my new orgo instinct but a scramble for damage control. I guessed I got a C.

When the test ended, the students sat stunned. “What was that?” my study partner asked. “A monkey could have done better on that exam than me.” Later, in the bathroom, one of our classmates sobbed as another consoled her.

The day after the final, a physician friend gave me a celebratory gift: a stethoscope. I told her about the exam, and she nodded. “That’s a terrible feeling,” she agreed. “It’s kind of how you feel when you lose your first patient.”

Of course, bombing a test isn’t the same as watching someone die. But what’s similar is that dreadful realization of your own limits, that terrible moment when you stop controlling the situation and start mitigating the damage. I expect that’s an all-too-common feeling in medicine. I often felt that way in orgo, but kept going back for more. That’s what orgo is testing, I think: resilience. And humility.

I got a B on the final, by the way. Grade for the class: A-.
59 2013-11-03 IN 2009, Tufts and George Mason University opened the multimedia floodgates by inviting applicants to submit videos. While few admissions offices have followed suit and added a video solicitation, a sweep through YouTube shows videos, from existential mulling to absurdist displays of multitasking, being made for a wide swath of institutions. The incentive is clear for students who express themselves best via multimedia, and who isn’t looking for an edge?

According to the new guide “How to Make a Winning College Application Video Essay,” a video is an “opportunity to step out of the codified, qualified background of your transcript into the foreground.” Percy Angress and Livia Linden, filmmakers who wrote the guide (under the pseudonyms Max Kiefer and Rosa Wolfe), scoured YouTube to help their son and daughter make videos for their own applications, and included the best of what they saw in their book, along with technical and creative advice. To Mr. Angress, who produced special visual effects for “Spaceballs,” submitting a video is a win-win. The worst that could happen? “Admissions doesn’t view your video,” he said.

But what happens when they do? How do admissions deans assess videos? (And, sorry, you still have to write an essay.)

“They are evaluated like any submission: creativity, thoughtfulness, voice,” said Lee Coffin, dean of undergraduate admissions at Tufts. “Like an excellent written essay, the best videos showcase a student’s voice.” Tufts has widened its scope. This year, students can respond to a Virginia Woolf quotation via the platform of their choice: video, prose, blog, digital portfolio, slam poetry.

George Mason applicants can explain “why Mason is the perfect match for you” via video. “For us, a video is another way to know if it’s a right fit,” said Amy Takayama-Pérez, its admissions dean. “It’s not going to replace your transcript.” Similarly: “If I had a bad video, is that going to be somebody I don’t take? No." Under 5 percent of the George Mason pool submits videos, the same as at Tufts.

The College of William & Mary gets videos on occasion, too. “We get a lot of things we don’t ask for, like shoes — to get their foot in the door,” said Henry R. Broaddus, associate provost for enrollment and dean of admission. He acknowledges that “a supplemental video might influence applications on the borderline” but firmly refuses to solicit videos because, he says, writing is the essential college-going skill, because a video posted on YouTube invites public comment, and because bright introverts might be put off.
60 2013-11-03 With assistance from a generation of devoted P.T.A.-goers accustomed to playing an active part in their children’s education, smaller colleges can maintain a wider presence and cover more fairs, attracting more and better applicants. “It is a question of resource allocation,” Stephanie Balmer, dean of admissions at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., told me. “We can’t hire enough staff to expand our reach and be present in all those places.”

While the practice is cost effective for the schools, there is also value for parents of prospective students, who can benefit from hearing the real story, the likes and dislikes, from other parents.

Parents of applicants are hesitant to ask representatives questions because they are keenly aware of the competitive admissions climate and fear “they might say the wrong thing, which could give a negative impression,” said Maria-Elena Santorelli, parent of a sophomore at the University of Tampa, which awards active volunteers a round-trip ticket to Florida.

Her conversations with parents run the gamut, from dating and dorm life to the local weather. She told Lori Costa, parent of a prospective student, about her own daughter’s experiences in classes and shared what it’s like to send a child away to school. Ms. Costa described the chat as “more motherly than professional,” adding that “the volunteer gives me more of what I need to know.”

But there may be other motivations at play here. After a Boston Globe article listed her daughters’ school, Simmons College, as unable to fill its seats for fall, Diane Fitzgerald went on a mission to bolster its reputation. She sits on parent panels and volunteers for other recruiting events.

“We are investing in our future,” Ms. Fitzgerald said, and “we need to keep the school going.”

Increasing the number of high-achieving applicants can move a college up the U.S. News rankings and enhance its reputation, which some see as a measure of a child’s achievement and therefore of a parent’s sense of success. A higher national profile also helps when graduates apply for jobs.

“Colleges are capitalizing on the deep anxiety and ambitions of parents and the hopes of their children that are tied directly to the prestige of a school,” said Mitchell L. Stevens, associate professor at Stanford’s Graduate School of Education and author of “Creating a Class: College Admissions and the Education of the Elites.” “In the very competitive game of luring top talent, it is a savvy move to enlist parents.”

Suzanne Thigpen, until recently Vanderbilt University’s director of Parents and Family Programs, begs to differ: it is the parents who are seeking more involvement. “They expect to be actively engaged,” she said, “and it is hard for them to make the transition.”

Vanderbilt’s parent volunteer program has grown in scope, from 31 volunteers writing postcards in 2009 to 400 today who work at college fairs, admissions events, move-in day and family weekend.

“Volunteering gives parents a chance to harness their energy in a positive way that can be cathartic,” Ms. Thigpen said, “and it helps them understand something more about the landscape of the school, enabling them to coach their students to use available resources.”

Colleges don’t see any inconsistency in holding parent-separation programs at orientation while inviting them to volunteer. “Parents want to be engaged and it’s providing structure for that engagement,” said Ms. Balmer of Dickinson. “It’s not the same as showing up at your child’s door each week.”

But Hara Estroff Marano, editor at large of Psychology Today and author of “A Nation of Wimps: The High Cost of Invasive Parenting,” says it’s just a way for parents to stay close with their children when they should cut the cord: “Let’s be honest about the emotional purpose it is serving. It allows parents to be overly involved in their kids’ lives. There is a lot of rationalization going on.”

She believes parent volunteers are putting their own emotional needs ahead of their children’s. “Young people need psychic freedom from their parents in a sphere of their lives set up for their own maturation,” and she cautions that parents should “stop turning parenthood into a profession.”

“Instead of using the cheap labor of parents, which fosters too much involvement,” colleges should foster healthy development, Ms. Marano said. And parents, she added, should find “needier” causes to support.

Sherrie Levine, parent of a recent graduate of Washington University in St. Louis, declined to help out at college fairs and greet interviewees at local high schools. “We pay so much for college applications and tuition, it is not reasonable to expect parents to participate.”

As for the students, she says: “We are so involved every step of the way. It’s time for them to be on their own.”
61 2013-11-03 The misty bogs of Scotland may perennially top the Bowker list of favorite fictional settings, but what can beat the twisted, ivy-trimmed road to First Choice U for melodrama and suspense? The latest in the increasingly popular admissions genre is a novel called “Early Decision: Based on a True Frenzy.”

THE DREAMS: “Ah, the schools! The names were spoken like jewels: emerald and ruby, Middlebury and Brown. How to awaken these families from a fantasy that held college up bright and shining and implacably steady in character.” — “Early Decision,” by Lacy Crawford

THE INTRIGUE: “Your brother’s in rehab,” a student tells a friend. “Just say how you want to devote your life to crack babies or something.” — “Dangerous Admissions,” by Jane O’Connor

THE PITFALLS: “Please don’t write a long and rapturous essay about how much you want to attend Yale,” says the Princeton admissions officer (played onscreen by Tina Fey). “That cut-and-paste function on your computer makes it easy to declare undying love for any number of colleges simultaneously.” — “Admission,” by Jean Hanff Korelitz

THE DISAPPOINTMENT: “It was surprising how not a single one of the many college books she had pored over … ever mentioned the bathrooms.” — “Acceptance,” by Susan Coll
62 2013-11-03 The holiday season’s new videos include masterpieces from the likes of Robert Altman, William Wyler, George Stevens and Philip Kaufman....
63 2013-11-03 That system, and a similar one the company helped to develop for the Minnesota Transportation Department, created an invisible wall of infrared light along the shoulders of the highway. Much like a burglar in a heist film, any animal breaking its beam set off a warning.

The problem with that approach, Mr. Dickson said, is that the system had no way to keep tabs on animals once they were on the road, and therefore posed the greatest danger to motorists. Moose, in particular, often linger on highways in the spring to lick salt from the road surface, and other animals prefer the easy route of the road to the underbrush in the woods. But warning lights prompted by the infrared beam switched off after 30 seconds.

Rotalec’s second attempt, which began operating here in April on a blind rise along Highway 138, an unusually busy two-lane that connects the main expressway between Ottawa and Montreal with a bridge to the United States at Cornwall, Ontario.

In place of an infrared beam, perimeter radars track all movement on the highway just outside Monkland. While often used at airports, the radar on Highway 138 is an adaptation of systems used in Europe near long tunnels to warn motorists of slowing traffic and prevent rear-end collisions.

Software analyzes the size and speed of objects moving along and across the highway captured by the radar to separate man and automobile from beast. Adding to the complexity, there are several homes and road crossings in the radar zone. Among other things, that requires the software to deal with cars leaving driveways and riding lawn mowers cutting grass near the shoulder.

Small mammals like squirrels and raccoons, however, are still on their own. The system cannot track their crossings.

The three radar towers, their computers and the warning lights along the route are entirely solar-powered.

The system tracks the speed of every passing vehicle. While political sensitivity in Ontario over photo radar means that the data cannot be used for speed enforcement, Mr. Dickson said that the speed data showed that motorists were changing their ways.

“The alarm is tripping regularly, and we are starting to see speeds coming down,” Mr. Dickson said.

Mr. Brake, the Ontario transportation official, said speeds had fallen 15 percent, on average, when the lights were flashing.

A slightly different radar-based system built by another contractor, AUG Signals of Toronto, began operating in 2012 on Highway 416, a controlled-access expressway south of Ottawa. The radar unit for that system sits in a median, Mr. Brake said, and penetrates well beyond the highway itself, providing advance alerts of approaching animals.

The system on Highway 138 near Monkland cost $287,000, although Rotalec estimates that if it is widely adopted, the price could drop to $70,000 to $80,000.

That’s below the cost of fences along roadways, an approach used in some other provinces and on some Ontario expressways. Mr. Brake said that aside from cost, his ministry was aware of moose jumping eight-foot fences only to find themselves trapped on a highway. Wildlife laws also require highways with high fences to include wildlife overpasses, which can cost upward of $2.5 million apiece.

Time lags in the reporting system mean that no animal-collision data is yet available for the two highways covered by the radar systems. But Mr. Brake said anecdotal evidence from the police suggested that there had been a decline.

Ontario plans to test a third system, probably west of Ottawa. If radar helps reduce collisions, Mr. Brake expects to go beyond flashing signs. “You can easily see in the future that there’s an alert directly to your car,” he said.
64 2013-11-03 Still, the music director of a major opera house should be immersed in the development of new works and have the most say about who gets commissioned. Of all the areas where Mr. Levine has shifted some artistic authority to Mr. Gelb, this one is the most worrisome. I want Mr. Levine, one of the major musicians of our time, to make the crucial musical choices for the Met, especially commissions, and promote them to the public.

Contrast the situation at the Met with the current ambitious initiative of the Royal Opera at Covent Garden to develop new work, spearheaded by Antonio Pappano, the music director, and Kasper Holten, the director of opera. Between productions scheduled for the main stage and for the company’s smaller Linbury Studio Theater, 15 new pieces are being presented through 2020. In that year alone, the Royal Opera is introducing four commissioned operas by leading composers from different European countries: Mark-Anthony Turnage (Britain), the composer of “Anna Nicole,” a Covent Garden commission; Kaija Saariaho (Finland); Luca Francesconi (Italy); and Jörg Widmann (Germany). The composers are being asked to tackle the philosophical question of what preoccupies us today. That’s four new operas in one season! Mr. Pappano, who has said that the company’s efforts are focused “on composers who really excite us,” will be conducting several of the premieres.

Mr. Levine, of course, has not been healthy enough of late to be comparably engaged. Still, new opera has never seemed a top priority for him. During his tenure at the Met, he was the driving force behind only two new works, John Corigliano’s “Ghosts of Versailles” (1991) and John Harbison’s “Great Gatsby” (1999), both of which he conducted. During the “Charlie Rose” interview, it was disappointing to hear Mr. Levine’s overall reservations about new opera.

He does not agree, he said, with those who measure what the Met has accomplished by the number of new works it presents. He is interested less in quantity than in the “quality and the memory and the depth of the experience,” he said.

He spoke of the period when the Italian impresario Giulio Gatti-Casazza was in full charge of the Met, from 1910 until 1935. Coming from a culture in Italy where the public could not get enough of new Italian operas, Gatti-Casazza wanted to foster a similar scene in New York. “He did new operas, one after the other, American operas,” Mr. Levine told Mr. Rose, “and they were gone.”

Mr. Levine said that he was once told that the Met should “do a new opera every year.” His answer? “I wish I really thought there was a new opera good enough for the Met every year,” he said. “That makes it sound as though I am putting the composers down. I’m not, it’s not that at all.”

If you grant that Mr. Levine is not putting down anyone, you still have to question his attitude. It raises the bar to an unrealistic height to say that only new works deemed good enough for the lofty Met should be presented there. Would Mr. Levine suggest that “Two Boys,” an earnest, musically intriguing but dramatically flawed work, meets this standard? What would Verdi, who lived at a time when new and recent pieces dominated the offerings of every Italian house, say about Mr. Levine’s thinking? We need to treat opera as a living art form in which new works are being tried out all the time. Think of the great decades of the studio system in Hollywood. Sure, for every Bette Davis classic, she may have had to star in a half-dozen churned-out studio projects. But we look back now at those so-called lesser films and revel in the artistry, style and drama at play.

One confusing element of the Met’s joint commissioning program is the role of Lincoln Center Theater. In a recent interview, André Bishop, the theater’s artistic director, said that for a piece to make sense at the 1,150-seat Vivian Beaumont Theater, it would have to use a smaller-size orchestra and have the kind of vocal parts that could be performed eight times a week, the typical schedule for a Broadway theater production.

I had assumed that if a new opera seemed suited to the space at the Beaumont that, with the support of the Met, Lincoln Center Theater would present it as a special limited run. Maybe this is not financially feasible. Even a true chamber opera, like Britten’s “Rape of Lucretia,” would probably need two if not three rotating casts to meet that eight-times-a-week schedule of a Broadway theater. What the Met really needs is a mini-Met, a smaller space for chamber-size works, something talked of for years

Mr. Gelb deserves great credit for bringing important operas from recent decades to the house, often in landmark productions, like Philip Glass’s “Satyagraha,” John Adams’s “Nixon in China” and Mr. Adès’s “Tempest.” More are coming.

Maybe an enormous operation like the Met is best suited to presenting exciting new works created elsewhere. I would feel better about it if Mr. Levine were not suggesting that commissioned operas at the Met are scarce because few pieces are good enough.
65 2013-11-03 Nissan’s redesigned compact claims a place at the table, but it won’t be the life of the party....
66 2013-11-03 I work in a small, six-person office in state government, and I find the relationship between our manager and this one younger guy in the office really irritating. Basically, they are too close. They hang out together a lot. They go out to lunch together whenever they can. They can often be found quietly chit-chatting about personal issues either in the manager’s office or in my co-worker’s cubicle. I think our manager enjoys having this guy follow him around like a puppy.

Even worse, I don’t get along with my manager that well, and I know he talks about me and other workers with this guy. And the only other full-time employee in our group likes this sycophant, because he strokes her ego with many compliments. I guess I’m not looking for a solution. I am just really annoyed and I need to know if my feelings are legitimate. S.F.

Legitimate or not, your feelings sound authentic. Unfortunately, being consumed with dislike for this Eddie Haskell figure affects only one person: you. In fact, it sounds as if it may be turning you into an outlier — a dicey position in such a small group.

Intraoffice chumminess, however grating, is no crime, and teacher’s-pet employees are a common workplace feature. But if this guy is undermining you, that’s a legitimate concern. It’s also something you can address — for instance, by making sure the boss knows what a good job you’re doing.

That said, if the irritation and annoyance are so severe that it’s impossible to set them aside, maybe it’s time to consider looking for a position elsewhere. Your feelings may be perfectly legitimate — but, really, wouldn’t you be better off trying to figure out how to make them go away?

I read with interest your recent column “You Didn’t Get the Job? Maybe It’s a Good Thing” (Sept. 22). I recently had a similar situation with recruiters who disappeared. After four interviews at a company in my field, I felt that things were going very well. The last interview included a discussion of salary and a decision date. That date came and went. After several weeks of emails and delays I was finally told: “We are going in a different direction.” I was stunned.

I called each person I interviewed, leaving messages. No response. After reading your column, I wrote to each person, asking if we could have an off-the-record talk about what went awry, as this would help me in interviewing for future positions. I sent a follow-up a week later and got one reply — saying my inquiry was being forwarded to human resources. But then I got an email from the head of corporate security, saying “your persistent follow-up with our colleagues must cease.”

I replied that his email was unnecessary and that all his colleagues needed to do was reply to the original inquiry saying that they didn’t wish to discuss the matter. Friends tell me that I’m better off not working with people who behave this way. Perhaps they’re right. V.E.

I did suggest to that earlier reader that it might be worth trying to find out what went wrong. And I’m sorry to hear how your attempt to do something similar ended.

That said, there’s an important difference between that situation and yours: My inquisitor in that earlier instance had been approached by a previous employer, by way of a manager (outside standard human-resources channels), so there was a plausible, one-person route to an informal “uh, what just happened?” conversation.

A case like yours is different. There’s no obvious motivation for the company to explain itself, let alone do you any favors — and a blanket email campaign is likely to put everybody on the defensive. Punting the matter to the security team sounds like overkill, to say the least. But without some sort of personal connection to trade on, while there’s no harm in making one attempt to get feedback, there’s little point in pushing the matter.
67 2013-11-03 The potato peelers are factory workers, not food- service employees. Balthazar is not a restaurant; it’s a machine that needs revamping. Management needs to take a long, hard look at how the frites get to the table. There is honor in the work the potato peelers are doing, but there is something wrong in that they have not advanced in over 10 years. This should surprise no one, however. New York City’s restaurants would crumble without the labor of immigrants, who become forgotten spokes in a wheel that has long been flat. MICHAEL CALLERI, Buffalo, posted on nytimes.com

THE OCTOPUS THAT ALMOST ATE SEATTLE

Seattle used to be the home of many proud octopus wrestlers. This area held the World Octopus Wrestling Championship in the ’60s. This was a real thing. Seattle has become a city of transplants, and the connection to its fishing, hunting, farming and logging roots was lost long ago. These hardscrabble roots are now being packaged and sold back at $20 a plate. DAN MORELLI, Seattle, posted on nytimes.com

The paradox of sustaining local natural resources is that in many cases, you have to eat it to save it. For everyone to agree on the value of protecting places like Puget Sound — where Dylan Mayer caught an octopus and later killed it — those locations should be available for recreational and commercial hunting and fishing. Some of the strongest supporters of water quality are the commercial oyster growers. Recreational divers and boaters need to team with commercial seafood producers and harvesters and form a lobby to protect high-quality waters. DOUG MCCLAREN, Seattle, posted on nytimes.com

A lot of people in East L.A. like goat because it’s traditional for them, and they know how to cook it. On the Westside, it’s a different story. There, some people won’t dine at a place that isn’t touted by a critic as fantastic and pronounced worthy of their ilk. Some people eat to live and they know what they like, others live to eat and let others tell them what to like. That’s why I find these articles so fun to read: to just see how high a mouthful of food must be exalted before it’s deemed worthy. IVERMARKT, Pasadena, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

When I worked at the Met, every so often we would go to Tavern on the Green for lunch, which was especially nice when we could sit in the garden room. I liked the kitsch; I thought the crystal, the mirrors and the wallpaper were hilarious and the right note of fun. The food was O.K., the experience a delight. CAROL S. CANTRELL, Staten Island, posted on nytimes.com

THE STRANGE SCIENCE OF CREATING THE PERFECT BAR

A real bar has no carpet, a plain floor, every bar chair creaks, the mirror needs a little cleaning, the wooden bar curves, and the bartender wears a white apron folded in half — always a white shirt, no tie. All the featured singers on the jukebox are dead or retired. Salty snacks are scattered in plastic wicker baskets with napkins, the bathrooms are downstairs and there are no pinball machines — only one television, overhead, and the bartender determines what channel it is set to. WILLIAM EARLEY, Merion Station, Pa. posted on nytimes.com
68 2013-11-03 When we hear about people’s identities being stolen — e-mail appropriated, accounts infiltrated, lives invaded and subverted — a sense of helplessness envelops us. Sure, the victims of such crimes can rebuild their virtual lives, with new account numbers, passwords, Internet providers and computers. But none of this changes the fact that the culprits are unlikely to be caught. We feel something similar when we learn of a new governmental encroachment into our privacy, as we did with the revelations Edward Snowden furnished last spring about the National Security Agency’s ability to monitor our lives online. In both instances, it’s as if everything that was once promised by the computer age — certainty, precision, safety, power — has been little more than a lie.

Yet the Internet has always been a murky, unaccountable place, as much a delightful Shangri-La as an anarchic shadow world, rife with fraud, pornography, drug and human trafficking networks and, of course, spam. In “The Internet Police,” Nate Anderson, deputy editor at the technology Web site Ars Technica, describes how order has been erratically imposed on the chaos. It’s a tale filled with plot twists. Government overreach leads to judicial pushback. Private-sector innovation enables the cops, but also the criminals. Internet utopians resent the intrusion of old-world laws on what they had hoped would remain an untrammeled new world. The latest technology renders traditional methods like wiretap laws obsolete. But no one can finish this book thinking the Internet remains a disorderly wasteland. The West is being tamed, if slowly.

High-tech law enforcement is nothing like what we see on “CSI” or “Criminal Minds.” There’s no junior agent with thick glasses and a large soda, pulling up personal records with just a few clicks. There’s no single Internet police force, either. In the past decade or two, as the Internet grew, “all police became the Internet police,” Anderson writes. He includes in this group Congress and the Justice Department along with federal prosecutors, the local police, the F.B.I., Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the N.S.A. More loosely, he includes telecommunications companies and universities — any entity that controls access to the Internet for large numbers of people — and businesses that self-police and lobby the government for more regulation, like the recording and movie industries.

His storytelling is brisk and lucid, often pithy but never glib. He recounts the pursuit of the “natural male enhancement” fraudster Steven Warshak (who unexpectedly plays the Larry Flynt role in a debate over government overreach and privacy rights); the master spammers Oleg Nikolaenko, Sanford (Spamford) Wallace and Jeremy Jaynes, who get caught, but at great cost and highly debatable success (Anderson notes that spam still makes up about 90 percent of e-mail sent worldwide); and Jammie Thomas, a single mother in Brainerd, Minn., who — in an almost Dickensian accident of fate — ends up the star defendant in a landmark file-sharing case (Anderson finds great comedy among prospective jurors dismissed from Thomas’s trials because they downloaded music all the time, too).

Even familiar tales contain surprises and fresh insights. The story of HavenCo — an ultrasecure Internet data center seven miles off the British coast that aspired to become its own nation, free from copyright, patent, libel and political censorship restrictions — shows how even the lawless eventually need laws to survive. The investigation into “the Cache,” which in 2008 the United States government called “the largest child-pornography conspiracy ever prosecuted by anyone anywhere,” angers Internet libertarians who suspect that proposed laws meant to stop child pornography on the Web are a Trojan horse for regulators, censors and anti-file-sharers. Anderson’s discussion of the Silk Road, the black-market Web bazaar where people can order just about every drug on the planet, happens to be timely: on Oct. 1, F.B.I. agents arrested 29-year-old Ross William Ulbricht, whom they believe to be the owner of the site, on narcotics and money-laundering charges.

Anderson observes repeatedly how technology has empowered the police in surprising, troubling ways. Which brings him to the N.S.A. WikiLeaks, he writes, “believes that we have entered a new era, one characterized by near total, automated surveillance of digital communications.” That would be endlessly depressing if Anderson didn’t demonstrate how companies are innovating to help people avoid detection. When the government tries to require a “back door” to tap these technologies, the private sector often resists — as do civil libertarians.

Many social critics and artists (most recently Thomas Pynchon and Dave Eggers) have suggested that the fix has always been in — that governments or corporations developed the Internet to control us all. But Anderson wisely reminds us that the struggle between security and liberty didn’t start with the Internet, and that the debate may not be as Manichaean as it seems. In “The Internet Police,” we see, time and again, how those who wish to remake a free society in cyberspace end up needing order, too — and how those in power have begun to reconcile themselves to the turmoil. His best example is Tor, a network of routers designed to resist detection by almost anyone. The United States Navy helped create Tor to keep its own secret communications from being detected — but it also made it available to citizens of oppressive regimes trying to communicate and rise up against their governments. Criminals, however, can also take advantage of the networks — a reality the state seems strangely at peace with.
69 2013-11-03 Must philo-Semitism be as clueless about its object as anti-Semitism? When Martin Amis wrote, in his review of Claudia Roth Pierpont’s “Roth Unbound” (Oct. 20), that in “Portnoy’s Complaint” the “tensions and conflicts of the Jewish-American experience are reduced to their core: shiksas,” he wrote the dumbest sentence I have ever read on the subject. It may suit Amis, who believes, with Roth, that masculinity, especially his own, is of cosmological significance, to think that “the tensions and conflicts of the Jewish-American experience” have been chiefly sexual, but — well, he can Google it.

He can also Google the root of the word “shiksa” (it is not Yiddish), and the parallel term of disgust that exists in the Jewish tradition for “male goys” (there is such a term and it has nothing to do with the legal preference for matrilineal descent), and the plural of “goy,” and the origins of Jewish American literature (which did not begin “circa 1950” with Saul Bellow). “Shiksa” is not only a word for abomination, it is also an abominable word; and historians will ponder how it was that so many alpha males in American Jewish culture — aleph-males, let us call them — never got past an adolescent fascination with, and fear of, the imaginary woman that the word denotes.

There is something risible about Amis’s portrait of one of the most interminably celebrated writers alive — I mean Roth — as the poor victim of rabbis (who were wrong about him, and witless) and feminists (who were a little right about him, and witless). And when Amis bizarrely observes, in response to John Updike’s question, “Who cares what it’s like to be a writer?,” that “we care, for all sorts of reasons, when that writer is Jewish,” I must say, with all the Semitic authority that I possess, that we care even when that writer is not Jewish, if it is writing that we care about — though I am pleased to be released by Amis’s observation from any need to care about what it is like to be him.

The writer is literary editor of The New Republic.

Martin Amis asserts that ­“Jewish-American literature is above all new: it began with Saul Bellow, circa 1950.” But there are significant Jewish American writers in English from the 19th and early 20th centuries, like Abraham Cahan and Henry Roth, as well as a vast pre-1950 Jewish-American literature in Yiddish, including works by Sholem Asch, Jacob Glatstein, Israel Joshua Singer, Isaac Bashevis Singer, and even by an early-20th-­century immigrant writing under the pen name Sholom Aleichem.

The writer is a professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center.

Contrary to Martin Amis’s assertion, another Roth, Henry, published “Call It Sleep” in 1934, and playwrights like Clifford Odets and Elmer Rice were portraying Jewish American characters on the stage in the 1930s.
70 2013-11-03 Buzzy new gastropubs and drinking salons have been proliferating throughout Stockholm’s urban islands, from pockets of the tourist-heavy Gamla Stan to hip Sodermalm, which today is a virtual Little Brooklyn with its bars, body art and beards. But Djurgarden, the tranquil two-mile-long island in the middle of the capital, had largely been a stalwart against these waves of change. Dense with meadows, an aging amusement park and staid museums, Djurgarden lacked the dynamic appeal that pulses in nearby areas. But recent openings on the western edge are infusing new life into this oft-overlooked island.

Devoted to the legendary Swedish pop band and Agnetha, Bjorn, Benny and Anni-Frid’s catchy tunes, this museum, which opened in May, gives fans reasons to sing again, more than 30 years after the group split.

Djurgardsvagen 68; (46-8) 1213-2860; abbathemuseum.com; admission 195 Swedish kronor, about $32 at 6.10 kronor to the dollar

A potent mixture of art and alcohol are the focus of this museum that opened on the waterfront in May 2012. A collection of Absolut Vodka’s arty ads mingles with educational-type exhibits on topics ranging from Sweden’s strict liquor laws to traditional drinking songs.

Those looking to bed down on Djurgarden can now check in to this chic 50-room boutique hotel, which opened in April. The ground-floor restaurant and bar overlook the ABBA museum’s red-carpeted entrance, making the spots great for people-watching.

This May, the elegant new Nordic restaurant Oaxen Krog moved from a tiny island in Stockholm’s archipelago to a large metal structure on Djurgarden’s southwestern edge, where it’s now joined by a more casual adjacent bistro, Oaxen Slip.

The sprawling open-air museum Skansen is rural Sweden in miniature, complete with red farmhouses and folk costumes. And Lill-Skansen, its recently revamped children’s zoo, includes a new building filled with little creatures like rabbits, guinea pigs and frogs, as well as an aviary and a pasture of pint-size goats for petting.
71 2013-11-03 At first, I thought it was my imagination. Around the time the 5S and 5C were released, in September, I noticed that my sad old iPhone 4 was becoming a lot more sluggish. The battery was starting to run down much faster, too. But the same thing seemed to be happening to a lot of people who, like me, swear by their products. When I called tech analysts, they said that the new operating system (iOS 7) being pushed out to existing users was making older models unbearably slow. Apple phone batteries, which have a finite number of charges in them to begin with, were drained by the new software. So I could pay Apple $79 to replace the battery, or perhaps spend 20 bucks more for an iPhone 5C. It seemed like Apple was sending me a not-so-subtle message to upgrade.

Of course, there are more benign explanations. The new software and recent app updates offer fancy new features that existing users want; maybe the battery is sealed with tiny five-point screws for aesthetic considerations. Perhaps, but this isn’t the first time that tech analysts and random crazies on the Internet have noted that breakdowns in older Apple products can often coincide with when upgrades come onto the market. Many have taken this as evidence of “planned obsolescence,” a term that dates to , when a real estate broker suggested that the government should stimulate the economy by placing artificial expiration dates on consumer products so people would buy more.

To conspiracy-theory-hungry observers (and some of the rest of us), it might make sense that Apple would employ this business strategy. The tech giant, after all, has reached near-saturation levels in the U.S. smartphone market. If iPhones work forever, people who already own the devices­ won’t buy new ones. Furthermore, selling products with finite life spans can be good for consumers, depending on their tastes and how informed they are. The fashion industry, whose entire mission is to essentially render products obsolete long before they cease to be functional, does this regularly. I buy clothes from H&M and other low-cost, trend-driven stores knowing full well that the pieces might fall apart after a year’s worth of washes. And if the clothes won’t be fashionable next year anyway, who cares? Improving the durability — and thereby cost — of the clothes would probably just drive away price-sensitive shoppers like me. Apple has similar considerations. Would the additional longevity of the battery be valuable enough to its core consumers to justify the inevitable higher price?

Economists have theories about market conditions that encourage planned obsolescence. A company has strong incentives to degrade product durability when it has a lot of market power and when consumers don’t have good substitute products to choose from. (That’s what happened with the international light-bulb cartel of the early 20th century, which penalized its members for manufacturing bulbs that lasted more than 1,000 hours.) When Apple started making the iPhone in 2007, its product was so innovative that it could have deliberately degraded durability without fear. But in the last couple years, the company has faced stiffer competition from Samsung and HTC, among others, which should deincentivize planned obsolescence. “Buyers are smart, and if they start figuring out that one of the costs of buying Apple’s products is that they’re constantly nickel-and-diming you, they’ll switch,” said , an economics professor at the ’s Booth School of Business.

Well, maybe. A company could still be encouraged to engage in planned obsolescence if consumers perceive large “switching costs” associated with going to a new brand. There are plenty of economics textbooks to choose from, for instance, and yet publishers still artificially make their old editions unusable by changing pagination or scrambling homework questions because they know teachers don’t want to deal with learning a whole new book.

Similarly, iPhone users have probably purchased complementary products, like apps, that won’t transfer to Android phones. They also probably have a network of iPhone-using friends with whom they can chat free using Apple’s Messages app (instead of paying for text messages). These switching costs increase Apple’s incentives to force its existing customers to upgrade by making older models gradually become more dysfunctional.

There is, however, a simple way to effectively render an old product obsolete without fleecing your existing customers. Instead of degrading the old model, companies can offer innovations in the new model that make upgrading irresistible. Apple succeeded at doing this for a while, offering new iPhones that included major improvements. In the past, consumers were so excited about the cool new features, like Siri, the voice-activated interface, that they may not have minded (or even noticed) if their old phones started to deteriorate; they planned on upgrading anyway. This time around, that’s less true. The iPhone 5S and 5C offer fewer quantum improvements. Consumers are more likely to want their old phones to continue working at peak condition in perpetuity, and to feel cheated when they don’t.
72 2013-11-04 A puzzle by Paula Gamache that highlights her sense of humor....
73 2013-11-04 Ilham Tohti, arguably China’s most vocal advocate for the rights of its Uighur minority, said security agents in Beijing rammed his car, threatened to kill his wife and children and told him to stop speaking to foreign reporters....
74 2013-11-04 This series celebrates pioneers in science and pivotal moments of discovery, using paper-puppets. Produced in collaboration with Howard Hughes Medical Institutes’s BioInteractive.
75 2013-11-04 How often did you apologize to your boss, your friends or your family last week?...
76 2013-11-04 By at least one lawyer’s reading, the S.E.C. seemed to be shutting the door to portals earning big money....
77 2013-11-04 The Times’s editorial page editor addresses reader complaints about a phrase....
78 2013-11-04 What are we waiting for? Well, before we pick up the phone and give the order to sell, let’s take a look at one more thing. How did these markets perform (annualized) over 10 years?

Maybe the answer isn’t so clear after all. Ten years ago, we didn’t have any way of knowing that emerging markets, a current target for the sell-now crowd, would still perform more than 4 percent better than the United States market at the 10-year mark. For those of you keeping track, that’s Example 387 for why we shouldn’t be so quick to dismiss diversification.

Of course, some of you might argue that if an investor picked any of these three options, diversification wouldn’t matter because the performance for all three was positive.Reaching this point, however, would also require that an investor hadn’t done something silly during those 10 years, like sell everything when any one of these markets dropped off a cliff at different times.

By choosing to blend different, complementary investments (known as diversifying), we’re spreading out our risk and creating opportunities for different parts of our portfolios to zig when others zag. A diversified portfolio means that some investments will do well while a few are doing poorly and others are doing average.

That’s perhaps the biggest risk of diversification: comparison. It’s really easy to focus on the ones that are doing well and compare them with the ones that aren’t doing equally well, but that’s what makes diversification so useful to the average investor. We have no way of predicting the winners and the losers. Diversification helps us cover a range of possibilities.

Of course, diversification is an easy target for criticism when our window of time is short. Yes, if we’re judging our investing success based on the year-to-date results for the third quarter in 2013, it would seem like diversifying into markets outside the United States is unnecessary. But one quarter shouldn’t become the definition of investing success or failure for investors.

I also understand why it’s tempting to think that we don’t need diversification. It can be difficult to watch portions of our portfolios climb sky-high while others seem to be lost in the wilderness. But until the day that markets become predictable, we’re in for a bumpy ride if we dismiss the benefits of diversification. Of course, diversification doesn’t eliminate all risks, but it’s one fantastic shock absorber. So it frustrates me when I hear of investors being advised to leave this valuable tool on the sidelines.

When we diversify, we’re also setting up guardrails to help us make smart, disciplined decisions. For instance, what would we do if we were holding one particular investment after it experienced a down quarter? Odds are high we’d be looking around for a different investment that’s doing well. This approach creates the classic buy high/sell low behavior that isn’t good for any investor.

But what happens when we make use of diversification? To use a very simplified example, imagine we divide a portfolio into equal portions of three different investments. The financial plan then calls for maintaining an equal split among the three.

Now at the end of a quarter when one investment is up a lot while the other two are down, we know what comes next: rebalancing. Diversification, in combination with our financial plan, helps us behave like adults by creating opportunities to buy low and sell high.

Now maybe you can see why I’ve previously described diversification and rebalancing as the seventh wonder of the world. It’s not because we can suddenly predict what the market will do next but because we know what we need to do next.

If you still aren’t convinced, there’s no law saying you can’t dump everything into a single investment. I’ll even wish you luck because you’re going to need it. A single-investment strategy is the investing equivalent of going all in on one spin of the behavioral roulette wheel. I don’t care for those odds myself, particularly since there’s also no law saying that’s the only option open to us.

Please don’t be fooled by the headlines and by numbers that reflect a window of time that doesn’t really matter to average investors. I suspect that a well-diversified portfolio is a little bit like what Winston Churchill said about democracy: It’s the worst form of investing except for all the others.
79 2013-11-04 West Point hosted a same-sex marriage over the weekend. But Congress still hasn’t gotten it together to protect gays and lesbians from employment discrimination....
80 2013-11-04 Paul Dergarabedian joined the Rentrak Corporation, Sherman Oaks, Calif., as senior media analyst. He had been president of the box office division of Hollywood.com.

Susan Smith Ellis joined Morgan Stanley, New York, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had most recently been executive producer of a documentary, “Get the Picture,” and before that was chief executive at (Red), the charity that works with brands and organizations to help raise money to fight AIDS.

Olivier Gers joined the London office of the Starcom MediaVest Group, part of the Publicis Groupe, as global president of the LiquidThread division, which specializes in branded entertainment and content marketing. He assumes duties from Brian Terkelsen, who will have executive oversight of LiquidThread and continues as chief executive at the MediaVest division of Starcom MediaVest. Mr. Gers had most recently been chief executive at the Endemol Worldwide Brands division of the Endemol Group, London.

Noel Haan joined BBDO Proximity Minneapolis as executive creative director. He succeeds Brian Kroening, who left, the agency said. Mr. Haan had most recently been a group creative director at the Chicago office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. BBDO Proximity Minneapolis is part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, owned by the Omnicom Group.

Walker Jacobs joined Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, New York, in a reconfigured post, as chief revenue officer and president of sales of Clear Channel Outdoor North America. He assumes some duties from Rocky Sisson, executive vice president and chief revenue officer of Clear Channel Outdoor North America, who retired, the company said. Mr. Jacobs had most recently been executive vice president at Turner Digital, part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner.

Gregory Jorgensen joined the Palo Alto, Calif., office of BrandCulture in a new post, managing director. He had most recently been senior vice president of marketing at Verisign.

Sophie Kelly, president at the Barbarian Group, New York, part of Cheil Worldwide, was promoted to chief executive. She succeeds Benjamin Palmer, who takes a new post, chairman.

Alison Lewis joined Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N.J., in a new post, global chief marketing officer of the J.&J. consumer companies. She had been senior vice president for marketing and chief marketing officer of North American brands at the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta.

Lowe Campbell Ewald, Warren, Mich., part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will open an office in New York, more than four years after Interpublic merged its Lowe operation in New York with the New York operations of another Interpublic agency, Deutsch. Sal Taibi, who had been president of the Lowe New York office before joining Deutsch New York as general manager, will leave to help open the Lowe Campbell Ewald office in New York.

David G. Mallen joined Loeb & Loeb as a partner in the New York office. He had been deputy director of the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, which is part of the advertising industry’s self-regulatory process.

Laura Masse joined NuvoTV, Los Angeles, in a new post, executive vice president for marketing. She had been running a marketing consultancy, LBM, and before that was executive vice president for marketing at Crown Media Holdings.

The McDonald’s co-op franchisees in Madison, Wis., chose Moroch Partners, Dallas, to handle their general consumer market account, which had previously been handled by Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Havas Creative division of Havas. Billings were not disclosed. Moroch creates campaigns for dozens of local McDonald’s co-ops around the country.

James McLaine joined HNW, New York, as group creative director. He had been vice president and creative director at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.

OppenheimerFunds, New York, hired three executives for new posts. They are: Stephen Tisdalle, senior vice president for brand marketing; Peter Mintzberg, senior vice president for strategy and market planning; and Rupa Athreya, head of product development.

Victoria Repka-Geller joined Iced Media, New York, in a new post, executive vice president for client services and operations. She had been a group account director at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Retail Gaming Solutions, New York, named the Halo Group, New York, to introduce Lottery Rewards, a retailer-based lottery affinity and loyalty program, offering lottery players a chance to play an interactive second-chance sweepstakes. Billings were not disclosed. The program is to begin in East Coast markets in stores that include Hess Express and Tops Friendly Markets.

RPA, Santa Monica, Calif., hired three employees. One is Michael Takeshita, who joins as vice president and digital design director. The other two are a creative team, Alex Goulart, associate creative director and copywriter, and Joao Medeiros, associate creative director and art director; they had been at TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, where Mr. Goulart was a senior copywriter and Mr. Medeiros was a senior art director.

Jeremy Sigel joined the San Francisco office of Essence in a new post, client director for mobile. He had most recently been senior manager for mobile marketing at Nokia.

Tim Spengler joined Clear Channel Media and Entertainment, New York, part of CC Media Holdings, in a new post, president for content marketing and revenue strategy. He had been chief executive at Magna Global, New York, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Vanity Fair lingerie, part of Fruit of the Loom, Bowling Green, Ky., a unit of Berkshire Hathaway, named Barkley, Kansas City, Mo., as agency of record, handling duties that include advertising, public relations, social media and media planning and buying. Billings were not disclosed. Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, had previously handled advertising duties. Ketchum, part of the Omnicom Group, had previously handled public relations.
81 2013-11-04 SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund owned by Steven A. Cohen, has agreed to plead guilty to insider trading violations, becoming the first large Wall Street firm in a generation to confess to criminal conduct....
82 2013-11-04 Why Nebraska should be on your radar. The joy of using electronic devices on airplanes. Sex-industry workers and Obamacare....
83 2013-11-04 Twitter has raised the price range for its initial public offering to $23 to $25, signaling the company’s bullish outlook ahead of its trading debut on Thursday....
84 2013-11-04 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
85 2013-11-04 The choice for the new army chief in Pakistan will affect the civil-military relations in the country and its relationship with India....
86 2013-11-04 Three new tools designed to make it easier to manage a small business....
87 2013-11-04 The Clinton Group is expected to propose a list of board candidates that includes Thomas D. Mottola, the former chief of Sony Music, and Thomas D. Beers, the chief of FremantleMedia....
88 2013-11-04 The bank said pretax profit rose to $5.1 billion in the three months ended Sept. 30 from $4.6 billion in the period a year earlier....
89 2013-11-04 ■ Matt MacDonald joined BBDO North America, New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, as executive creative director on the agency’s AT&T account, a new post. He had been chief creative officer at JWT New York, part of the JWT division of WPP. Also, Wil Boudreau, an executive creative director at BBDO New York on accounts like Lowe’s, will take a vacant post at the agency’s Atlanta office, becoming executive creative director on all accounts apart from AT&T.

■ Court Crandall, partner and executive creative director at Wong, Doody, Crandall, Weiner, based in the Los Angeles office, is leaving the agency to focus on his work in areas like film and television; he is writing a script for “Off the Strip,” a pilot for a series for Fox. Mr. Crandall, in an email on Friday, described his parting as “truly amicable” and said he would remain at the agency through November. Tracy Wong, partner and executive creative director of the agency, based in the Seattle office, said the agency would revert to its original name, WongDoody; in an email, he wrote: “It’s a pretty unforgettable name, icebreaker and comedic fodder. Saying goodbye to Court had us staring in the face of an agency called Wong, Doody, Weiner, and that makes even us blush.”

■ Four executives, all of whom worked recently or in the past at Bailey Lauerman, Lincoln, Neb., are opening an agency named Agent, in Lincoln. The founders of Agent are: Raleigh Drennon, partner and executive creative director, formerly executive creative director at Bailey Lauerman; John Hayden, partner and creative director, formerly senior art director at Bailey Lauerman; Monte Olson, partner and chief executive, formerly chief executive at Thought District and a former vice president at Bailey Lauerman; and James Strange, partner and creative director, formerly design director at Bailey Lauerman.

■ Lee Applbaum joined Patrón Spirits International, Schaffhausen, Switzerland, as chief marketing officer, succeeding Matt Carroll, who is retiring at the end of the year, the company said. Mr. Applbaum most recently was an independent consultant to Target Australia, where he served as chief marketing officer, and before that was executive vice president and chief marketing officer at RadioShack. Mr. Applbaum will work from Switzerland as well as the Patrón satellite United States office, in Southland, Tex.

■ ShopStyle, part of PopSugar, San Francisco, is to introduce on Monday its first national advertising campaign, which includes traditional media like television, print and outdoor as well as digital ads like search engine marketing and social media. The budget for the campaign, scheduled to run through January, is estimated at $25 million. “We’ve seen tremendous growth over the course of the seven years we’ve been in business, and we want to grow even faster,” said Brian Sugar, chief executive at PopSugar. “To get the level of brand awareness, the scale we want, we need a complete marketing mix.” ShopStyle joins a lengthening list of dot-coms that are advertising, or testing ads, in traditional media, among them Fab.com, Kayak, Spotify and TripAdvisor. The ShopStyle campaign, carrying the theme “We Search, We Find, We ShopStyle,” is being created by Sub Rosa, New York; media planning is being handled by the Media Storm unit of the Walter Cooler Group.

■ AKPD, the Analytics Media Group and Bully Pulpit Interactive — sibling agencies that specialize in political campaign work in areas like ad creation, audience targeting, data analytics and digital strategy — are expanding to New York. John Del Cecato, partner and creative director at AKPD, is leading that agency’s New York office. The New York office of Analytics Media is being led by Chauncey McLean, chief operating officer. And Mark Skidmore, partner at Bully Pulpit, is leading that agency’s effort in New York. The agencies are sharing office space at 636 Avenue of the Americas at 19th Street.

■ Six independent agencies in Copenhagen have formed a partnership under the name Impact Alliance. The agencies are: Attention Film; Event Republic; Off-Road; Scandinavian DesignLab, part of the IDna Group; Spoiled Milk; and UiWE. Gorm Bloch will lead Impact Alliance as its head.

■ Commercial time during the ABC broadcast of the 86th annual Academy Awards, scheduled for March 2, is virtually sold out, the earliest that has happened in quite some time. (Comparisons are difficult because for many years a major sponsor, Revlon, bought a large number of spots, helping the broadcast sell out faster because there was less commercial time to be sold to other advertisers.) Variety reported that ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, had been asking $1.8 million to $1.9 million for each 30-second spot in the broadcast, compared with $1.65 million to $1.8 million for commercials during the 85th annual Oscars, which took place on Feb. 24.

■ Stan Adler Associates, New York, which specializes in work for mutual funds, investment managers and other financial services firms, was acquired by the CHR Group, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. Adler will operate as an autonomous unit of CHR.

■ Engine Group, London, said it would acquire FlipScript China, Shanghai, a digital and social media agency. Financial terms were not disclosed. The agency will be renamed Deep Focus/FlipScript after Deep Focus, a digital and social media agency in New York that Engine also owns.

■ Van Wagner Communications, New York, acquired Citylites USA, Minneapolis, which sells out-of-home advertising space at the Mall of America and in the skyway systems of cities that include Minneapolis and St. Paul. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Aggregate Knowledge, San Mateo, Calif., which offers marketers and agencies combined media and audience data through what it calls the Media Intelligence Platform, was acquired by Neustar, Sterling, Va., which specializes in real-time analytics, for about $119 million in cash.

■ Omnicom Group, New York, and the Publicis Groupe, Paris, said the U.S. antitrust review period for their proposed merger had expired; that brings the deal a step closer to completion, which may take place in the first quarter of 2014. Omnicom and Publicis said they had also received approvals from regulatory authorities in Canada, India and Turkey; they previously received approvals in South Africa and South Korea.

■ Heartbeat Ideas, New York, and Heartbeat West, Santa Monica, Calif., two digital health care agencies, have been acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris, which is merging them with health care agencies under its Saatchi & Saatchi umbrella. Financial terms were not disclosed. Publicis is also combining Saatchi & Saatchi Health Communications and Saatchi & Saatchi Wellness under the Saatchi & Saatchi Wellness name; the Heartbeat agencies will operate as part of Saatchi & Saatchi Wellness, a division of the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group unit of Publicis.

■ Studiocom, a division of VML, part of WPP, will be rebranded as VML, with the Studiocom offices in Atlanta, Boston and Bogotá, Colombia, becoming offices of VML.

■ GoDaddy said it would advertise during Super Bowl XLVIII on Feb. 2, returning to the game for a 10th year. The company has bought two 30-second spots during the game from Fox Broadcasting, joining a list of sponsors that will also include Anheuser-Busch InBev, Butterfinger, Chevrolet, Dannon Oikos yogurt, Doritos, Hyundai, Intuit, SodaStream and Wonderful pistachios. GoDaddy said the content of its commercials would reflect its new approach to advertising and eschew the sexy, provocative tone of past years.

■ ZenithOptimedia Group, London, part of the Publicis Groupe, plans to issue in December a global study that will forecast changes during the next 25 years. The study is part of efforts to mark the media agency’s 25th anniversary; the media-buying departments of three agencies including Saatchi & Saatchi were combined on Oct. 30, 1988, to form Zenith Media.
90 2013-11-04 Mr. Walsh said Sunday that it was “wrongheaded” to suggest he could not be independent.

“As John Connolly well knows, nobody has questioned my independence in the past, and voters can be assured of my continued independence in the future,” he said. “I’m disappointed that my opponent has chosen to personally question my integrity.”

The campaign to succeed Mayor Thomas M. Menino has been a largely civil affair, with the candidates mostly shying away from direct personal attacks. But with the race neck and neck, both are looking for ways to galvanize voters, a task made harder in recent weeks as the city has been preoccupied by the Boston Red Sox march to winning the World Series. Mr. Connolly and Mr. Walsh, both progressive Democrats, won the right to face each other in Tuesday’s nonpartisan general election by claiming the top two spots in the September preliminary election for mayor.

A major part of Mr. Walsh’s campaign has been his endorsements by the city’s most prominent black and Latino politicians — including Charlotte Golar-Richie, Felix Arroyo and John Barros, who were runners-up in the preliminary election for mayor.

In September, the candidates of color won nine of the city’s 22 wards, said David Paleologos, a pollster for Suffolk University.

“The whole race boils down to whether Walsh’s endorsers can deliver in their neighborhoods,” Mr. Paleologos said. The real value of labor money, he said, was in the Walsh campaign’s ability to air television ads that highlight those endorsements.

Analysts say that voters know one main fact about each candidate — that Mr. Connolly is the “education” candidate and that Mr. Walsh is the “labor” one.

Mr. Connolly was a teacher before becoming a lawyer, and he has made improving public schools the centerpiece of his campaign. While education is a major issue for voters, Mr. Connolly has been criticized as a one-note candidate. Now, he is weaving his school plans in with broader issues.

“You want safer neighborhoods?” he told parents and children at a youth athletic program on Saturday. “Yes? Well, you need better schools. You want a stronger economy and better jobs? You need better schools. It’s all connected together.”

With his criticism of union money, Mr. Connolly is hoping to score points with voters who resent labor’s muscle. “Most people are very dissatisfied with the role of unions in city politics,” said Gary Chaison, professor of industrial and labor relations at Clark University in Worcester, with voters particularly concerned that generous labor contracts lead to tax increases.

Mr. Walsh’s ties to labor — he rose through the ranks of Laborers Local 223 to become head of the Building and Construction Trades Council of the Metropolitan District — have long been an issue in the race. As a lawmaker, he has sponsored union-friendly legislation, sometimes with unions helping him write the bills, and he favored a measure to strip the City Council of the authority to approve or reject arbitration awards for the police and firefighters.

He has sought to counteract these concerns by casting himself as someone who can talk to unions because he has their trust.

“I can sit down with the firefighters and get a good contract,” Mr. Walsh told voters at a Hyde Park ice cream shop on Saturday. “We can sit down and have a mutual respect for one another and have some tough conversations but get to yes.”

Mr. Walsh said that as mayor, he would not worry that he would be their captive. “I’m running for mayor not to negotiate contracts,” he said. His bigger concern is how to close the achievement gap in the face of dwindling state and federal dollars.

If his ties to labor have turned off some voters, they have helped with others. Mr. Connolly had been forecast to win the preliminary election in September against 11 other candidates, but Mr. Walsh, backed by a strong field operation of union workers, took first place.

“There’s a lot of anger in Connolly’s words,” Jeffrey Berry, a political scientist at Tufts University, said of the candidate’s attack on outside money. “He didn’t anticipate that labor would see the Boston mayor’s race as an opportunity to flex its muscle.”

He said that Mr. Connolly initially sought to frame the race as a contest between the Old Boston and the New Boston, with the Old representing racial strife and outmoded ways of doing things and the New being a majority-minority city and an innovative approach to government and the economy. Early on, Mr. Connolly often said he wanted to make City Hall as consumer friendly as an Apple store.

“He was happy to let Walsh have the union support because he thought it would backfire — that it would tarnish Walsh as part of the Old Boston,” Mr. Berry said. “But it has backfired on Connolly because of the manpower that labor has provided.”
91 2013-11-04 Last year, an apartment in Monaco’s curvaceous Tour Odéon sold for $8,850 a square foot. A well-off buyer paid slightly less, $8,779 a square foot, for an apartment in the sleek Frank Gehry-designed Opus Hong Kong.

And in West London, the average price for the 86 apartments in One Hyde Park has been more than $9,500 a square foot, according to research from the British property consulting firm Knight Frank.

At One57, the activist hedge fund king William A. Ackman is reportedly part of an investment group that is paying more than $90 million, or about $6,666 per square foot, for the 13,500-square-foot duplex on the 75th and 76th floor, referred to as the “Winter Garden,” because of its 2,500-square foot-glass-enclosed space that can house either a garden or a swimming pool. One57 is practically a steal at an average price of more than $6,000 a square foot. Another soaring tower on the east side of Midtown, 432 Park Avenue, is asking for $6,894 a square foot, based on its latest offering plan.

This new crop of super-luxurious New York high rises — skyscrapers so tall they needed approval from the Federal Aviation Administration — are attracting Wall Street moneymen, company executives and foreigners alike. Analysts estimate the percentage of foreign buyers in Manhattan real estate has jumped to about 30 or 40 percent of total sales, or double long-running averages.

At new developments like One57, foreigners make up about half the buyers. Among the purchasers are the Canadian businessman Lawrence S. Stroll and Silas F.K. Chou, a native of Hong Kong, business partners who took the fashion label Michael Kors public last year. Buyers from China have bought about 15 percent of the building, including one corporation that bought four apartments.

Manhattan has always attracted a number of well-to-do globe-trotters who would happily spend a couple of million, maybe even $10 million, for a snazzy pied-à-terre on the Upper East Side. But as increased numbers of global billionaires have set their sights on Manhattan, there has been an absolute explosion in prices for top-of-the-market luxury apartments.

One reason for that is simply a low supply of sleek apartments available for the rich and famous. There is not a lot of suitable, empty space in Manhattan for those sorts of developments, which can easily require more than a decade of planning and construction.

With the continued economic malaise across Europe and heightened political unrest in hot spots around the world, foreign and American billionaires alike are seeking safer places to park their assets. New York, say analysts, looks like a pretty safe bet these days.

“We’re building the equivalent of bank safe deposit boxes in the sky that buyers can put all their valuables in and rarely visit,” said Jonathan J. Miller of the real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel.

Not that long ago, $30 million got you a pretty nice trophy property in Manhattan. At least, that is what people thought in 2000 when Stephen A. Schwarzman, the co-founder of the Blackstone Group, the private equity giant, paid that record-breaking amount for the sprawling 34-room penthouse at 740 Park Avenue, where John D. Rockefeller Jr. once lived.

This being Manhattan, eye-popping purchases both mirror and amplify the era of real estate excess. As in other major metropolitan cities, New York’s luxury market — defined as the top 10 percent of sales — peaked in early 2009 at an average price of $2,612 a square foot, according to data from Miller Samuel. After dipping to a low of $1,655 later that year, it has rebounded to an average of $2,055 in the third quarter of this year

New York has always had its share of hot “it” buildings, the exclusive white-glove residences that command megabucks well above market trends — 820 Fifth Ave. or 15 Central Park West, often known as the “hedge fund building.”

In 2008, the former Citigroup chairman Sanford I. Weill paid $44 million for the four-bedroom penthouse in 15 Central Park West.

Four years later, as a wave of buyers from Russia made big splashes in New York trophy apartments, Mr. Weill turned around and sold the apartment for a record-breaking $88 million to a trust set up by the Russian tycoon Dmitry Rybolovlev for his daughter Ekaterina and her heirs. While that deal still holds the record for the highest price per square foot paid in New York — $13,049 a square foot — it will most likely be broken next year as sales under contract in the new developments start closing.

For luxury apartments, New York is the new hot market for global buyers. “We are just swamped,” says Elizabeth L. Sample, a senior global real-estate adviser and associate broker for Sotheby’s International Realty. “Normally, we’re in the Hamptons in the summer. But all of August, we were here with foreign buyers. We’re working with 10 different foreign buyers right now.”

When asked where they were coming from, Ms. Sample rattled off a mile-long list that started with an “influx of people from London,” along with buyers from Brazil and Israel. “The Chinese are back and so are the Japanese. They’ve been in and out of the market and they’re more prominent now,” she notes. There are also “many princes and kings” from the Middle East looking to buy and, she says with a flourish, “We still have the Russians.”

Manhattan has always attracted its fair share of foreign buyers. In the 1980s, for instance, Japanese investors snapped up small studios and one-bedroom apartments, seeking the steady income from renters.

But today’s rich globe-trotters, say analysts, are looking for something else. First, many want for a safe place to park their assets. They want an investment that, over time, is not likely to lose its value and may, in fact, become more valuable. At 432 Park Avenue, a mystery buyer paid a reported $95 million for an 8,255-square-foot apartment. At more than $11,500 a square foot, the apartment does not include a large storage unit in the basement (an additional $190,000) or one of the 76-square-foot wine cellars also available to buyers ($320,000).

Designed by Rafael Viñoly, 432 Park will be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere when it is completed, soaring nearly 1,400 feet above Midtown. Sales started this year and so far, about 50 percent of the building is in contract. One-third of the buyers have come from overseas, primarily Britain, South America, China, the Middle East and Russia.

In TriBeCa, where 56 Leonard Street is slowly rising and will eventually ascend 60 stories, only about 10 percent of the 145 apartments that have been sold went to foreign buyers, said one of the building’s developers, Izak Senbahar.

“I think that the international people didn’t have the time,” to buy into the building, Mr. Senbahar said, adding that it was 92 percent sold in just seven months. But it was not for lack of trying. “I remember one French person really buying on the phone because he thought it was going to be too late to get the unit he wanted,” Mr. Senbahar said.

Nicknamed the “Jenga building” for its jagged steel-and-glass design that resembles the wooden tower game, 56 Leonard has a penthouse on the 60th floor that went to what has only been described as a “New York-based hedge fund manager” for $47 million. That stood as a record price for downtown until just recently, when a full-floor penthouse apartment in the Walker Tower, a condominium in Chelsea, went into contract for $50 million.

For more than a decade, Gary Barnett, a former diamond trader who, as the head of Extell Development, built the W Hotel in Times Square, had carefully assembled his site on West 57th near Carnegie Hall. He bought various buildings and began acquiring the corresponding air rights, all with an eye toward building one of the city’s tallest luxury residential towers.

He shifted on his feet as he stood in the living room of a finished model apartment on the 41st floor of One57 that costs $18.75 million, or less than $6,000 a square foot. (“As these things go, it’s a great price,” he says.)

One57, which is scheduled to open in December, is now more than 70 percent sold. Standing 1,004 feet, One57 will be the highest residential tower in the city until 432 Park is finished.

Like most other high-end skyscrapers, One57 is selling the lifestyle of the globe-trotting chief executive or hedge fund manager. World-famous architect? Check — Christian de Portzamparc. High-end Miele appliances? Check. Private yoga studio and performance room? Check and check. Unfortunately, the world’s billionaires will have to swim laps in the building’s 75-foot indoor swimming pool with the tourists staying at the Park Hyatt hotel, which will occupy the first 30 floors of the building when it opens the middle of next year.

“There aren’t going to be many buildings like this that even can be built. Because how many spots can you find that will deliver this kind of view?” Mr. Barnett asked, as he nodded to the New York City vistas.

Well, actually, just down the street, on 57th and Broadway. That is where Mr. Barnett is already at work on his next project: a luxury tower that, if he sticks with preliminary plans, could be the tallest in the city, soaring more than 1,400 feet into the sky.
92 2013-11-04 Of all the post-Soviet Ukrainian leaders, Mr. Yanukovich would seem the least likely to champion integration with the West. He comes from Ukraine’s Russian-speaking east, and is said to have received the Kremlin’s help during his 2010 presidential race. Now, widely unpopular — even his own Party of Regions opposes the E.U. deal — and facing a tough fight for re-election in early 2015, he has decided to play a political trump card: snatching the pro-European, anti-Russian rhetoric that had been a preserve of the opposition.

The Ukrainian leader also has other cards to play. , his main political rival, is serving a seven-year sentence for abuse of office. She is widely considered to be a political prisoner and Europe wants her freed. Mr. Yanukovich is apparently ready to oblige — as long as the Europeans make sure she stays away from Ukraine and its politics. An understanding is within reach.

Among other conditions, wants Ukraine to establish Western-style institutions, including a prosecutor’s office with limited authority, a citizen-friendly police service and an independent judiciary — all designed to end the system of payoffs and patronage that benefits the president’s family and friends. Mr. Yanukovich will likely offer his assurances that this will be so, while continuing to do his best to bend these institutions to his will.

Brussels asserts that under the Association Agreement, Ukraine will save €500 million a year in customs duties, and it is promising an aid package of €186 million to help Kiev begin to implement institutional reforms and another €610 million after they are in place.

But this comparatively small amount of European money won’t save the day. Ukraine’s economy is stagnating and the country stands to lose billions in trade if the Kremlin gets tough. Russia can close its borders to more Ukrainian goods. It also can introduce stringent visa requirements, demand advance payment for natural gas exports, or cut off supplies as it has done twice before.

Moreover, in the short term, the free-trade pact is likely to hurt. Introducing European industrial standards (which is part of the deal) will make most Ukrainian-manufactured goods uncompetitive, while European produce will flood into the country. And that’s on top of the likely losses in trade and from Russia. Moreover, an association agreement is not the same as E.U. accession.

Economic gains will certainly be years in coming. Still, new institutions, especially in law enforcement, are exactly what Ukraine needs and an association with Brussels is the best hope for moving in that direction.

Mr. Yanukovich is known as a crafty double-dealer, but he is in a tight spot. If he delays attempts to institute reform, as his critics suspect, Brussels will back away. If he angers Russia by going ahead with the deal, Mr. Putin’s vengeance will be harsh and swift, pushing Ukraine into economic crisis. Mr. Yanukovich may try to parry an attack by casting Ukraine as the victim of Russian aggression, pressing the West for support, but that might not come to much.

The Ukrainian leadership is motivated by a mixture of expediency and fear. But if it walks the walk toward E.U. integration, the change will become irreversible. Genuine reform will nurture a generation of political leaders for whom Western values won’t be just words.

Maxim Trudolyubov is the opinion page editor of the business newspaper Vedomosti.
93 2013-11-04 BRUSSELS — Inspectors from Greece’s international lenders have put a postponed visit to the country back on the agenda and will return early this week after Athens made a new proposal on filling a gap of 2 billion euros in the 2014 budget, the European Commission has said.

The team of officials from the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, the group of lenders known as the troika, is set to decide on whether to approve the next installment of loans under Greece’s bailout program.

The officials on Friday received “further information from Athens, which means we can confirm our travel plans,” a European Commission spokesman, Simon O’Connor, said on Saturday. “Our team will thus be in Athens at the beginning of the coming week.”

The International Monetary Fund said its staff would resume work in Athens on Tuesday.

Euro zone officials said last week that their trip would be postponed because they had not been able to agree with the Greek government on how to close a €2 billion, or $2.7 billion, hole in the country’s 2014 budget. The government has vowed to impose no more austerity measures on Greeks already battered from three years of tax increases and pension cuts.

But the standoff was defused late on Friday when Greece sent the lenders information on how it could fill the fiscal gap and meet other bailout targets, including privatizations.
94 2013-11-04 The commercial, which was produced internally, will run widely during November. Chris Malloy directed the spot, with production by Farm League in Los Angeles.

Among men 25 to 34 years old, 57 percent report having some gray in their beard, according to Just for Men consumer research. The discovery can be an unpleasant surprise when a beard comes in because male heads often go gray from south to north, with clean-shaven men first noticing it in their sideburns and temples.

“Guys are definitely more involved with their facial hair than their head hair, and when gray comes into their beard when they’re young, they’re more motivated to do something about it,” said Mr. Marburger, adding that men who color their beards are more apt to graduate to the brand’s other products when they see gray in their combs.

About 60 percent of men have mustaches or beards today, compared with 43 percent in 1993, according to Just for Men, which reports that revenues for its facial line have nearly doubled over the last decade.

The partnership with Movember, Mr. Marburger said, aligns with the message from the brand, which goes beyond appearance.

“The mission for the brand is to give guys the freedom to look the way they want, and it’s also about them feeling their best, about well-being and being healthy,” Mr. Marburger said.

During November, the brand also is featuring a mustachioed Adam Garone, a Movember co-founder, on packages of the facial line’s best-selling shade, medium brown, sold in Duane Reade stores in New York, and is donating the profits to the charity.

Started by four friends in Melbourne, Australia, in 2003, Movember raised $147 million globally in 2012, with the United States accounting for $21 million. Like those training for charity runs, Movember participants solicit from friends and family as they grow mustaches.

Although its principal causes — prostate cancer, testicular cancer and men’s mental health — are somber, it takes a lighter approach.

“Even though these are serious issues, they engage in a fun way,” said Joe Waters, co-author of “Cause Marketing for Dummies.” “Women’s causes, children causes and pet causes often engage you with sadness, but Movember engages you with humor.”

As part of its sponsorship in 2012, Made Man, the men’s website published by Defy Media, produced humorous videos encouraging Movember participation that featured Nick Offerman, who has an exemplary mustache and plays Ron Swanson on NBC’s “Parks and Recreation.” Two of those videos from last year together garnered more than 2.3 million views on YouTube, while another featuring Mr. Offerman that was uploaded on Oct. 23 has received more than 520,000 views.

Another sponsor, Gillette, is promoting Movember in print ads running widely in men’s publications, including Details, Esquire and GQ. The ads principally promote the charity, exhorting men to “Grow Your Mo!” and to register to enlist contributors for their efforts at Movember.com.

In Movember ads and promotional events, the Procter & Gamble brand is highlighting the Gillette ProGlide Styler, a hybrid of a trimmer and a razor, as a mustache styling tool.

Like other sponsors, Gillette, which also sponsors the N.F.L., has its own Movember team growing mustaches and amassing online donations, including the N.F.L. players Clay Matthews, Victor Cruz and Danny Amendola. The model Kate Upton, who has been featured in advertising for the ProGlide Styler since April, is part of the fund-raising team as what is known in the charity’s parlance as a “mo sista.”

During November, another P. & G. brand, the Art of Shaving, an upscale line with retail stores that offer grooming services, is donating all proceeds for its mustache trims ($15) to the charity.

Along with promoting participation in the fund-raiser, sponsors Toms Shoes, the denim brand 7 For All Mankind, the headphone brand LSTN, the sports apparel brand Electric and the cyclist clothing brand Giordana all are making limited edition products that feature the Movember mustache logo, with some proceeds going to the charity.

But Mark Hedstrom, director of Movember for the United States, said that the charity did not want to overdo it with merchandise.

“We look to limit as best we can the number of products that are out there with the Movember logo on it,” Mr. Hedstrom said. “The point is participation, and what we see as a big opportunity for us is our partners speaking to their audience about Movember.”
95 2013-11-04 After three years of relative stability and calm in Thai politics, the uproar over the amnesty bill threatens a return to the deadlock and turmoil that plagued the country in the years after the 2006 coup.

Perhaps more significant than the campaign to derail the bill by Mr. Thaksin’s traditional foes, including the Democrat Party, is the strong criticism from across Thai society. Newspapers that were seen as sympathetic to Mr. Thaksin and the government have published strongly worded editorials against the bill, contributing to a near unanimity that is highly unusual in the country’s print media.

Members of the movement that helped propel Mr. Thaksin’s party back to power in the June 2011 elections have also heavily criticized the bill.

Many leading members of the so-called Red Shirt movement, who shut down parts of Bangkok in 2010 in the name of Mr. Thaksin and his policies, say they are stunned by the breadth of the amnesty law, especially proposals to pardon those who ordered the military crackdown against the Red Shirts.

The leader of a Red Shirt faction in Bangkok, Sombat Boonngamanong, said in a newspaper interview published Sunday that Mr. Thaksin’s party, Pheu Thai, was using this “chaotic moment” in Thai politics to include the corruption cases in the amnesty bill.

“I think this is such a shame,” Mr. Sombat said. “It’s unbelievable that Pheu Thai is so brazen to do this.”

Mr. Sombat said the amnesty bill was particularly hurtful to idealists who believed that Mr. Thaksin was a champion of democracy.

“We boarded a train bound for democracy station, but then we suddenly made a turn to Thaksin station,” he said. “It’s over.”

Mr. Sombat said he would help lead protests against the bill separate from the protest organized by the Democrat Party.

To become law, the amnesty bill still needs the approval of the Thai Senate and the signature of the king, and it must clear expected judicial challenges.

But even if it goes no further, the bill appears to have damaged Mr. Thaksin’s still formidable political machinery. Nuttawut Saikua, a Red Shirt leader and a member of Parliament from Mr. Thaksin’s party, said sentiment among Thaksin supporters was “cracking into pieces.”

Mr. Thaksin has defended the bill as a new start for the country. “We need to reset to zero and move forward,” he said in an interview in Singapore with Post Today, a Thai-language newspaper.

But in a measure of the anger over the amnesty bill, Mr. Thaksin’s son, Panthongtae Shinawatra, criticized the bill on Facebook last week. Mr. Panthongtae, who many believe is being groomed for a political career, said that he wanted his father to return “more than anything” but that he and his two sisters were opposed to a “blanket amnesty,” especially for the “murderers” of protesters in 2010.

In its current wording, the bill would clear Mr. Thaksin in a number of cases that were investigated by a committee appointed by the leaders of the 2006 coup. The cases include charges that Mr. Thaksin directed the government to provide loans to Myanmar for a deal that involved his telecommunications company.

The amnesty law could also rescind a major corruption conviction in a case involving bid-rigging for firefighting equipment. That case had no obvious connection to the military coup but was among those investigated by the committee.
96 2013-11-04 Using modest amounts of wood at a large number of coal plants could be a relatively quick way to phase in renewable energy. And unlike wind or solar power electricity from a boiler, burning wood is easy to schedule and integrate into the grid.

The E.P.A. is in the midst of “listening sessions” in 11 cities around the country, to gather ideas from the public about putting carbon limits on existing plants. Last week it held an eight-hour session in Denver.

Wood does release carbon when burned, as nearly all fuels do. But taking woody material from forests or farms leaves space for new growth, which will absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as it grows. Although some opponents of using wood say that disrupting forests means added carbon dioxide in the atmosphere for generations, regulators usually count its use as zero carbon.

Coal plants are finely engineered, designed to burn one particular kind of coal, and adding wood can be tricky. But their carbon output, like their overall efficiency — that is, the amount of coal burned compared with the amount of electricity generated — has grown worse in many cases in recent years. Earlier E.P.A. rules that cover emissions of soot, nitrogen oxides and other pollutants have required plants to install pollution control equipment that itself consumes a lot of energy.

Many companies, to minimize the loss of capacity, have taken another step that the E.P.A. would like to encourage: replacing their aging steam turbines, which often date to the 1970s and 1980s, with more efficient ones. Turbines take the energy from steam and use it to spin a shaft that turns a generator.

Plants that have already installed modern turbines cannot get big improvements from installing even newer ones and may face a bigger challenge meeting new carbon regulations. Duke Energy, for example, upgraded many turbines to offset the capacity loss as it added scrubbers.

“A lot of the low-hanging fruit has already been harvested” for efficiency improvements, said Thomas Williams, a spokesman for Duke. If Duke and other companies are forced to cut emissions, a crucial question for them will be what year is selected as the baseline, the year to which the final result is compared; many will seek to make that year the one before they replaced their turbines.

In the end, some older plants, less efficient to begin with, are more likely to be retired and replaced with natural gas ones, industry executives say, but younger ones judged to have decades of life left in them are good candidates for co-firing.

Co-firing has its drawbacks. In some cases, particularly for bigger companies, there is simply not enough wood. American Electric Power, trying to meet Ohio’s renewable energy standard, tried wood twice at its Picway plant south of Columbus, which was built in 1955. In 2003, it used sawdust from a cabinet manufacturer, and in 2010, waste wood chunks. But it dropped the test.

“The material is difficult to get in any quantity and any predictable form,” said Mark C. McCullough, American Electric Power’s executive vice president for generation.

Wood was “difficult to introduce in our combustion systems, if we don’t know what to expect,” he said. The feeder system had trouble handling the bigger chunks, he said.

The larger size of wood compared to coal is also an issue. A pound of wood can produce only about two-thirds as much heat as a pound of coal, and it is a lot bigger. So to produce the same amount of energy, companies must enlarge their fuel-handling systems. And coal-fired power plants are not used to fuel that can rot or grow fungus.

Small amounts of wood can be mixed in with coal and added to existing equipment that pulverizes coal into powder, which is then burned, but that limits co-firing to about 5 percent of fuel, and some companies say that their pulverizing equipment cannot handle the wood. Other companies have cut holes in the boiler and blown in wood, chopped into confetti-size pieces. That requires expensive modifications, but it allows wood to substitute for 15 percent of the coal, or sometimes more.

European utilities have experimented with heating the wood in a chamber outside the plant, producing a fuel gas of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, and pumping that into the boiler, but that is even more expensive.

But “close to 200 plants have conducted test burns, worldwide,” said David L. Nicholls, a forest products technologist at the United States Forest Service and a specialist on co-firing, who is based in Sitka, Alaska. In the long term, experts say, to reach carbon goals, power companies will have to capture the carbon from all the coal they use, and probably most of the natural gas, too.

But in the meantime, Mr. Nicholls said, “You could look at co-firing as a bridge strategy.”
97 2013-11-05 MLOTEK--Chana, The Workmen's Circle / Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of Chana Mlotek, matriarch of the Mlotek family, musicologist and passionate champion of the preservation of Yiddish music and culture. A lifelong activist, Chana co-authored th...
98 2013-11-05 MLOTEK--Chana Eleanor Gordon, peacefully at home, Monday November 4, at age 91. Esteemed Yiddish scholar, long time archivist at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, columnist for the Jewish Daily Forward, leading anthologist of Yiddish poetry ...
99 2013-11-05 On Tuesday afternoon India launched a mission to Mars, which is expected to reach the Red Planet on Sept.24, 2014....
100 2013-11-05 The measure to raise the hourly rate by $1 passed easily on Tuesday, by a margin of 60 percent to 40 percent, pleasing labor leaders and dismaying the business community....
101 2013-11-05 Apple said that in the first six months of 2013, government groups in 43 countries demanded information about 40,000 Apple accounts or devices....
102 2013-11-05 Wasting four billion hours a year. Gasoline prices fall. What small businesses in Virginia want from the next governor....
103 2013-11-05 The Clive Barnes Awards honor actors and dancers....
104 2013-11-05 A family bank can help business owners follow Warren Buffett’s advice of leaving children enough to do anything but not enough to do nothing....
105 2013-11-05 Persistent environmental chemicals, even those used in the past, may affect the health of the current generation of reproductive-age women, a new study suggests....
106 2013-11-05 “Hopefully, we can clean it up because that’s not Knick basketball,” Woodson said.

Perhaps not, but the Knicks (1-2) are not a cohesive group. Woodson has yet to settle on regular rotations, or even on a starting five. One reason has to do with the absence of J. R. Smith, who has two games remaining in his suspension for violating the league’s drug policy. Once Smith returns, presumably when the Knicks play the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday, Woodson said he planned to ease him into the rotation.

“I don’t think I’ll burn him where I’m playing him 30-plus minutes a night,” Woodson said.

Woodson will continue to experiment with a starting lineup that features Andrea Bargnani, whose defense has been questionable at best. When he was on the court against the Timberwolves, the Knicks were outscored by 11 points. Bargnani also spent long stretches defending Kevin Love, who collected 34 points, 15 rebounds and the Western Conference’s Player of the Week award.

“Maybe I’m hardheaded, but I’m going to start it again and just see what it looks like,” Woodson said of the larger lineup.

Woodson said it was important to note that Minnesota did much of its early damage when Bargnani was on the bench. In fact, the Timberwolves were leading by only 5 points when Tim Hardaway Jr. replaced him with 4 minutes 29 seconds left in the first quarter. Minnesota outscored New York by 22-6 during the rest of the period, averaging 2 points every 24.4 seconds. It was a run that Woodson likened to an “explosion.” He added, “That can’t happen.”

For the quarter, the Timberwolves shot 14 of 21 from the field, a handful of their makes coming on wide-open looks. Consider Pablo Prigioni’s wayward pass along the perimeter that J. J. Barea intercepted before sending the ball ahead to Love for an uncontested layup and a 37-19 lead.

In addition to citing turnovers, Woodson said his players were prone to launching ill-advised shots that left them exposed in transition.

“When that happens and the ball bounces all funny and you don’t have balance coming the other way, it’s a track meet coming up your back,” he said.

The Timberwolves’ desire to push the pace from the start should not have come as a great surprise to the Knicks. Last week, in a victory against the Oklahoma City Thunder, the Timberwolves scored 34 points in the first quarter to build a 15-point lead.

Still, the Knicks seemed unprepared. The Timberwolves’ first basket of the game came exactly five seconds after the Knicks converted a free throw, as Ricky Rubio took the inbounds pass and fired the ball 45 feet to Kevin Martin, who had beaten Shumpert up the court. Martin scored on a layup.

The quarter also highlighted Carmelo Anthony’s ongoing shooting woes, as he went 1 of 5 from the field. Through three games, Anthony has averaged 21 points while shooting 37.7 percent over all. Part of the challenge, he said, has been acclimating himself to new teammates and wanting to get them involved.

“Maybe I’m a little passive, trying to do things that seem out of the norm, trying to make people better at the wrong times,” Anthony said. “Maybe that’s where I’m second-guessing myself: Should I take this? Should I pass this? So I’ve got to get out of that mentality.”

For all the Knicks’ growing pains, at least one player sounded unconcerned. Asked about the turnovers, Metta World Peace responded as only he could.

“It’s more about moving on to the future and staying in the moment when that time comes,” he said. “Just things I’ve picked up on my journey.”

Where the Knicks go from here remains to be seen.
107 2013-11-05 “She opened a whole new repertoire,” said Eleanor Reissa, a Yiddish singer and the Tony-nominated director of “Those Were the Days,” a 1990 Yiddish-English musical revue. “We can interpret and breathe life into them because she unearthed them for us.”

For more than 43 years the Mloteks wrote a column called “Pearls of Yiddish Poetry” for The Forward’s Yiddish edition. The column invited readers to submit songs or even snatches of remembered melodies from the Yiddish-speaking communities destroyed in World War II, or from the Yiddish theater that flourished in Europe and in Manhattan. From these contributions they were able to recreate hundreds of songs as well as provide information on a song’s provenance and performance history.

“Our home in the Bronx was bombarded with envelopes — thousands and thousands of songs, people remembering songs,” Zalmen Mlotek said. “This was pre-Facebook and LinkedIn.”

One column quoted a letter recalling a Nazi concentration camp officer who was so moved by hearing the sentimental song “My Yiddishe Momme” that he told a guard to give the Jews another bowl of soup. A week later, a letter writer said that it was he who had sung the song that the officer heard. Then another letter writer said that he, too, had been there.

The Mloteks published three songbooks that became essential reading for anyone interested in Yiddish music. Mrs. Mlotek also compiled and cataloged thousands of sheets of music as an archivist at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, the nation’s principal repository of Yiddish culture.

Eleanor Chana Gordon — known as Chana — was born in the East New York section of Brooklyn on April 9, 1922, and grew up there and in the North Bronx. Her parents were Russian immigrants — her father a garment manufacturer with a fondness for Yiddish theater songs, her mother a seamstress.

She studied piano with Jacob Helmann, whose own teacher had been a student of Liszt. She learned much about her eventual specialty when she was a teacher and counselor at Camp Boiberik, a Yiddish culture camp near Rhinebeck, N.Y. In addition to studying at Walton High School and what was then the Bronx campus of Hunter College, she attended the Yiddish high school of the Sholem Aleichem Folk Institute.

In 1944 she was hired as secretary to Max Weinreich, a founder of YIVO, and in 1948 she won a scholarship to study Yiddish linguistics and folklore with Mr. Weinreich at U.C.L.A.

There she resumed a friendship with Joseph Mlotek, a young man she had met at Rockaway Beach where he romanced her with Russian songs on the mandolin.

Mr. Mlotek had fled Warsaw to Lithuania soon after the German invasion of Poland. There he obtained one of the transit visas issued by the Japanese diplomat Chiune Sugihara, who was known for helping Jews to escape during the period, and made his way to Shanghai; then to Canada; and finally to New York. They married in 1949.

Mr. Mlotek died in 2000. In addition to Zalmen, Mrs. Mlotek is survived by another son, Mark, the president of the Folksbiene and a former president of the Workmen’s Circle, a Jewish social services organization; five grandchildren (most of whom speak Yiddish); and a great-grandchild.

Joseph Mlotek, who was educational director of the Workmen’s Circle and a managing editor of The Forward’s Yiddish edition, was the person every Yiddish writer or impresario needed to see to get acquainted with New York’s publishing or performance landscape. The Mlotek apartment at the Amalgamated Houses in the Bronx was often filled with writers and performers in a Yiddish version of an elegant Cole Porter soiree. They would gather around a grand piano while Mrs. Mlotek played the evocative, plaintive melodies she knew so well.

Mrs. Mlotek continued to work for YIVO for 65 years, almost until her death. But her voluminous collection of music and correspondence extended to fill almost every shelf, file drawer and closet in her three-bedroom apartment.

And she could remember where everything was. On a recent trip to Japan, Zalmen Mlotek said, he encountered a teacher of French who wanted to know the Yiddish words to a French song. Mr. Mlotek called his mother. “She knew exactly where in the apartment to look,” he said, “in my old room, in a box in the closet.”
108 2013-11-05 “It was never proven scientifically, but the assumption was that it was the result of an aluminum can, or something similar,” said Urs Schneider, deputy director of the Swiss Farmers Union, in the capital, Bern, a half-hour’s drive south of here. “There was enormous national attention, even lacking hard proof.”

Farmers hereabout are convinced that aluminum cans, or even glass bottles, tossed onto a field are picked up by harvesting machines, shredded and mixed in with hay or silage. Once swallowed by the unsuspecting cows, the shreds can prove fatal.

“We get an awful lot of reports,” Mr. Schneider went on. “In the last four to five years, particularly along heavily trafficked roads, the problem has gotten continuously worse.”

After the slaughter of their neighbor’s six cows, farmers like Mr. Wyss, who keeps about 40 cows, a mixed breed of Simmental and Red Holstein, demanded action. A local farmers union, a branch of Mr. Schneider’s national association, came up with the idea for a campaign against litter in the countryside, and the plan attracted followers everywhere.

“What was essential for me,” said Peter Brügger, the local branch secretary, “was the way the public reacted to the news of the cows’ slaughter, and now in all of Switzerland.” He contacted two neighboring cantons, whose farmers immediately supported the idea for a campaign, which soon spread nationwide.

The idea of cows dying of litter hit a nerve. Certainly, the Swiss cow does not enjoy the aura of sanctity of its Indian counterpart. Yet cows produce the cheeses, like Emmentaler and Gruyère, that are central to the Swiss way of life; cows dot the Swiss countryside as assuredly as do charming chalets and pointed church steeples.

Most alarming to many Swiss was the idea that they might be a nation of litterers. And there is no mistaking that the culprits are Swiss, not tourists or immigrant workers, farmers say. “For once it’s not the foreigners,” Daniel Marti, who works for the local farmers association, said with a laugh.

So last spring the national farmers association, together with antilitter groups, started a drive to alert the average Swiss to the dangers caused when bottles, cans, plastic bags or packaging is tossed thoughtlessly out car windows. Posters were distributed, like one featuring an orphaned calf bemoaning the death of a mother cow, over the words, “Litter Kills Animals.” Another, lighter in tone, shows a bottle tossed from a car window hitting a cow on the rump, with the text, “Litter Makes Me Sick.”

Some companies that are the source of considerable litter, like McDonald’s and TetraPak, actively support antilitter groups. While the posters went up along roads throughout Switzerland, volunteers visited schools to alert children to just how dangerous a bottle or a can may be for a cow. The farmers are also seeking tougher antilitter laws and deposits on cans, a measure that retailers generally oppose.

The farmers say it is not just about dead animals. Though no studies exist, the estimated cost to them in time and money to rid their fields of litter before seeding or harvesting “goes into the millions,” Mr. Schneider said.

Not everyone is convinced the campaign is working. “I think the results are about equal to zero,” said Erich Walker, 58, who reared six children on his 205-acre farm, where he raises cows, pigs and chickens and grows corn, sugar beets and wheat. Yet he conceded the efforts might “sensitize people a bit.”

Others are more optimistic. “One shouldn’t dramatize,” Mr. Schneider said. “The Swiss sense of order remains strong.”
109 2013-11-05 And while sidewalk cyclists, red-light-running cyclists and “salmoning” cyclists — those who ride against traffic — remain a daily scourge for many New York pedestrians, no one has been killed by a cyclist in the city since 2009.

The administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has attributed the good fortune to “safety in numbers,” arguing that the increase in bike ridership, even before the introduction of the bike-share program, has heightened drivers’ awareness of cyclists and affected their behavior.

“This notion of blood on the streets has not proven out,” Janette Sadik-Khan, the transportation commissioner, said in an interview.

There have been several dire forecasts since the program’s inception. Skeptics pointed to the grim beginnings of a bike-share program in Paris, where the population density was “virtually identical” to New York’s in many neighborhoods, according to a Bloomberg administration study in 2009.

Three riders died in the Paris program’s first year, and, citywide, bike accidents increased 7 percent, the study said.

Preparing for a similar start here, John C. Liu, the city’s comptroller, called for a helmet requirement, arguing that the city could face a spate of legal claims.

John Pucher, a professor of urban planning and public policy at Rutgers University and a longtime cycling advocate, said last year that he expected “at least a doubling and possibly even a tripling in injuries and fatalities among cyclists and pedestrians during the first year.”

The program also faced ribbing in the media; in a segment on the “The Daily Show,” Jon Stewart proposed a new business venture: “Jon Stewart’s Street Brain Material Removal Service.”

There is of course no guarantee that the system’s promising safety trends will hold. Some officials have expressed a skittishness about even discussing the numbers, perhaps recalling the recent example of the Police Department. Last month, shortly after the city celebrated a seven-day stretch in which no homicides were recorded, there were five within 10 hours.

But the Transportation Department said it was confident that its statistics, like the city’s homicide rate, were moving in the right direction. In a new report assessing recent street projects, the city trumpeted the successes of pedestrian plazas, bike lanes and remedies like “mixing zones” and curb extensions that have made pedestrians and cyclists more visible to drivers.

The report noted that traffic fatalities in the city had fallen 30 percent since 2001, though last year’s figure, 277, was the highest since 2008. (According to preliminary data, the total this year is down slightly, with 209 traffic-related deaths through September, compared with 218 over the same period last year.)

Charles Komanoff, a transportation economist and avid biker, suggested that the “safety in numbers” phenomenon had spawned a helpful cycle: The increase in biking in recent years has made the practice safer, which has encouraged bike-share ridership, which should in turn improve safety for “incumbent cyclists.”

Paul Steely White, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, said some of New York’s drivers were beginning to behave like those in major international cycling hubs. “People just expect to see them around every corner and around every turn,” he said.

As the program enters its first season of cold weather, though, there is a lot more to prove. Mr. Pucher said in an interview last week that while he regretted predicting a doubling or tripling in bike deaths, he would be “really surprised” if future data did not reveal at least a modest increase in injuries.

Mr. Liu, affirming his call for mandatory helmets, said that “a great five months” did not “obviate the need for safety measures.”

But as an annual member, he said he had just one serious complaint. “The Citi Bikes come in only three speeds,” he said. “Slow, very slow and ultraslow.”
110 2013-11-05 A short film celebrates Alfred Russel Wallace, who is co-credited with discovering the theory of natural selection....
111 2013-11-05 Wrapping up his summary, the chief prosecutor, Andrew Edis, said Monday that Ms. Brooks and her husband, Charlie Brooks, engaged in an elaborate and ultimately unsuccessful effort to hide computers and documents from the police.

According to Mr. Edis, on July 8, 2011, Ms. Brooks had her personal assistant, Cheryl Carter, remove seven boxes of her notebooks, dating from 1995 to 2007, from the newspaper’s archives before detectives could find them. She resigned from her post as chief executive of Rupert Murdoch’s News International a week later, on Friday, July 15, and was arrested two days after that.

Mr. Edis said that the Brookses and News International’s chief of security, Mark Hanna, had arranged for a security staff member to pick up a laptop and other material from the couple’s Oxfordshire home and hide it in a garbage bag near garbage bins in a parking garage close to their London apartment on the following Saturday night.

The staff member texted Mr. Hanna, who is also on trial: “Broadsword calling Danny Boy. Pizza delivered and the chicken is in the pot.”

But the bag was discovered by a cleaner and turned over to the police, Mr. Edis said. When Mr. Brooks and a driver went to the garbage area to recover the material, Mr. Edis said, it was gone.

“The only rational explanation,” he asserted, “was to hide material so police can’t get it.”

Two iPads belonging to the couple have never been recovered, he added.

Mr. Langdale acknowledged that his making the defense statement for Mr. Coulson before the prosecution presented evidence was unusual. But he said it was necessary to emphasize to the jury that Mr. Coulson, as deputy editor to Ms. Brooks and then as her successor, had a lot to do and was not aware of everything taking place at the newspaper.

Mr. Coulson “was never part of an agreement to hack phones — no matter what others were doing on his watch,” Mr. Langdale said. “He wished he had made some different decisions, and although he might wish he had made some different decisions, he did not commit these offenses.”

He told the jury that the prosecution was misguided. “Their interpretation is wrong, their conclusions are wrong — there will be a time to reflect all that.”

Mr. Edis argued to the jury last week that The News of the World, a Sunday tabloid, was not the length of “War and Peace” and that the top editors would have to have known of and approved the illegal activities.

He quoted one note from Mr. Coulson ordering an investigator to “do” a target’s telephone, which Mr. Edis suggested had been a reference to phone hacking.
112 2013-11-05 Netflix said on Monday that starting early next year it will be the exclusive streaming distributor for “The Square,” an Arabic documentary about the Egyptian protest centered in Tahrir Square, which is considered a leading contender for an Oscar nomination.

Netflix billed “The Square” as the company’s first major documentary acquisition since its announcement last month that it wanted to make more direct investments in the movie business. It said other documentary pickups would be announced soon.

The Netflix streaming service is already known for having a trove of documentaries, but in most cases it has carried those films later in their life cycles, or what are known as “windows” in the business. By acquiring rights to a film like “The Square” now, it is paying for an earlier, more exclusive window — foreshadowing a time when the service could follow a similar plan for feature films, perhaps even pre-empting a theatrical release altogether. (“The Square” is getting a limited run this week in theaters in New York and Los Angeles, so that it can qualify for the Oscars.)

Netflix signaled this strategy when it reported earnings in July, saying that it would begin to acquire feature documentaries as it sought to extend its reach beyond television series.

The plans are consistent with Netflix’s strategy of differentiating itself from its competitors through a subset of original programming rather than through a stockpile of dated films and TV shows. Those plans have attracted the ire of theater owners, particularly after Ted Sarandos, the chief content officer for Netflix, asked in a late-October speech, “Why not premiere movies on Netflix the same day they’re opening in theaters?”

He also remarked, “The reason why we may enter the space and release some big movies ourselves this way is because I’m concerned that as theater owners try to strangle innovation and distribution, not only are they going to kill theaters, they might kill movies.”
113 2013-11-05 The plaintiffs in the new case, Linda Stephens and Susan Galloway, sued to stop officials in Greece, N.Y., near Rochester, from inviting an unpaid “chaplain of the month” to give an opening prayer at town board meetings. The chaplain was almost always Christian, and the prayers often featured direct references to Jesus Christ.

The Nebraska case allows this, lawyers for town officials told the justices.

But Ms. Stephens and Ms. Galloway said there were two important differences between what happened in New York and what the Supreme Court allowed in Nebraska. For starters, they said, the prayers in New York were sectarian, while the ones in Nebraska were not.

The distinction has support in Chief Justice Warren E. Burger’s description of the facts in his majority opinion in the 1983 case, Marsh v. Chambers.

A footnote in the decision suggests that Dr. Palmer’s prayers were acceptable because he considered them nonsectarian and, over time, they had ceased to be “explicitly Christian.” In a later decision, the court said the prayers in Nebraska were constitutional “because the particular chaplain had removed all references to Christ.”

But that is not how the litigants in the old case see things.

“There would be references to God and Christ and the Holy Spirit,” said Mr. Chambers, the senator.

In an oral history of the case prepared by Duke Law School and posted online in 2006, Mr. Chambers said the chaplain “always ended the prayer with ‘in the name of Jesus,’ or something to that effect.”

On this point, at least, the old antagonists agreed. The Nebraska case involved Christian prayers, Dr. Palmer told the justices. “Senator Chambers was correct — Rev. Palmer’s prayers were routinely identifiably Christian,” the minister’s lawyers wrote.

In the oral history, Dr. Palmer, who turned down a request for an interview through his lawyers, said it was hard to resist mentioning the central figure in his faith.

“I tried to stay away from Jesus Christ,” he said. “It was difficult not to make some reference to him.” His prayers were part of the court record in the old case, and they were indeed studded with Christian references.

Chief Justice Burger used the term “nonsectarian” just once in the Marsh decision, and that was in a quotation from Dr. Palmer’s deposition testimony.

In a passage from the deposition not quoted in the decision, Dr. Palmer explained what he meant by the word: “By ‘sectarian’ I mean a prayer which promotes some particular denomination.” Christianity as a whole is not a sect, he said, meaning that he considered Christian prayers to be nonsectarian.

The plaintiffs in the new case did not seem happy to hear from Dr. Palmer, and they dismissed his explanation of his own prayers as “a red herring.”

“What matters is the court’s understanding that his prayers were no longer ‘explicitly Christian’ and that all references to Christ had been removed,” the plaintiffs’ lawyers told the justices. “The court’s understanding about that cannot be altered by a witness’s statements 30 years later about what he really meant.”

The challengers in the New York case said the Nebraska decision was not fatal to their case for a second reason. They said there was a kind of coercion in New York that had not been present in Nebraska.

In New York, they said, ordinary citizens were forced to listen to the prayers in order to take part in town business. In Nebraska, they said, people visiting the Legislature were spectators, not participants, and legislators who listened to the prayers there did so voluntarily.

Here, too, though, the senator and the minister have something to say that complicates the question.

In the oral history, Dr. Palmer seemed to take pleasure from describing a time when the state’s lieutenant governor started the session early for the purpose of making Mr. Chambers listen to a prayer against his will.

“Now, Ernie, that didn’t really hurt, did it?” the lieutenant governor asked afterward, Dr. Palmer recalled.

Testifying in 1980, Mr. Chambers recalled the unseemly ruckus this created.

“The chaplain and I are almost in a race to see whether he’ll get to the front before I can get out the back door,” he said. “It creates for people who think of a prayer as a sacred hour somewhat of a spectacle.”

On Wednesday morning, the Supreme Court’s marshal will call the session to order, concluding with the standard invocation: “God save the United States and this honorable court.”

Then the justices will turn to deciding whether a 30-year-old decision allowed a town board to open its meetings with a prayer.
114 2013-11-05 When dogs wag their tails, they can convey not just happiness but a wide array of emotions. As Italian researchers reported in 2007, a wag to the left indicates negative emotions; a wag to the right indicates positive ones.

Now the same team of scientists has found that no one knows this better than other dogs.

In a new study reported in the journal Current Biology, the researchers had dogs watch videos of other dogs wagging their tails. When watching a tail wag to the left, the dogs showed signs of anxiety, like a higher heart rate. When the tail went in the opposite direction, they remained calm.

Taken together, the Italian studies suggest that dogs, like humans, have asymmetrically organized brains, said Giorgio Vallortigara, a neuroscientist at the University of Trento and an author of the study. “The emotions are associated presumably with activation of either the right or left side of brain,” he said. Left-brain activation produces a wag to the right, and vice versa.

Still, it is unlikely that dogs are wagging their tails to communicate with one another. “This is something that could be explained in quite a mechanistic way,” Dr. Vallortigara said. “It’s simply a byproduct of the asymmetry of the brain,” and dogs learn to recognize the pattern over time.
115 2013-11-06 MLOTEK--Chana The Hunter College community mourns the passing of our illustrious alumna Chana Mlotek, Class of 1946. Chana was inducted into Hunter's Hall of Fame in 2009 in recognition of her central role in the revival of Yiddish music in North ...
116 2013-11-06 MLOTEK--Chana, The Board of Directors and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research express our deep sorrow at the passing of our dear colleague Chana Gordon Mlotek z"l. Chana was affiliated with YIVO and its mission for close to seventy yea...
117 2013-11-06 Works From the Collection of Hildebrand Gurlitt

In 1945, British troops in Hamburg discovered a cache of paintings, drawings and other objects registered in the name of Hildebrand Gurlitt, a dealer who had been assigned by the Nazis to sell art that had been seized from museums and Jews. After nearly five years, the officials at the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives section of the U.S. Army returned the collection to Gurlitt, according to documents uncovered in the National Archives in College Park, Md., by Marc Masurovsky, the founder of the Holocaust Art Restitution Project. Mr. Masurovsky said he believes that at least some of the works on this list — many of them previously unknown, only partly attributed and labeled with unfamiliar titles — will be found among the 1,400 artworks seized by the German authorities from the home of Cornelius Gurlitt, the dealer’s son.
118 2013-11-06 It’s that time of year: College students are applying for financial aid, and wondering how they’ll make up the difference if grants, scholarships and loans don’t cover the tuition bill.

Is the system for financial aid helping the people who need it most? What factors should determine eligibility for financial aid from the government and from colleges?
119 2013-11-06 Always inquisitive and lively, the deputy business editor David Gillen makes sense of the world’s business, tackling complicated issues from a common-sense perspective.
120 2013-11-06 There’s an argument to be made that preserving the government’s role in the mortgage market will make it safer and more efficient than reforms will....
121 2013-11-06 Why start-ups run out of money. How a chocolate company built a community through social media. Business tactics you can learn from Disney villains....
122 2013-11-06 At 9:59 in the morning, in a seaside city somewhere, a little girl named Jodie is about to draw the final silver button on her picture of an elegantly dressed duck. She pauses for a minute to consider her work. That short span of time is all it takes for Jonathan, her baby brother, to take his first steps. And throughout the multiracial, multiethnic town, other important things happen in that same time frame. An ambulance speeds past, a soldier says goodbye to his mother, a grandfather plays a funny game of leaf houses with his granddaughter. A homeless woman pushes her belongings down the street in a grocery cart. A baby is born, and two friends, Belle and Vashti, pop seaweed on the beach.

Bob Graham, an Australian artist, has won a number of big prizes over the years, including a Kate Greenaway Medal for “Jethro Byrde: Fairy Child” and a Unicef Bologna Illustrator of the Year award.

His long experience in book illustration shows here in the expert pacing and variation of his scenes. There’s just enough of a narrative, simply expressed, on each page to keep a child’s attention. (The littlest lap-readers may ask to have the structure explained to them the first time they hear the book.) Interior pictures are juxtaposed with bird’s-eye views of the city, all detailed, but none chaotic. This is a busy town, but there’s a leisureliness to Graham’s portrayal of it, conveyed by broad white pages with soft-toned watercolors, that makes it very different from Richard Scarry’s action-packed “Busytown” series.

Some of the details Graham includes are truly witty and a pleasure for grown-up readers: Jonathan takes his first steps under a painting of an ape moving forward on both hands and feet, Graham’s hint that walking upright is indeed very significant — not just to Jonathan, but to mankind. Visual nods to the Renaissance painter and engraver Albrecht Dürer bring a sense of deep historical context and culture to the contemporary moment. A calendar showing his “Young Hare” hangs in the family’s kitchen. The children’s cropped-haired, penny-whistle-playing mother loves the picture “so much, she hadn’t changed it in three years.” And Graham has decorated the end pages of “The Silver Button” with a sketch of a patch of grass, with weeds sprouting this way and that, strongly reminiscent of Dürer’s “The Large Piece of Turf.” Just as the 16th-century master studied an ordinary cross section of sod, and saw great, if unconventional, beauty and variety there, so Graham, in showing the range of activity in a city over the course of a mere minute, shows something unconventional but precious about life and time.

It’s rare for such an admirably simple children’s book to suggest so much that’s profound. “The Silver Button” is indeed something very special, a book that speaks to the old and the young at their own levels, but says the same thing to both.
123 2013-11-06 At a meeting with investors in Seoul on Wednesday, executives from Samsung Electronics laid out their vision for the company’s future, saying they would fine-tune a strategy that has helped the company become the world’s biggest smartphone mak...
124 2013-11-06 Pawel Swidlicki, a researcher at Open Europe, a British policy research group critical of what it views as wasteful spending by the European Union, described the audit as “a depressing annual tradition” in which the spending watchdog signs off on the previous year’s budget accounts but points out a host of possible legal and other problems.

Alarmed that the audit chamber’s repeated reports of financial irregularities provide ammunition to “euro-skeptics,” Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, which represents member governments, suggested in September that the annual accounting review adopt a “more nuanced” approach to avoid negative headlines. Complaining of “deceptive allegations of fraud and mismanagement” in media reports of the auditors’ finding, Mr. Van Rompuy said that “in the end we are all responsible for Europe and its image.”

Asked about Mr. Van Rompuy’s remarks, Mr. Caldeira said his auditors had in no way softened their findings to improve the Union’s image.

“No, we have not nuanced our report. We report objectively what we find,” he said. “The duty of the external auditor of European funds is to speak the truth in an objective, transparent and fair way to those who are responsible.” But he added that audit findings are sometimes “hijacked by those with a political agenda.”

British euro-skeptics in particular have frequently cited audit reports to support arguments that the European Union has developed into an unwieldy and wasteful bureaucratic machine that hurts rather than helps Europe’s economic well-being.

“The perception that the E.U. is being frivolous with taxpayers’ money at this difficult economic time is one of the factors driving the success of anti-E.U. parties in the polls,” said Mr. Swidlicki of Open Europe, referring to surging support for populist groups hostile to Brussels. He added that officials in Brussels “need to deal with the substance of the problem rather than pressuring the Court of Auditors to make the results appear less bad than they are in reality.”

The spending watchdog stressed that the “error rate” does not necessarily indicate fraud or waste and is primarily a measure of “money that should not have been paid out because it was not in accordance with the legislation concerned.”

It cited as examples engineering contracts for a high-speed railway in France that went to the same company without a proper public tender and payments in Spain, Austria and Portugal for the preservation of pastureland that turned out to be “covered with rocks, dense forest or bushes.” An irrigation project in Spain received €1.4 million but, the Court of Auditors said in its lengthy report, “should have been rejected” because it was not economically viable and led to an increase in water consumption instead of a promised decline.

Mr. Caldeira, the Court of Auditors president, avoided a contentious debate over the size of the Union’s budget but called for simpler rules on spending and more emphasis on results.

“The root cause of the problem is the current legislative framework that is too complex and too focused on spending,” he said. “Not enough attention is being paid to the results that spending is supposed to achieve. This needs to change.”

Britain, backed by several other North European countries like Finland, has pressed for years for simpler and smaller budgets. After months of heated wrangling, the European Union agreed this year to cut overall spending in a new long-term budget starting next year.

The audit agency found that supervision of 2012 spending was only “partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts.” It added that “all policy groups covering operational expenditure are materially affected by error.”

Most prone to error, it said, was the €15 billion spent on rural development, environment, fisheries and health, which had an “error rate” last year of 7.9 percent. More than €40 billion spent on regional policy, energy and transport had an “error rate” of 6.8 percent.
125 2013-11-06 In my renewal package, I found two crucial pieces of information that I never would have had without the Affordable Care Act....
126 2013-11-06 Amid reports of organized dog fighting in China and other, routine, animal abuses, grass-roots pressure is growing for an animal welfare law. But rights activists say officials fail to understand the need....
127 2013-11-06 On a day when consumers in Washington State were voting on whether to require food companies to label products containing genetically engineered ingredients, Cargill announced that it would begin labeling packages of ground beef containing what is colloquially known as pink slime.

Pink slime, or what the beef industry prefers to call “finely textured beef,” is made from beef trimmings left over after the processing of higher-quality cuts of meat that is washed in citric acid or ammonia to kill contaminates. It became the stuff of consumer nightmares last year after an ABC News report exposed its widespread use as a binder in ground beef, and companies from Kroger and Safeway to McDonald’s scrambled to drop it from their shelves and products.

“Our research shows that consumers believe ground beef products containing finely textured beef should be clearly labeled,” John Keating, president of Cargill’s beef operations, said in a statement.  “We’ve listened to the public, as well as our customers, and that is why today we are declaring our commitment to labeling finely textured beef.”

Cargill said it had spent 18 months researching consumer attitudes toward pink slime. The company has created a website, groundbeefanswers.com, with information for consumers about its contents, how it is made and what products it can be found in.

Michael Martin, a spokesman for Cargill, noted that not all of its ground beef products contained the binder. It will label those that do, including its Excel brand and the brand Our Certified Ground Beef, starting in the spring, he said. Another company that processes finely textured meat, Beef Products, has sued ABC News for defamation.

Consumer advocates by and large favored better labeling of beef content, even though many of them suggested the furor over the filler was overblown. “This is a good minimum step,” said Patty Lovera, assistant director at Food and Water Watch, which works to promote food safety and sustainability.
128 2013-11-06 “I love Richie,” he said. “I think he’s a great guy. He’s an intense guy. Everybody knows that. I think he was just being Richie.

“I love playing with Richie. I wish he was here right now.”

This is the Wallace who posted on , after the player Jason Collins announced he was gay: “All these beautiful women in the world, and guys want to mess with other guys.”

Not what one would call an enlightened locker room.

But do not blame the so-called locker-room culture for what has burst into the open in Miami. Blame an absence of leadership. Indeed, the big losers in this are the teammates of Martin and Incognito, who allowed this fire to rage until it was out of control. Some, like Wallace and Davis, appear to have been amused. Others might have decided it was best to simply stay clear.

As if the N.F.L. didn’t have enough headaches on the field and off — , drug testing, crime — now the commissioner has to deal with bullying in the locker room.

I’ve been in plenty of locker rooms, from grammar school through high school and college, and things can be raunchy. There is name-calling, talking about mothers and girlfriends.

By the time the players reach the N.F.L., a billion-dollar business played by millionaires, one would hope, they have flushed this out of their systems.

Clearly, that is not the case, though on teams with great leadership, locker-room tensions don’t usually reach the commissioner’s office. Now that these have, must deal with Incognito. A lifetime ban would be too harsh. But a suspension, possibly for the rest of the season, even if the Dolphins were inclined to bring Incognito back — which they do not seem to be — seems fair. That, and a stern message to the players that the days of hazing young players — from making rookies pay for dinner to carrying veterans’ bags — are over.

My concern for Martin is how this will mark him for the rest of his career. Many are paying lip service to how terribly he has been treated, but in locker rooms and team offices — and not just in Miami — there may always be whispers that Martin is “soft.”

The N.F.L. is not the . Professional football is not an ordinary workplace. In a world where most fans make their livings, corporations would look at Incognito’s résumé and run the other way. In the N.F.L., personnel directors might look at Incognito — crude, troubled and violent, but also a former Pro Bowler — and say, “He’s our kind of guy.”

As for Martin, at another time and in a different context, he would be lauded for refusing to be provoked. He obeyed the biblical decree to turn the other cheek, that “if someone hits you on the side of your face, let him hit the other side, too.”

It’s a wonderful sentiment. But the N.F.L. has its own bible, and that passage isn’t in it.
129 2013-11-06 SEOUL, South Korea — Samsung Electronics, the world’s biggest maker of smartphones, said early Wednesday it would increase its cash returns to shareholders in an effort to lift its stock price, which has lagged behind those of competitors.

The company signaled several other strategic adjustments, including a plan to increase acquisitions. The change of tack is aimed at responding to an innovation shift in the information technology business to software from hardware, Samsung’s traditional specialty.

“Our management feels that our current price-to-earnings multiple does not fully reflect our profit growth and our leadership position in the I.T. industry,” said Lee Sang-hoon, the company’s chief financial officer. “Going forward, we will put more emphasis on direct shareholder returns while maintaining our strategy of growth.”

To try to make its stock more attractive, Samsung said it intended to roughly double its dividend for 2013, payable next year, to 1 percent of the share price, pending board approval.

Mr. Lee said Samsung was also considering another step, a listing of American depositary receipts, which would make it easier for individual investors to buy its shares. Stock in Samsung, which is based in Suwon, South Korea, is listed only in South Korea, where its market capitalization represents nearly one-fifth of the benchmark stock index.

Mr. Lee said international investors valued the transparency that would come with the regulatory requirements involved in listing American depositary receipts.
130 2013-11-06 The Americans beat Roger Federer, Stan Wawrinka and the Swiss in the first round of the Davis Cup on indoor clay in 2012, then beat the French on outdoor clay.

But the American men remain in a historically deep slump, struggling to be a factor at the top of the game. For the first time in the history of rankings, no American man was in the top 10 at the end of 2012. This year it will happen again, with John Isner ranked 14th this week and Sam Querrey, the next highest American, ranked No. 47.

But Isner has been ranked as high as ninth and Querrey as high as 17th, and the American Davis Cup team also has perhaps the greatest doubles team in history in Bob and Mike Bryan, who won 11 titles this year, including three Grand Slam titles.

They were, however, 0-2 in the Davis Cup, losing to both Brazil at home and to Serbia at home.

“I was the only person who could defeat them in 2013,” Courier, said, joking. “They pretty much won everything else, but if I was on the sidelines apparently I was the crucial fifth man on the court that caused the defeat coming their way.”

Courier said the decision to play outdoors on clay was a team one and was also because, given previous results, it was the British team’s weakest surface. Andy Murray, the reigning Wimbledon champion, missed the end of this season after back surgery, but he is expected to return to the tour in 2014 and has said that, if healthy, he will play the first round of the Davis Cup.

Murray has had great success on clay, reaching the semifinals of the Masters 1000 events in Monte Carlo and Rome, and of the French Open in 2011. But he has yet to win a major title on the surface and is more consistently dangerous on hardcourts and grass. Britain’s next best singles players — James Ward and Daniel Evans — have had more success on faster surfaces.

“You have to look at all the factors; you can’t just look at Andy Murray,” Courier said. “You have to assume that if you play him on a bed of nails, he’s going to be a tough out.”

Courier presumably will stick with such baseball terminology in Petco Park.

The United States Davis Cup team is undefeated in six previous series in the San Diego area, but has played its previous matches in more conventional settings like the San Diego Sports Arena or the La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club.

Petco Park, opened in 2004 in downtown San Diego, has played host to a Rolling Stones concert, a soccer match involving Mexico’s national team and a Rugby Sevens tournament. But this will be its first tennis event, and the Cup matches will be held in a stadium built in left field that will make use of some existing seats in the bleachers and additional seating in temporary grandstands to be built on the outfield grass.

Ryan said the capacity would be about 8,000, with the potential for more seating if demand warrants. That might be a tough sell on Super Bowl Sunday.

“We played last year at home against Brazil on Super Bowl week, and it was pretty tough to generate any noise,” Courier said. “I think it’s unfortunate with the timing, but of course this is an international competition, and the Super Bowl is an American affair, as you know. We’ll play them when the I.T.F. tells us we need to play.”

The Davis Cup began in 1900 with a match between the United States and Britain. But the two founding nations of what remains the game’s top team event have not faced each other since 1999, when Courier won both his singles matches in five sets against Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski in Birmingham, England, to lead the United States to a 3-2 first-round victory.

“That was sort of the capstone at the end of my career, one of my final big moments in the sport as a player,” Courier said. “The crowd was amazing; the matches were very dramatic. I certainly felt the tension as we went into extra innings there in the fifth set with Rusedski.”

Courier could not have imagined then that the next British-American matchup would take place where innings are the rule.

DJOKOVIC AND NADAL WIN The defending champion Novak Djokovic defeated the six-time winner Roger Federer, 6-4, 6-7 (2), 6-2, at the ATP World Tour Finals in London, improving his chances of overtaking Rafael Nadal in the race for the year-end No. 1 spot.

Playing his first round-robin match at the elite tournament this year, Djokovic extended his winning streak to 18 matches after capturing his sixth title of the season last week in Paris.

Djokovic is trying to finish No. 1 for the third year in a row. Nadal, who eased past David Ferrer, 6-3, 6-2, needs only one more win in London to be guaranteed the top spot. (AP)

DOPING BAN REDUCED Viktor Troicki’s doping ban for skipping a blood test was reduced from 18 months to 12, though he still cannot play in next week’s Davis Cup final for Serbia.

The Court of Arbitration for Sport ruling “puts an end to my dreams of being a top player,” Troicki, 27, said in a statement.

Troicki’s ranking peaked at No. 12 in June 2011. It fell from No. 53 to No. 77 since he was suspended in July. (AP)
131 2013-11-06 China has relied for the past three decades on unrelenting, even manic, construction of ever more factories, bridges, roads and apartment towers. But that is producing chronic overcapacity together with an acute shortage of blue-collar labor.

In a speech to trade union officials published on Monday, Prime Minister Li Keqiang said securing enough jobs for citizens was his government’s top economic priority.

“Employment is the biggest thing for well-being,” Mr. Li said. “The government must not slacken on this for one moment, and we must constantly focus on this point. For us, stable growth is mainly for the sake of maintaining employment.”

Similar plenums in 2003 and 2008 produced calls for a shift to a more sustainable economy based on more consumption, more high-end services like finance and more high-tech jobs. The meetings carry their name because they are the third gatherings of the Communist leadership in each five-year term of the party’s Central Committee; the first two plenums mainly involve personnel changes.

Actual changes in economic policy have been slow despite vows of reform. A big impediment to creating a consumer economy are the low incomes of a generation of China’s young people, the country’s would-be consumers.

Born in an era of ever-rising prosperity and mostly only children because of the government’s “one child” policy, young people across China consistently say in interviews that they tend not to share their parents’ compulsion for saving for retirement and children’s educations. Even so, they seldom have the incomes to consume on the scale of the young Americans and Europeans whom they admire and envy.

Mr. Zheng spends almost as much on new clothes each month as he does on food or rent, he says. But as is common for a generation facing high jobless rates — 25 percent or more for recent college graduates — he relies on family and savings to pay for his lifestyle while looking for the right job. That puts a limit on his overall spending. “I want a job for which I was trained, or else my education will be wasted. I don’t want to work in a factory,” he said.

Complicating matters is that many young people are avoiding lower-end service jobs as well as factory jobs. The high school graduation rate in China is rapidly approaching three-quarters of young people, similar to the United States. The number of university graduates in China has nearly quintupled since 2000.

Cultural norms frequently discourage high school and college graduates from accepting jobs in factories or even restaurants. For many young people, the most prized job is a position in a government or Communist Party bureaucracy, which is seen as providing security, healthy wages and benefits — and the perks that come with exercising power, such as special investment opportunities ahead of initial public offerings and sometimes outright corruption.

Zhong Hui, a 23-year-old manager in a hot pot restaurant chain, said that he was struggling to find waiters and dishwashers despite offering $300 to $400 a month plus lodging in air-conditioned dormitories.

“It is not easy to find workers as people believe in their hearts that being in the service industry and serving other people is shameful. Parents do not want their children to work in services either,” Mr. Zhong said.

Wuhan is an industrial hub of nearly 10 million people near the center of the country. The century-old, 700-mile rail line from Wuhan to Beijing was the country’s first and it became a spine of economic development, although it was eclipsed a year ago by a parallel, high-speed line on which bullet trains now hurtle at 185 miles an hour.

What keeps the Wuhan economy ticking is increasing investment. Drive across the city in the middle of the night and what is striking is that at least half the many construction sites are floodlit, huge cranes still moving as workers labor around the clock to build more apartment towers, roads and other projects.

Powering that investment is an unending flow of cheap loans from state-owned banks. China’s central bank has opened the spigots of monetary stimulus each time the economy has started to slow sharply in the past five years. Like cities across China, Wuhan has borrowed heavily to finance local growth as have the companies here.

To be sure, young Chinese who are able to find well-paid jobs are starting to spend money. Zeng Danni, a 25-year-old gynecologist with long hair and fashionable clothes, prowled a Ford dealership here on a recent afternoon with a friend and her friend’s husband, looking for a sporty car to buy in a shade of blue that she regards as pretty and youthful.

“I am not taking out any loans for this purchase since the interest rates are too high. I am buying from our savings,” she said, adding that, “My husband works in building safety design and we don’t have any kids yet.”

Young Chinese may still be more fortunate than many young people in the West, in that at least factory and restaurant jobs are available. But without broader policy changes, economists question how the Chinese economy will produce enough desirable jobs to bring down youth unemployment, particularly among college graduates, a group that has been among the most politically volatile in China.

“If you want just any job, you can get one, 100 percent for sure — as long as you are not picky,” Mr. Zheng said. “I think there is a mismatch between the jobs that are available and what I am looking for.”
132 2013-11-06 Chiney Ogwumike of Stanford became the ninth player to be a unanimous selection on the Associated Press preseason all-America team. She was joined on the preseason team by Odyssey Sims of Baylor, Alyssa Thomas of Maryland and two Connecticut players, Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis and Breanna Stewart.
133 2013-11-06 Federal securities regulators on Tuesday fined a municipal debt issuer for the first time, accusing the seller of bonds used to finance an ice rink that ultimately fell into default with misleading investors about the project’s viability.

In a strong signal that it is serious about clamping down on misbehavior by municipal bond issuers, the Securities and Exchange Commission extracted a $20,000 penalty from a special facilities district in the city of Wenatchee, Wash., about 140 miles east of Seattle.

Piper Jaffray, the bank that arranged the sale of the $41.8 million of bonds in 2008 and one of the largest underwriters in the $3.7 trillion municipal bond market, was also fined $300,000, the agency said.

The developer, its former president and the top banker on the deal were also fined, and a district staff member was rebuked, the agency said. No one charged, or admitted or denied the agency’s findings.

The charges represent the eighth case the agency has brought in the municipal market this year as it seeks to forge stricter investor protections. The commission chairwoman, who took office in April, Mary Jo White, has picked up the banner of making sure those investors, typically retirees, understand what they are buying.
134 2013-11-06 Chris Bosh was unavailable for the Miami Heat’s game in Toronto against the Raptors after the birth of his daughter, Dylan Skye Bosh. Shane Battier got the start instead. Bosh is expected to return when the Heat host the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday.
135 2013-11-06 On one song with a vulgar title, he rewrites the story of his ascent with an overlay of regret: “Came to the world at a time when it was in need of a villain,” he raps, continuing:

But don’t think I ever stopped to think that I was speaking to children

Everything was happening so fast it was like I blinked, sold three million

Then it all went blank.

He has regrets, then, which is reassuring in a way. But like most savants, Eminem is interested in pyrotechnics above all else — “Rap God” and “Berzerk,” especially, are overwhelming barrages of rhyme. His lyrics are best viewed under a microscope — to see how each syllable functions not only in its own line, but how it plays with the ones just before and after, to emphasize the persistent double-entendres and the unending assonance, to see how he gets from one rhyme to the next in unexpected ways.

Because of that, often the music he’s rapping to barely matters — he’ll dominate almost any sound. Over the course of his career, he’s succeeded most when his production is either whimsical, on his earliest hits, or dolorous, on his latest. Both styles appear here.

Rihanna rescues him again on “The Monster” — her blank power elevates his scratchy ramblings, and the melancholy piano on “Legacy” seems to calm him a bit. On “Love Game,” he uses a Wayne Fontana & the Mindbenders sample the way the Native Tongues might have, for a dose of oddity, while on “So Far...,” he’s rapping over Joe Walsh’s “Life’s Been Good” for a track that, were it not for all the bleeping it would need, could be easily played on Country Music Television.

Those songs are only a reminder that Eminem has never settled on a musical aesthetic, only a strategy of rhyme. “Brainless,” which could have been played on “The Dr. Demento Show,” is immediately followed here by “Stronger Than I Was,” which is a virtually unlistenable agglomeration of shrieks and atonal singing, the rare moment where Eminem’s rage outright trumps his dexterity.

The only signs of maturity he’s showing are the flickers of self-doubt that pepper this album. He frets about not having his old pop culture subjects to rap about — “I’m frustrated ’cause ain’t/no more ’NSync, Now I’m all out of whack/I’m all outta Backstreet Boys to call out and attack” — or not being as in touch as he once was. He stresses over having to find music on the Internet.

But he still has some old bad habits, still heavy-handed with the homophobic slurs, and still explaining them away in interviews by equating his current creative frame of mind to that of his less enlightened battle-rapping days, a weak and tiresome excuse. He still excels at baleful and downright mean records. Unlike, say, Jay Z, who’s found new subject matter and new targets as he’s aged, Eminem is still rapping from deep inside his cave, as if he’s had no new experiences to draw from.

That is, though, just a form of self-protection. After the drug phase documented on “Relapse” and the overcoming of it captured on “Recovery” — his last two albums — Eminem may well be done putting himself in the spotlight. He still lives in his hometown, Detroit. His daughter was just crowned homecoming queen. He undoubtedly has new wounds — we just may never get to hear about them.
136 2013-11-06 Last year Ukraine consumed about 50 billion cubic meters of natural gas, most of it imported from Russia, while producing about 19 billion cubic meters, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.

Production from the Chevron and Shell tracts has the potential to substantially narrow the gap between Ukraine’s domestic output and demand, according to government estimates.

If the companies find and produce gas, “it would reduce dependency on foreign imports significantly,” said Menno Koch, a gas analyst at Lambert Energy Advisory in London. If Ukraine or other Eastern European countries became prolific producers, that “would be a game changer,” Mr. Koch said, by creating competition for the big suppliers to Europe, not only Russia but also Norway and Algeria.

Shale gas technologies are altering the geopolitics of energy from Russia to the Middle East. Three territories — Russia, Iran and Qatar — hold about half the conventional reserves of natural gas. But shale is found in many other places, including India, China, Australia and in Eastern Europe, undercutting the power of the oil sheikhs and the Kremlin.

Ukraine, despite producing some domestic gas by conventional extraction, remains highly dependent on Russia’s Gazprom, which cut off its supplies in 2006 and 2009 in pricing disputes. As a result, Ukraine pays exceptionally high prices for natural gas, making the economics of shale gas extraction even more attractive for companies like Chevron.

As a legacy of the Soviet era, Ukraine controls the pipelines through which Gazprom transports most of its natural gas to Europe. That remains the case even after the completion of the Nordstream pipeline from Russia to Germany under the Baltic Sea. Europe depends on Russia for about 40 percent of its imported gas, most transmitted through Ukraine.

In the past, if Ukraine threatened to raise the transport price, Russia could threaten or cut off winter heating fuel. By finding a greater source of its own natural gas, Ukraine would reduce Russia’s leverage in negotiations over transport prices.

The appearance of imported cheap liquefied natural gas on the European market from Qatar and reduced demand have already led Gazprom to negotiate cuts of about 10 percent in contracts with Western European utilities, costing it billions of dollars.

Gazprom maintains that shale gas drilling inherently causes pollution and is more expensive than gas extracted from traditional deposits that are abundant in Russia. It also argues that shale gas wells are quickly depleted and that rising gas prices expected to accompany a European economic recovery will again make Gazprom’s long-term contracts appear competitive.

Despite the potential gains from shale gas, Eastern European societies are not fully convinced that pursuit of the fuel is in their interest. Fears of polluting water supplies and disrupting local lifestyles are widespread.

Recently, Chevron stopped work on a site in eastern Romania after local protests. Last month, Chevron decided not to proceed on shale gas acreage it had won in Lithuania, citing new, unfavorable regulations. The company remains a partner in a Lithuanian venture.

Still, for Chevron, which has made big bets on the shale potential of Eastern Europe since entering Poland in 2009, the signing is a step forward in talks that have dragged on for more than a year with the government.

But obstacles could arise. Chevron needs to work out the details of a 50-50 agreement with a local partner, Nadra Oleska, a private company. Local opposition could halt drilling, though government councils in the area have approved Chevron’s plans.
137 2013-11-06 Ford is one of the few companies to brave the fierce resistance of politicians and Europe’s powerful unions as it tries to emulate the brutal downsizing that carmakers in the United States have done — and that subsequently helped make possible the rebound now under way in the American car market.

But in Genk, a year after the announcement, the measure of calm that has returned has come at a high price for the company, its workers and the community. To be sure, Ford has succeeded in reaching a labor settlement that will allow it to close the factory, as scheduled, at the end of next year. The closure of Genk and two smaller factories in Britain will cut Ford’s capacity in Europe by 18 percent and, the company says, make it possible to return to profitability in Europe, compared with losses this year that have already reached $1 billion.

But the accord came only after a long, bitter struggle that cost Ford $750 million merely to settle with about 4,000 blue-collar workers in Genk, or about $190,000 per worker. And the total cost of Ford’s European overhaul is likely to end up much higher because of additional payments to white-collar workers in Genk and the expense of closing plants in Southampton and Dagenham in England. Ford has estimated the severance costs for all three plants at $1 billion.

That cost of layoffs is substantially higher than in the United States, where Ford set aside $374 million in 2009 to cover severance costs for 2,400 workers, or about $155,000 each. Moreover, European labor law is much more favorable to unions than in the United States and tends to support workers in their tradition of militancy. In Genk, workers prevented the plant from operating normally for more than four months and received unemployment benefits for some of the time they did so.

By some estimates, factories in Western and Eastern Europe are capable of producing seven million or eight million more cars and light trucks than the market can absorb. Many factories are operating at only 60 percent or less. That glut is the main reason that companies including Ford, Fiat, General Motors’ Opel unit and PSA Peugeot Citroën have already lost billions of euros in Europe in recent years.

“Ford did not take this decision lightly,” Stephen Odell, chief executive of Ford of Europe, said in a telephone interview Monday. “We understand that it affects people and their families.” But, he said, “we had to do it to positively influence the company going forward.”

Even though the auto industry has been much slower to close plants in Europe than in the United States, wary of the sort of struggle Ford has encountered, Ford is far from the only carmaker acutely aware of the excess capacity issue.

“You need a plant to run at full capacity to be profitable in the volume segment,” said Pietro Boggia, a former Fiat executive who now works in the London office of Frost & Sullivan, a consulting firm. “If the current level of market demand does not improve dramatically, plant closings will have to continue, unfortunately.”

Yet for every factory that the industry might consider an albatross, there is a community that faces economic devastation if production shuts down. Nowhere is that more true than in Genk, at the eastern end of Belgium in the province of Limburg, the least prosperous region of the country’s Dutch-speaking north.

In Genk, a city of 65,000 people, many of them descendants of Italians, Turks or Moroccans who came decades ago to dig coal, an estimated 10,000 jobs will be lost at the end of next year when Ford closes the factory. That number includes not only Ford workers but also the businesses that depend on the plant, from big parts suppliers to the mom-and-pop shops.

Marianna Musolino, co-owner of a French fry restaurant in a neighborhood where many Ford workers live, said customers had begun scrimping on orders. “They didn’t take mayonnaise, which is rare, but it saved them 50 cents,” Ms. Musolino said. “Weird things like that.”

Another business already feeling the pain is Bewel, a nonprofit organization in the neighboring town of Diepenbeek that provides paid employment to mentally handicapped people. Until recently, Bewel operated a laundry that cleaned truckloads of protective clothing used by Ford.

But, realizing the work would soon dry up, Patrick Nelissen, managing director of Bewel, gave the Ford concession to a commercial laundry less dependent on Ford. That firm agreed to hire some of the handicapped workers.

Last week, Mr. Nelissen showed a visitor around a deserted building containing rows of idle commercial washers and driers. Stepping around a puddle, he wondered aloud how he was going to recover the 1 million euros, or $1.35 million, he had invested in machines shortly before Ford announced the shutdown. “Nobody needs this kind of machinery,” he said.

Mr. Nelissen said he understood Ford’s predicament. But the prevailing view in Genk is that Ford reneged on promises to build the next generation of Mondeos in the city. Residents knew there would be job cuts, but not a closing of the plant.

“A year ago they gave their word” that Genk would build the next Mondeo, said Wim Dries, the mayor. “Then they said, ‘The economy has changed. We have to close it.’ It was like a bomb going off.”

While Ford had indeed announced plans to build the new Mondeo in Genk, the company says it had also signaled that cost-cutting was imminent and all options were open. The shift to a new model was, from Ford’s point of view, a logical time to move production elsewhere. And Genk was among the European factories with the most excess capacity.

“We don’t believe we could have reacted any earlier,” Mr. Odell said.

In any case, Ford could not continue piling up the losses it has had in Europe. Even though Ford cut them by more than half in the most recent quarter compared with a year ago, to $228 million, the year’s running total was still more than $1 billion in losses for the first nine months. In 2012, Ford lost $1.8 billion in Europe for the full year.

Closing Genk will allow Ford to consolidate production at a factory in Valencia, Spain.

The relocation of some production to Spain has already created 1,300 new jobs in a region that is in far worse economic shape than the area around Genk, although Ford said labor costs in Valencia are not significantly lower.

As for the workers in Genk, the prospect of a jobless future is rapidly approaching. “You have to find something else, and quickly,” said Sandro Maurina, 36, a mechanic in the Ford plant who has worked there since he was 18. Like many in Genk, Mr. Maurina and his wife, Sabrina Gattanella, who have two young boys, are descendants of Italians who migrated to the region decades ago to work in the coal mines. But the last mine closed in the 1980s.

Mr. Maurina is studying nights to become a nurse. But union leaders and local officials say they worry that many Ford workers are still in shock, and unsure what to do in December 2014. City and provincial officials are working on ways to encourage entrepreneurship and they hope the government in Brussels will situate a new prison in the area, providing 500 jobs.

But there is no way to immediately absorb all the new jobless people.

“If you know a big company that would like to come to Limburg, please let them come,” said Herman Reynders, governor of Limburg Province. “But I don’t think that’s going to happen.”
138 2013-11-06 PARIS — Major polluters must immediately begin to reduce greenhouse gas emissions if the rise in global temperatures is to be held in check, or else a higher price will have to be paid later, according to a report released Tuesday by the United Nations Environment Program.

While a failure to act swiftly will not necessarily doom the effort to limit the rise in global temperatures to 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels, it will make it much harder and more expensive to do so, the agency said in its latest Emissions Gap Report. The authors said delay today would require more drastic measures in the future as well as a gamble on currently unproven technologies.

Speaking at a news conference in Berlin to introduce the report, Achim Steiner, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, said the window of opportunity for meeting the target was “becoming ever more elusive.” But he said meeting the emissions target by 2020 was still possible “by strengthening current pledges and by further action.”

Scientists believe that any increase in global average temperatures above 2 degrees Celsius could create conditions for potentially catastrophic climate change. Negotiators at a United Nations climate summit meeting in Mexico agreed in 2010 to try to hold temperatures below that level by aggressive measures.

The report comes less than a week before international negotiators begin arriving in Warsaw for the United Nations’ annual climate change conference, at which delegates will try to plot a path toward a new global climate agreement to replace the frayed 1997 Kyoto Protocol.
139 2013-11-06 At a news conference Tuesday, Mr. Rehn said the risk of deflation was remote, but he declined to comment on whether the E.C.B. should lower interest rates.

Mr. Rehn said economic output for all of 2013 among the 17 countries that use the euro currency was expected shrink by 0.4 percent, but would grow by 1.1 percent next year. He also said that the 28 countries of the European Union would have an average of zero growth this year, but were expected to grow by 1.4 percent in 2014.

The forecasts also show rising joblessness in France now estimated at 11 percent and projected to rise next year to 11.2 percent.

That could further erode faith among European leaders in the ability of President François Hollande of France to steer the second-largest economy in the euro zone to a robust recovery.

“The forecasts are particularly damning for France and will significantly increase pressure on Hollande at a time the president is already vulnerable,” said Mujtaba Rahman, the director for Europe of the Eurasia Group. That “will reinforce a growing strand of opinion in Berlin that France is the weakest link, and that political ownership of structural reforms is the missing piece of the puzzle when it comes to broader euro zone stabilization,” Mr. Rahman said.

Mr. Rehn’s forecast revised French growth down to 0.9 percent in 2014 from a forecast of 1.1 percent made back in the spring, while growth in Spain for 2014 was revised down to 0.5 percent from an earlier 0.9 percent projection.

Both countries are also on course to narrowly miss important interim deficit targets previously agreed to with the European Union, according to the outlook.

Jabbing back at Mr. Rehn from Paris, the French finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, said that Brussels officials were wrongly assuming that French policy would remain unchanged and failing to take into account the government’s plans to cut spending.

But with the French public wearying of the seemingly never-ending lineup of new taxes since Mr. Hollande took office last year, and with municipal elections looming in 2014, it is not clear how much latitude the government has to address the budget deficit.

Even so, Mr. Rehn said he was “counting on these countries to undertake serious and effective economic reforms to boost competitiveness, growth and employment,” having already given them both an extra two years to meet deficit targets. He was referring to France and Spain.

Marie Diron, a senior economic adviser at EY, a consultancy, said the outlook for the euro area was broadly in line with those by her own company. But she was “less optimistic about the strength of the recovery” that Mr. Rehn projected for the euro zone of 1.1 percent next year and 1.7 percent in 2015. “Weaker growth,” she warned, “would mean that the risk of deflation is more significant than implied” by the forecast.

Mr. Rehn acknowledged that “unemployment remains at unacceptably high levels” in Europe and was unlikely to improve quickly.

According to the forecast, unemployment in the euro zone will rise to 12.2 percent for 2013 and remain at that level through next year, compared with a rate of 11.4 percent in 2012.

“This forecast once again confirms that doing nothing does nothing for the European economy,” Hannes Swoboda, who leads the powerful Socialist bloc in the European Parliament, said in a statement. “An illusory ‘turnaround’ has been announced — always just around the corner — for years now, but never materializes,” said Mr. Swoboda, a lawmaker from Austria.

In Italy, unemployment was expected to reach 12.2 percent this year, then rise again to 12.4 percent in 2014 and ease only slightly, to 12.1 percent, in 2015.

Mr. Rehn offers his forecasts three times a year, and critics have come to see them as exercises in justifying the kind of austerity medicine he has prescribed since the accumulation of enormous debt in countries like Greece, Portugal and Ireland threatened the existence of the euro. The debt load has crippled other economies in the bloc and contributed to problems like chronic joblessness.

On Tuesday, Mr. Rehn said that years of painful reforms and budgetary rigor made it more likely that domestic demand would gradually become the main engine for growth in Europe. “The fiscal consolidation and structural reforms undertaken in Europe have created the basis for recovery” and “we must continue working to modernize the European economy,” he said.

Mr. Rehn has also recently gained powers to monitor national budgets and assess the performance of individual European economies. He will use the forecasts he made on Tuesday to make assessments on Nov. 15 of whether countries like France and Italy will need to make more efforts at reform and fiscal tightening, and whether Germany should do more to ease a trade surplus that international economic officials and the United States have criticized as too high.

Closer term on the policy front, a growing number of economists are forecasting E.C.B. action on Thursday, either in the form of a cut in official interest rates or stepped-up lending to euro zone banks — or both.

Other E.C.B. watchers, though, expect the central bank to hold off until December, after its in-house economists have updated their own forecasts.

With the E.C.B.'s benchmark interest rate already at a record low of 0.5 percent, “another cut now would leave precious little room to maneuver,” Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., wrote in a note to clients on Tuesday.

Mr. Rahman, the Eurasia Group director, said Mr. Rehn’s forecasts “will be used by both E.C.B. doves and hawks alike.” But because “the numbers are far from conclusive, they are likely to reinforce as opposed to unlock E.C.B. gridlock,” he said.

European corporations remain cautious about the prospects for recovery.

“If we have growth in Europe it will be at a very low level,” Norbert Reithofer, chief executive of the German automaker BMW, said during a conference call with reporters on Tuesday. He said he expected growth to pick up during the second half of next year.
140 2013-11-06 PARIS — Renault, the French automaker, and its Japanese alliance partner Nissan Motor, are exploring a possible tie-up with Mitsubishi Motors in a deal to include cooperation on electric vehicles, the companies said Tuesday.

Renault and Nissan are in the midst of a management overhaul as Carlos Ghosn, who runs both automakers, seeks to ease fears of slowing growth, especially at Nissan. Partnerships have been one way for automakers to slash development and production costs.

Nissan already operates a joint-venture company with Mitsubishi, called NMKV and the companies said in a statement that they would seek to jointly develop a new small car based on the “Kei” model made by that venture, including an electric version, to be sold globally.

They are also looking to produce two new sedan models under the Mitsubishi brand, based on Renault vehicles, they said. One, a full-size sedan, would be made for the United States and Canadian markets at the Renault-Samsung plant in Busan, South Korea. Production of the second, a compact car for the global market, “is under discussion.”

The talks are fairly well advanced, but for now, cooperation is all that is on the table, Mia Nielsen, a spokeswoman for the Renault-Nissan alliance said.
141 2013-11-06 The lake is a four-hour drive from Taoyuan International Airport, outside Taipei. Otherwise, it is a 50-minute ride by high-speed rail and a 90-minute taxi ride, which cost a total of 2,540 Taiwanese dollars, or $86.

On one recent Friday morning, there were hordes of camera-toting tourists booking boat cruises, fishing excursions and cycling trips in Shueishe, a small village on the lake’s northwest coast. By midday, the lake was dotted with tour boats, their loudspeakers blaring. From a distance, they looked and sounded like a gaggle of lost fluorescent ducklings.

While the boats are the quickest way to take it all in, a 23-mile, or 37-kilometer, road that rings the lake draws cyclists and walkers. And trails, nestled in the foothills of the island’s Central Mountain Range, either snake up to the peaks or hug the water’s natural contours. From Shueishe, the road meanders past fishing craft, walkways and groups of schoolchildren before climbing sharply past a bamboo rock garden and the ornate Wenu Temple, where worshipers honor Confucius or the gods of scholars or war.

The Sun Moon Lake Ropeway is a 1.2-mile gondola ride that, for 300 dollars, takes a traveler over two mountains and deposits him at the entrance to the Formosan Aboriginal Cultural Village. This large theme park, which takes note of all 14 of the island’s aboriginal groups, includes roller coasters, a gyro drop and concrete statues of wild deer. Entrance fees are 700 dollars for adults.

About halfway around the lake sits Ita Thao, a village once populated by the island’s Thao people. Only a few members of the aboriginal group still own stores, although some Thao, wearing clothing with the group’s hallmark red, white and black geometric designs, stand out front to give the place a sense of authenticity. They hawk wild boar tacos, plastic tribal headdresses, spears and T-shirts.

The Thao, who are said to be near relatives of the Maori of New Zealand, have been on Taiwan for thousands of years. But they are losing a race against time.

“There are fewer than 300 of us left,” said Panu Kapamumu, head of the Thao Cultural Association. “We need protection. If we get autonomy and land we may survive.” He said his people had been promised both, “but we don’t have either right now. We have nothing.”

Mr. Kapamumu, a trunk of a man with a winning smile and a gregarious nature, painted a dire picture.

“We want the next generation to continue our traditions, language and culture,” he said over plates heaped with fatty wild pork, venison, millet from the lake, bottles of frosty Taiwan Beer and shots of a local (and potent) sticky rice wine. “We don’t care about making money. It’s not our way. What we need is land. Without it, we are dead.”

Just a few hundred steps south of Shueishe is the Mount Maolan Trail, which is more of a leisurely walk over a paved path than a serious hike.

The 2.9-mile walk cuts through chicken farms, lychee orchards, betel nut groves and small tea plantations. The Japanese introduced black tea varieties here from the northeastern Indian state of Assam in the 1920s, back when Taiwan was the crown jewel of its colonial holdings.

At the 3,346-foot, or 1,020-meter, summit, an hour’s walk from the trail head, the view stretches over the lake and into the hardscrabble town of Puli about 12 miles away. Locals say that on clear mornings, the spot offers a panorama of the “sea of clouds” engulfing the peaks.

From the summit it also is easy to forget Taiwan’s cities, pockmarked by utilitarian pillboxes and the bundles of overhead power lines that mar any views.

There are a number of three- and four-star hotels at the lake, but most locals consider the Lalu, which stands on the site of General Chiang’s former residence, to be the most exclusive.

It was designed by Kerry Hill, an Australian architect who won the international Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2001 for the design of a Malaysian hotel. The Lalu’s three wings were constructed in charcoal-colored granite, iron, steel and teakwood and have a series of water features. A 200-foot infinity pool at the base of the hotel’s six floors looks appealing until an attendant warns that swimming caps must be worn and beers are prohibited on the sunbeds.

Inside, the resort’s one- and two-bedroom suites offer private balconies, open-plan bathrooms and living areas. A one-bedroom suite is 17,800 dollars a night.

Sun Moon Lake becomes a different place at night. The lights go out, and most of the visitors disappear into their rooms. “It’s a sudden calm. No more tourist boats circling with blaring loudspeakers, no more flashy neon lights blinding my eyes, just complete silence,” Ruby Lu, a radio D.J. in Taipei, said over cocktails on one of the Lalu’s water-facing balconies. “I have to remind myself that I’m not on some Nordic islet.”
142 2013-11-06 The bread lay on a notched wooden board, anchored by a saucer of something creamy and wildly green that evoked pesto but tasted like ocean floor. When asked about the ingredients, the waiter looked startled. “I do not know the name for this in English,” he said. “Rucola? Also a small fish.” Arugula and anchovy, a woman at my table suggested. He smiled, shrugged and vanished.

We took his benign indifference to our language (along with the uncompromising brininess in that saucer) as a good sign. Gastronomia Culinaria, which opened last December on the northern end of the Upper West Side, feels true to a certain type of small Roman trattoria, where the food is plain-spoken and the pricing temperate.

The chef and owner, Vincenzo Pezzilli, is a native of Rome who said his first attempt at cooking, at age 5, ended with the arrival of the fire department. (The dish was penne all’arrabbiata; he burned the garlic.) In 1997, at 27, he came to New York and began working his way through the city’s classical Italian restaurants, including the original Coco Pazzo and, more recently, Paola’s on the Upper East Side. A decade ago, he briefly ran his own restaurant, Culinaria, in Times Square.

His new venture is more modest in ambition. There is no sign outside, in part because when the restaurant first opened, Mr. Pezzilli had not yet settled on a name. (In Italian, culinaria means the art of cooking; the gastronomia part of the enterprise in still in the works, with plans for baked goods to be sold by day at a counter equipped with a vintage espresso machine.)

Lavender and juniper plants line the sidewalk, beside a bench built with planks from the wooden box that once encased the kitchen’s 1,400-pound baker’s oven. The wreath of vines on the weathered, oversize door was made by Mr. Pezzilli’s wife, Dianne. Inside the narrow dining room is a mix of rustic and urbane, with dish towels for napkins, brick walls hung with abstract paintings and light bulbs hooded by vaguely laboratorial shades.
143 2013-11-07 MLOTEK--Chana, The Board of Directors and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research express our deep sorrow at the passing of our dear colleague Chana Gordon Mlotek z"l. Chana was affiliated with YIVO and its mission for close to seventy yea...
144 2013-11-07 The federal deduction for property taxes, the main source of public school funding, reduced federal income tax by $27 billion this year — more than the Education Department’s aid to K-12 education....
145 2013-11-07 Eminence Capital has acquired about a 9.8 percent stake in Men’s Wearhouse and is said to be planning to push for strategic options like a proposed merger with Jos. A. Bank....
146 2013-11-07 Many of the largest banks in the currency trading market have acknowledged that they are facing inquiries from authorities in the United States, Europe and Hong Kong....
147 2013-11-07 Does Hubspot really work? Why small businesses have the most to gain from bitcoin. And Blockbuster gives up....
148 2013-11-07 The actor Patrick Stewart and Vivienne Harr, a 9-year-old who has been protesting slavery, rang the opening bell before Twitter began trading shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
149 2013-11-07 Twitter closed at $44.90 a share, 73 percent above its initial public offering price. DealBook followed the first day of trading as it unfolded....
150 2013-11-07 Société Générale increased litigation provisions in the third quarter amid an investigation of suspected rigging of interest rates, while Crédit Agricole said it would not settle....
151 2013-11-07 Converting natural gas to liquefied form makes it feasible to export by ship, rather than requiring the construction of new pipelines.

Cyprus is still years away from having a natural gas industry of any sort. But the involvement of Total would give credibility to the effort. “What it potentially brings is an experienced player into the monetization of Cypriot gas,” said Catherine Hunter, an analyst at IHS, a market research firm in London.

Cyprus also probably hopes that Total would confer a kind of European seal of approval to ward off potential opposition from Turkey, which still controls the northern part of the island, a legacy of its 1974 invasion of Cyprus. Turkey objects to the Cypriot government’s awarding exploration tracts to foreign companies on the grounds that any oil and gas wealth should be shared with the island’s Turkish Cypriot residents.

Ms. Hunter said a liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., plant on Cyprus might be eligible for European Union funds on the grounds that a new source of gas within Europe would contribute to energy security and create competition for dominant suppliers like Gazprom of Russia.

But Turkish hostility is only one of the obstacles to Cyprus’s gas export ambitions. The biggest question mark lies over the availability of the gas itself.

Noble Energy, based in Houston, found a large gas field called Aphrodite in deep water off southern Cyprus in 2011. Originally the amount of gas was estimated at five trillion to eight trillion cubic feet. But after Noble conducted further testing, Mr. Lakkotrypis said, the estimate was lowered to 3.6 trillion to six trillion cubic feet.

Either way, that is a lot of gas. If Cyprus used gas instead of burning fuel oil for most of its needs, about 10 percent of that would be enough to power the country for 20 years, Mr. Lakkotrypis said.

Yet it may not be enough to supply an L.N.G. facility by itself, analysts say. The industry rule of thumb is that a single-unit L.N.G. facility, which chills the gas to a liquid, requires about six trillion cubic feet of gas to make the plant economically viable.

A two-unit plant, which Mr. Lakkotrypis said could cut unit costs 30 percent, would require about 12 trillion cubic feet, far more than Cyprus’s estimated reserves.

It is possible that more gas will be found. Both Total and the Italian energy company Eni are exploring. Cyprus is in an area called the Levantine basin, where exploration began only in the last couple of decades and which the industry thinks contains large amounts of gas.

Cyprus has already identified the site for the L.N.G. plant at Vasilikos, an industrial zone on the south coast of the island, and is beginning the design work. Noble has been helping with that effort, but Mr. Lakkotrypis says that Total would probably be in charge. “Only the likes of Total can be the operator,” he said.

In some respects, building the plant could take on a life of its own. Mr. Lakkotrypis said construction would employ about 4,000 people — enough to make at least a small dent in the 75,000 unemployed. Cyprus, he said, is already on its way to becoming a regional hub for the energy industry.

Noble, which has Israeli partners, has found a very large field called Leviathan in Israeli waters not far from the boundary with Cyprus. J. Keith Elliot, Noble Energy’s head of eastern Mediterranean operations, said in an interview this summer that the company thought there was more to find in its own exploration block and in others. “In our view there is quite a bit of exploration left to do,” he said.

But finding more gas would take time. There have been hopes that Israeli gas from Leviathan might go to a Cypriot plant, if built. But talks on the subject have yet to produce an agreement, and Israel has many options — including building its own L.N.G. facilities and sending gas by pipeline to its neighbors.

There are questions, though, about who would buy the gas. Demand for L.N.G. has been weak in Europe of late and the production of shale gas in the United States could soon lead to American exports. “Global dynamics in the L.N.G. market paint an uncertain picture for future demand,” said Katan Hirachand, managing director for energy project finance at Société Générale in London.
152 2013-11-07 To realize the full intent of the Dodd-Frank financial reforms, big banks must be scaled back until a failure of one would not set off a global financial crisis, an economist writes....
153 2013-11-07 Also listed on the brief are the lawyers Norman Dorsen, Arthur R. Miller, Judith Resnik and Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr.

Professor Neuborne said in a phone interview: “I thought when I saw the order that procedural fairness required that she at least have an opportunity to defend herself. I reached out to her and offered my services pro bono, and she accepted.”

The judge declined to comment on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, civil rights lawyers challenging the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk practices said Wednesday that they also planned to ask the full appeals court, known as the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, to review the panel’s decision.

The appeals court typically decides cases through randomly selected three-judge panels; only rarely — five times since 2008, a spokeswoman said — has the court gone “en banc,” that is, had the full court review a panel’s decision. (The court has 13 active judges.)

The lawyers said that their request for a review was also expected to focus on the panel’s criticism of Judge Scheindlin. The panel, in an order on Oct. 31, said that Judge Scheindlin “ran afoul” of the judicial code of conduct, and compromised “the appearance of impartiality” in her decision in 2007 that appeared to steer the case to herself, and for granting interviews to several news organizations this year.

Judge Scheindlin, in a short statement last week, defended herself, indicating that her actions in 2007 made procedural sense and that she had avoided commenting in the interviews about the cases before her.

Baher Azmy, legal director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, which is handling one of the two stop-and-frisk lawsuits before the appeals court, said, “By impugning the judge’s impartiality, the panel improperly cast doubt on what was an extremely rigorous and thoughtful judicial opinion by a respected jurist.”

Christopher Dunn, associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, which is handling the other suit, said that the appeal would seek the “development of a complete factual record about the judge’s actions.” This would include briefing, oral argument and “an opportunity for the judge to participate and defend herself,” Mr. Dunn said.

On Wednesday, lawyers for the two groups joined local and federal lawmakers and representatives of community organizations on the steps of City Hall, calling for the Bloomberg administration to withdraw its appeal of Judge Scheindlin’s decision.

Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of Manhattan, a Democrat, told reporters, “We urge Mayor Bloomberg to drop the appeal of the stop-and-frisk ruling and to support the much-needed reforms to this terrible policy.”

“We know the new administration is not going to carry on that appeal in the same way,” Mr. Nadler added.

Mr. de Blasio’s opposition to the city’s appeal has also played into recent legal maneuvering in the stop-and-frisk case.

Last Thursday, before the panel issued its ruling, Michael A. Cardozo, the city corporation counsel, wrote to the appeals court, asking that it accelerate the pace of the appeal. He proposed a schedule that would result in the case being decided by the end of the year, before Mr. Bloomberg leaves office.

The request drew a scathing response from the Center for Constitutional Rights, which accused the city in court papers of “a crass political move to prevent the remedy from going forward following the election.”

When the panel handed down its ruling later that day, it announced a schedule that pushed into at least next March. That schedule, of course, will become moot if Mr. de Blasio withdraws the appeal or engineers a settlement.
154 2013-11-07 The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration is proposing more than $2.6 million in penalties against ExxonMobil, citing the company for nine probable violations after one of its pipelines spilled thousands of barrels of oil in Mayflower in March. A company spokesman said it appeared that the agency’s analysis was flawed.
155 2013-11-07 The Mexico Supreme Court on Wednesday overturned a lower court ruling that allowed a drug kingpin accused of murdering an American drug enforcement agent in the 1980s to walk free. The effect of the high court ruling is unclear; the drug lord, Rafael Caro Quintero, left prison Aug. 9 and may not be easy to find. The American government, which filed an extradition request for him after his release, this week offered a $5 million reward for information leading to his capture. According to the high court ruling, lower court judges made a mistake when they decided there had been a jurisdiction problem in trying Mr. Caro Quintero in federal court and ordered his release. The new ruling allows the Mexican authorities to order him back to prison to complete the remaining 12 years of his 40-year sentence for the killing of the agent, Enrique Camarena, although Mexico could choose to extradite Mr. Caro Quintero if he is found.
156 2013-11-07 JERUSALEM — Nine years of mystery and intrigue surrounding the death of Yasir Arafat, the symbol of the Palestinian national struggle, took a contentious turn on Wednesday with the publication of a forensics report by Swiss scientists that lends support to the theory that Mr. Arafat died of poisoning with radioactive polonium-210.

Al Jazeera, the Arabic television channel based in Qatar, reported the findings of the Swiss team and posted what it said was a copy of the team’s 108-page report on its website.

The news channel has been instrumental in advancing the theory that Mr. Arafat was poisoned with polonium, a radioactive element that became widely known following the death of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. agent who became a critic of the Russian government. He died in London in 2006 after drinking tea contaminated with the substance.

The University of Legal Medicine in Lausanne, Switzerland, said that it was approached by a reporter for Al Jazeera English on behalf of Suha Arafat, Mr. Arafat’s widow, in January 2012. Providing a travel bag containing personal effects that Mr. Arafat took with him to the French military hospital where he died, Al Jazeera commissioned a forensic examination. The Swiss institute found “an unexplained, elevated amount of unsupported polonium-210” in Mr. Arafat’s belongings and recommended further testing. Those results led to an exhumation a year ago.

Along with the Swiss, Russian and French teams were assigned to test the remains in an effort to resolve questions about Mr. Arafat’s death in November 2004 at age 75,  given the suspicions among his supporters and others that he had been killed by agents of Israel or by Palestinian rivals.
157 2013-11-07 Twitter’s initial public offering, which values the company at roughly $18 billion, is a sign of its maturity, even as it combats slowing growth....
158 2013-11-07 First, there was Black Friday. Then came Cyber Monday.

This week, some online shoppers found what might be called Accidental Wednesday.

Certain products on the Walmart website displayed wildly low prices Wednesday morning, such as a kayak for $11 or a treadmill for $33, according to news reports and Walmart. There was even a $579 projector available for $8.85.

“We did, in fact, experience a technical error that caused some items on our website to display incorrect pricing,” said Ravi Jariwala, a Walmart spokesman.

Information on the error that crashed prices through the floor was sketchy late Wednesday afternoon.

Walmart said its site was not hacked, and Mr. Jariwala said the company later discovered an internal technical error.

Sales orders were not suspended, but he said customers might have had trouble browsing the site while the problem was being fixed. On Wednesday night, the company said that the problem was resolved and that the problematic orders would be canceled. Buyers will be refunded and given a $10 gift card.

If prices had also been accidentally inflated, as well — there was a report of a $369 FurReal Friends monkey, for example — Mr. Jariwala said that he had not seen it.
159 2013-11-07 A man in a shiny suit faces away from those who watch him. His fingers tickle the air, as if feeling for something. The signals he senses must be intensifying, since his weather-vane body starts shunting into angles, bouncing like a car with loose suspension. As a beat fades in, his shoulders and knees pick it up, until he is stepping high in a dance you might identify as African.

The man is the South African choreographer Gregory Maqoma, making his New York debut on Friday at the Kumble Theater for the Performing Arts in Brooklyn. In “Exit/Exist,” presented by 651 Arts, he channels an ancestor, Chief Maqoma, a 19th-century Xhosa warrior who resisted colonial encroachment for decades before dying in prison on Robben Island, South Africa. For much of the dance, Mr. Maqoma trades in his shiny suit for a cow skin or strips down to briefs. The work is about how the Africa of the past might still exist in an African of the present.

“Exit/Exist” is a dance solo, but Mr. Maqoma is joined by the guitarist Giuliano Modarelli, who supplies electronic loops that sound like a tape played backward and acoustic passages that resemble flamenco. While Mr. Modarelli stays behind a scrim, the four men of the vocal quartet Complete sometimes enter the action. Their broad sound — deep bass, high notes that zip around the stratosphere — recalls Ladysmith Black Mambazo but with more inflections of gospel and R&B. (Many of the songs are written by Simphiwe Dana.)

The physical participation of Complete, as attendants or masked ghostly figures, is among the simpler and more effective features of James Ngcobo’s inconsistent direction. The work is semi-narrative, with suggestions of episodes from Chief Maqoma’s life — battles, a search for stolen cattle, imprisonment — alternating with ritual segments involving grain and Mr. Maqoma drenching his body in oil. The rituals are often opaque and the story often murky, undermined by the awkward, unsophisticated narrative text projected on a scrim.

Mr. Maqoma’s dancing is, broadly speaking, an intriguing mix of traditional African and European contemporary, studded with moves that might have been borrowed from James Brown or vogueing. The mix is lumpy, as is Mr. Maqoma’s execution, and the choreography frequently seems desultory. Yet that very aimlessness, combined with the dancer’s dour demeanor, helps to convey a sense of Chief Maqoma as a “broken soul.” “Exit/Exist” is ultimately a lament.

When Mr. Maqoma balances a metal plate on his head, the cool continuity of that feat focuses his spins and quaking. His facing away at the work’s beginning has a similar focusing effect.
160 2013-11-07 Nash appeared briefly at the Rangers’ practice rink Tuesday, but he has not skated with the team since his injury.

The scourge of concussions continues to plague the N.H.L., with Nash one of the notable victims. The highest-profile patient was Crosby, who played just eight games between January 2011 and March 2012 because of two concussions.

Crosby said Wednesday afternoon that he could “definitely relate” to what Nash was going through.

“I texted Rick soon after he was injured,” said Crosby, who played alongside Nash on the 2010 Canadian Olympic team. “I saw the play, and I think he’d gone through something like that last year, so I wanted to see how he was doing. It’s tough to see what guys are going through when they go through something like that.”

Nash’s concussion was the result of an elbow to the head from Sharks defenseman Brad Stuart. (The Rangers officially call it a head injury rather than a concussion.)

Nash also sustained a concussion last season from being shoved against the glass on a routine play by Boston forward Milan Lucic on Feb. 12. He missed four games, although the Rangers did not concede that Nash had a concussion until after the season.

Nash now has a history of head trauma, just as Crosby does. The question is whether Nash’s road to recovery will be as long and ultimately as successful as Crosby’s.

The Rangers deny reports that Nash has sought out the same Georgia concussion specialists Crosby turned to when other therapies did not seem to be working.

The team also declined to comment on whether Nash had seen doctors from Michigan NeuroSport, the University of Michigan sports neurology program. That group is headed by Dr. Jeffrey Kutcher, who is a consultant with the N.H.L. Players’ Association and the USA Hockey national developmental team program.

In an email Wednesday, Kutcher declined to comment on whether he was treating Nash.

Crosby is the N.H.L.’s top scorer, but the Rangers stopped him Wednesday, only the third game this season in which he failed to score a point.

The Rangers acquired Nash in a blockbuster trade with the Blue Jackets in July 2012 to bolster their offense. But for now he is in limbo. The next game he misses will be Thursday’s at Columbus, the city where he spent the first nine seasons of his N.H.L. career.

That will bring Nash’s concussion absence to 13 games and counting. It may be a while before he appears again in Rangers blue anywhere besides the game program.

Penguins Coach Dan Bylsma could take some solace from the loss. Ryan McDonagh, Derek Stepan, Brian Boyle and Ryan Callahan, who scored for the Rangers, are American. Bylsma will coach the United States men’s Olympic team in Sochi, Russia, in February.
161 2013-11-07 The Dow Jones industrial average set another record on Wednesday, bolstered in part by gains in Microsoft, as it led a fair part of the stock market higher.

With little in the way of major economic news or blockbuster earnings on Tuesday, investors awaited two reports: third-quarter economic growth on Thursday and October employment on Friday. Both could signal how much longer the Federal Reserve will keep up its $85 billion monthly bond purchases, which have kept interest rates low and made stocks more attractive.

The Dow gained 128.66 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 15,746.88, surpassing its previous nominal high set on Oct. 29. Among the Dow’s 30 stocks, Microsoft rose $1.54, or 4.2 percent, to $38.18 after analysts at Nomura said investors should focus on how the company’s fortunes could improve once it picks a replacement for its current chief executive, Steve Ballmer.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 7.52, or 0.4 percent, to 1,770.49, putting it about one and a half points below its nominal high of Oct. 29.

The Nasdaq composite index, however, slipped 7.92 points, or 0.2 percent, to 3,931.95.

Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said the patchy performance of the overall market suggested that investors may be getting wary of stocks after this year’s strong gains.
162 2013-11-08 A debate within Bloomberg News over how to handle coverage of China provokes an animated depiction of the situation....
163 2013-11-08 The move comes as Mr. Batista’s firms, once symbols of Brazil’s might, have suffered under the weight of huge debt....
164 2013-11-08 The biggest risk in investing in the Treasury Department’s new type of debt is one that, in theory, should not even exist: payment risk....
165 2013-11-08 Had the company sold its 70 million shares at $45.10 instead of $26, it might have raised $3.16 billion instead $1.82 billion....
166 2013-11-08 Ben Ratliff and Jon Pareles discuss new albums by two veteran pop provocateurs....
167 2013-11-08 Social media ideas that small businesses can take from big brands. Why more small businesses are being sold. How small businesses near Yosemite are coping....
168 2013-11-08 Job growth was good in October, but employment still has a long way to go before returning to its prerecession level....
169 2013-11-08 The writer was not allowed to board a scheduled flight to China, where he was headed to pursue graduate studies, as his Indian passport had a stapled visa....
170 2013-11-08 The payment represents the Swiss National Bank’s share of the remaining equity value of the fund created to hold distressed assets as part of UBS’s rescue plan five years ago....
171 2013-11-08 The title “Billy & Buddy” uses Anglicized versions of the names Bill and Boule, a dog and a boy who have been beloved comic-strip characters in Francophone countries for over 50 years. This live-action version about an English cocker spaniel who speaks French is, in a sense, a foreign film version of “Marmaduke.”

The Belgian artist Jean Roba started “Boule et Bill” in 1959, and the characters’ bulbous noses and round heads (similar to “Dennis the Menace” or “Beetle Bailey”) are emblematic of that decade’s comic style. So it’s odd that this creation myth of how a father begins drawing the adventures of his family — including his ginger-haired son, troublesome pooch and amorous pet turtle — takes place in the 1970s. The bright colors and bold shapes of the comic are translated to a pleasant soft-pop aesthetic with a kitschy soft-rock soundtrack.

The film emphasizes period style while seemingly ignoring action or novelty. Another unfortunate side effect of the 1970s stylings is that, with his bright red mop top and striped turtleneck, the adorable Charles Crombez, as Buddy, looks eerily similar to a premurderous Chucky doll.

Every country’s broad comedy has its own rhythms and sounds to express aggressive excitement, dense frustration and nonsense exclamations. For young children who don’t speak French and cannot read subtitles, “Billy & Buddy” will be a lesson in those distinctively French tones. Very young children fluent in French may enjoy the film for its jokes, but anyone old enough to read the subtitles is likely to be unamused.
172 2013-11-08 A mournful Midwestern ballad devoid of grace notes, “Medora” views the crumbling of small-town America through the eyes of the Hornets, a high school basketball team that can barely remember what it’s like to win a game.

But this gently affecting documentary from Andrew Cohn and Davy Rothbart — whose interest in the team was ignited by a 2009 article in The New York Times — bears little resemblance to the familiar sports underdog story. Visiting the tiny rural town of Medora, Ind., the directors find neither charismatic coaches nor shining-star shooters; in their place are lower-rung dreams, substance abuse and punishing poverty. Shamefaced players, distracted by a mother in rehab or a father in the wind, stoically endure postgame rebukes, and Medora residents (assisted by archival film clips) wistfully recall happier days when the plastics factory and brick plant were still operational.

“How would you describe Medora now?” Mr. Cohn asks a bored-looking shopkeeper. “Closed,” she replies, and the word rings with the rueful humor of the long-suffering. Beneath wintry skies, Rachael Counce’s camera finds despair in shuttered stores and sad trailer parks, in the worn living room where an Army recruiter hovers like a buzzard over a kid with few options.

Yet the film also finds grit in young men who show up for practice every day, drug-free, and in the extended families doing what they can to help them. Sustained by Hoosier pride, the Medora Hornets — like their town — just don’t know how to give up.
173 2013-11-08 “This manufactured crisis damaged the economy, cost us jobs and hurt middle-class families,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski, the Maryland Democrat who is chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “The American people deserve a government that works as hard as they do. It’s time to hear from the middle-of-roaders. It’s time to work together on a bipartisan basis.”

The most direct cost, the report said, is the $2 billion in back pay that will go to federal workers who were furloughed. Government agencies — from the sprawling State Department to the tiny Export-Import Bank — were ordered to send nonessential workers home, resulting in about 40 percent of civilian federal employees going off the clock. (That included four out of the five Nobel laureates who are researchers for the government, the report said.)

All in all, the shutdown led to 6.6 million days of lost work, paid for by the taxpayer. Many federal contractors also furloughed employees during the shutdown, and those workers may not receive back pay.

Other direct costs come from missed fees from national parks, interest due on late payments, the curtailing of tax enforcement actions and certain stop-work orders.

“Millions of Americans were impacted by the shutdown, due to furloughs of federal employees, reduced services for the public and delays in payments to federal grantees, states, localities, contractors and individuals,” Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the budget director, said in the report.

On top of that, the economy is absorbing costs from delays and disruptions to government services, and from a sharp blow to consumer and business confidence. The report runs through a long list of the disruptions: a backlog in veterans’ disability claims, children left out of Head Start, patients left out of cancer studies, halted consumer-safety work, delays in certain tax refunds.

The report said that the government had not calculated the costs of actually shutting the government down and reopening it. But it described them as significant.

“Disruptions at nuclear cleanup sites associated with the shutdown will cost two to three weeks of productivity,” it said. The shutdown “may cause the Department of Energy to miss cleanup milestones agreed to with the states where cleanup is underway.”

Ultimately, disruptions like the shutdown may discourage workers from taking government jobs, analysts have said.

“The furloughs came on top of an unprecedented three-year pay freeze, increases to retirement contributions and the loss of six days’ wages due to the sequestration-related furloughs this summer,” the American Federation of Government Employees, a union representing about 650,000 government workers, said in a statement.

“Employees are frustrated at being made the sacrificial lamb of deficit reduction, and as a result the federal government is becoming a less attractive employer.”
174 2013-11-08 Voters may also have been influenced by flooding that swept fracking sites in north-central Colorado in September. Environmental damage was minimal, but the dramatic pictures of overturned tanks of drilling wastewater and inundated drilling pads amplified a continuing debate over the safety of fracking, said Sam Schabacker, a regional director of Food & Water Watch, an antifracking group in Colorado.

“There’s no doubt that seeing tanks floating down the Platte River, seeing oil spills spread out across floodwaters as they traveled toward agricultural land, had a significant impact,” he said. “It sure caused citizens to think twice.”

Mr. Ciruli said the approved measures were likely to prompt state legislators and Mr. Hickenlooper to consider tightening regulation of the shale gas industry, in part to blunt future efforts by antifracking groups to expand bans or moratoriums.

B. J. Nikkel, a former state representative and private consultant who led the industry’s public relations campaign, said opponents’ aim is clear. “Their real goal is to run a statewide ballot initiative,” she said. “These votes were the testing grounds for what it’s going to look like.”

Two of the three cities that restricted fracking — Lafayette and Boulder — are in Boulder County, a Democratic Party stronghold, Ms. Nikkel noted. Antifracking campaigns are likely to fare worse in more conservative regions, she said, as happened in Broomfield, which is less liberal.

Colorado voters stood in contrast to those in Youngstown and Bowling Green, Ohio, where initiatives to ban fracking were defeated. Voters in Oberlin, Ohio, a small university town near Cleveland, approved a fracking ban.

One analyst said, however, that the defeats in Ohio were clouded by other issues, including the cities’ struggling economies and concern that drilling bans might lead to higher utility bills.

Bowling Green’s City Council had voted in September to ban fracking within city limits. Voters appeared worried that the initiative, which would have inserted the ban into the city charter, was overly broad, said Andrew Kear, a political scientist at Bowling Green State University and a scholar of the politics of hydraulic fracturing in Ohio and in the Rocky Mountains.

Whether approved or defeated, he said, the increasing efforts by voters and municipalities to ban or regulate hydraulic fracturing are “putting it on the radar to politicians that at the local level there are some problems.”

Marty Durbin, the president of America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a Washington-based industry group, said the Colorado votes presented a challenge to the industry to better educate the public about the economic benefits and technological advances of fracking.

“What Colorado tells us is that, yes, there are going to be pockets where the industry and elected officials in areas have to do more to raise the public’s comfort level,” Mr. Durbin said in an interview. But nationally, he said, “The trend has been nothing but positive.”

A September telephone survey of 1,506 people by the Pew Research Center suggested, however, that the industry’s challenges spread well beyond Colorado. The poll, which has a margin of error of 2.9 percentage points, pointed to a sharp increase in public disapproval of fracking just since March.

Nationally, 49 percent of those who were polled opposed fracking, while 44 percent favored it, an 11 percentage-point increase in opposition. The share of those opposed rose regardless of age, sex, education level or place of residence. The one clear dividing line was political: Only 36 percent of Republicans who were polled disapproved of fracking, while 65 percent of Democrats opposed it.
175 2013-11-08 Ennis had 7 points, 5 assists and 4 steals against Ryerson. His value is immeasurable.

“He’s important for our team,” Boeheim said. “I told him at halftime he has to be a little more aggressive offensively. When I tell him something, he does it. That’s a good trait to have. He’s a key guy. He’s a mature freshman. He’s still a freshman. He’s going to make mistakes. He understands the position as well as any other freshman.”

Syracuse leads the series against Cornell, 87-31, and has a 33-game win streak against the Big Red. Cornell’s last victory in the series was a 94-82 triumph on Dec. 4, 1968, at Barton Hall in Ithaca.

“Cornell is a disciplined team, but during the season opener we should be coming out hard and playing well,” Ennis said. “Coach wants me to be a vocal leader. I know I am a young guy, but the position calls for me to be a leader on the court.”

It is safe to say Ennis will be under a microscope from the opening tip. He does not seem the least bit fazed.

“I see a lot of confidence in his play,” said the 6-foot-8 senior forward C. J. Fair, the Orange’s leading scorer and rebounder last season. “He is a smart player and rarely makes the wrong decision. I’m having fun playing with him, and I’m eager to see how he grows as a point guard.”

In their first year in the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Orange return three starters from last year’s 30-10 team that made it to the Final Four: Fair, voted preseason A.C.C. player of the year; the 6-9 junior forward Rakeem Christmas; and the 6-9 sophomore center DaJuan Coleman. Add the 6-10 senior Baye Moussa Keita, and Syracuse has a core of big bodies and long arms to guard the lane in Boeheim’s 2-3 zone defense.

Cornell is coming off a 13-18 season (5-9 Ivy League), and the fourth-year head coach Bill Courtney has had to replace four starters. The returning first-team All-Ivy forward Shonn Miller continues to recover from an injury that sidelined him in the preseason.

NORTH CAROLINA SHORT-HANDED North Carolina Coach Roy Williams knows he will not have his leading scorer, P. J. Hairston, and the senior Leslie McDonald for at least the season opener. Williams is still waiting to find out how long the two will be out.

The university said Hairston and McDonald would sit out the No. 12 Tar Heels’ game against Oakland on Friday night because of N.C.A.A. eligibility concerns, which have lingered over the program since a trouble-filled off-season.

“It’s an ongoing issue, a compliance issue with the university and the N.C.A.A.,” the team spokesman Steve Kirschner said. “We’re working together on that, but they’re not playing. Really that’s all we can get into at this point.”

Authorities cited Hairston in May and June after he drove a rental vehicle linked to a felon, raising the possibility of an improper benefits violation.

The university has not specified McDonald’s issue, though North Carolina had to send a letter this summer ordering a company that makes designer mouth guards to stop using McDonald on a website promoting its brand.

McDonald had made at least one social media post last year about wearing one of the company’s mouth guards. N.C.A.A. rules generally prohibit athletes from endorsing or promoting a company or product.

Hairston, a 6-foot-6 junior, averaged about 15 points and shot 40 percent from 3-point range, with most of that production after he was elevated to a full-time starting role in a four-guard lineup that sparked a late surge for the Tar Heels.

McDonald, a 6-5 guard, averaged 7.2 points and shot 36 percent from behind the arc last year in a reserve role.

MICHIGAN CENTER SIDELINED Michigan center Mitch McGary will miss Friday night’s opener against UMass-Lowell because of a lingering back problem.

Coach John Beilein did not offer many details about McGary’s condition or progress. McGary, a 6-foot-10 sophomore, was named to the Associated Press’s preseason all-American team, but it is not clear when he will be able to take the court this season. The seventh-ranked Wolverines will raise a banner Friday before the game to commemorate last season’s run to the Final Four.

McGary averaged 7.5 points per game last season as a freshman, but in the N.C.A.A. tournament he averaged 14.3 points and 10.7 rebounds, helping the Wolverines reach the national championship game, which they lost to Louisville.

MEMPHIS PLAYER HAS SURGERY Memphis forward David Pellom is expected to miss five weeks after having surgery on his left knee.

Josh Pastner, the coach of the 13th-ranked Tigers, announced through a university release that Pellom underwent arthroscopic debridement surgery. He called it “a simple and minor procedure.”

Pellom had been experiencing knee discomfort from an injury he sustained earlier in his career.

A George Washington transfer, he missed the 2012-13 season with a wrist injury. He averaged 10.4 points and 6.1 rebounds for George Washington in the 2011-12 season.
176 2013-11-08 Ponder injured his left shoulder in the third quarter and was replaced by Matt Cassel.

Robert Griffin III was 24 for 37 for 281 yards and 3 touchdowns for the Redskins. Before and during the game, hundreds of American Indians and their supporters gathered outside the Metrodome to protest the Redskins’ nickname as offensive. The Washington owner Daniel Snyder has called the name “a badge of honor.” (AP)

JETS BACK INDICTED Running back Mike Goodson of the Jets was indicted on two weapons-possession charges related to his arrest in May during a traffic stop in New Jersey, according to the Morris County Prosecutor’s Office. Goodson was indicted on a second-degree charge of unlawful possession of a handgun and a fourth-degree charge of prohibited weapons and devices.

Goodson was charged with possession of marijuana and a loaded firearm on May 17 after the police said he was discovered early that morning in the passenger seat of a sport utility vehicle driven by Garant Evans of Roselle, N.J., that had stopped on Interstate 80 in Denville.

The authorities said Goodson’s second-degree charge stemmed from a .45-caliber handgun discovered in the glove compartment. They said the fourth-degree charge was for possession of a hollow-point bullet.

Goodson, who joined the Jets in March on a three-year, $6.9 million contract, tore ligaments in his left knee on Oct. 13, in his second game after being reinstated from a four-game suspension for violating the league’s substance abuse policy. He is on injured reserve. BEN SHPIGEL

KUBIAK AT PRACTICE Houston Texans Coach Gary Kubiak was back with his team, if only for a short visit.

He dropped in at the end of practice Thursday, four days after collapsing at a game with a transient ischemic attack, or ministroke. Kubiak, 52, was not made available to the news media, but the interim head coach Wade Phillips shared what Kubiak said to the team.

Phillips said Kubiak wanted the players to know “mostly that he missed them” and “that he felt good.”

It was the first time Kubiak had addressed the Texans since collapsing on the field and being taken to a hospital at halftime of Houston’s loss to the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday night.

The Texans have not said when Kubiak, who was released from the hospital Tuesday, will resume his coaching duties, but they have said that he is expected to make a full recovery. (AP)

PLAYERS RETURNING Chicago Bears quarterback Jay Cutler has been cleared to return Sunday to face the Detroit Lions after missing a game following a groin tear on Oct. 20. ... The rookie quarterback E J Manuel is expected to start for the Buffalo Bills on Sunday against the Pittsburgh Steelers after spraining his knee Oct. 3 and missing four games. ... Green Bay linebacker Clay Matthews, who has missed the past four games with a broken thumb, may return soon — potentially for Sunday’s game against the Philadelphia Eagles. (AP)
177 2013-11-08 Businesses Near Yosemite Try to Survive
178 2013-11-08 The federal health care law’s mandate that employer health plans cover birth control has sparked dozens of lawsuits by secular, for-profit companies and their owners seeking to be exempted on religious grounds from having to comply. At this point, a handful of federal appeals courts have ruled on the question, with a few correctly rejecting the specious religious liberty claims. The latest ruling, issued last week, goes the wrong way.

Under the Affordable Care Act, companies with more than 50 workers that provide health insurance must comply with the contraception coverage rule or face fines of up to $100 a day for each employee. The rule is structured to respect the concerns of religious institutions as well as an employee’s right not to be governed by the religious beliefs of her boss.

Writing for a split three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Judge Janice Rogers Brown found that the mandate “trammels the right of free exercise” under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Unlike a previous appellate ruling against the mandate, she declined to endorse the absurd notion that a secular corporation is an entity capable of engaging in religion and therefore qualified to challenge the law on grounds of religious infringement. Nevertheless, she concluded that the mandate placed a substantial burden on the religious beliefs of the other plaintiffs, the two brothers who owned the closely held fresh-food processing companies at the center of the case — in violation of the restoration act.

In a dissent, Judge Harry Edwards disputed the idea that allowing women to make their own independent decisions about using contraception interfered with the owners’ religious freedom and warned that the court’s ruling could be applied to justify company owners with other religious beliefs from refusing to cover preventive vaccines against diseases.

The Supreme Court is expected to decide by Thanksgiving whether it will take up the issue. Its duty is to resolve the conflicting opinions by firmly rejecting the dangerous view that private employers can use their religious belief to discriminate against women.
179 2013-11-08 DEARBORN, Mich. — Dennis Williams, the secretary-treasurer of the United Automobile Workers, is the choice of the union’s leaders to be its next president, the union said on Thursday.

Mr. Williams, 60, will stand for formal election at the U.A.W.’s convention next June. He indicated that he would carry on the mainly nonconfrontational approach toward negotiating with the companies that employ union members, including the three major domestic automakers, General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler, a unit of Fiat of Italy.

“I’m not afraid of confrontation,” he said at a news conference on Thursday. “But I think the best way to handle dealing with corporations or anybody in life is you sit down and you talk.”

The current president, Bob King, said Mr. Williams was an integral part of the union’s strategy and 2011 negotiations with the Detroit Three automakers.

Mr. King is not running for re-election, in keeping with the union’s practice of not allowing anyone 65 and older to run for office. Mr. Williams was selected Thursday by about 300 members of the union’s administrative caucus. Since the 1940s, the candidate endorsed by the caucus has gone on to win election as president.

The next president’s four-year term will be marked by potentially contentious contract talks with American automakers, and there will be pressure to organize foreign-owned plants in the United States.
180 2013-11-08 In May 2012, the records showed, 44 percent of the cases had been open for more than a year, said David Colodny, a lawyer with the center.

Carlos Rodriguez, 28, said he made $4.40 an hour in a pizza franchise on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, cutting vegetables, cleaning, unloading trucks by day and making deliveries at night. “We paid for the uniform, the hat, the T-shirt, the pants, the shoes,” Mr. Rodriguez said.

Did he speak to the boss about the pay rate?

“He said if you don’t like it, just go,” Mr. Rodriguez said.

So he did. “I went to the Labor Department in 2007 and told them they robbed me of 20 hours of pay per week,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “They took my information. They said we are going to call at the end of every month to bring you up to date.”

Not once, he said, did they call, but he called religiously. “Every end of the month, they said the same thing: ‘We have a lot of cases,’ ” Mr. Rodriguez said.

The state believes it can cut the time of the investigations to nine months by looking at three years of wage history, rather than six, as had been the practice, said Alphonso David, who works for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo as the deputy secretary for civil rights. The investigations will not get bogged down in hard-to-resolve factual questions from the past, he said, and the result will be quicker, surer justice.

The national minimum wage came into existence because a social reformer named Frances Perkins told Franklin D. Roosevelt that she would join his cabinet only if he agreed to a floor on the hourly pay rate, and a ceiling on the number of hours in a workweek. Roosevelt agreed. The law was fought almost as fiercely as the new health care act.

In March, the State Legislature passed a bill raising the minimum wage by 75 cents to $8 an hour by the end of 2013, then to $8.75 by the end of 2014, and $9 by the end of 2015. To win the agreement of Republicans in the Senate, the law includes a tax credit for companies that keep or hire teenagers at the minimum wage. The governor’s office estimated the credit’s cost at $45 million.

The law included no funds for faster investigation of wage and hour violations, and the budget for that has been flat for several years, said JoAnn Lum, executive director of the National Mobilization Against Sweatshops.

Mr. David said the state was getting bogged down by looking back six years and would no longer do so.

“That is ridiculous,” said Deborah Axt, an executive director of Make the Road New York, an organization that advocates better conditions for immigrants and low-income people. The group had urged the state in 2007 to use the full six years allowed by the statute of limitations to pursue the wage claims. “You are cutting off half your ability to recover wages under the law,” she said.

Yu Dan Wong, 46, said she filed a complaint in 2006 that the fashion manufacturer she worked for had paid her $450 for a six-day, 54-hour week, a wage that covered none of the required overtime. Her job was to check garment quality at about 30 factories in Brooklyn, Queens and Chinatown. “I kept calling until 2010,” she said. “I never heard.”

Were the workers in those factories paid minimum wage?

The question was translated for her by Wing Lam, the director of the Chinese Staff and Workers Association.

Both of them roared with laughter.
181 2013-11-08 Hoping to reduce the warehouse delays that have added billions of dollars to the prices that consumers pay for beverage cans and other aluminum products, the London Metal Exchange has released new regulations meant to reduce the waiting times at storage facilities owned by commodities traders and banks like Goldman Sachs.

Beer breweries and other businesses that buy aluminum have for years complained that Metro International Trade Services, a string of Detroit-area warehouses owned by Goldman Sachs, had orchestrated bottlenecks at its facilities that forced them to wait as long as 16 months for their metal to be delivered.

The delays have generated millions in profits for the warehouse, which charges rent by the day. But they also add to the storage expense for aluminum buyers, costs that are ultimately passed on to consumers. Because of a quirk in the way metal prices are set on the spot market, the delays raise the price of nearly all the aluminum sold in the United States, even if the metal is never stored in a warehouse.

The guidelines, released on Wednesday after a three-month review of the aluminum storage business, will require warehouses with waiting times of 50 days or longer to load out more metal than they take in each day. The exchange, which is owned by investors and regulates 700 storage facilities around the globe, said it would also be more aggressive in investigating instances where warehouses appeared to be instigating delays.

“The L.M.E. will now have a greater power to investigate and to act to prevent warehouse companies unreasonably incentivizing the formation of queues,” Garry Jones, the exchange’s chief executive, said in a video announcing the changes.
182 2013-11-08 Jason Furman, the chairman of the president’s Council of Economic Advisers, attended a Senate luncheon on Thursday with a focus on raising the minimum wage. One official at the luncheon said that some Democratic senators from more conservative states favored an increase to $9 an hour, but including the expensing provision was enough of a sweetener to bring them behind the $10.10 proposal.

Under that provision, small businesses would be able to deduct the total cost of investments in equipment or expansions, up to a maximum of $500,000 in the first year. Including such a provision helped persuade the Senate to vote overwhelmingly in favor of the last two minimum wage increases.

Democratic strategists say they are backing a higher minimum wage to help lift millions of low-wage workers at a time of increasing income inequality. Some also acknowledge that pushing a higher minimum wage is a way to put Republicans on the spot — caught between a business lobby and many conservatives who oppose an increased minimum wage and a public that strongly supports a higher minimum.

In his State of the Union speech in February, Mr. Obama called for a federal minimum wage of $9 an hour. But there has been little movement in Washington on that front, despite action at the state level. Some states set their minimum wage above the federal minimum, and in September, California passed a law that will steadily raise its minimum wage to $10 an hour by 2016.

Washington State currently has the highest state minimum wage at $9.19 an hour, a level indexed to inflation. Some cities have higher wages, including San Francisco, where the wage minimum is $10.55. On Tuesday, New Jersey voters approved a constitutional amendment, by a margin of 61 percent to 39 percent, that will raise the minimum wage to $8.25 an hour on Jan. 1, from $7.25. That measure includes annual increases based on inflation.

On March 15, the House voted 233 to 184 against a proposal to raise the minimum wage to $10.10 by 2015. The proposal came as an amendment to a job-training bill, and all 227 Republican members voted against the increase.

In July, on the fourth anniversary of the most recent minimum wage increase, Mr. Harkin and Mr. Miller stepped up their effort, citing a poll by Hart Research that found that 80 percent of Americans support increasing the minimum to $10.10. The Hart poll found that 92 percent of Democrats, 80 percent of independents and 62 percent of Republicans backed their proposal.

Mr. Miller said that he was confident that the House would vote to approve a higher minimum wage next summer because he thought several dozen Republicans would back the measure for fear of angering moderate-income voters as the Congressional elections approach.

Economists are somewhat more divided than the public about the effects of a minimum-wage increase, with conservatives concerned that raising the cost of labor could reduce the total number of low-wage workers employed.

But at least one well-regarded study found that raising the minimum wage increased employment of low-wage workers.
183 2013-11-08 Credit: Andrew Sullivan for The New York Times
184 2013-11-08 Good Bob has “Filthy Gorgeous: The Bob Guccione Story” almost entirely to himself. Bad Bob never shows up, though Incompetent Bob does have a cameo.

The documentary, Friday night on Epix, is a softball treatment of the life of the founder of Penthouse magazine, who died in 2010 at 79. Relatives and former co-workers go on at length about Guccione the entrepreneur, Guccione the hypocrisy-buster, Guccione the defender of the First Amendment. The guy who made a fortune by turning women into sex objects and appealing to some of the baser human instincts is nowhere to be found.

Whatever your opinion of Penthouse and related indulgences, you at least are aware that some people find them crassly exploitative and deeply offensive. “Filthy Gorgeous” isn’t much interested in exploring how Mr. Guccione navigated this dynamic or capitalized on it; its primary mission is to deify him. When his critics finally do turn up in the film, it is so they can be mocked and so Mr. Guccione can be given another figurative medal for exposing the hollow piety of people like the television evangelist Jimmy Swaggart.

The film’s disinclination to engage in a serious examination of Mr. Guccione’s role in tumultuous times borders on laughable in a few places. That much-mocked advice feature known as the Forum is billed as a sex therapy public service. The 1984 publication of nude photographs of Vanessa Williams, who the previous September had won the Miss America crown, is preposterously passed off as crusading journalism.

“What she did was newsworthy,” Mr. Guccione is heard to say in a video clip. “As a journalist, it is my immediate feeling to see that it is brought to the attention of the public.” Sure; selling magazines and enriching yourself had nothing to do with it.

The film, by Barry Avrich, does finally allow some tarnish on the portrait near the end, when it gets to the collapse of Mr. Guccione’s empire and the squandering of the personal fortune all those nude photographs had built. A failed effort to crack the Atlantic City casino market was among his biggest mistakes, and he found no effective response to the juggernaut of Internet pornography.
185 2013-11-08 Andrew Parker, the head of the domestic security agency, MI5, was less explicit on Thursday. But in a speech last month, he said the Snowden leaks had caused “enormous damage” to British security, “handing the advantage to the terrorists.”

The officials’ reactions are hardly a surprise, given their responsibilities and the varied nature of the global threats that face Britain and the West. But they were also at pains to try to reassure the British public that all three agencies followed British law, sought authorization from appropriate cabinet ministers, did not condone torture and had learned from their mistakes, both foreign and domestic.

Mr. Lobban insisted that “secret does not mean sinister” or “unaccountable,” and that there was no mass surveillance of ordinary citizens despite the gathering of huge amounts of Internet and telephone data.

Mr. Parker insisted that his agency was committed to protecting “the sort of country we live in against threats to it,” saying Britons “don’t want to live in a surveillance society, or North Korea — they want to live in a country like this, and our job is to keep it that way.”

He added: “The suggestion that somehow what we do is somehow compromising freedom and democracy. Of course, we believe the opposite to be the case.”

The public appearance before the Intelligence and Security Committee was a drastic change from the usual private testimony. It was only in 1992 that the name of the head of MI5 was made public, and it was not until 1994 that the government officially admitted that MI6 even existed.

The timing of this first public hearing was not dictated by the controversies surrounding Mr. Snowden, who has been given temporary asylum in Russia. But the questioning, led by Malcolm Rifkind, the committee chairman and a former foreign secretary, was dominated by the Snowden revelations, which have been made through publications like The Guardian, The Washington Post, The New York Times and Der Spiegel.

The committee of nine was friendly in its questioning and did little to challenge the assumptions of the three intelligence chiefs. Mr. Rifkind, to whom MI6 once reported, tried to press for more public disclosure and more debate about the proper balance between secrecy and a democracy’s right to know, especially given the 2 billion pounds spent annually on the three agencies. But in general, the committee allowed the chiefs to avoid specifics, although they promised to talk to the legislators more openly in private session.

Nor was there a serious discussion of the damage done to relations among allies by revelations that the United States and Britain have been spying on their friends as well as their enemies.

The parliamentary hearing lasted 90 minutes and touched on the war in Syria, Northern Ireland, Iran, the role of the eavesdropping agency in tracking down child abusers who used the Internet, and industrial espionage.

The three chiefs underlined concerns about the radicalization of those fighting in Syria. Mr. Parker estimated that the number of Britons who had traveled to Syria to fight was in the “low hundreds,” saying a number had already returned to Britain. While most would not engage in jihadist activity at home, Mr. Parker said, he made it clear that they were important targets of surveillance.

Mr. Parker repeated that the agencies had disrupted 34 plots to cause domestic harm since the bomb attacks on London in July 2005, with one or two each year intending to cause mass casualties.

French officials have cited similar numbers of French citizens who have traveled to Syria and northern Africa to join jihadists, often attracted or radicalized by material on the Internet.

Mr. Parker has run MI5 since April. Mr. Sawers has run MI6 since 2009, and in 2010 he gave the first public speech by a head of MI6. Mr. Lobban has run the eavesdropping agency since 2008.

The lore around Britain’s intelligence services originates from the World War II and the Cold War, both because of its traitors, like Kim Philby, and its heroes, whose names are largely unknown. Mr. Parker is still known as “M,” and Mr. Sawers as “C.”

Mr. Sawers, when asked, said his agents did not operate as James Bond might have done, conducting missions on their own. He said his agents were in constant contact with headquarters and were told to seek guidance if they were in doubt about the legality or appropriateness of an action. If necessary, he said, “we will wake the foreign secretary up and ask him for a view one way or the other.” A similar system operates with MI5 and the home secretary.
186 2013-11-09 As China pushes ahead with government-led urbanization, Huaming might be an example of another transformation: the ghettoization of China’s new towns....
187 2013-11-09 Andrew Wiggins scored 16 points in his highly anticipated debut, leading No. 5 Kansas to a sluggish 80-63 victory over Louisiana-Monroe in its season opener.  Kansas, which is replacing all five starters from last season, plays No. 4 Duke on Tuesday night in Chicago.

■ Julius Randle scored 15 of his 23 points in the second half to lead five Kentucky players in double figures and help the top-ranked Wildcats’ touted freshman class debut successfully with an 89-57 season-opening home rout of U.N.C.-Asheville. ■ Trevor Cooney had seven 3-pointers and 27 points, both career highs, and No. 8 Syracuse beat visiting Cornell, 82-60. Syracuse has won 34 straight against the Big Red.
188 2013-11-09 Pictures From the Week in Business
189 2013-11-09 The House wants to get rid of the office. The Senate wants to keep it, under the theory that tougher inspections mean safer catfish. But, honestly, if that was the real reason, don’t you think the Senate would be insisting that other seafood get the Department of Agriculture treatment, too? Shrimp lovers, unite!

“We know this isn’t about . It’s about helping the catfish industry in and other states in the South,” said Senator of . Shaheen, a Democrat, has been allied with Republican in a crusade against the new inspection office.

“This is the kind of program that makes the public cynical about government,” she said.

Shaheen and McCain failed utterly in their attempts to amend the Senate farm bill to get rid of the dueling catfish inspections. This is perhaps because the Senate leadership has refused to allow a vote on the matter. We have no official word on why, but all eyes have wandered in the direction of Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, the senior Republican on the Senate agriculture committee. A state where catfish are so important that Mississippi State has a research facility to study them. Which is named the Thad Cochran National Warmwater Aquaculture Center.

See, this is what I like about the farm bill. The agriculture parts harken back to the golden era when Republicans and Democrats could work together to promote stupid ideas that benefited the special interests in their districts. And then go out and get inebriated in bipartisan drinking sessions. Now everybody is in the gym and then shutting down the government.

Or trying to eliminate food stamps. By far the biggest argument between the House and Senate on the farm bill is about the food stamp program, which the House Republicans want to slash by $39 billion, mainly through new screening programs to guarantee that every single recipient is working, drug-free, needy and in general totally and completely worthy of government assistance. Even if that means inadvertently emptying a lot of deserving cupboards along the way.

This would be in the same bill that includes crop subsidies that make no attempt whatsoever to screen out the undeserving rich. “Some of them are guys who farm in four or five states, in 20 different counties, growing five or six different crops. These are some of the most successful businesses in the country,” said Scott Faber of the Environmental Working Group, which recently released a report on the number of billionaires who received farm subsidies since 1995 (about 50).

There was a time when we dreamed about a Congress in which the members voted on principle. Did not imagine the principle would involve figuring out new ways to funnel more federal money to the people who need it least.
190 2013-11-09 The bureau’s rules would apply to all sorts of debt, including medical debt, which tends to end up frequently on consumer credit reports because of the complexities of health insurance billing.

“We agree that modernizing the nation’s consumer debt collection system is important so long as changes are based on common sense solutions that preserve balance between consumer protection and the ability of a creditor or debt collector to lawfully recover debts,” said a statement from ACA International, a trade group representing debt collectors.

Third-party debt collectors — those hired by lenders or businesses to collect debts on their behalf — are already barred from harassing or abusing consumers by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, enacted in 1977.

But Mr. Cordray said his bureau was given authority in the Dodd-Frank Act to issue new rules to update the law and address new concerns. The bureau now has primary responsibility for the fair debt collection law, but shares enforcement responsibility with the Federal Trade Commission.

The fair debt collection law predates cellphones and texting. So while it bars collectors from calling early in the morning or late at night, that restriction can become confusing when consumers move to an area code that may be in a different time zone and retain their old phone number, bureau officials said.

The Federal Trade Commission recently brought what it said was the first enforcement action against a debt collection company that violated the law by texting consumers without their consent and failing to include necessary disclosures in its text messages.

Margot Freeman Saunders, a lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center, said collection firms were increasingly seeking access to consumers through mobile phones, which poses privacy issues. Unlike landlines, which you answer in your own home, mobile phones can be called when you are in public, she noted.

“Debt collectors don’t just make one phone call,” she said. “They make hundreds, thousands of calls. They can be quite abusive.”

Bureau officials said they would also be considering whether companies that collect debts on their own behalf, like banks, should be subject to restrictions similar to those for outside collection firms.

Here are some questions to consider:

■ How can I submit a comment about debt collection?

You can go to Regulations.gov, or to RegulationRoom.org, a site operated by Cornell University. The bureau said it expected to accept comments until sometime in February.

■ Where can I see debt collection complaints filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau?

The bureau makes complaints available through a Consumer Complaint Database on its website.

■ How can I submit a complaint about debt collection?

The bureau’s website has an area where you can file complaints. You can also contact your state attorney general’s office; some states have different rules for debt collectors, and their office may be able to help you decide what to do. The National Association of Attorneys General has contact information.
191 2013-11-09 “Years ago, the people of Michigan started to learn that a tremendous and terrible storm was headed for the city of Detroit,” said Matthew Schneider, the state’s chief legal counsel.

He described in detail how Mr. Snyder first tried to reach a consent agreement last year with Detroit’s mayor to cut costs and begin addressing an estimated $18 billion in long-term debts.

Meanwhile, the city was mired in a spiraling cash crisis that made it impossible to provide even bare minimum levels of city services, such as street lighting and police protection.

“The health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Detroit are at risk,” Mr. Schneider said.

Both Mr. Schneider and the city’s top lawyer, Bruce Bennett, said that no evidence was produced in the trial that challenged their assertion that Detroit was insolvent and unable to pay its bills.

They said that Detroit continued to run a budget deficit of about $1 million per day. And its epidemic of violence continued unabated during the trial, including two triple homicides this week.

Mr. Bennett argued that the city would be even deeper in debt if it spent money to hire more police officers and ambulance crews. “We had an insolvent situation that was becoming more unstable,” he said.

Lawyers for unions and retirees challenged whether the state and the city had proved insolvency beyond providing anecdotal evidence.

“We don’t know what the hole is, or the path to fix it,” said Sharon Levine, a lawyer for the local council of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.

She said that Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr had targeted employee pensions for cuts without giving unions and retirees a chance to negotiate concessions.

Donald Taylor, who represents retired police officers and firefighters, had testified that Mr. Orr and Andy Dillon, Michigan’s treasurer at the time, told him this spring that pensions were protected by the state’s Constitution and not at risk in bankruptcy.

But at a meeting with creditors in June, Mr. Orr presented a proposal that called for unspecified cuts in pensions that averaged about $18,000 a year.

Just over a month later, the city filed for bankruptcy without engaging in give-and-take negotiations on the pension issue.

Mr. Bennett argued that the unions and retirees never presented an alternate plan to arrest Detroit’s decline that did not include reduced pensions.

But Ms. Levine said a “cloak of secrecy” surrounding the governor’s bankruptcy strategy made it almost impossible to negotiate on pensions. “You don’t know how or what is going to be cut,” she said. “How could you make a counterproposal without the very basic, simple facts?”

Legal experts said opponents of the bankruptcy were fighting an uphill battle on the insolvency issue. But it is less clear whether the filing met the standard for good-faith negotiations.

“The evidence appears convincing that Detroit is insolvent,” said Michael A. Sweet, a municipal bankruptcy lawyer with the firm Fox Rothschild.

But he said the lack of genuine negotiations with the unions could persuade Judge Rhodes to deny eligibility. “Those factors are where the city has its greatest vulnerability,” Mr. Sweet said.

Besides the insolvency and good-faith issues, the judge is expected to address whether federal bankruptcy law trumps Michigan’s constitutional protection of employee pensions. No matter how that issue is decided, legal experts expect the losing side to appeal the ruling.
192 2013-11-09 It’s not as if Dick Metcalf was some kind of gun control fanatic.

On the contrary, he’s a gun guy through and through, such an unyielding defender of the Second Amendment that last year he led the charge to push through a law giving the residents of Pike County, Ill., where he lives, the right to carry concealed guns without a permit. He called the practice “constitutional carry” rather than “concealed carry.”

In the early 1980s, he and a handful of friends started a successful gun club, called the Pike Adams Sportsmen’s Alliance, which is located on Metcalf’s farm in Barry, Ill. A few years later, he played an important role in lobbying for the federal Firearm Owners Protection Act, which loosened many of the gun restrictions that had become law after the assassination of Robert Kennedy. A friend of his told me that Metcalf had even written some of the language in the bill.

Mostly, though, Metcalf, 67, was known as a writer for magazines owned by InterMedia Outdoors, a publisher of gun periodicals that include the industry bible, Guns & Ammo. He did videos on subjects like “Guns for Family Home Defense” and wrote articles with headlines like “Smith & Wesson’s 12 Most Important Guns.”

It is perfectly understandable, then, that the gun world might be a little taken aback by Metcalf’s opinion piece in the December issue of Guns & Ammo calling for some modest gun regulation. “I firmly believe that all U.S. citizens have a right to keep and bear arms,” he wrote, “but I do not believe that they have a right to use them irresponsibly.” The article went on to call for mandatory training for gun owners. That’s all. Such limited regulation, he argued, did not constitute an infringement on anyone’s constitutional rights.

When people like me read an article like that, it seems momentarily possible that gun advocates and gun control advocates might be able to find some common ground. Much in the way that many gun control activists have come to accept the legitimacy of the Second Amendment — something that hasn’t always been the case — here was a man on the other side of the divide saying that some sensible regulation didn’t necessarily lead down a “slippery slope” to confiscation. If we are ever to have a sane gun policy, we desperately need people from both camps to meet somewhere in the middle.

But when people like me see the reaction from gun advocates to Metcalf’s tame proposal, it all seems hopeless again. Robert Farago, who maintains a blog called The Truth About Guns, started the ball rolling by linking to — and denouncing — Metcalf’s “diatribe.” He went on to describe the article as a “bone-headed, uninformed, patently obvious misinterpretation of the Second Amendment.” Other bloggers piled on. On the Guns & Ammo Facebook page, subscribers demanded Metcalf’s head, even as they canceled their subscriptions.
193 2013-11-09 Drivers in all 50 states are enjoying lower gas prices than a year ago, and Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas filling stations are now charging $3 or less a gallon on average. The AAA automobile club predicts that the national average will dip to as low as $3.10 a gallon for regular by the end of the year, and some analysts see even more declines.

“The majority of the population will be able to find gasoline for less than $3 a gallon between now and New Year’s,” Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at GasBuddy.com, said.

The average household consumes 1,200 gallons of gasoline a year, which translates into a $120 annual savings for every dime shaved off the price of gas, energy experts say. Economists say over time lower gasoline prices act like a tax cut, or in the case of this year, a partial cushion for the resumption of Social Security payroll taxes that had been temporarily reduced after the financial crisis.

There was a spike in oil and gasoline prices over the summer after the Egyptian army staged a coup and when the United States appeared poised to take military action in Syria.

The Brent oil benchmark climbed above $115 a barrel in early September, but began drifting down by more than $10 a barrel after President Obama backed off attacking Syria and the Syrian regime agreed to demobilize its chemical weapons stockpiles. The principal American benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, had climbed to $110 a barrel but is now below $95.

Oil price spikes have been common since turmoil spread across the Middle East and North Africa three years ago, and as the United States and Europe tightened sanctions on Iran, trying to force the country to modify its nuclear program to exclude nuclear weapons.

The Western sanctions on Iran have taken as many as a million barrels a day of oil off world markets. A full resumption in Iranian exports, according to a report this week by Bernstein Research, would reduce crude prices by 9 percent — or nearly $9 a barrel — although such a development is unlikely for many months at best.

“The market fundamentals don’t support $100-a-barrel oil except for the political risk factors, and the biggest one — Iran — appears to be easing,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consulting firm. “The suppression of Iranian oil sales seems likely to diminish and therefore the market will become increasingly glutted.”

The rule of thumb of many economists is that every $10 drop in the price of a barrel of oil increases economic growth by 0.2 percent to 0.3 percent, as long as a broad economic slowdown does not shave consumer and business spending.

There are limitations to how low oil and gasoline prices can go. Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states need high oil prices to pay for social programs that ease political tensions, and they can always cut production to firm up prices. Saudi Arabia, which had been pumping at record levels to compensate for lost Iranian exports, cut back its output slightly in October and may reduce production some more if Iranian oil exports flow again.

Still, developments closer to home are also bringing down oil and gasoline prices. United States domestic oil production has increased by about 40 percent over the last four years, adding 2.5 million barrels a day to the market — an amount that is almost exactly equivalent to the total supply disruptions amounting from the sanctions on Iranian exports and the production and export blockages in Libya, Syria and recently parts of Iraq.

United States benchmark oil prices have been dropping faster than the international Brent benchmark in recent weeks, as crude inventories built up in the nation’s heartland where the shale oil drilling frenzy is strongest. Some Canadian crude can be bought at prices below $50 a barrel because of surplus supplies in the United States, while Bakken crude from North Dakota is priced at about $80 a barrel, still well below international prices.

“Cheaper gas prices are being passed along to American drivers because North American crude prices have become disconnected from world crude prices,” Mr. Kloza of GasBuddy said.

Inventories at the large Gulf of Mexico refineries have crept up 15 percent since January, and with exports of gasoline and diesel slowing to Mexico and Venezuela, large inventories of petroleum products could continue to build and further depress prices.
194 2013-11-09 In recent days, the Vatican has sought to play down the importance of the questionnaire. This week, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, the Vatican spokesman, denied that Francis was “polling” the laity and said the questions were part of a routine preparatory document for the synod.

But other Catholic leaders clearly see the questionnaire as a significant overture that could raise expectations among Catholics for next year’s synod. The bishops of England and Wales put the questions online, while Vatican Radio, the church’s official news media outlet, also posted the questionnaire, accompanied by an interview with Bishop John Hine of Britain extolling the document as “extremely significant.”

“It really responds to the desire for the people, the laity in the church, to be consulted on matters which concern them so deeply,” Bishop Hine told Vatican Radio. “Couples are delighted that they’re going to be involved in the consultations.”

Alberto Melloni, a Vatican historian, said the questionnaire is especially significant because it seeks a snapshot of Catholic families as they are, and uses a nonjudgmental tone to gauge opinions on the church’s pastoral response to contentious issues.

“It asks to start with the reality of the family, not the doctrine of the family,” said Mr. Melloni, the director of the John XXIII Foundation for Religious Studies in Bologna, a liberal research institute. “What we will see in the next few months will be a flourishing of opinion, debate and discussion.”

First reported by the National Catholic Reporter, the questionnaire was sent to bishops’ conferences worldwide on Oct. 18 by Archbishop Lorenzo Baldisseri, a Vatican official involved in preparations for next year’s meeting. In the letter, Archbishop Baldisseri asked that the questions be distributed to parishes to broaden the process of consultation.

With 39 questions, the document is broken into nine subsections, including No. 5: “On Unions of Persons of the Same Sex.” One question asks whether “your country” recognizes same-sex civil unions, while another asks about the attitude that parishes hold toward governments that support civil unions or same-sex marriages. “What pastoral attention can be given to people who have chosen to live in these types of union?” another question asks.

Another subsection seeks to explore “Pastoral Care in Certain Difficult Marital Situations” and asks about unmarried couples’ living together. There are questions on how many divorced or remarried people ask to receive the sacraments and whether simplifying the canonical practice of nullifying a marriage would “provide a positive contribution.”

On Friday, the bishops in Belgium placed the survey online and asked for responses from the nation’s Catholics by mid-December. But in the United States, the decision on how and whether to distribute the questionnaire will depend on individual bishops, according to Sister Mary Ann Walsh, the director of media relations for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.

“Some are putting it on the Internet, and some will get information in other ways,” she said. She noted that the Vatican typically sought information before a synod, which is supposed to be a free exchange of ideas, but said the questions this year “may be a way of tailoring the issues a little closer.”

In Italy, several parish priests said that they had yet to see the questionnaire but that they were excited based on accounts in the Italian news media. In Sardinia, Monsignor Pala said that the questionnaire would demand much work and that he was planning to summon his parish’s pastoral council — parents, members of lay associations and others — to glean thoughts.

“It’s a matter of communicating, which is what we do every day,” he said. “The bishops need the people’s opinion and our interpretation of the doctrine.”
195 2013-11-09 United Nations officials on Friday reported new deprivations in the Central African Republic, one of Africa’s most unstable countries. The World Food Program of the United Nations, which has been feeding 250,000 people in the Central African Republic since January, said in a statement that 1.1 million were at risk of hunger and that their plight could worsen because of poor harvests and economic collapse from political violence. Navi Pillay, the top United Nations human rights official, said fighting between members of the Seleka insurgent organization and self-defense groups had worsened sectarian and communal splits in the country. “This escalation of violence and hatred must be halted before it spins completely out of control,” she said. The warnings came as Jeffrey D. Feltman, the United Nations under secretary general for political affairs, attended an African Union emergency committee meeting in Bangui, the capital, and urged more cooperation to halt what he called the country’s “downward spiral.”
196 2013-11-09 The New York Times reported on Friday that anti-Semitic bullying and taunting and the drawing of swastikas and other graffiti in the school system had grown so severe in recent years that three Jewish families had sued the district, claiming that their children’s rights were being violated.

The article cited the case of one middle school student who described being punched repeatedly in the stomach by other students on a ride home from a school-sponsored ski trip after he was asked if he was Jewish and answered that he was.

The lawsuit, which was filed in Federal District Court in White Plains and is pending, also claimed that school administrators had “acted with deliberate indifference” to the pervasive anti-Semitism and “harassment endured by plaintiffs.”

The school district serves 5,600 children from Orange, Sullivan and Ulster Counties. In the 1970s, Pine Bush was the home of the grand dragon of a Ku Klux Klan chapter, whose wife sat on the Pine Bush school board.

The Times article also reported that the Jewish Federation of Greater Orange County had received at least two recent complaints of anti-Semitic behavior in a Pine Bush middle school, and a volunteer made presentations about tolerance, first to teachers and then, two weeks ago, to students.

School officials are vigorously contesting the lawsuit and deny claims that anti-Semitic behavior has been widespread in the school system.

They say that officials have diligently investigated any complaints brought to them, and that discipline, where warranted, was meted out.

A lawyer for the school district had no immediate comment on Friday about Mr. Cuomo’s actions.

A statement posted on the district’s website from the superintendent, Joan M. Carbone, said that the district “takes all reports of discrimination or bullying seriously,” and that administrators and staff members “respond promptly” when incidents are reported and “take appropriate remedial action.”

“We certainly believe Pine Bush is a tolerant community,” the statement added.

Ilann M. Maazel, a lawyer for the three families who have sued, said of Mr. Cuomo’s actions, “We welcome any effort to bring much-needed reform to this school district.”

Mr. Cuomo, in his letter to Commissioner King, said he expected the Education Department “to be forthcoming to parents” about its knowledge of the allegations in the Pine Bush district and what steps had been taken to ensure that “students of Jewish origin can attend their school without being subject to anti-Semitic attacks.”

The Times article had quoted parents as saying school officials told them that complaints of anti-Semitic harassment were isolated. The parents also said they had not been informed that other families had raised similar issues. One parent said school officials had repeatedly lied to him.
197 2013-11-09 “Some I.A.M. members evidently think Boeing is bluffing,” Scott Hamilton, an aviation analyst in Issaquah, Wash., wrote on his blog on Friday. “This view is fantasy. Boeing will put the 777X elsewhere (Charleston being the obvious choice).”

“This is an extremely negative turn of events for Puget Sound, for Boeing and the I.A.M.,” Mr. Hamilton added. He wrote that union rejection of the contract extension could lead to “open warfare” with the company, a labor strike when the current contract expires in 2016 and a continued exodus of jobs from Boeing’s plants in the Puget Sound area near Seattle.

Mr. Wroblewski, the union leader, agreed on Tuesday to hold the vote on the contract proposal as part of a broader deal with Boeing and Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, to keep Boeing from moving the work to a lower-cost state like South Carolina or Texas.

Mr. Inslee called the State Legislature into a special session on Thursday to consider $10 billion in transportation taxes as well as an extension of tax incentives for aerospace manufacturing to 2040, from 2024.

Legislators have expressed doubts that they can reach agreement on all the tax packages in a week. Boeing said in a statement on Friday that an extension of the tax incentives for aerospace plants was also a crucial factor in its decision about where to locate the work on the 777X. The new plane will be an updated version of the popular 777s that many airlines use on long-distance routes and is expected to enter service around 2020.

“We chose to engage in Puget Sound first, but without full acceptance by the union and Legislature, we will be left with no choice but to open up the process competitively and pursue other options for locating the 777X work,” Boeing said.

Referring to the union contract, Boeing added: “And if not ratified per the scheduled vote on Nov. 13, we will begin taking the next steps.”

Boeing has long assembled its most popular jets, from the smaller 737s to the large 777s and 747s, in the Puget Sound area, and its relationships with its unions have often been contentious.

Over the last two decades, it has outsourced much of the parts construction to foreign firms. And with thousands of sales expected for its new 787 Dreamliners, which use lighter-weight materials and new engines to cut fuel costs, Boeing built the second assembly line in North Charleston.

Boeing owns more land in North Charleston, giving it a bargaining chip as it seeks to lower costs in Washington.

But its profits also have rebounded now that the 787s are being delivered to airlines, its stock has soared to highs, and Boeing and its main rival, Airbus, envision selling as many planes as they can build over the next several decades.

So while union leaders in the Puget Sound area know they will have to make concessions to hold onto the wing construction and final assembly of the updated 777s, they also are trying to make sure that their workers receive as large a share of Boeing’s good fortune as possible.

To encourage union members to support the eight-year contract extension, Boeing has offered $10,000 signing bonuses and no reduction in retirement benefits for workers as young as 58 who leave.

Besides complaining about the proposed pay raises, workers voiced opposition at the union meeting on Thursday night to increases in health insurance costs and plans to replace traditional pensions with increased company matches for 401(k) savings plans, The Seattle Times said.

Workers also objected to shifts in the wage structure that would take new hires as long as 16 years to reach the top pay scale instead of six years, as under the current contract.
198 2013-11-09 Time Warner’s policy does happen to be more generous than that of many American employers, but the bar is pretty low. Most employers don’t provide any paid paternity leave (A study conducted by the Society for Human Resource Management that polled human resource professionals found that a mere 15 percent of companies offered paid paternity benefits). Of course, the United States has one of the least civilized policies in the world when it comes to offering paid leave for new mothers. So, it’s no surprise that fathers are often treated as an afterthought.

But more workers may be starting to do more than quietly grumble about the policies, according to discrimination lawyers, researchers and legal experts who run a workplace discrimination hot line. More employees — particularly men of the millennial generation, whose oldest members are in their early 30s — are filing legal actions against their employers, these experts say.

“What is happening is the new work-life pioneers are young egalitarian men exactly like this guy,” said Joan C. Williams, founding director of the Center for WorkLife Law at the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. “In many ways, these younger men are acting in ways that mothers have always acted: ‘I have family responsibilities that aren’t going away and either you accommodate them or there is going to be a fight against it.’ In many ways, this is economic contraction fueling gender equality.”

There aren’t any federal laws that explicitly prohibit discrimination against workers with family responsibilities, but some states and municipalities have more specific protections. The types of claim filed by Mr. Levs is brought under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, enforced by the E.E.O.C., which prohibits employment discrimination based on sex. Mothers who claim they were treated differently from men with children file claims under the law, and so do fathers who say they were denied leave or benefits available to female caregivers.

That’s generally what Mr. Levs is contending. “If I gave up my child for adoption, and some other guy at Time Warner adopted her, he would get 10 weeks off, paid, to take care of her,” he wrote on his Tumblr page. “I, however, the biological father, can’t.”

It’s hard to predict exactly how the commission will view his claims. But Justine Lisser, an E.E.O.C. lawyer and spokeswoman, offered some insight into what may be considered sex discrimination in a hypothetical situation. It’s not necessarily wrong, for instance, if women were given a certain period of paid leave to recover from pregnancy and childbirth, while men (and women) were also entitled to the same period to recover from other medical conditions.

But it would be considered sex discrimination to give women paid time off to care for a newborn, but not give the same time to men. It would also obviously be wrong to have such a policy on the books, but then penalize men for using it. “We see this in some caregiving cases,” she said. “Women are presumed to need caregiving time off, but men are presumed not to be invested in their jobs if they want to take the same time for the same reason and are either denied it or demoted after using it.”

Mr. Levs’s lawyer, A. Lee Parks Jr., a civil rights lawyer in Atlanta, acknowledged that the policies could (and potentially should) be different for men and women. “The bizarre thing here is they give a significant amount of time if you are a certain type of parent,” he said. “So, they made a value judgment that, in those situations, that there is really a period where you need to bond.”

If you’re curious about the legality of your company’s policy, legal experts said to look at it as a breakdown of recovery time and bonding time. “Men should get the same bonding time,” said Cynthia T. Calvert, a senior adviser on family responsibilities discrimination at the Center for WorkLife Law. She suggests that employers designate six to eight weeks for recovery, and then anything beyond that should be deemed bonding time, and available to all parents.

Workplace experts who read Mr. Levs’s blog said he appeared to take the right approach. He started the process two months before the birth of his daughter, followed his company’s protocols and kept the matter confidential. You might start by simply asking your supervisor or human resources department for more information, just to be sure you’re understanding the policy correctly. “You don’t want to come on too strong, but at the same time, you want to be sure you’ve done everything in the system before you bring in the lawyers,” said Ms. Calvert, who also consults with employers to shape their policies and train their supervisors to avoid discrimination. “Because then, everyone gets their armor on. People don’t view you as a team player anymore.”

If you have reason to believe your policy could be discriminatory, she said you might ask the human resources department if it considered whether the policy violated Title VII or any state antidiscrimination laws. In many cases, legal experts say, simply nudging employers works. “When we receive calls, we give callers the language they can use, and the employers almost always change their policies,” said Ms. Calvert, who oversees a family discrimination hot line at the center. “That’s why we don’t have a lot of these cases on the books.”

Still, men like Mr. Levs may be penalized even more than women when seeking flexibility after the birth of a child because they are stepping outside of their usual gender roles and flouting convention, some researchers found. Several workplace experts report that men still suffer the consequences after taking unpaid leave through the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which requires larger employers and public agencies to provide up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for the birth or adoption of a child or to care for certain other family members.

“The organizations haven’t yet caught up to the attitudinal shift among new dads,” said Brad Harrington, executive director of the Boston College Center for Work and Family and a research professor in the Carroll School of Management. “Men who ask for leave time or who are more visibly active and involved in caregiving are experiencing a whole range of negative repercussions as a result of that.”

Getting paid leave may do more to change perceptions, some experts say. “Men are supposed to make a living, so if a benefit is not paid, it is not for them,” said Eileen Appelbaum, an expert in workplace practices and senior economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, who supports a social insurance program that would replace a portion of pay for all workers who need to take leave. “But if it is paid, it changes the culture and expectation inside the organizations.”

And when men take time off after the birth of a child, it can have lasting ripple effects. Not only does it help create a connection with the child, but it sets the stage for a more egalitarian division of labor at home over the longer term. It could also help equalize the perception when women take time off. “If it is true that women will not be equal in the workplace until men are equal at home,” Ms. Calvert added, “it has greater repercussions as well.”
199 2013-11-09 Ms. Bokova, who has led the organization since 2009, traveled to Washington in 2011 to try to persuade American lawmakers to change the legislative language after the initial funding cutoff. The Obama administration tried to push through such a change last year, but failed.

The American ambassador to Unesco, David T. Killion, speaking at the Unesco general conference, now underway in Paris, noted that the United States had been involved in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization since its beginnings in 1945 and promised that it would remain involved.

He praised Unesco for its role in consensus and peace building, saying the agency was important for American work abroad.

“Unesco is a critical partner in creating a better future,” said Mr. Killion, adding that the Obama administration was committed to getting funding restored so that the United States could pay its dues and regain its position as a voting member.

Before withdrawing its financial support, the United States provided about $70 million, or 22 percent, of the agency’s annual budget, and the suspension was felt almost immediately. Some Unesco staff members were laid off and programs and projects delayed, including some that potentially could have benefited the United States.

To make up the shortfall, Ms. Bokova created an emergency fund and got contributions from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Norway and other countries. But she said she did not think that it would be possible to raise that money again this year.

Diplomats predicted subtle effects of the loss of America’s vote, as well as some obvious ones.

For instance, it is less likely that two American sites on the list to become World Heritage sites certified by Unesco will win approval. One is an ancient civilization site known as Poverty Point, in northeastern Louisiana, and the other is a group of Spanish missions dating from the 18th century in San Antonio. The Texas project was expected to create at least a thousand jobs, and both sites were expected to benefit from increased tourism.

More far-reaching is the loss in the United States’ ability to exercise soft-power influence throughout the world, said Esther Brimmer, a former assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs, who now teaches at George Washington University.

“Twenty years ago the U.S. was the only one; now there are other countries playing the soft-power game,” said Ms. Brimmer, noting that the Chinese deputy education minister had been elected head of Unesco’s general conference.

Ms. Bokova emphasized that the agency has given the United States a platform to promote democracy, education and human rights in places that are often hostile to or suspicious of direct American involvement. With the United States in a weakened position and Unesco with less money, she said, some of that influence will diminish.
200 2013-11-09 Has the Russian airline Aeroflot — so long an operation for the truculent hauling of the masses — truly risen like a phoenix from the ashes of Soviet communism? It certainly looks that way, according to passenger surveys by the British company Skytrax. They have concluded that Aeroflot now offers the best customer service of any airline in Eastern Europe, beating out Delta and other rivals.

This is a shocking metamorphosis for anyone who trudged the unfriendly skies of Aeroflot during the authoritarian decades of Soviet diktat. Passengers were treated like cattle in those days, grim as serfs as they stowed live poultry and machinery parts in the overhead bins. Now, cabin crews are closely schooled in every smile and gesture in projecting pleasantness, a post-communist innovation. They even kneel to speak at eye-level to passengers in business class, reports Andrew Kramer of The Times.

What? At flight’s end, are passengers no longer confined in their seats, timorous as schoolchildren, until the pilot and crew parade down the aisle to exit like the regime’s heroic cosmonauts? And no more plastic bowls of water handed out to passengers trucked to the plane on rickety open-air buses called “accumulators”? No, now there are generous offerings of Champagne from beaming attendants.

Aeroflot is responding, like other service industries in Russia, to the rise of a middle class that wants to fly in style, not steerage. And these customers can take their business elsewhere.

Starbucks baristas are eagerly awaiting your order in Moscow, while McDonald’s managers are being taught “emotional leadership” in greeting masses hungry for Happy Meals. It must all be some capitalist plot, and it is.
201 2013-11-09 Jewish groups in countries like France have long warned that Europe’s economic crisis, lingering prejudice and a surge of Muslim immigrants often hostile to Israel have stoked a revival of hostility toward Jews. But the new survey, released on the eve of the 75th anniversary of Kristallnacht violence against Jews in Nazi Germany, gives the first detailed snapshot of Jewish perceptions of the problem across Europe.

Sixty-six percent of respondents said they considered anti-Semitism to be a major problem in their countries, while 76 percent said the situation had become more acute over the past five years.

The Internet has become a particular cause for concern among European Jews, with 75 percent of those surveyed stating that they considered anti-Semitism a problem online. Nearly the same proportion said they believed it had grown more serious over the past five years. A quarter said they had experienced some form of anti-Semitic harassment.

Physical violence, however, is comparatively rare, with 4 percent responding that they had experienced violence or threats of violence because they were Jewish in the year before the survey.

Most previous efforts to assess the level of anti-Semitism have relied on the number of officially reported incidents of harassment or physical violence in individual countries. Such figures, however, appear to understate the extent of the problem, as most incidents are not reported and only 13 of the 28 countries in the European Union collect data on anti-Semitic incidents.

More than three-quarters of Jews with experience of anti-Semitic harassment who took part in the survey said they had not reported the incidents to the police.

Asked who they thought was responsible for such harassment, 27 percent of respondents said the perpetrators had “Muslim extremist views,” 22 percent said they had “left-wing political views” and 19 percent blamed people with “right-wing views.”

Anti-Semitism in Europe has historically been connected to extreme right-wing nationalist groups, often those with links to conservative elements of the Roman Catholic Church. These include groups like Action Française, an organization founded in the late 19th century that rallied to the collaborationist Vichy government of Marshal Philippe Pétain during World War II and continued in various forms until the late 20th century.

This strand continues in places like Hungary, where the virulently anti-Semitic Jobbik party has surged with support from extreme Hungarian nationalists. Ninety percent of Jews surveyed in Hungary ranked anti-Semitism as a “very big” or “fairly big” problem, the highest level in Europe.

In other countries, however, hostility to Jews is now rooted more on the left and in Muslim immigrant communities, the survey’s findings indicate. More than three-quarters of respondents in Belgium and France, both of which have large populations of Muslim immigrants, identified anti-Semitism as a problem. Eighty percent of respondents in the two countries described immigration as a problem, too, suggesting tense relations between Jewish communities and recently arrived immigrants.

About 90 percent of respondents in Belgium and France reported that the Arab-Israeli conflict had had a “notable impact” on the safety of Jews. Only 40 percent reported the same in Hungary, which has few Muslim immigrants, while a majority of respondents in most other countries surveyed said tensions in the Middle East had affected their feelings of safety either a “great deal” or a “fair amount.”
202 2013-11-10 STOCK--Dr. Richard John, an eminent cardiologist and emeritus Clinical Professor of Medicine at Columbia University, passed away peacefully on November 7, 2013 at his home in New York City. He had a second residence in Sagaponack, NY. His first wi...
203 2013-11-10 McCLENNEN--Edward Francis II, 77. Died November 2, 2013. Professor of Philosophy, Edward F. McClennen was a passionate thinker and an unrepentant liberal. He contributed foundational work to the field of decision and game theory with over fifty ar...
204 2013-11-10 It’s a case against tightening, not for it....
205 2013-11-10 Senator Lindsey Graham said he would hold up administration nominations until survivors of the Benghazi attack were made available to Congress, despite the retraction of a news report that provoked Republicans’ renewed demands....
206 2013-11-10 Not that everyone had forgotten about Alabama football, it being, of course, Alabama football, but the Crimson Tide spent much of last month trapped in a contradiction. They remained at once locked atop the rankings and a step or two from the spotlight.

Alabama continued forward, turning a string of lackluster matchups into a series of lopsided victories. If those games, and a stretch of three national championships in the past four seasons, resulted in some Alabama fatigue, in annual dominance taken for granted, the Crimson Tide could ignore the relative quiet and polish its hardware.

Louisiana State (7-3, 3-3) came to town Saturday, and while the hype around this contest did not mirror the “Game of the Century” narrative from two years ago, the Tigers had won five of their last six games at Alabama, which had stumbled once in November in each of the past two seasons. That provided enough intrigue, even if it did not last.

On Saturday, Alabama so dominated that it deserved one of those overly-enthusiastic, rapid-fire claps from Les Miles, the Tigers coach. Quarterback A. J. McCarron threw three touchdown passes; running back T. J. Yeldon sprinted in for two scores; and Alabama’s defense, sloppy in the first half, stiffened as the game went on.

As Saban assessed all that, the hug, naturally, came up in the news conference. He looked down at the podium. “Look, man, A. J. and I have been through a lot,” Saban said. “Some of it you have seen on TV and some of it you haven’t.”

Earlier in the week, undefeated Baylor decimated Oklahoma, and Stanford upended undefeated Oregon. That meant the weekend ended with four no-loss teams toward the top of the Bowl Championship Series rankings: Florida State, Ohio State, Baylor and, of course, Alabama, which gave no reason to believe it is not the most formidable of all. Again.

As kickoff approached, senses here were assaulted. The video boards played tributes. Loudspeakers blared country music. Fans waved white towels and sang “Sweet Home Alabama” and walked right up near the team bench, the path between the first row and the sideline paved like a courtyard, lined with shrubbery and marked by a fence. Even the band — announced as the “$1 Million Band” — came onto the field to entrance music.

Here was Alabama, doing Alabama, where one password for a stadium wireless network provided a simply summary of the mind-set, at the intersection of arrogant and confident. It was: “Champion!” and with an exclamation point.

It was L.S.U., though, that looked strong early, that dominated much of the first quarter and yet still trailed, 3-0, after a handful of mistakes, the kind of self-destruction on which Alabama feasts. Fullback J. C. Copeland, feet from the end zone, carrying off left tackle, had the ball knocked loose by linebacker Tana Patrick and Alabama recovered.

Quarterback Zach Mettenberger, sharp for the most part in the first half, was hit near his waist with a shotgun snap he never saw coming. The center fired it at Mettenberger as he walked to the line. Again, Alabama recovered.

Fans of the three undefeated teams behind Alabama in the B.C.S. standings, surely threw a remote control or six at their respective televisions. Saban lit into one of his players on the sideline — and after a fumble was recovered.

The Tigers staunched the bleeding though, temporarily halting the blowout. Running back Jeremy Hill bowled into the end zone for one score and Mettenberger threw a touchdown pass to Travin Dural for another. L.S.U. actually outgained Alabama, 232-193, in the first half.

But there were those mistakes. The kind that doom Crimson Tide opponents. Like on Alabama’s first of two second-quarter touchdown drives, when an interference penalty on L.S.U. allowed McCarron to later find tight end O. J. Howard on a slant route.

Howard is the kind of player that makes Alabama, well, Alabama. He is a freshman, a highly sought after tight end who stands 6-foot-6 and is listed at 237 pounds and outran the Tigers’ secondary, some of the fastest players on the field, for a 52-yard score. Howard entered this game with 10 receptions. Alabama deployed him Saturday because it could.

The Tide led, 17-14, at the half. McCarron had broken the school’s career passing yards mark in the second quarter. But Alabama did not look invincible. Its defense looked a lot more like the one that surrendered 42 points to Texas A&M in September than the one that allowed 26 points in the six games after that.

Saban, according to receiver Kevin Norwood, told his players at the half, that they “weren’t playing Alabama football.”

“This is it,” Norwood said he added, emphasizing the urgency of the situation.

The Tigers evened the score after halftime on a 41-yard field goal from Colby Delahoussaye. Roughly 27 minutes of game clock remained, the score tied at 17-17. It seemed like the time for Alabama to take control, as Alabama tends to. It did, take control, of this game and the SEC and all of college football. Saban even called for a successful fake punt.

Three regular-season games remain for Alabama, but barring a major upset, it will head to Auburn for the Iron Bowl in the finale undefeated. An hour after the jog, Saban walked back onto the field, onto an ESPN set. The handful of people who remained gave him basically a golf clap, not a Miles’s clap. The Miles’s clap is for later in the season.

His face registered no emotion. Back on script.
207 2013-11-10 Katrina Ann Elazegui and Emily Reid Kehe were married Monday at Middle Collegiate Church in New York by the Rev. Adriene J. Thorne, a minister of the Reformed Church in America.

Ms. Elazegui (left), 39, is a consulting art director in New York for Pentagram, a graphic and industrial design company. This month, she is to join ESPN as a creative director for Grantland.com and FiveThirtyEight.com. She graduated from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.

She is a daughter of Dr. Rosalinda A. Elazegui of Hockessin, Del., and the late Dr. Idillio A. Elazegui. Her mother, now retired, was a pediatrician in the Blue Care Network of Saginaw, Mich., where her father, an internist, also worked.

Ms. Kehe, 36, is the creative director for People StyleWatch in New York, where she oversees the magazine’s art and design.

She is the daughter of Virginia R. McCormick of Evergreen, Colo., and John H. Kehe of Boston. Her mother, a lawyer, is a mediator in private practice in Evergreen. Her father is a design director for The Christian Science Monitor in Boston.
208 2013-11-10 Sydney Wilson Applegate and Daryl Richard Lang were married Saturday at Giando on the Water, a banquet hall in Brooklyn. The Rev. David C. Parsons, an Evangelical Lutheran minister, officiated.

Mrs. Lang, 35, is a production designer for the creative marketing department at Kate Spade New York, in Manhattan. She graduated from Parsons the New School for Design.

She is the daughter of Thomas L. Applegate of Honolulu and the late Linda Wilson Applegate of San Rafael, Calif., and a stepdaughter of Mona Abadir. The bride’s father is the president of the Honu Group, a commercial real estate developer in Honolulu. Her mother was a sales associate at a Gap store in Corte Madera, Calif.

Mr. Lang, 33, is the copy manager for Shutterstock, a stock image and video website in Manhattan. He manages a team of copywriters in the marketing department. He graduated from Penn State.

He is a son of Richard E. Lang of Severna Park, Md., and the late Eileen M. Moran, who lived in Fairplay, Colo., and a stepson of Joanne Redman Lang. The groom’s mother was an art teacher at South Park Middle and High Schools in Fairplay. His father, an electrical engineer, is a vice president and partner at James Posey Associates, an electrical and mechanical engineering firm in Baltimore.
209 2013-11-10 Emily Rose Stecher, the daughter of Esta Eiger Stecher and Jamie B. W. Stecher, both of New York, was married Saturday evening to Stephen Kent Rosenthal, the son of Dr. Mary Carmel Deckelman and Dr. Geoffrey L. Rosenthal of Millersville, Md. Rabbi Robert N. Levine performed the ceremony at Congregation Rodeph Sholom in New York.

The couple, both 26, met at Northwestern, from which they graduated.

Ms. Stecher is keeping her name. She is an associate in the investment management division of Goldman Sachs in New York. She raises money for investment companies and hedge funds.

The bride’s father is a partner at Tannenbaum, Helpern, Syracuse & Hirschtritt, a law firm in New York. Her mother is the chief executive of Goldman Sachs Bank U.S.A., in New York, the commercial banking division of Goldman Sachs. The bride is the stepdaughter of Rebecca Diamond.

Mr. Rosenthal is a middle-school English teacher at Harlem Promise Academy II, a charter school in New York. He received a master’s degree in education from the University of Notre Dame.

The groom’s mother is a child and adolescent psychiatrist for Catholic Charities of Baltimore. His father is the director of the pediatric and children’s heart program and the executive director of critical care services at the University of Maryland Children’s Hospital in Baltimore.
210 2013-11-10 Melissa Ann Wagoner and Peter John Olesen were married Saturday at the Emmanuel Church in Boston. The Rev. Pamela L. Werntz, an Episcopal priest and the rector of the church, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Olesen, 33, is a director of media relations for the University of San Diego. She graduated from Boston University and received a master’s in public communication from American University and a master’s in mental health counseling from the University of Massachusetts.

She is a daughter of Terry Tolaro Wagoner and William D. Wagoner of Royal Oak, Mich.

Mr. Olesen, also 33, works in San Diego as an investigator for the Department of Homeland Security. He graduated cum laude from Pomona College.

He is the son of Lynn E. Nowels and Jim D. Olesen of Somerville, Mass.
211 2013-11-10 Tours Open at the Penitentiary of New Mexico
212 2013-11-10 For more than a half-century, Bill Mazeroski kept the Pittsburgh Pirates uniform he wore when he hit the home run to win the 1960 World Series in a cedar chest in his Pennsylvania home. He opened it once to make sure moths had not eaten through it. This year, Mazeroski decided to sell it and other memorabilia.

On Saturday, the uniform sold for $632,500 through Hunt Auctions at the Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory in Kentucky.

The figure is nearly as much as the $657,250 that Mike Eruzione, the captain of the 1980 United States Olympic hockey team, recently received for the uniform he wore during the “Miracle on Ice” defeat of the Soviet Union.

Still, those figures are a fraction of the $4.4 million that was paid last year for a gray wool road jersey that Babe Ruth wore in 1920, his first season with the Yankees.

Mazeroski’s collection sold for $1.7 million in all, including $322,000 for the cleats he wore in Game 7 of the 1960 Series and $97,750 for the bat he used to hit the winning home run.
213 2013-11-10 “We’ll see what happens over these next seven or eight weeks,” he said, adding that he looked “forward to working with the monitor.”

An aide to Mr. de Blasio said on Saturday that the Bloomberg administration had neither consulted the mayor-elect on the city’s move to vacate Judge Scheindlin’s decisions, nor did Mr. de Blasio support such an effort. A Law Department spokeswoman also said that the city had not coordinated its legal strategy with Mr. de Blasio or his staff.

In the filing on Saturday, Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, said that Judge Scheindlin’s decisions “continue, unfairly and improperly, to cloud the public’s perception of the N.Y.P.D.”

“The district court’s orders lend credence to the notion that the N.Y.P.D. unfairly targets minorities for stops and frisks,” Mr. Cardozo wrote, “undermining its ability to carry out its mission effectively.”

He also made reference to Judge Scheindlin’s findings that in stopping and frisking people, the department had violated the Constitution and resorted to a “policy of indirect racial profiling.”

“Wrongly labeling the N.Y.P.D. — and the City — a racial profiling entity and flouter of the Fourth Amendment should be sufficient injustice to vacate the Orders,” Mr. Cardozo wrote.

Burt Neuborne, the lawyer who has filed papers seeking to present a defense of Judge Scheindlin before the appeals court, said: “I never thought I would see the corporation counsel of the City of New York stoop to such tactics. It’s judicial McCarthyism. And, for what? Because the N.Y.P.D.’s feelings are hurt? That’s the only reason the city gives for this extraordinary attack on the judge.”

In staying Judge Scheindlin’s rulings last month, a three-judge panel criticized her, saying she “ran afoul” of the judicial code of conduct and compromised “the appearance of impartiality” by appearing to steer the stop-and-frisk case to herself in 2007 and granting interviews this year to news organizations while a decision was still pending.

It also removed her from continuing to supervise the case, which has been given to a new judge.

Mr. Cardozo also argued that Judge Scheindlin’s role in steering the litigation to her courtroom in the first place clouded everything that followed.

“The very nature of the judicial misconduct,” he wrote, “has necessarily created a situation where the District Court’s impartiality throughout the litigation might reasonably be questioned, at a minimum.”

In January 2008, the plaintiffs, at Judge Scheindlin’s suggestion, had marked the lawsuit, known as Floyd v. City of New York, as related to an earlier stop-and-frisk lawsuit that Judge Scheindlin had presided over since 1999. That meant that the lawsuit bypassed the random case assignment process that governs which judge hears which case.

Judge Scheindlin has defended this, suggesting that it made procedural sense. But in its ruling on Oct. 31, the appellate panel found that Judge Scheindlin improperly applied the related-case rule.

In the city’s filing, Mr. Cardozo wrote that Judge Scheindlin’s role in landing the case “implicates more than a mere error interpreting court rules.”

“The effect of this misconduct derogated the very appearance of justice from the outset,” Mr. Cardozo wrote.
214 2013-11-10 Russ Smith had 21 points and 5 assists to lead No. 3 Louisville to a 70-48 victory over visiting College of Charleston on Saturday. Louisville outscored Charleston, 22-3, over the final 6 minutes 41 seconds to pull away in the first game of its national championship defense.

“Our quality, that ‘boom’ quality that we had last year, came out again in the second half because we played like starving dogs,” Louisville Coach Rick Pitino said.

Charleston trailed, 48-45, after the freshman Canyon Barry hit a 17-footer with 6:55 to play. Then Smith, a preseason all-American, asserted himself, hitting two free throws and finding forwards Montrezl Harrell and Wayne Blackshear for easy baskets that gave the Cardinals a 54-45 lead with 5:05 left.

Barry, the son of the Hall of Famer Rick Barry, led Charleston with 10 points.

Louisville raised its third national championship banner to the rafters before the game.

OHIO ST. 89, MORGAN ST. 50 Shannon Scott scored a career-high 16 points and LaQuinton Ross had 14 points and a personal-best 11 rebounds to lead No. 11 Ohio State past visiting Morgan State.
215 2013-11-10 Much attention has been lavished on the speculators who reaped huge paydays betting against the subprime mortgages that stoked the financial crisis. Doomsayers like the hedge fund manager John Paulson and the cast of characters in “The Big Short,” the Michael Lewis book, saw calamity coming, and their contrarian bets delivered when the housing market collapsed.

But what about the big long? During the dark days of late 2008, while other investors dumped their holdings or sat paralyzed on the sidelines, who decided that it was time to put money on the line? Who bought low and then sold high?

Warren E. Buffett, of course, increased his fortune during the crisis with well-publicized investments in embattled blue-chip companies like Goldman Sachs and General Electric. But a number of other, lower-profile financiers also made billions by obeying one of Mr. Buffett’s favorite aphorisms: “Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful.”

Jonathan D. Sokoloff and his colleagues at Leonard Green & Partners acquired a huge ownership stake in Whole Foods Market at a time when many thought that this upscale grocer might not survive the downturn. Joshua J. Harris, a founder of Apollo Global Management, doubled down on a big chemical company that stood on the brink of liquidation. Oaktree scooped up corporate debt that others were discarding.

Each of these bottom-of-the-market wagers offers enduring investment lessons. But Horatio Alger stories they are not. The moneymen at the center of these trades are in the 0.01 percent — and among the most highly regarded investors on Wall Street. Their success benefited the public pension funds, endowments and foundations that have money with their firms.

It also made the firms’ partners, who receive about 20 percent of their funds’ gains, substantially richer than they already were. Mr. Harris recently led the purchase of two professional sports teams: the Philadelphia 76ers of the N.B.A. and the New Jersey Devils of the N.H.L. Last spring, Mr. Marks and his wife paid $52.5 million for a 30-room apartment at 740 Park Avenue in Manhattan.

These investors all also happen to have roots connecting them to Drexel Burnham Lambert, the swashbuckling investment bank, and its fabled — and convicted — junk-bond trader, Michael R. Milken.

Before they started Apollo, Mr. Harris and his co-founders were Drexel bankers. So were Mr. Sokoloff and his fellow managing partners. And as a young high-yield bond manager at Citibank, Mr. Marks became a Milken disciple and a client of Drexel.

Although Drexel dissolved in 1990 after pleading guilty to securities fraud, and Mr. Milken also admitted to crimes, the bank’s alumni are proud of their heritage and Mr. Milken’s gimlet-eyed approach to risk-taking.

“What we learned at Drexel underpins our investment philosophy: Protect your downside and don’t lose money,” Mr. Sokoloff said. “Milken would say invest in times of chaos and harvest in times of prosperity.”

In retrospect, it’s easy to say “Of course Whole Foods was going to recover” or “Surely corporate America would eventually turn around.” But during the frenzied fall of 2008, the uncertainty was so great that most investors were immobilized by fear. If these trades were so obvious, more would have made them.

On a mid-October morning in 2008, Jon Sokoloff was in his Los Angeles office when he received a call from Kip Tindell, chief executive of the Container Store. A year earlier, Mr. Sokoloff’s private equity firm had acquired the Container Store, but this call was not about that. Mr. Tindell was calling on behalf of the co-founder of Whole Foods, John Mackey, who in the 1970s had been his college roommate at the University of Texas.

“This is the call you’ve been waiting for,” Mr. Tindell told Mr. Sokoloff. “I’m here with John, and there may be a window for you to help Whole Foods out.”

Mr. Sokoloff had been asking Mr. Tindell for just such a meeting. His firm, Leonard Green & Partners, owned companies that were among the most recognizable names in retailing: J. Crew, Neiman Marcus, Petco, Topshop. Whole Foods, which had reinvented the supermarket as a high-priced emporium of aesthetically displayed organic products, fit squarely within the firm’s investment parameters: it was a leader in its market niche and still in an early phase of growth.

But that fall, the grocery store chain faced a looming crisis. The company had been buffeted by the slowing economy and the costly acquisition of its rival, Wild Oats. Investors were dumping Whole Foods shares. Shoppers who had once paid for grass-fed beef and locally sourced apples were now husbanding cash and trading down to generic brands and discount stores. Over the previous 12 months, shares of Whole Foods fell 80 percent.

With the company’s business deteriorating and the economy in a tailspin, Mr. Mackey and his management team decided they needed to raise outside money. Beyond the cash infusion, they felt that they could use a vote of confidence from a respected investor, something akin to Mr. Buffett’s investments in Goldman and G.E. made the month before.

Mr. Mackey sought advice from Mr. Tindell, who suggested a meeting with Mr. Sokoloff. He and his firm were good partners, Mr. Tindell told his old friend, low-maintenance investors that would not micromanage.

The day after Mr. Tindell’s call, Mr. Sokoloff and his colleagues flew to Austin, Tex. That evening, over a company-catered dinner at the Whole Foods headquarters with company management, they discussed a possible investment.

“I don’t remember exactly what we ate,” said Mr. Sokoloff, now 56. “but it was a very healthy meal.”

He and his partners, Peter J. Nolan and John G. Danhakl, knew they had to act fast. They had an inside edge on a promising deal. If they waited too long in such a tumultuous market, the opportunity could pass or a competitor might swoop in. Back in Los Angeles, they pored over the company’s financials; they also combed the aisles of nearby Whole Foods outposts — in Venice, Beverly Hills and West Hollywood. A few days later, Mr. Sokoloff emailed a proposal to Mr. Mackey.

On Nov. 5, Whole Foods announced a deal. Leonard Green pumped $425 million into Whole Foods, effectively giving it a 17 percent stake in the company. The firm also negotiated downside protection, guaranteeing itself an 8 percent annual dividend payment if Whole Foods’s stock price languished. Mr. Sokoloff and his colleague, Jonathan A. Seiffer, took seats on the board.

“There was no Carl Icahn drama getting this deal done,” said Walter Robb, a Whole Foods co-chief executive, referring to the gadfly activist investor. “They made a gutsy call when everyone else was panicking, and the investment allowed us to focus on rebuilding our business.”

As the country sank into its economic slump, Mr. Sokoloff’s firm expected Whole Foods to struggle for at least a few years. During the opening months of 2009, its stock price dropped on continued poor results. But the firm had taken the long view, and by the second half of the year, business turned. The company, whose high prices had earned it the moniker “Whole Paycheck,” cut expenses and offered more discounted items. And it turned out that the popularity of organic kale and quinoa was more than a fad.

The company’s shares snapped back, too. As the stock rose, Mr. Sokoloff’s firm took profits by methodically selling its stake. Last November, with shares trading more than 800 percent higher than when it invested, it exited its position. All told, the firm and its investors made about $1.7 billion, or more than five times its money.

Shares of Whole Foods have continued to rise on the company’s rapid growth. It is now a “tenbagger,” a term coined by the mutual fund manager Peter Lynch for an investment that appreciates tenfold. Though Mr. Sokoloff’s firm left several billion dollars on the table by unloading shares as they traded higher, he defended the sales as prudent risk management.

“Being a disciplined seller is as important as being a disciplined buyer,” said Mr. Sokoloff, who remains a Whole Foods director and still personally owns about $50 million of the company’s stock.

Mr. Sokoloff’s relationship with Whole Foods led to his firm’s latest food-industry deal. In 2011, Mr. Robb of Whole Foods invited Mr. Sokoloff, who was in New York, to stop by Gramercy Tavern, where he was dining with Mr. Tindell and Danny Meyer, the restaurant’s owner. A year later, Leonard Green acquired a stake in Mr. Meyer’s company, the Union Square Hospitality Group. The investment is helping to fuel the growth of Shake Shack, Mr. Meyer’s burger chain; this winter, it plans to open an outpost in Moscow.

During the stock market boom of the late 1990s, with the rest of Wall Street irrationally exuberant over tech and telecom companies, Joshua Harris was fixated on chemicals. A co-founder of Apollo, the private equity firm based in New York, Mr. Harris believed that the chemical industry was ignored and grossly undervalued. Epoxy resins, acrylic monomers and urethane additives became his obsessions. He also liked the cyclical nature of the business because it could provide big buying opportunities during downturns.

Apollo started investing in chemicals, and made numerous acquisitions over the next decade. But a favorite that had eluded his grasp was Lyondell, a polypropylene maker based in Houston. Mr. Harris had courted the company whenever he was in Texas, but to no avail.

In December 2007, Lyondell was acquired by Len Blavatnik, a friend and business rival of Mr. Harris. The two men had battled over other chemical makers in the past. Mr. Blavatnik, a Ukrainian-born, Harvard-educated industrialist, merged Lyondell with one of those prizes — Basell, a European company. The combination created LyondellBasell, the world’s third-largest chemical manufacturer with about 15,000 employees and $34 billion in sales.

The deal also created a company with too much debt at the very moment when the credit markets began seizing up and the chemical industry started to weaken. Just months after the transaction closed, it became clear to Mr. Harris that Mr. Blavatnik had overpaid, and that LyondellBasell was at risk of bankruptcy. On Wall Street, other peoples’ failures carry the seeds of success.

Mr. Harris, now 48, decided to make a run for LyondellBasell. He saw the company as a great business with a terrible balance sheet. Its chemicals were used to make everyday products from food packaging to vacuum cleaners to car parts. If it could restructure, he reasoned, it would recover with the broader economy. So he began acquiring the company’s senior secured loans, which would be paid back first in any bankruptcy and would thus provide protection in case it went under.

“We bought the debt at 60 cents on the dollar,” Mr. Harris said. “We bought more at 50, and then at 40. The low was 20. People were either panicked or forced sellers, and we bought from them all the way down.”

Mr. Harris’s strategy, known as a “loan to own” investment, was to purchase corporate debt at a discount and then try to take over the company in a restructuring. By the end of 2008, Apollo had acquired about $2 billion of LyondellBasell’s debt, becoming its largest creditor.

Business continued to worsen, and in December 2008, LyondellBasell was suffocating. Its cash was rapidly running out. A factory was idled. Some company managers stopped showing up for work. Apollo was sitting on paper losses of more than $500 million.

During the final week of the year, with the company and the markets melting down, Mr. Harris and Mr. Blavatnik both found themselves on family vacations in Anguilla, the island of choice for Wall Streeters, a sort of Hamptons of the Caribbean.

Mr. Harris visited Mr. Blavatnik on his 164-foot yacht, the Odessa. Over dinner, they brainstormed about how to save the company. Their best option was to put LyondellBasell into bankruptcy and secure emergency financing so it could continue to operate. Mr. Blavatnik knew that a reorganization might wipe out his investment, but hoped to salvage some value if the company survived.

Back in New York, the two butted heads over who controlled the bankruptcy financing. Mr. Harris ultimately prevailed, and secured the lead role providing loans to the company. This turned out to be a key victory for Mr. Harris, as it gave him leverage in the protracted restructuring negotiations.

In April 2010, after 15 months in Chapter 11, the company came out of bankruptcy in much better financial shape, shedding $17 billion in debt. Apollo’s loans were converted into a roughly 30 percent ownership stake in LyondellBasell.

Mr. Blavatnik, through his conglomerate, Access Industries, also participated in the recapitalization, buying $1.8 billion worth of newly issued shares in the revamped company.

LyondellBasell’s earnings recovered along with the rest of the chemical industry, more than tripling from a 2009 low. Its stock has followed suit, and Mr. Blavatnik has recouped his losses.

Apollo did even better. It has gradually been selling off its stake; it also paid itself dividends, taking advantage of the company’s cleaned-up finances. Mr. Harris’s firm has turned its $2 billion investment into a profit of more than $10 billion, which, according to Bloomberg data, is the largest gain ever on a private equity deal.

Without his skill in maneuvering through the complex bankruptcy process, Mr. Harris would never have amassed such huge gains. But the mental side of investing played an equally important role.

“Many others ran for the hills during that scary time, cut their losses, doubted their own theses,” said Kenneth D. Moelis, a banker who helped restructure the company. “Josh never did.”

Howard Marks’s memos to his Oaktree clients have a cultlike following among the professional-investing cognoscenti. “Howard is a superb writer and a master of logical thinking,” Warren Buffett said in an email. “That combination makes his memos a must-read for me.”

Like Mr. Buffett’s much-anticipated annual letters, Mr. Marks’s memos are chockablock with observations on the financial markets and investor psychology. But Mr. Marks’s wife teases him that they are all pretty much the same. And she’s basically right. The dispatches — as well as a book, “The Most Important Thing” — harp on recurring themes: the paramount importance of price, the danger of hubris, the value of contrarianism, the inevitability of cycles.

In early 2007, cycles were at the top of his mind. If Mr. Marks, who is now 67, had come to believe anything in his four decades on Wall Street, it was that financial markets go from peak to trough, and back again. And as housing prices soared, banks’ lending standards loosened and cash sloshed around the world, he grew increasingly pessimistic.

“In terms of amplitude, breadth and potential ramifications, I consider it the strongest, most heated upswing I’ve witnessed,” Mr. Marks wrote in a July 2007 memo. “A lot of this is because people seem to think everything’s good and likely to stay that way.”

For much of that year, Mr. Marks flew around the globe, hat in hand, raising money for a new fund to buy the debt of troubled companies. As he met with clients in London, in Dubai, in Beijing, his message was the same: The market’s excesses were setting the stage for a major fall, and would create an ideal time in which to invest.

“In the period ahead, cash will be king, and those able and willing to provide it will be holding the cards,” Mr. Marks wrote to his clients in January 2008.

By May 2008, Oaktree had raised its largest-ever distressed-debt fund, totaling $11 billion. Its coffers filled, the firm now looked to Bruce Karsh to put the money to work. Mr. Karsh, a former lawyer, once served as an appellate clerk to Anthony M. Kennedy, now a Supreme Court justice. Now, he was Oaktree’s investment chief and started steadily deploying the money, spending almost $1.5 billion by September.

The week of Lehman’s demise, Mr. Karsh huddled with his team. As the financial world unraveled, Oaktree found itself deep in the red. But Mr. Karsh had been investing in distressed debt for two decades, and had never seen bargains like the ones flashing across his Bloomberg terminal. Senior bank loans — the ones first in line to be paid in a bankruptcy — were trading at lows of 60 cents on the dollar and offering annual yields of about 30 percent.

“Either this is the greatest buying opportunity of my career or the world is going to end,” Mr. Karsh told his staff. “And if it ends, our clients will have much bigger problems on their hands.”

With the markets reeling, Mr. Karsh turned aggressive. The steep downslide had produced a long list of great businesses saddled with too much debt. From mid-September through year-end, Mr. Karsh spent more than $6 billion on distressed loans of companies like Clear Channel Communications, Freescale Semiconductor and Univision. It was, by far, the fastest pace at which Oaktree had ever put money to work.

Clients grew anxious. Calls began streaming in to check Oaktree’s performance. In October, Mr. Marks tapped out another memo to assuage them.

“Our assets are declining in value like everything else, but we’re comfortable that we’re doing exactly what you hired us to do,” he wrote. “We’re grabbing at falling knives. The best bargains are always found in frightening environments.”

In some ways, Mr. Karsh was replicating a successful trade from earlier in the decade. In 2002, after the telecom sector cratered, he bought bonds of Lucent, Nortel, Qwest and Corning at fire-sale prices. The companies never missed an interest payment, the bonds recovered and Mr. Karsh racked up huge gains.

But the crisis in the fall of 2008 was on a whole other order of magnitude. For months, Oaktree continued to lose money. Mr. Marks tried to reassure his clients, saying it was inevitable that they would be buying on the way down, that even the most experienced investors couldn’t pinpoint when the market would stop dropping.

Looking back, Mr. Karsh, now 58, said that if had he waited until March 2009, the eventual market nadir, Oaktree would not have been able to invest as much as it did. By then, all of the hysterical selling had run its course, and there were fewer bonds to buy.

“If God had told us to wait until March 9, 2009, because that would be the low, and we waited to buy then, we never would’ve been able to put that much money to work,” Mr. Karsh said.

Soon after that low, the markets stabilized, the chaos subsided and the prices of Oaktree’s debt investments eventually recovered in value. They became, in trading parlance, “money good,” yielding billions in profits.

Last year, partly on the strength of the trade and the performance of the distressed-debt fund, Oaktree sold shares in its own initial public offering. Today, the stock market values the firm at $8.4 billion; its assets under management have swelled to $80 billion.

Mr. Marks has also contemplated a new book. His theme? How to identify market cycles and the pendulum swings of investor psychology.

Today, he sees the markets as neither dangerously expensive nor extraordinarily cheap. He sees some signs of excessive risk-taking, but also sees continued uncertainty. As a result of the muddy outlook, Oaktree is investing with caution. For Mr. Marks, it’s easier to know what to do at the extremes than it is in the middle.

“Moments like 2008 will continue to present great opportunities for as long as emotion rules the markets,” Mr. Marks said. “In other words, forever.”
216 2013-11-10 Nine people die daily from asthma attacks. While the increase in respiratory allergies shows some signs of leveling off, the prevalence of food and skin allergies continues to rise. Five percent of children are allergic to peanuts, milk and other foods, half again as many as 15 years ago. And each new generation seems to have more severe, potentially life-threatening than the last.

Some time ago, I visited a place where seemingly protective microbes occurred spontaneously. It wasn’t a spotless laboratory in some university somewhere. It was a manure-spattered cowshed in ’s Amish country.

My guide was Mark Holbreich, an allergist in . He’d recently discovered that the Amish people who lived in the northern part of the state were remarkably free of allergies and asthma.

About half of Americans have evidence of allergic sensitization, which increases the risk of allergic disease. But judging from skin-prick tests, just 7.2 percent of the 138 Amish children who Dr. Holbreich tested were sensitized to tree pollens and other allergens. That yawning difference positions the Indiana Amish among the least allergic populations ever described in the developed world.

This invulnerability isn’t likely to be genetic. The Amish originally came to the United States from the German-speaking part of , and these days Swiss children, a genetically similar population, are about as allergic as Americans.

Ninety-two percent of the Amish children Dr. Holbreich tested either lived on farms or visited one frequently. Farming, Dr. Holbreich thinks, is the Amish secret. This idea has some history. Since the late 1990s, European scientists have investigated what they call the “farm effect.”

The working hypothesis is that innocuous cowshed microbes, plant material and raw milk protect farming children by favorably stimulating their immune systems throughout life, particularly early on. That spring morning, Dr. Holbreich gave me a tour of the bonanza of immune stimuli under consideration.

We found our hosts, Andrew Mast and his wife, Laura, hard at work milking cows in the predawn chill.

Dr. Holbreich, slight and bespectacled, peppered them with questions. At what age did Mr. Mast begin working in the cowshed? “My first memory is of milking,” he said, at about the age of 5. What about his children, two straw-haired girls, then ages 2 and 3; did they spend time in the cowshed? The elder girl came to the barn at 3 months of age, he said. “People learn to walk in here.” Do expectant mothers work in the barn? Laura said. “We work.”

Dr. Holbreich had made his point: whatever forces were acting here, they were chronic, and they began before birth. As the sun rose, Dr. Holbreich and I sniffed the damp, fermented feed (slightly malty); shoveled fresh cow manure (“Liquid gold,” Dr. Holbreich said only half-jokingly, “the best medicine you could think of”); and marveled at the detritus floating in the air. Extrapolating from previous research, with each breath we were inhaling perhaps 1,000 times more microbes than usual. By breakfast time, grime had collected under our nails, hay clung to our clothes, and muck to our boots. “There’s got to be bacteria, mold and plant material,” Dr. Holbreich said. “You do this every day for 30 years, 365 days a year, you can see there are so many exposures.”

The challenge of identifying the important exposures — and getting them into a bottle — is a pressing one. In parts of the developing world, where allergic disease was once considered rare, scientists have noted an uptick, especially in urban areas. offers a dramatic case in point. A 2009 study found a more than threefold difference in allergic sensitization (as judged by skin-prick tests) between schoolchildren in rural areas around and children in the city proper. Doctor-diagnosed asthma differed sixfold. Maybe not coincidentally, 40 percent of the rural children had lived on farms their whole lives.

Immigrants from the developing world to the developed tend to be less allergic than average. But the longer they reside in their adopted countries, the more allergic they become. And their native-born children seem to gain the vulnerability to asthma, sometimes surpassing it. All of which highlights a longstanding question in the allergy field. As Dr. Holbreich puts it, “What is it about westernization that makes people allergic?”

When hay fever first emerged as a common complaint among the upper classes of in the 19th century — and became a badge of refinement — farmers, who were exposed to more pollen than probably anyone else, seemed relatively invulnerable to the new affliction. In the 1990s, European scientists rediscovered the phenomenon in the small alpine farms of Switzerland. A bevy of studies followed, comprising thousands of subjects across Switzerland, , and elsewhere. Critically, by comparing children living in the same rural areas, scientists could discount urban pollution. Everyone was breathing the same country air.

And earlier this year, some of Dr. Holbreich’s collaborators, from the University of in Switzerland, made a strong case that couldn’t explain the disparity either. They had rural children wear devices that measured movement for a week. There was little difference in physical activity between farming and nonfarming children.

What matters then? Erika von Mutius, a doctor and epidemiologist at University in Germany who has led much of this research, suspects diversity is important. Farms with the greatest array of microbes, including fungi, appear to be the most protective against asthma. At the Mast farm, the cowshed wasn’t more than 60 feet from the house. In Europe, scientists found that microbes waft from cowsheds into homes.

In one study, they showed that an infant’s risk of was inverse to the microbial load in her mother’s mattress.

Timing seems to matter tremendously. The earlier exposure begins, it seems, the greater the protection — and that includes during pregnancy. Children born to mothers who work with livestock while pregnant, and who lug their newborns along during chores, seem the most invulnerable to allergic disease later.

Here, the farm effect dovetails with the burgeoning science on the prenatal origins of disease generally. What happens to your mother during the nine months before your birth may affect your vulnerability to many diseases decades later, from heart disease and to .

Allergies and asthma seem to follow the rule as well.

Susan Prescott, a doctor and researcher at the University of Western Australia in , has noted differences in the placentas of children who later develop allergies. A critical subset of white blood cells — called regulatory T-cells — seems relatively scarce at birth. Rather than enabling aggression, these cells help the immune system restrain itself when facing substances that are not true threats. A healthy population of these and other “suppressor” cells is important, scientists now suspect, in preventing allergies and asthma. So it seems significant that European farming children are born with a comparative surfeit of these cells. Bianca Schaub, a doctor and researcher at Munich University, has found that farming newborns have more regulatory T-cells in than babies of nonfarmers. In test tubes, these cells more effectively quash allergic-type reactions. And that suppressive ability increases with the number of different types of animals the mother tended while pregnant. The more cows, pigs and chickens a mother encounters, essentially, the more easily her offspring may tolerate dust mites and tree pollens.

Animal studies demonstrate how this might work. Some years back, scientists at Philipps University of Marburg in Germany sprayed pregnant mice with microbes originally isolated from Bavarian cowsheds. The exposure induced favorable changes in gene expression at the placenta. The pups born to these mice were protected against asthma.

This research suggests that farming mothers might benefit from a naturally occurring immunotherapy, one that preprograms the developing fetus against allergic disease. Yet how to apply that therapy deliberately remains unclear. Is “microbial pressure” what matters — a stiff microbial wind in our sails? Or do certain cowshed microbes actually colonize farmers, and favorably calibrate their immune function?

There’s evidence to support both explanations, which aren’t mutually exclusive anyway.

Before you rush to the nearest farm, however, a word of caution. Some studies indicate that if you grow up in an urban environment, occasional visits to the farm may exacerbate allergic propensities. If you haven’t matured with abundant microbial stimulation, the thinking goes, encountering it intermittently may push you into overdrive, prompting the misery you seek to avoid.

And yet, a prospective study from published this month suggests that it’s never too late. Young adults who began farming (with livestock) were less likely to develop new allergic sensitivities than rural peers who chose other professions. Existing allergies didn’t disappear. Rather, the farming environment seemed to prevent new sensitizations.

Which brings us to farm milk. In Europe, the consumption of unpasteurized milk has repeatedly correlated with protection against allergic disease. In America, 80 percent of the Amish studied by Dr. Holbreich consume raw milk. In a study published earlier this year, Dr. Schaub’s group showed that European children who consumed farm milk had more of those regulatory T-cells, irrespective of whether they lived on farms. The higher the quantity of those cells, the less likely these children were to be given diagnoses of asthma. Here, finally, is something concrete to take off the farm.

None of these scientists recommend that people consume raw milk; it can carry deadly pathogens. Rather, they hope to identify what’s protective in the milk and either extract it or preserve the ingredients during processing. Microbes may not be the key ingredient in this case. Instead, farm milk may act as a prebiotic — selectively feeding good microbes within. Another possibility is that as with human , and immune-signaling proteins in cow’s milk influence the human immune system, steering it toward tolerance.

As a whole, this research reframes the question of what prompted the late 20th-century allergy epidemic. Is the problem one of exposure to allergens, many of which aren’t exactly new to human experience? Or is the problem one of increasing sensitivity to whatever allergens are present?

The science suggests the latter. The Mast cowshed, with its rich array of microbial stimuli, probably resembles the world in which the human immune system evolved more than, say, an apartment high above . The Amish in Indiana, who for reasons of religious faith have maintained a 19th-century-like lifestyle, may not be less allergic. Rather, during the dramatic reordering of human existence that began with the Industrial Revolution, everyone else may have become more allergic. Immunologically speaking, the farming Amish and farmers generally may more closely resemble an evolutionary norm for our species.
217 2013-11-10 DHAKA, Bangladesh — Bangladeshi authorities have arrested three senior leaders of the main opposition party as tensions increase ahead of elections early next year, an official said Saturday.

The police arrested the three — Moudud Ahmed, M. K. Anwar and Rafiqul Islam Mia — late Friday, hours after an alliance led by the main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party announced its latest nationwide strike. The three-day strike, set to begin on Sunday, was organized to press Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to quit and appoint a caretaker to oversee the elections in January.

The police on Saturday also arrested Abdul Awal Mintoo, a prominent businessman with ties to the main opposition party, and an aide of the opposition leader Khaleda Zia.

Information Minister Hasanul Huq Inu said the opposition figures were accused of instigating attacks on people and property. But the arrests also highlight the resolve of Ms. Hasina’s government to crack down on the opposition and forge ahead with the elections by January.
218 2013-11-10 “Dad,” it read, “promise me you won’t ever go back to coaching.”

Billick paces himself better in his job as an analyst for Fox Sports and NFL Network, but Kubiak and Fox may not have that option. They are expected to recover, though it is unclear when they will rejoin their teams.

Dr. Douglas Johnston, a cardiothoracic surgeon at the Cleveland Clinic who had no direct knowledge of Fox’s case, said that patients could usually resume functioning at 99 percent capacity within six weeks of an aortic valve replacement and that he would expect Fox to return with no limitations and more energy because his heart would be operating more efficiently.

Dr. Shazam Hussain, the head of Cleveland Clinic’s stroke program, speaking generally, offered a sanguine outlook for Kubiak but said that a transient ischemic attack could be a warning sign before a major stroke and that he urged his patients to exercise and to limit their intake of salt and fat.

Reeves said he had a transient ischemic attack two days after leaving the hospital following the quadruple bypass. He woke up in the emergency room and asked a nurse to turn on the television for the Falcons’ game in Detroit. Reeves said he could relate to Fox and Kubiak, for reasons beyond the stress.

Fox’s Broncos are zipping toward the playoffs, just as the Falcons were in December 1998, when Reeves wanted to be part of every moment. Reeves empathizes with his former quarterback Kubiak, whose Texans have lost their last six games, because he remembers how hard he worked in 1994, when his Giants lost seven straight.

“Believe me, you’re working extra thinking, Gosh, I’ve got to do something; what can I do?” Reeves said. “The answer is, you do whatever you can.”

The popular image of a football coach is also a romanticized one, of valor in sleeping at team headquarters or logging 18-hour workdays. A badge of courage, the former Giants coach Jim Fassel called it.

That message is propagated by fans, the news media and even the teams themselves, who applaud the bleary-eyed men who watch one more clip and diagram one more play, all for the greater good of the team. No one brags about working less or sleeping more, about being the fifth coach to arrive every morning and not the first.

“A lot of the guys just think that there’s not another way, that that’s how you do it, period,” said Rich Brooks, who was plagued by ulcers and other stomach ailments at the beginning of his 18-year coaching tenure at the University of Oregon. “Nobody’s had the guts to cut the workdays short or to do it different.”

Brooks, the Falcons’ defensive coordinator in 1998, filled in for Reeves during his absence.

“You read about other people, about how they’re workaholics and how they do it, and so you don’t want to leave your facility and go home and have dinner with your family, for God’s sake,” Brooks said. “That’s like committing suicide. You just don’t do that.”

He said he strived to let his coaches out early on Thursdays so they could see their families but did not always succeed. All week, football coaches prepare for one game, and they have so much time to plan that they spend an inordinate number of hours thinking about that game. Bruce Arians, who coaches the Arizona Cardinals, told reporters last week that he felt guilty taking a half-hour break to exercise because “you feel like you should be working.”

That cycle never stops. There is always more film to analyze, more tendencies to study, more weaknesses to expose — sometimes at the cost of diminished returns, with exhausted coaches becoming less productive. Brooks speculated that shaving an hour or two off a workday might cause a coach to miss something, or it might not, but that rarely was anyone willing to take that chance.

Billick agreed, saying: “That’s the pressure of this job, that we coaches mistakenly think we can outwork our opponents. And you can’t, because everybody works hard. Thinking you’re going to outwork your opponent is really kind of silly. Everyone wants us to be Superman, working countless hours. But the smart ones realize that that’s unsustainable.”

He said he applied what he learned under Bill Walsh and Dennis Green, who stressed to their staffs the importance of being at their most energetic when in front of the players. Billick kept that in mind when plotting his schedule. He cut down on sweets and sugar. He exercised every day, whether a few laps around the practice field or 30 minutes on the exercise bike or a game of racquetball. Sometimes, he would sneak a 20-minute nap in his office.

“There’s no excuse not to take care of your health when you’re in an N.F.L. building,” Billick said. “Everything’s right there. You just have to make sure you avail yourself of it.”

In a culture that glorifies workaholics and game-planning maniacs, that devours any desire for a respectable work-life balance, coaches are ultimately evaluated not by the hours they toil but by another number, the digit in their team’s win column. They are well compensated for their trade, but that pressure to win is greater than ever, they say.

Fassel, the former Giants coach, said the notion that a head coach could survive long enough to post his first winning record in his seventh season, as Tom Landry did with the Dallas Cowboys, was unfathomable in today’s game.

Landry did not have to contend with the N.F.L.’s unrelenting news media exposure, or with a league calendar that offered few opportunities to decompress. It starts in July with training camp, which blends into the season, which blends into the scouting combine, which blends into the draft, which blends into rookie minicamp and organized team activities and minicamp, and just like that, it is the middle of June.

“We just think it’s normal,” Jets Coach Rex Ryan said. “Like these are normal hours, normal pressures and all of that. Maybe in the bigger picture, maybe it’s a little more than that.”

Since having gastric surgery in 2010, Ryan has lost more than 100 pounds. He takes better care of himself, eating less and exercising more, but it may be a while until his health truly improves.

A few months after Reeves was fired by the Falcons, he visited his heart specialist. He was not exercising any more than before, or eating any differently, but his cholesterol had plummeted. His doctor had a simple explanation.
219 2013-11-10 Such tactics appear to have had an impact. On Saturday, The Times detailed a decision late last month by Bloomberg to withhold publication of an investigative report, more than a year in the works, that explored hidden financial ties between one of China’s wealthiest men and the families of senior Chinese leaders. Company employees said the editor in chief, Matthew Winkler, defended the decision by comparing it to the self-censorship by foreign news bureaus that sought to remain working inside Nazi Germany.

Mr. Winkler and a senior editor denied that the articles had been killed and said they would eventually be published.

The Chinese government’s rejection of Mr. Mooney’s visa request will certainly add to the anxieties of foreign reporters in China, many of whom complain of cyberattacks, police interference and intimidation, especially during the annual visa renewal process, currently underway, which sometimes involves interviews with Foreign Ministry officials or public security personnel.

In a statement, the Foreign Correspondents Club of China said, “Such delays and lack of transparency merely add to the impression that the visa process is being used by the authorities to intimidate journalists and media organizations.”

Last year, Al Jazeera English shut its Beijing bureau after the authorities refused to renew press credentials and the visa of its China correspondent, Melissa Chan. Although they did not explain the reasons behind Ms. Chan’s expulsion, the first from China in 14 years, it was widely seen as retaliation for her hard-hitting coverage of Chinese society.

An American currently based in San Francisco, Ms. Chan said the Chinese government’s recent efforts to bully some of the largest foreign news organizations would have an insidious trickle-down effect on smaller media outlets, especially those from Southeast Asia and Africa that cannot afford to lose what may be their sole correspondent in China. “It’s got to have a chilling effect that leads to some level of self-censorship,” she said in a phone interview on Saturday.

Mr. Mooney said he suspected that the government’s decision to deny him a visa was punishment for his persistent coverage of human rights abuses in China. In April, after submitting his visa application to the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, he was summoned for an interview, where he was questioned about previous articles and asked to explain his position on delicate issues like Tibet. The interview ended with a barely veiled threat. “They said, ‘If we give you a visa, we hope you’ll be more balanced with your coverage,’ ” he said he was told.

Mr. Mooney, 63, now living in Berkeley, Calif., said Reuters told him that it would not continue pressing China over the issue.

Barb Burg, a spokeswoman for Reuters in New York, said, “We are in the process of considering other posts for Paul within Reuters.” Calls to the Foreign Ministry in Beijing went unanswered.
220 2013-11-10 It both has and it hasn’t. For Amazon, it is certainly a first. The first three episodes will become available Friday to all Amazon customers, and then a new episode will be available each week thereafter to Amazon Prime members. Given that “Alpha House” is a series set in contemporary Washington and delivered on the web — not through broadcast or cable — comparisons to Netflix’s “House of Cards” are bound to crop up, though this doesn’t seem to concern Mr. Trudeau at all.

“That’s a drama, and we are making a comedy,” he said by phone. “But I was as startled as anyone about the impact that ‘House of Cards’ made. It certainly came out with a roar, and I found it very watchable and engaging.” Mr. Trudeau conceived “Alpha House” about five years ago, but it ended up in a drawer until he and Jonathan Alter, the journalist and author, were on a road trip for the 2012 New Hampshire primary, when Mr. Alter convinced him that there was room in the market for a funny, well-told comedy about politics. Mr. Alter brought the show to Amazon and now serves as an executive producer, along with Elliot Webb and Mr. Trudeau, spending much of his time making sure the show nails the details of Beltway life. Mr. Alter said that coming behind “House of Cards,” which won a directing Emmy for its creator, David Fincher, is a happy coincidence.

“I think what happened with ‘House of Cards’ is great for our show,” Mr. Alter said, standing in one of the Senate offices on set. “It legitimized online viewing and lets people know that there is quality programming on the web.”

For Mr. Goodman, it feels like, well, a television show.

“It’s all the same to me,” he said, shadowboxing with a door frame as he warmed up for a scene. “The distribution is out of my control.”

Speaking of which, Bill Murray played a disgraced senator who was hauled off to jail in the pilot. He has been tough to pin down since.

“He is scheduled to be in the final episode, but he keeps us on our toes because it’s never quite clear what’s going on in Bill’s world,” Mr. Trudeau said. “We call him ‘The Unicorn.’ We think he actually gets to the set by magical thinking.” (He actually drove himself there for an early morning call during the pilot shoot, surprising everyone when he walked in.)

In the end, Mr. Murray did materialize for his scene in the finale — with Jane Pauley, Mr. Trudeau’s wife — and the season was wrapped a little over two weeks ago. It’s a bit of a theme: Kelly Ripa, who makes an appearance in the show, is married to Mark Consuelos, a soap opera veteran who plays Senator Andy Guzman, an Alpha housemate whose lust for the presidency may be waylaid by his lust in more prosaic matters.

Along with Netflix, Hulu and a number of tech companies, Amazon wants to be not just a buyer of media, but a producer of it as well. Amazon’s approach is less me-too than a methodical deployment of its skills in knowing what people want almost before they know themselves, often by looking hard at customer data. Its decision to make original content available free as an enticement for its most loyal customers on Prime could be seen as a threat to the rest of the industry, but then, “most of television is free, so this is just another wrinkle in the landscape,” Roy Price, the director of Amazon Studios, said.

After an invitation by the company, some 5,000 scripts were submitted last year, and in the spring, 14 pilots were commissioned. Amazon then stood back and watched what 215 million active customers clicked on.

“Unlike a traditional linear network, we don’t really have finite shelf space,” Mr. Price said. “If a regular network put all their pilots on their schedule, they’d have to take a week off from normally scheduled programming. We got well over a million views and the feedback was enormously informative.” The audience gave good rankings to the pilot from Mr. Trudeau, who set out to make a show about what he called the “most likable Republicans in the country.”

“I decided to make them mainstream conservative Republicans, because I think the conflict they face is far more interesting than the Democrats are facing,” Mr. Trudeau said. “A generation ago, it was the Democrats who were in disarray, which inspired ‘Tanner ’88,’ which was an HBO show about an old-school liberal who couldn’t adapt to a changing political environment.” That show, created by Mr. Trudeau and directed by Robert Altman, had a fictional candidate making his way through the real election landscape of 1988, with cringy, and sometimes hilarious, results.

The humor on “Alpha House” is contextual rather than laugh-a-minute. “I can’t write a joke to save my life,” Mr. Trudeau said. “I’ve tried to give talented actors good stories to work with and they have run with it and made it their own.”

Three of the four Senators in the group house are taking fire from their right flank, wondering how to get through 2014 despite threats from the Tea Party. Each finds a kind of fratty solace in the living situation, modeled on a real one that is inhabited by Senators Charles E. Schumer and Richard J. Durbin, and Representatives George Miller and Bill Delahunt. It sounds like an episode of “The Real World: D.C.,” but it enabled them to have a crash pad in Washington while keeping costs down. In “Alpha House,” the shared quarters become a petri dish of dysfunction, as its inhabitants cravenly struggle to avoid being run over by insurgencies from the right in their home states.

“The show is an attempt by Garry to cut against people’s perception of politicians right now,” Mr. Alter said. “The point is to humanize Republican senators without letting them off the hook.”

Matt Malloy’s sexually ambiguous Senator Laffer was the talk of the set, with his every attempt to demonstrate what a man’s man he is usually having the opposite effect.

“I think the show does an excellent job of capturing the inherent contradictions not just of politicians, but of all people,” Mr. Malloy said. “We all think we are good people, but we have trouble living that in a way that proves it.”

Mr. Johnson, who directs the final episode of the season, is pivoting from directing Showtime’s “Homeland” to directing and starring in “Alpha House.”

“ ‘Homeland’ is a really intense approach to what is going on in Washington, but it’s also fun to be on a show where we laugh to keep from crying about the political situation,” he said.

Asked about working on a show that will never be controlled by the traditional television remote, he shrugs.

“Look at my phone,” he said, holding up a basic model. “What do I know about technology? But I can tell you it’s been exciting to be part of, and it will fun to watch it roll out. It makes me think of the early days of television and then cable. No one knew what those were going to become.”
221 2013-11-10 Do they click? Do their characters mesh, and can viewers stand to spend time with them? A lot can go into whether a television show succeeds — time slot, subject matter, budget — but sometimes a series rises or falls on the strength of two pivotal actors. And this season’s new shows offer illuminating examples.

Series with a crucial pairing can be television’s version of a two-hander — “Cagney & Lacey,” “Laverne & Shirley,” “Psych” or any other show with plenty of characters but only two who really matter. The reigning example may be “Bones,” the Fox crime procedural starring David Boreanaz and Emily Deschanel as an opposites-attract investigative team. The series and its stars took some time to hone a working formula, yet now, nine seasons in, with the lead characters in a personal as well as professional relationship, “Bones” seems as comfortable as old slippers.

But crucial pairings don’t have to be romantic, and they don’t have to be in a two-character show. Would “Star Trek” have endured had William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy not found a way to sell the odd exchanges between Kirk and Spock?

This fall’s season has brought an assortment of shows that put a lot of weight on the shoulders of two actors. Some are getting it right, some aren’t. Here’s a sampling:

WORKING NICELY The improbable description of Fox’s “Sleepy Hollow” made it seem a novelty entry at best. Ichabod Crane (Tom Mison) wakes up in the 21st century and finds that the headless horseman — one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse — is there, too. Crane forms an alliance with a sheriff’s deputy, Abbie Mills (Nicole Beharie), to battle the malevolent forces that have been unleashed.

Mr. Mison and Ms. Beharie and the people writing their dialogue have elevated this premise from the B-movie horror concoction it might have become to a witty, smart blend whose characters, despite the fantasy framework, are very believable. Mills and Crane are about as different as two people can be: she’s black, he’s white; she’s Internet-age, he’s pre-electricity. Ms. Beharie and Mr. Mison work these contrasts with a subtle humor that helps offset the gruesome goings-on. The only worry here is whether the introduction of Abbie’s sister (Lyndie Greenwood) partway into the season will disturb their droll chemistry.

WORKING BUT WOBBLY Although NBC is still the butt of a lot of jokes, it may have the fall’s most addictive new series in “The Blacklist.” James Spader is Red Reddington, a creepy criminal who decides he wants to help the F.B.I. and C.I.A. catch even creepier criminals, but only if he can work with Elizabeth Keen (Megan Boone), a young F.B.I. profiler.
222 2013-11-10 Good news for travelers to national parks this winter: Although the federal government shutdown, from Oct. 1 to 16, forced the National Park Service to close 401 parks and lose $450,000 a day in revenue, it did little to slow preparations for winter activities like cross-country skiing and snowshoeing.

That the shutdown occurred during the shoulder season eased the pain for national parks like Yellowstone, which was already winding down its services from the peak summer season when its employees were furloughed. Yellowstone, which lost $191,000 in entrance fees and licenses during the closure, reopened in time to start grooming roads for activities like guided snowmobile and snow coach tours, which begin in December.

Even Yosemite and Rocky Mountain National Parks, which both suffered damage from natural disasters this summer, have bounced back from the shutdown.

In August, Yosemite lost 77,000 acres of forest to the Rim Fire, which started in the neighboring Stanislaus National Forest and burned about 400 square miles. The damage, though, was limited to the remote northwestern corner of the park near Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, leaving main tourist areas like Yosemite Falls and Glacier Point untouched and a majority of the park’s infrastructure intact.

Scott Gediman, a spokesman for Yosemite, said that while the government shutdown caused the park to lose thousands of dollars in revenue, it did little to slow the park’s rehabilitation because the scorched area is mostly designated wilderness.
223 2013-11-10 China’s chesty claims of sovereignty over the South China Sea islands follows the example of the United States in annexing Hawaii, seizing the Philippines and Puerto Rico from Spain, maintaining a naval base at Guantánamo Bay and constructing the Panama Canal. As regards the latter, Attorney General Philander Knox reportedly told President Theodore Roosevelt, “Oh, Mr. President, do not let so great an achievement suffer from any taint of legality.” Can the United States lecture China about international law with any credibility? BRUCE FEIN, Washington

Scroll down the page on “A Game of Shark and Minnow,” Jeff Himmelman’s New York Times Magazine story about a disputed region in the South China Sea, and you may notice something the story doesn’t ask you to do: Stop. . . . On a desktop screen, the “camera” rises from an aerial view of the region to a wider map that shows contested boundaries. Water burbles peacefully on either side of a rusting, grounded ship that Filipino troops occupy, trying to keep an eye on Chinese activity. Rain from a storm pours through the ship’s decks into the interior, where a rooster tries to keep dry. . . . If “Shark and Minnow” represents a step forward, it’s in its use of scrolling imagery. Readers never have to adjust their behavior to read it. ANDREW BEAUJON, on poynter.org HEROES OF THE UNDERGROUND

It’s nice to see a story about government workers as heroes. I especially liked the part about “institutional memory.” Older workers have more information at their fingertips and in their brains than any set of documents and three-ring binders could provide less-experienced and lower-paid workers in a week. Perhaps corporate America could take a lesson? RICK STARR, Knoxville, posted on nytimes.com

It is worth pointing out that the effects of a Sandy-like storm were well known beforehand, as documented in the ClimAID study written for the New York State Energy Research and Development Agency, of which I was an author. It was eerily accurate, except for two important differences: 1) The Harlem River tunnels didn’t flood because of the heroic efforts by the M.T.A. to dam the tunnel entrance, so well described in the article; and 2) the ClimAID study overestimated the subway-system recovery period by more than a week, because of the decision by the M.T.A. to remove the electric signals in those tunnels that were expected to flood, thus preventing saltwater damage. Congrats to the M.T.A. for this preventive action. It has been underreported. KLAUS JACOB, Special Research Scientist, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Palisades, N.Y.

THE IMPORTANCE OF NOT BEING ERNEST

While reading the article on Mariel Hemingway, the term “orthorexia” came to mind — an obsessive fixation on eating “right” (however a person defines that) to the point that food is as much a focus of life as it is for anorexics and bulimics. You run into a lot of orthorexics (to one degree or another) in California. In Hemingway’s case, it seems like a healthy version of the same compulsions that have driven others in her family in destructive directions. On a certain level, compulsion is compulsion, no matter its object. NELLE ENGORON, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

I began playing around with HTML in high school in the early 2000s. I met other girls online, many of them drawn to the artistry that came along with building websites: making images, designing layouts, tackling problems. But there was a social component as well. We had webrings (if anyone can even remember those), and one girl was nice enough to give me space on her domain. I began toying around with JavaScript, too. Flash forward to my freshman year, when I declared computer science as a major. I was one of maybe three girls. I felt completely out of place. But I stuck with it, and I’m glad. I graduated in 2008, when the recession hit, but still had jobs thrown at me. This is one of the best fields for a woman. DAWN HAMMOND, Austin, Tex., posted on nytimes.com
224 2013-11-10 The only problem — and this realization peaked for me about five days before the “Breaking Bad” finale — is that lately I want nothing to do with those emails.

Jeff’s favorite thing to do is to try to predict what might happen to any TV show as it comes to its season — or even better, series — finale. The fact that he’s a lawyer is important, because it means that he’s generally good at poking holes in theories and remembering hints and pieces of evidence I have long since forgotten. It’s even more important to note that he’s an entertainment lawyer here in , which means that when he suggests theories like this Walter White-ricin one outlined above, I have to concern myself with whether his email might have something to do with inside knowledge — the pop-culture equivalent of a seemingly random notion dropped casually by a stockbroker friend that might eventually lead to an insider-trading charge.

“Do you know something?” I typed in my reply to him, which may have been in capital letters. “If you do, and you just said it, I’m never speaking to you again.”

“How could I possibly?” he answered. Later, he sent me a remarkably well thought out series of endgame scenarios. The Nazis win. Walt wins. Jesse wins. It was all a dream. A random car crash kills all the main characters — because sometimes that’s just how life works.

Some of this speculation was wild guessing for the sake of wild guessing, and some of it was rooted in the hard evaluation of evidence: Why, for example, were Walt and Jesse pictured on the cover of Entertainment Weekly covered in blood and dirt? Clearly the series ends in a great cloud of blood! And dirt!

Either way, I open each of Jeff’s emails with great hesitation. He’s just doing what the rest of the Internet is doing: guessing publicly. A different friend sent me a blog post that examines a few possible outcomes. I immediately deleted it. Friends emailed me prediction after prediction from Entertainment Weekly articles, all of which were probably incredibly insightful. I trashed them all, unread. New York magazine’s culture site, Vulture, seemed to be all “Breaking Bad,” all the time. So I unfollowed it on both and .

As we adjust to a new climate of TV — one in which each season of a popular show is dissected, in real time, in an incessant, ongoing conversation on the Internet — I realize my fresh predicament: I have been longing for this cultural moment, one in which my obsessive love for TV is vindicated. Yet now I find I can’t escape these conversations quickly enough. The more adept I get at Twitter, the more of Jeff’s emails I receive, the more Entertainment Weekly issues I pore over, the less I enjoy the actual show when it’s actually on.

I can’t deny how much fun it is to talk over a TV show, to think and overthink, and then overthink the overthinking. But anticipation of what might happen is now as fearsome to me as information about what did happen. Speculation is the new spoiler.

We’re a society that has coined a special word specifically to describe the malicious or simply careless act of giving away a plot point in a TV show or movie. And we’ve trained ourselves accordingly: We know not to go on Twitter and Facebook on, say, a Sunday evening if we don’t want to know what happened on “Mad Men” or “Breaking Bad” or or “Game of Thrones.” (In fact, if you are unfortunate enough to live on the very coast that has created the culture you are consuming, you know to avoid all social media and some actual news sites starting around midafternoon.) To people who watch these shows days later on or iTunes or the DVR or Roku, we endure hours, even days, of excruciating SPOILER anxiety. I’ve perfected a method of sort of scanning Twitter with intentionally , finding information relevant to life outside the confines of my TV habit while averting my eyes from anything remotely plot-related.

Yet when it comes to speculating about what might happen, it’s a free-for-all. Each of Jeff’s imagined scenarios, each out-of-left-field guess on some random person’s Twitter feed, plants a new seed in my brain about a possible outcome. Then when I finally watch the show, that outcome is right there alongside me, distracting me from appreciating the ingenuity and creativity of the actual episode. Someone mentioned on Twitter a Salon writer’s theory that Pete’s obsession with an office window on “Mad Men” last season spelled sure demise via a high-floor plunge, and (SPOILER) though it didn’t, it was all I thought about whenever I saw Pete for the rest of the season.

One growing pain of the new TV-as-worthy-art movement is a need to understand how to talk about shows and how that conversation is different from how (and when) we talk about movies. Unlike movies, TV seasons are doled out in weekly increments. Movies are a different animal. You watch them in one sitting from beginning to end. And though there are people like my father who like to call out obvious plot designations for sport, you can usually make it through a movie mostly uninterrupted. A movie’s narrative can wash over you; its mood can grab hold of you — if it’s good, you are locked under its spell for two hours.

But what if the thing you’re watching gets interrupted at a series of climactic intervals, leaving days or weeks between episodes? In that case, you have two choices. You can wait to see what happens. Or you can send emails and Twitter-debate what might happen: Will Tony Soprano die? Will Peggy quit? Are they all in purgatory after all?

Is this conversation worth what you lose as a result? On one hand, there’s some very interesting conversation about these shows. I have a hunch that the presence of such smart discussion online leads to ever smarter shows on TV. In many of the showrunner interviews I’ve read, there’s an emphasis on the continuing feedback that interaction with fans and culture writers can provide. The conversation is essential to them. Moreover, the conversation is fun.

Yet when you engage in it, you’re sacrificing something else: a virginal view of the material yet to come. I propose that this alternative — not speculating, debating, worrying, postulating — can be just as rewarding, if not more so. Think of watching TV in the primitive days before Twitter. I was a wreck for the several weeks (ancient SPOILERS ahoy) that Bobby Simone died his excruciating, inevitable, yet-I-held-out-hope-until-that-last-episode death on “NYPD Blue.” Another of my favorite shows, “Six Feet Under,” ended long before social media could inform me that of course they all die in the end. Of course they do. No doubt one or many of you smart people out there would have guessed that long before it happened. And instead of sitting in shock during the finale, my hand clutching at my heart, I’d have been forced to make a mental tally of which of my friends called this one correctly, like the results of a Super Bowl or an Oscar pool.

You can have a great conversation. Or you can truly experience a show. But, I’m increasingly convinced, you can’t do both.

Am I making a big deal out of nothing? Maybe. But my whole life — the part not spent watching TV — is already a constant consideration of What Might Happen. In the car, I map out three moves ahead to see who it is that is texting in another car and might cut me off and kill me. At home, I remove tiny Legos from the carpet in anticipation of my husband’s stepping on a sharp edge and screaming. I turn down the ceiling fan so that I don’t get a stiff neck. If we aren’t going to make the turkey burgers by Thursday, we should at least freeze the meat!

TV’s magic, for me, is that it absorbs me completely into its world: a sustained universe in which I can forget about outcomes for a while. Yes, I care what’s going to happen, obviously, but that’s not the same as caring about guessing what’s going to happen before it happens. Make no mistake: I might be in it for the laughter and the tears, but the surprise is what keeps me riveted.

I know that I sound like a total buzz kill. I fully acknowledge that, for some people out there, it’s possible to enjoy both the speculation and the show equally. I watched “Orange Is the New Black” and in the lonely, bingeing way that prescribes, and I missed the buzzy excitement, the common ground for anxiety, the loud, loopy concurrent conversation. Despite all that, I’m through with speculating. You (and Jeff) can watch TV the way you watch a horse race, ticket in hand, sweaty to see if you got it right. I prefer to watch it with wonder, to see something unfold that I could never have imagined. Or rather, that I might have imagined but chose not to instead.
225 2013-11-10 I manage a boutique retail shop and buy my products from various local distributors. I have never felt it wrong to steer business away from sales reps who serviced our account poorly or were too pushy and rude. Is it wrong, however, to steer business away from a rep who has always done a very good job, and who was actually a good friend, but who has done something that I find reprehensible? The offense being that he cheated on his wife. NAME WITHHELD,

You ask whether steering business away from a philanderer is “wrong.” That’s difficult to parse in these circumstances, because it seems as if two different questions are in play simultaneously. The first is “Is it ethically acceptable to make this decision?” The second question is “Is it reasonable to make this decision?” I think the first answer is (definitely) yes, and the second answer is (probably) no.

You’re operating a for-profit business. It’s not a charitable, democratic entity — you’re not responsible for making sure every sales rep has an equal opportunity to earn a living. You can decide which reps you do business with, and you get to dictate the criteria for which business relationships you intend to foster. The fact that you have a standard for which individuals you choose to interact with — only efficient, polite people who don’t cheat on their wives — suggests that morals inform how you operate your enterprise. This is all good. So if this infidelity is something you feel strongly about, I don’t see any ethical problem with jettisoning this sales rep from your day-to-day work life. You can steer your business away from anyone you don’t feel comfortable with, assuming your bias isn’t discriminatory toward an entire class of people.

That said, I don’t think this is a particularly rational decision. Judging from your letter, I’m inferring that you were once friends with this sales rep, which is how you learned these problematic details about his marital life. If you want to end your interpersonal friendship on account of those indiscretions, that’s totally justified. But your business relationship is different. Do you fear that his inability to be faithful to his wife means he will be unscrupulous toward everyone else he encounters? Do you believe people who cheat on their spouses need to be punished by the rest of the society? Are you certain this secondhand information is 100 percent accurate? Those are all extreme positions to adopt. Moreover, your lack of intimate knowledge about other sales reps doesn’t mean they are not crossing the same ethical lines you have drawn for this man. Maybe they’re all having affairs.

Now, I realize there’s a very reasonable response to my argument: “Sure, I can’t know everything about everyone I work with. But I do know this specific thing about this specific guy, and I don’t want him around because of it.” But if this is going to be your policy, you will need to ask some difficult questions about yourself, all your employees and everyone you do business with. Your moral rules should not apply exclusively to the one person who broke them most vividly.
226 2013-11-10 It’s not always easy to follow your heart. It can mean challenging the status quo, defying others’ expectations or, sometimes, discovering that those harboring strong preconceptions had you pegged correctly all along. And while children learn early on that a leopard can’t change his spots, it’s equally important to remember that each pattern is unique. Three new picture books explore the nuances of individuality through the exploits of feral creatures who aren’t always what they appear to be — except, of course, when they are.

In the opening pages of “Mr. Tiger Goes Wild,” the author-illustrator Peter Brown depicts his hero as a bright pop of orange in a sepia-toned, quasi-Victorian city of bipedal deer and penny-farthing-riding squirrels clad in top hats, starched collars and overcoats. The stiffly anthropomorphized creatures maintain smug, sniffy expressions as they raise teacups, greet one another tepidly and admonish playful young rhinos, bears and pigs not to “act like wild animals.” (Though his emerald-eyed, stoic expression never wavers, Mr. Tiger clearly gets the irony.)

As Brown showed in 2009’s “The Curious Garden,” in which a small patch of urban green tended by a determined boy named Liam eventually transforms an entire city, a revolution can begin with a single, small act of defiance. One day, Mr. Tiger gets the “very wild idea” to adopt an all-fours stance, and things quickly progress: soon, he’s scaling row houses and skinny-dipping in the public fountain. A two-page spread shows just how far he’s come — wearing nothing but his stripes, he puffs out his chest and meets the reader’s gaze with a slightly surprised and utterly joyful “Here I am!” expression.

When his fed-up fellow citizens sternly suggest that if he must continue this behavior, he “kindly do so in the wilderness!” the newly liberated cat complies with gusto. “What a magnificent idea!” he roars, gleefully escaping to a Rousseau-like tableau of dense ferns, soaring palms and cascading waterfalls. (Whether by coincidence or design, Henri Rousseau’s 1891 painting “Tiger in a Tropical Storm [Surprised!]” marked the debut of the artist’s famed jungle scenes, earning him the first serious review of his career.) Magnificent solitude has its price, however, and Mr. Tiger soon arrives at a second revelation: “He missed his friends. He missed the city. He missed his home.” The return journey is a lesson in compromise, which isn’t the same thing as defeat. Rather, Mr. Tiger chooses a middle path, and his neighbors meet him halfway.

“How to Hide a Lion” finds another wild animal in an environment intolerant of his very nature. Originally published in Britain, the story begins innocently enough: “One hot day, a lion strolled into town to buy a hat.” The noble beast has a curious, friendly look about the face, but one glance at the fearful townsfolk — this being a conventionally real-world burg inhabited by human beings — tells the reader that the excursion will not go as planned. As startled by the defensive villagers as they are terrified of him, the lion runs off, and lands in the backyard of a girl named Iris, who, as luck would have it, “wasn’t scared of lions.” Using a nostalgic style and subdued palette reminiscent of midcentury Little Golden Books masters like Richard Scarry — whose cover for 1956’s “Winky Dink” also featured a honey-hued lion offset by a similar robin’s-egg-blue background — the author-illustrator Helen Stephens shows how the pair’s friendship develops just outside the myopic view of Iris’s parents, even as the girl’s mother lounges, barefoot in her armchair, reading a tabloid with the front-page headline “Lion on the Run.” Despite the endless capacity for cluelessness among the adults in children’s books, Iris and the lion are eventually found out, and the great cat flees.

From here, the plot follows a reassuringly familiar path: the lion hides in plain sight downtown, between two Patience-and-Fortitude-like stone cousins, a vantage point that allows him to keep an eye on Iris and on the town hall. When two burglars break in and steal “every single one of the mayor’s candlesticks,” the lion pounces, nabbing the thieves and redeeming his reputation. Stephens wraps up her story neatly, with an affectionate callback to its very first page. Iris’s gentle admonishment to her parents — “I told you he was a kind lion” — feels less a rebuke than a reminder to approach the unknown not with prejudgment, but with an open heart.

As in Stephens’s tale, the central characters of “Carnivores” suffer from a public relations problem — though in this case they’ve earned it. Fractured fairy tales and subverted expectations pervade children’s literature, but as much as we may want to sympathize with Aaron Reynolds’s beleaguered lion when “the wildebeests call him ‘bad kitty,’ ” the fact remains: “He’s eaten half the neighborhood.” The great white shark is wounded by talk of “feeding frenzies”; after all, he claims (unconvincingly) “he’s simply a fast eater.” These two, along with the timber wolf who “almost never eats little girls,” make a radical decision: “We’ll go vegetarian!” Meeting in an A.A.-like setting, complete with desperately clutched coffee mugs and chalk-scrawled slogans like “29 Days Without Meat,” the carnivore support group’s efforts nonetheless fail. The wolf tries to survive on a diet of berries, but “every single berry bush seemed to have a bunny inside.” The shark, determined to eat only seaweed, finds it leaves “a horrible kelpy aftertaste in his mouth.”
227 2013-11-10 “You used to have to be really in the know,” he said. “If you’re at a certain punk show at CBGB’s, that had a certain cachet. If you had an original T-shirt from a first Metallica show, that is really something. You’d have to scour record bins to get an original pressing. Now all of that stuff is available via YouTube and eBay. It really changes the dynamic.”

By contrast, few of Mr. Perkins’s punk images were seen until decades later, when an assistant came across the unlabeled negatives in his archives. A book, “Hard Art, DC 1979,” published in June, reveals the origins of the movement that birthed the band Minor Threat and Dischord Records. If he had taken those same photos now, Mr. Perkins said, he would have posted them online right away. The underground culture that no one knew about, that had time to percolate and find its voice, might have instead been discovered tout de suite, with who knows what effect on its artistic output and reach.

Where once the counterculture prided itself on obscurity, now “the idea of being invisible is less seductive to people,” said Fred Ritchin, a professor of photography and imaging at New York University. “More and more things are done to be photographed. They don’t count unless they’re photographed.”

And it once took time for the mainstream to catch up to those images, “for Macy’s to carry a line of clothes that looked punk,” said Ms. Greene, the teenage D.C. punker, now a senior curator of early 19th- and 20th-century art at the Guggenheim Museum. “Now I think the cycles are much more abbreviated.”

Artists who transitioned from avant-garde to pop experienced the pressure of visibility firsthand.

“It was relatively easy,” said David Byrne, “back in the day, to work with only a smallish number of people watching, as we sometimes succeeded and sometimes failed.” In the mid-’70s, the early days of his band Talking Heads, “we felt comfortable trying out different things, songs that were quickly abandoned and stage wear that proved impractical,” he wrote in an email. “That’s all hugely important (the songs part anyway) as it allowed us to explore, refine our identity and go down those musical dead ends without the embarrassment of public scrutiny.”

Now, online exposure can make for an overnight viral sensation. But “it can also destroy and eliminate that crucial period of anonymity,” he said. “The Internet giveth, and the Internet taketh away.”

Artists who document life on the fringes have a bird’s-eye view of these changes. Tod Seelie, a Brooklyn photographer, has spent 15 years shooting in mosh pits and abandoned buildings, images collected in “Bright Nights: Photographs of Another New York,” published this month. It showcases a thriving outsiderness, which has lately become much less rarefied, in part because Mr. Seelie himself has been posting photos online since 2003.

Chroniclers of the underground have always existed. But the visual record, and the urge toward self-portraiture, has made a deeper mark. “People can sort of buy into an aesthetic easier when they have all these images available to them,” Dr. Haenfler said.

Mr. Seelie, 35, who grew up immersed in the punk scene around Cleveland and earned a degree in photography at the Pratt Institute, said his book was heavily inspired by Nan Goldin’s “Ballad of Sexual Dependency,” the 1980s visual diary of her downtown tribe. He lives economically but has few qualms about trading his DIY cred for traditional professional advancement. In his view, authenticity and making a living are not mutually exclusive. What was stigmatized in Mr. Seelie’s punk youth as selling out has been redefined, he said: “Instead of selling out it’s called becoming successful.”

That’s a major leap from the outlook of bohemia in generations past. “We wouldn’t have used the word ‘career,’ ” said the artist and educator Martha Rosler, who made her name in the 1970s. “That is one sure sign that things are changing.”

Mr. Byrne, in his email, noted that the decision, by musicians especially, to commercialize their work — licensing it for ads, for example — was less a creative decision than a pragmatic one, driven by the collapse of the music industry and other fields. “It’s hard to hold on to principles if you can’t pay the rent,” he said.

Self-promotion online may be the norm, but not all digital-age creators are prepared for recognition. Born in 1985, Mike Brodie, a.k.a. the Polaroid Kidd, first picked up a camera at 17, shortly before he hopped his first freight train. He rode away from his home in Pensacola, Fla., making it only as far as Jacksonville, snapping maybe five photos. He was hooked. For the next seven or so years, Mr. Brodie crisscrossed the country, living on trains, taking photos of his fellow hobos. On Polaroids and later 35 millimeter, they are artfully posed and romantically hued images of life on the smudgy social edges.

Naturally, Mr. Brodie put his photos online, uploading them to his website on public library computers and tracking their spread as he continued on the road. His portraits of defiant punks and blissed-out runaways, glimpses of a modern-day, tattooed Robert Frank America on the rails, quickly attracted notice. Soon the Polaroid Kidd had a gallery show and a $10,000 photography prize.

He was 22, and the attention freaked him out.

“I was like, ‘I’m not ready yet,’ ” he said. “My mind was still in the game of taking the pictures. If all of a sudden, I started to get in the art aspect of it and navigating that, it would’ve messed up what I was doing.” His rail-yard friends, too, were not enthused about having their lifestyle identified and enlarged.

He took his website down but returned to the trains, with a new sense of the weight of his work and an urgency about capturing his adventures before they, too, transformed. At the urging of a friend, a collection, “A Period of Juvenile Prosperity,” was published this year, with gallery exhibits in New York and Los Angeles. (Mr. Brodie reluctantly put up a new website.)

The vortex of Internet notoriety is impossible to ignore, Mr. Seelie said, and people who are serious about remaining underground must now keep themselves offline. (Mr. Seelie occasionally photographs events whose organizers ask him not to post the images.) At 28, Mr. Brodie has stopped riding trains and given up photography. He studied to be a diesel mechanic and is now apprenticing in Oakland, Calif.

He’s proud of his work but wishes he hadn’t put the photos online. ““It would’ve just been cool,” he said, adding: “A lot of people did take to riding trains after seeing the pictures online, and they wear the whole outfit, the suspenders and the hats with feathers in it, and don’t wash their pants for three months. More power to them.”

Mr. Seelie, too, did not bemoan the loss of exclusivity that the Internet affords. “People who are like, ‘I’m the only one that knows about this cool subculture’ — you’re a snob,” he said. “It’s kind of un-punk to be a snob.”

If renegade artists once stood in opposition, now they may welcome crossover. Mr. Byrne cautioned that commercial forces could still ghettoize artists, but “the breaking down of boundaries and definitions is indeed encouraging,” he said. “I love that part.”

And aided by technology, subcultures are expanding, Dr. Haenfler pointed out. There are more tools and inspiration, more examples of how to succeed on the margins, and so more people try. The net effect, though, is that it’s just as hard to be found.

The underground is closer to the surface now. But it takes an equal amount of resolve to dive in.
228 2013-11-10 “They grew and grew and grew until there were Bulldogs everywhere you looked,” Jerry Dyer, Fresno’s police chief, said.

The mascot now plays a double role as football icon and gang symbol. Confusing the two can have fatal consequences. In 2011, Stephen Maciel, a father of four who the police said had no gang affiliation, was shot and killed by a Bulldogs gang member in a liquor store parking lot. Maciel was wearing a red Fresno State shirt.

The gang’s embrace of the bulldog logo has put university administrators in an excruciatingly awkward position amid a gang crisis that has claimed hundreds of lives. The situation has vexed them, even as sales of Fresno State apparel and merchandise increased tenfold since the gang took hold in the city. The university has considered dropping the logo, and has approached law enforcement officials for guidance.

The issue is trickier than ever this season, with the football team 8-0 and ranked in the top 20 nationally. An adage here says the city’s cultural season starts with the first kickoff. And it is true: the Bulldogs are ascendant. Discussion of recent games is heard up and down the radio dial. Billboards feature the top players, including quarterback Derek Carr, a contender for the Heisman Trophy.

The police, meanwhile, have made cracking down on the Bulldogs gang a top priority, with some success. But the Bulldogs are still dangerous enough to have cost the lives of Maciel and others.

“If you love sports, you want to be all geared up in the team’s colors,” said Maciel’s widow, Marisol Aguirre. “But I don’t wear any of it anymore, and I don’t let my kids wear it. It’s too dangerous.”

Some 220 miles north of Los Angeles and 200 miles south of San Francisco, Fresno is close to the geographic center of a state known at times for a bitter rivalry between north and south. Tensions arise over everything from water rights to disputes between Los Angeles Dodgers fans and San Francisco Giants fans.

But the bloodiest divide might be between two gangs, the Sureños and the Norteños, who for decades have engaged in one of the most protracted, guerrilla-style wars in state history.

The Sureños — Spanish for southerners — wear blue and originated in and are connected with Southern California. The Norteños, or northerners, wear red and have come to dominate northern parts of the state, though both gangs have spread throughout the United States. Law enforcement officials believe that the dividing line between territories claimed by the Norteños and the Sureños lies less than 80 miles south of here.

Nearly every Latino gang of note in the state is affiliated with either the Sureños or the Norteños. Except the Bulldogs.

Law enforcement officials now consider the Bulldogs to be the country’s largest independent street gang. The police have verified some 6,000 Bulldogs gang members here, but there are as many as 24,000 more, according to the Fresno County district attorney’s office.

Why the Bulldogs gang became independent remains unclear. What prison officials do know is that in 1984 a war broke out at San Quentin State Prison between a gang based in Fresno called F14 and Nuestra Familia, a Mexican-American gang started in the 1960s.

Nuestra Familia is headquartered inside the state’s prisons, from where it controls the street-level Norteños. The Fresno gang members had been working for Nuestra Familia, moving drugs up and down the state and, when ordered, fighting and killing Nuestra Familia rivals.

“We were the grunts doing all the work and catching all the time,” said Marcelino Garcia, 21, a Bulldogs gang member who joined the ranks at age 12 and was tutored in the gang’s ways by older men who were at San Quentin in 1984 during what many Bulldogs now call the Separation.

In 1985, Fresno State fielded a football team that became the stuff of local legend. It was the only N.C.A.A. Division I-A team to be undefeated that year at 11-0-1. Led by a player known as Stephen Baker the touchdown maker, the squad was one of the highest-scoring teams in N.C.A.A. history. Football was popular in Fresno, but the team’s success created a particularly frenzied fan base with a heightened sense of pride in the Bulldogs and the stretch of agricultural land they called home.

“That was our shining moment here in Fresno,” said Eric Cervantes, a detective with the Fresno County sheriff’s office. “That was our best football team ever. The whole town went crazy.”

Among those rabid fans were members of this nascent, newly independent gang, who for more than a year had been tossing around potential names and identities for themselves. They considered the Fresno City Players, the Midnight Cruisers and the Sinners, but nothing seemed to stick, said Natividad Mendoza, 42, a former Bulldogs gang member who was incarcerated 16 times from 1985 to 2003.

“The Bulldogs started as a name that everyone could identify with,” Mendoza said. “In Fresno, football is huge. The Bulldogs are like an N.F.L. team. They were a real prideful team, the scrappiest in the N.C.A.A. They would go up against anyone any time and play their hearts out.”

The gang respected, and identified with, those aggressive, underdog qualities in the team.

By 1986, prison officials acknowledged the presence of a distinguishable new gang in prisons across the state. Members called themselves the Bulldogs. They wore red Fresno State T-shirts, hats and jerseys, and boldly tattooed the bulldog mascot with its sharp-toothed snarl and spiked collar on their heads, backs, chests, necks and faces.

“We would watch the football games in prison,” said Mendoza, who left the gang in 2003 and now runs a Christian gang prevention program in Phoenix. “Other gangs would bet on the other teams, but the Bulldogs always bet on the Bulldogs. They were our team.”

The gang members eschewed the top-down hierarchy of Nuestra Familia and other established gangs, preferring instead a looser structure with fewer leaders and fewer rules. On the streets, any of them could sell drugs, fight or work as pimps as they pleased. In prison they refused to make alliances with other gangs.

“They’ll fight everybody, Norteños, Sureños, blacks, Asians, whites, anybody,” said Cervantes, an expert on the gang through his work with the county’s Multi-Agency Gang Enforcement Consortium, or Magec.

As Bulldogs were released from prison, the gang grew to dominate street-level crime here. It took over prostitution and drug sales, stole cars and burglarized houses and businesses. Members identified one another and intimidated enemies by barking like angry dogs.

By 2006, the gang was responsible for 70 percent of all shootings here, the police said. In this city of nearly 506,000 people, some 60 percent of the 52 murders that year were gang-related, and most of them pointed to Bulldogs.

As they multiplied, so too did their enemies.

In 2003, while visiting her parents in Atwater, Calif., about 70 miles north of here, Lyndsay Hawthorne, a Fresno State sophomore, went running in her Bulldogs T-shirt. She was trailed by a car full of Sureños who shot at her, shouting that her shirt was not welcome in their town. The bullets missed Hawthorne, sending sparks off the pavement around her.

“It was very scary,” said her father, Richard, who was a commander with the Atwater Police Department at the time. “I took that shirt away from her.”

To grow its numbers, the Bulldogs gang recruited around elementary schools and high schools. In the early 1990s, the gang presence was so big among youth that city schools banned Fresno State Bulldogs clothing on school property. The ban was soon extended to Georgetown Hoyas apparel, which also features a bulldog.

“It is unfortunate because we work hard to create a college-going culture in our schools, but we just cannot have students wearing this stuff; it causes too many problems,” said Tim Liles, the principal at Sunnyside High School in Fresno. Schools here eventually had to ban all attire featuring professional and college sports logos.

Unsettled by the sudden rise of thousands of violent gang members wearing their university’s apparel, officials at California State University, Fresno, requested a meeting with law enforcement officials in 2007. They were considering changing the logo and wanted advice.

“There was considerable discussion at that time about whether or not they should change the logo or the mascot away from being a bulldog because of the fact that we had this Bulldog gang in Fresno that had become notorious,” Dyer, the police chief, said. “My advice was absolutely not. Do not touch the logo. How dare these gang members think they can hijack the mascot from our university? If you change it, the gang wins.”

The gang is certainly not the first criminal enterprise to usurp the symbol of a sports team. The F.B.I. keeps a list of dozens of gangs and the sports logos they have commandeered. For example, the Crips often wear Dallas Cowboys gear, and the Bloods opt for Chicago Bulls gear.

“We find gangs using sports teams’ logos and clothing as gang identification to be very common,” said Whitney Malkin, a spokeswoman for the F.B.I. “Most gangs choose to use sports paraphernalia with the same color schemes as their gang or paraphernalia of teams that originate from the area that they operate in.”

Still, the situation here is different in that a homegrown gang has so thoroughly expropriated the logo of the region’s university.

Just how the gang’s enthusiasm for all things Fresno State Bulldogs has affected sales and licensing of the merchandise is difficult to determine. The university declined to comment on the gang situation or to facilitate access to coaches, players and any information about licensing. But many college athletic programs depend on money generated by apparel sales. In 2012, the market for licensed college merchandise was estimated at $4.62 billion, according to the Collegiate Licensing Company, the largest trademark licensing agency in the country.

Despite the potential dangers brought on by wearing Bulldogs apparel, it would appear the gang might have been a boon for sales. Last year, Fresno State ranked 69th on the licensing company’s list of the top 75 universities by royalties raised through merchandise sales. A 2008 article in The Collegian, Fresno State’s student paper, cited a tenfold increase in licensing royalties between 2000 and 2008, the same years the number of Bulldogs gang members rose sharply.

“I would guess a lot of the sales of Bulldogs merchandise comes from the gang buying stuff,” said Nick Lopez, a 2010 Fresno State graduate and football season-ticket holder. “Normal fans will buy more gear when the team is good, but the gang does not care if the team is good or bad — they’ll buy it anyway.”

Lopez often feels people assume he is a gang member when he wears his Fresno State shirts, he said. He has been tempted to carry around his diploma to prove which type of Bulldog he is.

In addition to licensed Bulldogs apparel, it is not uncommon to see unlicensed Bulldogs gear for sale in liquor stores and discount grocery stores here.

“Retailers in this city will put Fresno State and a bulldog on whatever red thing they can find and try to sell it whether it is licensed or unlicensed,” said Al Smith, president and chief executive of the Fresno Chamber of Commerce. “People cannot know if they’re selling to sports fans or gang members; if someone comes in with a 20-dollar bill and wants the hat, you’re not going to frisk him first. You’re going to give him the hat.”

By 2006, gang members were walking around downtown on sweltering summer days without shirts, flaunting their bulldog tattoos. The city had reached its boiling point, and no one was quite sure what to do about it.

On July 31 that year, while on a routine traffic stop, a Fresno motorcycle officer was shot point blank by a Bulldogs gang member. The officer spent 31 days in an intensive care unit and nearly died. Within months, the police department started Operation Bulldog, adopting a zero-tolerance policy toward the gang.

If a gang member was involved in a crime, the investigation became a top priority. “The gang stole the mascot from our university, which prevented the kids in our schools from being able to support the team by wearing the uniform,” Dyer, the police chief, said. “We wanted the Bulldog gang to know that we as a community were tired of their reign.”

Within a year, Operation Bulldog had yielded 1,908 arrests, filling jails and nearby prisons with Bulldogs. Certain neighborhoods became almost nightly battlegrounds between the police and the gang. Gang members phoned in death threats to officers and the chief.

Operation Bulldog ended in 2010, after more than 12,000 arrests. The crackdown forced some of the gang members out of Fresno, and law enforcement officials here now regularly get calls from Wyoming, Montana, Oregon and other states reporting the arrest of people with Fresno State mascot tattoos. Several members of the county’s gang task force travel regularly to serve as expert witnesses at criminal trials for displaced Bulldogs.

These days, Bulldogs are responsible for about 30 percent of all of the city’s shootings, a 40 percent drop from seven years ago. Still, evidence of the gang is everywhere.

There are now about 30 subgroups of Bulldogs. On two recent nights patrolling the streets, Magec officers encountered more than a dozen people they believed to be Bulldogs. In one apartment they arrested a known Bulldog who went by the gang name Droopy. They found him in violation of his parole with methamphetamine, a gun under the bed and Fresno State recruiting posters taped to the wall.

About 75 percent of the inmates in the Fresno County jail are Bulldogs gang members.

Still, “there are a lot of people in this community that have bulldogs tattooed on their neck or face or arms who are not Bulldog gang members any longer,” the police chief said. “I go to church with people who have bulldogs tattooed on them.”

While the Fresno State athletics department declined to comment, former players like Wiggins spoke freely about their football days and the parallel worlds of the Bulldogs — one on the field, the other on the street.

“They were our biggest fans,” Wiggins said. “I remember walking through the mall in Fresno one day after a game and seeing this scary looking guy with a huge bulldog tattoo on his head and face. He came right up to me and said, ‘Hey, you’re Kenny Wiggins, great tackle last night!' ”

Despite the violence on the streets, on game days Bulldog Stadium seems to be a sanctuary, a safe zone. Everybody wears Fresno State Bulldogs gear. There have been no reports of gang-related fights at football games, the police said. “At games everybody is pulling for the Fresno State Bulldogs, even the Bulldog gang members,” Dyer said. “No one is there to fight.”

“I never really had an issue with the gang; they were big football fans,” said David Carr, who attended Fresno State and was the No. 1 pick in the 2002 N.F.L. draft.

David Carr, Derek’s brother, remembers climbing a fence and sneaking onto the field at Fresno State’s stadium. In high school he was recruited as a quarterback by Fresno’s head coach then, Pat Hill. “Coach Hill thought there were enough football players in the Central Valley to compete with any team,” Carr, 34, said. “He wanted the entire valley to be all about Bulldog football. He called it painting the Valley red.”

The gang had a similar aim; they too wanted to see Central Valley residents in Fresno State red, puffed up with Bulldog pride and ready to crush rivals. Like the football coach, the gang scoured schools looking for young talent.

It was in the summer after sixth grade that Garcia, now 21, joined the gang. Violence at home and bullying at school made him an easy recruit. After being beaten by a half-dozen older gang members for two minutes (a process the gang calls jumping in), Garcia was told, “Welcome to the family.”

He started wearing Fresno State Bulldogs T-shirts. He watched football games with the gang, fought alongside members and barked with them. “If I didn’t have a place to stay, they would find me a place to stay,” he said. “If someone messed with me, I’d call them and that person would get hurt.”

With Garcia’s gang affiliation and the paw print tattoo on his forearm came a sense of pride and protection. “The way I see it, I’m a Bulldog, I’m from Fresno, everywhere I walk here in the Central Valley is mine,” he said.

But it also brings with it the prospect of violence. At times, he said, he has wanted to leave the gang, but he finds it impossible to extricate himself from the sticky Bulldogs web, extending as it does into multiple generations of families and across whole neighborhoods. “I’m 21, I’ve lost nine friends already, five of them who I personally saw die,” he said.

A few days before a home football game against Boise State, Garcia was shot in the leg in a fight with another gang. Rather than go to a hospital, where he would be reported to the police, Garcia opted for the underground network of services provided by the Bulldogs. A former Army medic and gang associate removed the bullet in Garcia’s calf.

At the game, thousands gathered hours beforehand to grill food, drink beer and toss footballs in the lingering Central Valley summer heat. The smell of fertilizer, livestock and dust mingled with smoke. Many in the capacity crowd, particularly the white fans, said they felt no threat from the gang and were comfortable wearing Bulldogs apparel. But about half of Fresno County’s population is Latino, and because the Bulldogs gang is nearly all Mexican-American, the risk is more palpable for many Latinos here.

Hector Munoz, 33, proudly wore his red Bulldogs shirt while tailgating with friends outside the stadium. He graduated from Fresno State in 2006 and works as a correctional officer in a state prison. An attendee at all home games, Munoz said he sometimes saw Bulldogs gang members he recognized from work out on parole and at the games.

“As a Hispanic male, I cannot go to Disneyland or to a Giants game in San Francisco wearing this shirt or people will mistake me for a gang member,” Munoz said. “Only in Fresno do I feel safe wearing this shirt; this is Bulldog territory.”
229 2013-11-10 The bulldog is no longer just the sports mascot at Fresno State. It has been appropriated by a violent street gang called the Bulldogs, vexing university officials....
230 2013-11-11 STOCK--Dr. Richard John, an eminent cardiologist and emeritus Clinical Professor of Medicine at Columbia University, passed away peacefully on November 7, 2013 at his home in New York City. He had a second residence in Sagaponack, NY. His first wi...
231 2013-11-11 “Queen of the Night” will relaunch the Diamond Horseshoe in the basement of the Paramount Hotel....
232 2013-11-11 Several ideas about using financial instruments and a for-profit approach in the world of nonprofits are now taking hold....
233 2013-11-11 As more colleges find and judge applicants’ social media posts, parents wonder whether their high-school-aged children should censor their online activities....
234 2013-11-11 From buying a home to paying for college, our financial decisions seem more complex, and it often seems as if things are far beyond our control. It leads to a feeling of anxiety. Plus, we’re so busy making money, trying to make ends meet, that it seems all but impossible to manage it in any meaningful way. Who has the time to track a monthly budget?

Sounds chaotic, right? It’s moments like these, when we’re overwhelmed and unsure of what to do next, that we should remember the musician Brian Eno’s wise words:

I think Ron Lieber’s “Financial Tuneup” offers a perfect example of this tidying-up advice:

“To be a modern American consumer is to be plagued by a never-ending, guilt-inducing stream of undone tasks,” he writes. “Knocking these things off can get rid of the low-grade anxiety that results from the under-optimization of your financial life. But the real appeal is green cash money. If you could just cross a bunch of items off your list, there might be four figures in annual savings awaiting you.”

Curious how to tidy up your financial chaos? I suggest doing these three things:

1. Realize that the universe doesn’t like order.

We may like order, but the universe doesn’t, as Adam Frank, a professor of physics and astronomy at the University of Rochester, writes in a September piece on NPR's website: "Physicists discovered that universe’s inevitable slide from order to chaos is the forward movement of time. They even have a name for it: entropy. And entropy’s cosmic increase is demanded by the new piece of physics they discovered: the (hallowed) second law of thermodynamics.

The forward march of chaos — from your newly tidied desk to the eventual mess it will return to — that is the second law of thermodynamics and the forward movement of time.”

Since we can’t fight the second law of thermodynamics, it seems wise for us to reset our expectations. Making the bed once doesn’t mean it will never need to be made again. Yes, we can add order to our lives, but like a garden, it will need regular tending or the weeds will choke out the good stuff. By understanding that chaos is a part of things, we can take some steps to counter its worst effects.
235 2013-11-11 The Justice Department’s prosecution of SAC Capital Advisors raises the question of who the victims of a violation are....
236 2013-11-11 The industry is increasingly turning to self-help programs, sometimes referred to as “mindware” products, to try to improve its game....
237 2013-11-11 Matt Chesler joined the New York office of MDC Partners as vice president of investor relations. He had been an equity research analyst at the New York office of Deutsche Bank, following companies in fields like advertising (including MDC), media and measurement.

Cornerstone hired four employees for its creative division. They are: Winifred Chance, director of events, in the New York headquarters; Chloe Slobotkin, account coordinator, in the Los Angeles office; Doug Smiley, account director, in New York; and Caitlin Stevens, account coordinator, in New York.

Kerry Fitzmaurice joined Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had been director of new business and communications at the New York office of Mother and before that worked at another MDC agency, 72andSunny.

Jeremy Hlavacek, vice president of operations and strategic partnerships at the WeatherFX unit of the Weather Company, was named to a new post, vice president of programmatic at the Weather Company, based in New York. The Weather Company is owned by NBCUniversal, part of Comcast; Bain Capital; and the Blackstone Group.

Kaley Hoffman joined Azione PR, New York, in a new post, vice president for marketing and public relations, leading a new sports division. She had most recently been vice president for sports marketing and public relations at CounterPoint Sports.

Caroline Horner joined the New York office of Rentrak in a new post, senior vice president for product innovation. She had most recently been managing partner and director of advanced segmentations and analytics at GroupM, New York, part of WPP.

Interactive Solutions, a digital agency in Poznan and Warsaw, Poland, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed. The agency will be combined with Saatchi & Saatchi Poland, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of Publicis.

Yaniv Kanfi joined Factory Design Labs, Denver, in a new post, executive vice president for digital. He had been vice president for product and technology at Big Spaceship, Brooklyn.

Michael Kassan, chairman and chief executive at MediaLink, Los Angeles and New York, will provide radio reports on advertising and media on WOR-AM (710), New York. The show, “Medialinked – Inside Advertising and Media With Michael Kassan,” will be presented three times each day on WOR and will also be available on wor710.com and the iHeartRadio.com website. The show comes after Mr. Kassan became a special adviser to the chairman of Clear Channel Media and Entertainment, which owns WOR. Mr. Kassan also reported for WOR on Advertising Week 2013 in New York.

Ken Kunze joined Craft Brew Alliance, Portland, Ore., in a new post, chief marketing officer, responsible for the marketing and management of beer brand families that include Kona Brewing, Redhook Brewing and Widmer Brothers Brewing. He had been chief marketing officer at the Sabra Dipping Company, a joint venture of PepsiCo and the Strauss Group of Israel, and before that was chief marketing officer at Heineken USA.

Peter Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, hired three employees. They are: Kimberly Cadena, a strategist; Melissa Moran, an associate art director; and John Rushing, a studio specialist.

Kerry Mitchell joined Maxus Canada, Toronto, part of Maxus, in a new post, growth driver. She has worked for companies that include InBusiness Media and Rogers Media. Maxus is part of the GroupM division of WPP.

James Morris, managing partner and head of operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa for MediaCom Beyond Advertising, London — part of the MediaCom division of GroupM, owned by WPP – was named to a new post, global head of MediaCom Beyond Advertising.

Ole Smoky Distillery, Gatlinburg, Tenn., selected Blackboard Company, Austin, Tex., to produce a campaign for its Ole Smoky Moonshine brand. Billings were not disclosed. Ole Smoky Distillery had previously created advertising internally.

Roth Associates, New York, and the Observatory International, London, which are consultancies that help marketers manage their relationships with advertising agencies, are merging to form Roth Observatory International. Financial terms were not disclosed. The merger, which creates a consultancy with 10 offices around the world, comes six years after the two companies formed a joint venture to collaborate on certain assignments. Stuart Pocock, managing partner at the Observatory International, becomes managing partner at Roth Observatory International. Dick Roth, president at Roth Associates, becomes managing partner and president for North America at Roth Observatory International.

Steve Shalit, advertising director of technology and telecommunications at The New York Times, was promoted to vice president for advertising, overseeing the technology and telecommunications category as well as the Atlanta sales office.

SiteScout, Toronto, was acquired for almost $40 million in cash and stock by Centro, Chicago. SiteScout, which operates a so-called real-time bidding platform for buyers of digital advertising, will be integrated into the Centro buying platform. Paul Mokbel, chief executive at SiteScout, will become an executive at Centro.

StrawberryFrog, New York, part of APCO Worldwide, closed its office in Amsterdam, affecting about a dozen employees there as well as eight in New York who worked on accounts that had been handled by the Amsterdam office.

Dennis Syrkowski joined Phoenix Marketing International, Rhinebeck, N.Y., in a new post, president of its automotive division. He had been managing global accounts in the automotive sector at Maritz, Southfield, Mich.

Ryan Wofford joined the Atlanta office of BFG Communications in a new post, director of digital strategy. He had most recently been director of digital and social media at Melt, Atlanta.
238 2013-11-11 How to dominate a trade show. Twenty apps for small businesses. Do you check up on workers who take sick days to see if they really are sick?...
239 2013-11-11 The collapse of two Bear Stearns hedge funds was among the earliest signs of the impending financial crisis. More than six years later, lawyers continue to fight over the cause of their demise.
240 2013-11-11 Liquidators seeking to recover money for investors in two hedge funds filed the lawsuit on Monday against Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s....
241 2013-11-11 Regulators and investors face the challenge of finding the fine line between permissible trading and market manipulation....
242 2013-11-11 The owner was able to connect with the new exchange site without difficulty, and his first impression was quite positive....
243 2013-11-11 Metropolitan Diary: A Jackson Heights woman was startled at an abbreviated job description posted in a grocery store....
244 2013-11-11 OLYMPIA, Wash. — The Washington State Legislature passed a measure on Saturday to extend nearly $9 billion in tax breaks for Boeing through 2040 in an embattled effort to entice the company to locate production of its newest jet, the 777X, in the Seattle area.

Lawmakers acknowledged, however, that their efforts would most likely be undermined if the airplane maker’s machinists union votes down a proposed labor contract due to go before the membership on Wednesday.

A contract locking in Boeing’s labor costs, along with the tax incentives, is crucial to state officials’ plan to keep the 777X production local. Boeing has said that without approval of the labor contract, it would be looking at other potential locations.

Industry experts say Washington faces competition from states including South Carolina, where Boeing assembles some of its 787 Dreamliners, as well as Texas and Utah.

Japan, whose heavy industry builds wings for the Dreamliner, is seen as a contender to build the wings for the 777X, the longest wings designed for a Boeing jetliner.

The tax measure passed the Washington State Senate by a vote of 42 to 2 on Saturday, with the State House later approving it on a 75-to-11 vote.

Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat, said on Saturday that he planned to sign the measure this week.

The $9 billion measure would extend aerospace tax breaks set to expire in 2024 through 2040 and enact incentives for building airplane factories on the condition that Boeing site its 777X wing fabrication and final assembly in Washington State.
245 2013-11-11 “We feel that the carrot is better than the stick,” said Larry Hicks, a spokesman for Covered California. “This is a new endeavor. We want people to come in and test our wares.”

But there is also the dirty little secret of the penalty: It is a bit of a chimera, because the federal government cannot use its usual tools like fines, liens or criminal prosecutions to punish people who do not pay it. The penalty is supposed to be reported and paid with the income tax returns of those who do not buy insurance, but the government has not said how it will collect from those who owe it but do not pay it, though the law allows it to deduct from any income tax refunds.

“It might be that they want to be positive,” said Michael Cannon, director of health policy studies at the conservative Cato Institute. “But it’s also the case that an informed customer is not their best customer.”

And for many healthy middle-class people, a side-by-side comparison might suggest that it would be more cost-effective to pay the penalty than to buy insurance.

In 2014, a family with two adults and two or more children, for example, would pay $285 or 1 percent of the family’s income over the $20,300 filing threshold, whichever is greater; those jump to $2,085 or 2.5 percent by 2016 and rise with inflation after that.

For instance, a family of four making $59,000 a year could face a choice between a $387 penalty the first year or, in a typical “silver” or midpriced policy offered on the California exchange, a premium of nearly $4,800 after the federal subsidy, with a $4,000 deductible, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation subsidy calculator. There is variation from plan to plan, but the deductible typically would not apply to doctor visits, preventive care, lab tests or generic drugs, although some regular co-payments would apply.

“Are they going to buy it?” said Robert Laszewski, president of Health Policy and Strategy Associates, a health care industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. “I don’t mean this as an attack on Obamacare. I think it’s a difficult political problem.”

The federal website, which serves residents of 36 states, appears to acknowledge this problem in a not-quite-threatening way: “If someone who can afford health insurance doesn’t have coverage in 2014, they may have to pay a fee. They also have to pay for all of their health care.”

The penalty, despite its unpopularity, is the glue that holds the Affordable Care Act together. Unless people are forced to buy insurance, health policy experts say, young and healthy people may stay away, leaving only the more expensive patients in the plans, which will quickly drive up premiums. And it was the penalty that the United States Supreme Court relied on to uphold the individual mandate, reasoning that it was a legal use of Congress’s taxing authority.

The sotto-voce treatment of the penalty resembles the strategy Massachusetts used when it set up its universal health insurance program several years ago. It took a sales approach at first, using the Red Sox in its campaign to appeal to men, who tend to be a little more resentful of being pushed into something, said Jon Kingsdale, the executive director for the first four years.

In November 2007, with barely two months left to sign up, his state began emphasizing the penalty, and volume soared, he said. “That was very effective as a call to action,” Mr. Kingsdale said.

Directors of state exchanges said that as happened in Massachusetts, a new phase of advertising that incorporates the penalty may kick in as the sign-up deadline approaches. Last month, the Obama administration said people who signed up for coverage by March 31 would avoid the penalty; previously the date was Feb. 15.

Some people are exempt from the penalty, including those with religious objections to insurance or with incomes too low to require a tax return, and those who cannot find a plan costing less than 8 percent of their income.

Officials at the Health and Human Services Department, which runs the federal exchange, would not answer questions about the marketing of the penalty.

But officials at Enroll America, a nonprofit agency that is promoting the new marketplace, said they were deliberately playing down the penalty in favor of themes that tested well with focus groups: financial assistance, core benefits, no one being turned away for pre-existing conditions, and easy comparison shopping. “That doesn’t mean that the penalty or the mandate isn’t an important piece of the law from a policy perspective,” said Sophie Stern, a senior policy analyst for the agency. “But from a messaging perspective, this is what we find resonates best.”

The approach is evident in a vast expanse of cubicles in an office park outside Albany, with panoramic views of low-lying mountains, where dozens of newly hired customer service representatives answer the calls of New Yorkers with questions about the state’s exchange.

They rattle off information about the “metal levels” — bronze, silver, gold and platinum plans — and deductibles and copays. But they are not supposed to volunteer that by law, having health insurance is now mandatory for most people. If someone asks — and occasionally people do, the customer service agents say — they pull up a script that says, “The Affordable Care Act requires that if you can afford health coverage, you must get coverage or pay a penalty.”

Donna Frescatore, executive director of New York’s exchange, said focus groups preferred positive messaging, hence the state’s message, “Today’s the day that you can have information.” The campaign, she said, “is about health as opposed to the burden of illness.”

Likewise, Minnesota has gone upbeat with its humorous ads, which feature a replica of a roadside Paul Bunyan statue suffering various injuries. Oregon has a YouTube video in which Laura Gibson, a folk singer, wearing a red dress and strumming a guitar, stands in a green field as she sings about living in a place “where I’m free to be healthy and happy and strong.”

“We don’t have any messaging related to the penalty or the mandate, and that’s intentional,” said Amy Fauver, a spokeswoman for Cover Oregon, the state exchange. “Because first of all, we don’t enforce it, it’s really not ours to enforce, and we really feel like there is so much to celebrate in terms of benefits.”
246 2013-11-11 The Senate’s confirmation of two new members to the Federal Election Commission, one of the most dysfunctional and politically riven agencies in Washington, offers a ray of hope. The work of the commission has been stymied for months thanks to a standoff engineered by obstinate Republicans.

Voters confused by all the dark-money campaign manipulation triggered by the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision deserve relief. The arrival of the two new commissioners could help. They are Ann Ravel, a Democrat known for strong enforcement of California’s cutting-edge campaign laws, and Lee Goodman, a Republican considered one of the capital’s more knowledgeable campaign finance lawyers. Both are promising a fresh outlook and the hope that the commission will face up to its most basic responsibilities.

The six-member panel, split evenly between the parties, is supposed to serve as a vigorous campaign referee, but politicians exploit its inertia. Its worst failure has been its inability to write new campaign regulations to require full disclosure of contributions by deep-pocketed corporate and union donors, as envisioned by the Citizens United ruling. The Supreme Court said in that case that disclosure would allow citizens to “see whether elected officials are ‘in the pocket’ of so-called moneyed interests.”

The in-the-pocket risk of corruption grows as the dark-money machines become even more aggressive. Secret money totaled more than $1 billion last year, with a greater torrent already building for the next election cycle. Voters need to be able to track scheming donors. And that can happen only if the new commissioners can bring the agency back to life.
247 2013-11-11 The debate over the effect the Affordable Care Act will have on individuals and families who buy their own policies has mostly been waged in anecdotes. Supporters of the law point to grateful individuals who were previously unable to get or paid exorbitant premiums but found affordable coverage on the new exchanges. Critics counter with frustrated people who liked their old policies but will now be forced to buy a more comprehensive policy and pay a higher premium for it.

As it turns out, there are estimates of how many people might fall into one category or the other. Up to seven million people may be able to get health policies without paying any premium at all. Some four million people may have to pay more for new (and better) policies, not all of whom will necessarily be upset at getting better coverage at a competitive rate.

As Reed Abelson and Katie Thomas reported in The Times last week, three independent estimates by Wall Street analysts found that five million to seven million people will qualify for federal subsidies that will exceed the cost of the cheapest plans for individuals and families on the exchanges. Neither the Obama administration nor the insurance companies, however, are promoting the plans vigorously. They believe that many consumers would be better off paying a bit more for a policy that would cover more of the out-of-pocket costs for a doctor’s visit or hospital stay.

In the wake of the federal website problems, there’s worry about whether the administration can reach its goal of enrolling seven million uninsured Americans in 2014. Surely the five million to seven million eligible for zero-premium policies would be an easy sell. About half of them are under age 39 and uninsured, the kind of young people the exchanges need to broaden the risk pools. Health officials should pull out all the stops to identify and enroll them.

There is no official estimate of how many higher-income earners who have been buying individual policies would pay more when forced to buy new policies. Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at the who played a role in shaping the Affordable Care Act, estimates 12 million people are currently covered by policies bought on the individual market. He says that, after factoring in subsidies on the exchanges, perhaps eight million will be covered by less costly policies next year, and four million will be covered by more expensive policies, which often provide richer benefits.

Individuals facing higher premiums are understandably distressed. But there is no getting around the fact that health reform changes the status quo — including requiring insurance companies to provide essential health benefits that were not previously covered and to take on people who were rejected before because of their health.
248 2013-11-11 ■ Gustavo Martinez will join JWT, New York, part of WPP, as global president, a new post, effective in February, and will become the next worldwide chief executive of JWT as of Jan. 1, 2015. At that time, Bob Jeffrey, worldwide chairman and chief executive of JWT, is to become nonexecutive chairman of the agency. Mr. Martinez will join JWT from the McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, where he was president for Europe and Asia. Mr. Jeffrey became worldwide chairman and chief executive of JWT in 2004 after serving as president at JWT North America and president at JWT New York.

■ Brent Smart, a worldwide managing director at Saatchi & Saatchi New York, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe, was named chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi New York. He succeeds Durk Barnhill, who is taking a new post at Saatchi & Saatchi, business development director, after serving as chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi New York for 14 months.

■ Jim Silburn, director for client services at Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, was promoted to president, assuming duties from Christine Fruechte, who continues as chief executive.

■ Lars Bastholm joined Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., part of the Publicis Groupe, as global chief creative officer, a new post. He most recently was chief creative officer at Cheil USA, New York, part of Cheil Worldwide.

■ Ian Reichenthal and Scott Vitrone joined Barton F. Graf 9000, New York, as partners and executive creative directors, new posts at the agency. They had been executive creative directors at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy. The shift reunites the pair with Gerry Graf, chief creative officer at Barton F. Graf 9000; the three men worked together at TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

■ Christian Cocker joined RPA, Santa Monica, Calif., as senior vice president and group strategic planning director on the Honda account, a new post at the agency. He was senior vice president and group planning director at Deutsch L.A., part of the Deutsch unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

■ USO, Arlington, Va., is introducing a campaign, “Every moment counts,” that asks Americans to take a moment to thank the members of the armed forces for their service. The centerpiece of the campaign, timed for Veterans Day, is a special website usomoments.org. The campaign is to get under way with events in cities like Las Vegas, New York and Phoenix. The campaign is being created by USO and Cone, Boston, part of the Omnicom Group.

■ Shipyard, Columbus, Ohio, which will specialize in helping marketers acquire and keep customers, is being started by Rick Milenthal, as chairman; he recently left Engauge Marketing, Columbus, where he was executive chairman, after its sale to the Publicis Groupe. Two companies in which Mr. Milenthal invested, Fugent and People to My Site, will become part of Shipyard; Ben Clarke, chief executive at People to My Site, was named president and chief technology officer at Shipyard.

■ Bottle Rocket, Dallas, which specializes in mobile apps, was acquired by WPP, London. Financial terms were not disclosed. The agency, which has about 170 employees, will operate as an autonomous unit of WPP.

■ Edmunds.com, Santa Monica, Calif., is planning its first national advertising, with a commercial by the company’s creative agency, Publicis Kaplan Thaler, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe. The campaign is to begin with a commercial proclaiming Edmunds.com employees as “car people,” that is to start appearing online on Monday and then run on television beginning on Dec. 25. The campaign, with a budget estimated at more than $10 million, follows a test of television advertising in four markets last year, when Edmunds.com was focused on providing research and information that would make car shopping easier. Now, the company is focused on its car shopping services, offered in partnership with local car dealers, like a guaranteed “Edmunds price promise.”

■ Exchange Lab, London, is expanding to the United States with offices in New York and San Francisco. Mark Charkin becomes chief revenue officer, based in San Francisco; he was most recently executive vice president for advertising and global business development at King.com.

■ GetGlue, New York, a social television company, was acquired by i.TV, Provo, Utah, which produces television-guide apps. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal was made almost a year after the unraveling of a previous deal for GetGlue, in which it was to have been acquired by another social television company, Viggle.

■ Commonground, Chicago, opened an office in New York. The agency also has an office in Houston.

■ Circle One Marketing, Norwalk, Conn., was acquired by the Match Marketing Group, Norwalk. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ WestwoodOne, New York, is forming a creative services division, named WestwoodOne Studio. WestwoodOne is majority owned by Cumulus Media and the Gores Group.

■ Jaguar North America, part of the Tata Motors unit of the Tata Group, said it would become a Super Bowl advertiser for the first time by buying a 30-second commercial during Super Bowl XLVIII — to be presented by Fox Broadcasting on Feb. 2 — to promote the new Jaguar F-Type coupe. A teaser campaign for the commercial is to begin this week. Other sponsors of the broadcast, which is almost sold out, include Anheuser-Busch InBev, Butterfinger, Chevrolet, Dannon Oikos yogurt, Doritos, Hyundai, Intuit, SodaStream and Wonderful pistachios.

■ ETO, Lille and Paris, which specializes in data mining and customer relationship marketing, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Barilla Group, Parma, Italy, said it would take several steps to be more diverse and inclusive in the wake of a worldwide outcry against remarks by its chairman in September that he would never use same-sex families in the pasta company’s advertising. The steps will include forming a diversity and inclusion board, with members who include the American gay rights activist David Mixner; the appointment of Barilla’s first chief diversity officer; and participation in the Corporate Equality Index overseen by HRC. The outcry, fed by social media, included responses from rival pasta marketers supporting diversity and inclusion.

■ Chrysler Group, Auburn Hills, Mich., expanded a campaign for the 2014 Dodge Durango, which features and is being created by the comedian Will Ferrell, to include the entire Dodge model lineup. The expansion came after Chrysler Group executives said the campaign was producing strong results for Durango in areas like awareness and sales. The campaign, in which Mr. Ferrell appears as his Ron Burgundy character from the movie “Anchorman,” also promotes “Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues,” to be released by Paramount Pictures on Dec. 20.
249 2013-11-11 The operation addresses a threat that has hung over the plant since the crisis started. Though the fuel has cooled significantly since the early days of the crisis, and Tepco has shored up the reactor building, it is still dangerous to have the fuel high up in a damaged structure that could collapse in another quake, experts warn.

But removing it poses dangers, too. The fuel rods must remain immersed in water to block the gamma radiation they emit and allow workers to be in the area, and to prevent the rods from overheating. An accident could expose the rods and — in a worst-case scenario, some experts say — allow them to release radioactive materials beyond the plant.

Plant engineers will use a crane to lift the fuel assemblies from the pool into giant casks that have been lowered into the water, and then lift the casks out of the building. Each cask will be placed on a trailer and moved to a more secure pool at ground level.

“There are potentially very big risks involved,” Shunichi Tanaka, the head of Japan’s nuclear regulator, said last week. “Each assembly must be handled very carefully.”

Tepco hopes that a smooth start to the removals will help it regain at least some of the credibility it lost in its response to the quake and tsunami that overwhelmed the plant and in the cleanup.

A string of blunders by Tepco, including underestimating the potential for large amounts of groundwater to become contaminated and reach the ocean, has some experts wondering whether the company is up to the task.

Even minor problems with the fuel removal could strengthen calls for the decommissioning work to be taken out of Tepco’s hands.

“All I can do is pray that nothing goes wrong,” said Yasuro Kawai, a former plant engineer who now heads a group that is independently monitoring the decommissioning process.

He said much depends on whether the assemblies were damaged during removal — for example, if the casks carrying them were to accidentally fall to the ground, exposing the rods — and whether such damage was severe enough to force workers to evacuate.

“If they drop the rods, will the situation be easily contained, or do we need to worry about a more dangerous chain of events?” Mr. Kawai said. “There are just too many variables involved to say for sure.”

Tepco officials said the removal plan has been vetted by the company’s engineers and outside experts, including the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the work will be carried out by a Tepco-led team and without external supervision.

The company said it has taken extra precautions. The plant has been preparing for months, erecting a steel structure around and over the damaged reactor building and fitting it with a crane to lift the casks about 100 feet in the air. Underwater cameras will help engineers search for debris, left from the original explosion, that might jam the assemblies, and a robotic arm will be used to try to remove any debris that does get in the way.

The crane is designed to hold its load if power is lost, and Tepco said it has doubled the cabling that will lift the cask, which could weigh as much as 90 tons when filled.

The biggest fear is that an earthquake or tsunami will disrupt the fuel assembly transfer. Sizable aftershocks from the 2011 quake frequently jolt the region. Last month, a magnitude-7.1 quake off the coast near Fukushima caused a small tsunami.

Tepco has said the steel covering structure and crane can withstand an earthquake as strong as the magnitude-9.0 quake that damaged the plant in 2011.

Lake H. Barrett, a former United States Department of Energy official who was in charge of removing fuel from a stricken reactor after an accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania in 1979, is now a special adviser to the president of Tepco. He said he believed that the risks in removing the fuel from the Reactor No. 4 pool at Fukushima were small and that a significant release of radioactive material was highly unlikely.

And when the job is done, Mr. Barrett said, the overall danger will be reduced.

This fuel “really needs to come back down to a ground-level pool that is not damaged,” he said. “That’s going to improve the risk situation.”

In the early days of the crisis, American officials were so worried about the pool that they advised Americans to stay farther from the plant than the Japanese government ordered, which many Japanese officials still remember with humiliation. The worst-case scenario of a breach in the pool, leaving the fuel rods uncovered, has not happened, and Tepco believes the fuel assemblies have relatively little damage.
250 2013-11-11 The Brooklyn Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra is trying to avoid bankruptcy, Crain’s reported. The orchestra is seeking a major cash infusion or a merger partner, according to “sources close to the institution” who would not disclose a timetable or how much the orchestra needs. The orchestra has no staff and few financial assets, having played its only concert of the 2012-13 season in June. The contract for its artistic director, Alan Pierson, was not renewed. Richard Dare stepped down last year as the orchestra’s chief executive and managing director to become president and chief executive of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. He resigned in January — nine days after starting in the new job — citing a 1996 case in which he was charged with an “attempted lewd act upon” a 15-year-old girl, whom he later married. “Despite the Brooklyn Philharmonic’s tremendous artistic successes over the last couple of years, the orchestra continues to experience financial difficulties,” Jack Rainey, the board’s chairman, told Crain’s in a statement. “The board of directors is considering all options.”
251 2013-11-11 One of the best-known fables about the Dutch is the story of the boy who wards off disaster by putting his finger in a leaky dike. As Russell Shorto points out in his new history of Amsterdam, this tale was made up by an American (Mary Mapes Dodge, who had never been to Holland when she wrote her 1865 book, “Hans Brinker, or The Silver Skates,” in which the account of the boy’s wondrous feat appears). And it is a nonsensical story in the Netherlands, where heroism is often a communal effort.

“Were the Dutch to construct such a fairy tale,” Mr. Shorto writes, “the ‘hero’ would probably be the town water board.”

Mr. Shorto, a regular contributor to The New York Times and the author of the superb 2004 book “The Island at the Center of the World,” drew on Amsterdam’s history as he described the founding of New Amsterdam, a.k.a. New York. Now he devotes a full volume to Amsterdam and has to struggle a bit to make a consistent case for it as “the world’s most liberal city.” This claim becomes a stretch at times. “Amsterdam” would have succeeded even without an overworked organizing principle.

“A History of the World’s Most Liberal City” is also a subtitle likely to be misunderstood. The book uses liberalism to describe an overall attitude, not a particular political position. And that attitude, championing individual freedoms while showing how they support a capitalist economic structure, has appeal for both ends of the political spectrum. Amsterdam’s attitude is, “Together, we maintain a society of individuals,” Mr. Shorto writes. He acknowledges that “for an American, raised on a diet of raw individualism, it remains a bit of a challenge to parse that logic.”

It’s fitting that Mr. Shorto uses Amsterdam’s water problems as a prime example of what cooperative effort can accomplish. About a thousand years ago, inhabitants of the region began building dikes to keep out the sea and cut water channels into peat bogs: They “thus set off a never-ending struggle against nature, one that continues today.”

Because he has a penchant for good anecdotes, Mr. Shorto mentions that the Dutch and their water battle appear in a Dutch book called “The Encyclopedia of Stupidity.” But he also lauds the success of the group effort and the thriving economy that it helped initiate. This book’s story of how Amsterdam became an ascendant port city leads naturally into accounts of the Dutch East India Company’s thriving global trade and Amsterdam’s development of an early stock exchange as an offshoot of its new wealth. When faced with inconvenient facts, like the slave labor instrumental in this financial miracle, or the atypical nature of Amsterdam among other Dutch cities, Mr. Shorto has a simple strategy: gloss over them.
252 2013-11-11 England — which beat the otherwise all-conquering New Zealand All Blacks last year — France, Ireland and even the perennial punching bag Scotland all have better recent records against the southern teams than Wales.

Nor did that pattern look likely to change Saturday after South Africa scored two early tries to take a 17-6 lead. Wales fought back to close the gap to 17-15, with the goal-kicker Leigh Halfpenny hitting five penalties, but a further try sealed the victory for the Springboks.

“The start is always important, and we started well and got a nice lead,” said South Africa’s captain, Jean de Villiers. “When they got within two points was the only time I felt they had a bit of a chance.

“We felt in control for most of the game,” he added.

That was also how it looked. Wales had plenty of possessions and regularly broke South Africa’s defensive line, but it was well behind on the only statistics that truly matter. “A score of three tries to nil against a strong side is one that I will take any day,” South Africa Coach Heyneke Meyer said.

Wales was disrupted by injury. In the lead-up to South Africa’s first try, by De Villiers in the 11th minute, two Welsh players suffered game-ending injuries. Center Jonathan Davies was in top form early in the game, twice breaking through in the opening stages, but he suffered a pectoral injury that will rule him out of the rest of Wales’s schedule this fall. If he must undergo surgery, he will miss the Six Nations this season, too.

Wales also lost the prop forward Adam Jones, its strongest player in the scrum, before halftime Saturday.

Wales’s bigger problem was South Africa’s style of play. Springboks rugby, as subtle as a sledgehammer, is unrelenting and brutally concussive. The Welsh, who have outmuscled their European opposition over the past two seasons, were in turn overpowered by the South Africans.

“The talk all the week was about what they would bring physically,” de Villiers said, “They were up for it, but we probably won that battle tonight.”

Wales showed courage, spirit and commitment, but none of the deception or creativity that can sometimes counteract greater power. Wales never threatened to cross South Africa’s line, even during the 10-minute penalty on the back row forward Francois Louw for his series of forearm swipes at the throat of Welsh hooker Richard Hibbard.

The Springboks crossed the line three times. De Villiers’s score followed a brilliantly opportunist break by the speedy winger Bryan Habana, while Bismarck du Plessis grabbed the second try from close range as the team combined precision with power.

The game-clinching third try, scored with 15 minutes to go, was a brilliant combination between two South Africa veterans, Jaque Fourie and Fourie du Preez.

Each now plays in Japan, a career move that still involves a decent standard of play but generally signals an end to the highest aspirations.

But the two showed they still could pull off top-notch plays, with an astute kick by du Preez; the pursuit, pickup and pivoting pass by Fourie; and a perfectly timed and angled run to take the pass by du Preez, who scooted untouched for 25 meters to score.

“When they came back to the squad they were like little boys,” Meyer said of the two veterans, who have returned to international play after two years away. “They still want to play for their country, and they bring a new vibe.”

South Africa next plays Scotland and then France, whom, Meyer pointed out, “We have not beaten in 16 years.”

Wales goes on to play Argentina, which won their matchup last year. While Wales took a lot of bruises Saturday, Gatland insisted it left the game with “a lot of positives.” Most of all, though, it received yet another reminder that to beat its Southern Hemisphere opponents, it needs more than the simple muscularity that it uses to topple its European rivals.
253 2013-11-11 The end result felt like a reprieve to Mourinho, who has not been beaten in 66 home matches as Chelsea’s manager.

It felt like a betrayal to West Brom, which has not won in Chelsea’s stadium in over 30 years.

But that is the nature of the beast. There are huge clubs playing for the prizes, and there are lesser clubs whose aim from one season to the next starts with survival.

This season is barely a quarter of the way through. The coaches of two failing teams, Crystal Palace and Sunderland, have already departed. A third, from Fulham, is on the brink. And a fourth, Norwich City coach Chris Hughton, is living day to day with calls for his removal.

What do you do in Hughton’s situation? Your board has spent 23 million pounds — by the standards of a small club like Norwich an unprecedented fortune — trying to purchase players who will give you a stronger foothold in the Premiership.

But, again, the big boys are not giving your new team time to gel.

As October turned to November, Norwich was crushed, 4-0, by Manchester United in the league cup, and then hammered, 7-0, in the league at Manchester City.

The rumors spread that the team was not working, that the new players either lacked the heart for the fight or simply were not putting in the effort for the team manager.

Chris Hughton, let me tell you, is a decent and knowledgeable man. He played for years at Tottenham Hotspur and he served a tough apprenticeship coaching at Newcastle United and Birmingham City. He knows how the sport works, and how the axis of success at clubs with constrained budgets depends totally on trust between the club’s board, its coach, and the team.

So Hughton must have feared the worst when, at halftime at Norwich’s Carrow Road stadium on Saturday, the crowd bayed for his blood. The team was again down, by a goal from West Ham United’s Ravel Morrison.

The manager has 15 minutes alone with his team in the changing room. Fifteen minutes to get his pitch right. He tells the players that they are more talented than their results and their performances suggest. He says he has faith in them. He asks for calm self-belief, but at the same time he urges the players to step up their pace.

“It’s about a reaction,” Hughton was to say after the final whistle. “And we got a reaction in the second half.”

Didn’t they just. From that goal down, Norwich scored three times to turn the booing into wild celebration. The fans might be fickle, or they might simply be desperate for their team to turn a corner.

And in those circumstances, every little helps. Jussi Jaaskelainen, West Ham’s towering and usually dependable Finnish goalkeeper, made a rare error. He fumbled a high cross, dropped the ball and brought down Gary Hooper in his attempt to grab it back.

Hooper is one of the new players, bought in his case for £5 million, or $8 million, from Glasgow Celtic to score some goals for Norwich. Up to Saturday, he had failed. But he was man enough to take, and score, the penalty shot.

Relief poured through the team. Robert Snodgrass then made it 2-1 for Norwich with a free kick curled over the wall and inside the post with a technique that would have made David Beckham proud.

Finally, Leroy Fer, a Dutch player whom Hughton has put enormous faith in, strode through the midfield, leaving West Ham defenders trailing in his wake. And when Fer swept in a low shot beyond Jaaskelainen’s considerable reach, the relief was palpable

Why, even Delia Smith, the British celebrity chef who is part owner of Norwich, waved her yellow and green scarf. Mrs Smith had lately refused to comment whenever reporters or TV interviewers asked her the inevitable questions about Norwich City, its new team and its manager.

Maybe Fer is the player who personifies the struggle. The Dutch think a lot of him — and there is a lot of him. He stands 1.88 meters, or 6-foot-2, and has a long stride reminiscent of the former Arsenal giant, Patrick Vieira.

Fer grew up in Zoetermeer, in the south of the Netherlands. His parents came from Curaçao, in the Dutch Antilles, and he dreamed of representing their island at a World Cup.

That remote dream ended when he was chosen to represent the Netherlands.

He might well go to the World Cup, as a member of the Oranje. But his task right now is to help the Norwich Canaries stay in the Premier League. And keep his manager employed.
254 2013-11-12 It is the first tower completed on the original World Trade Center site.
255 2013-11-12 Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to President Obama, pointed out that “millions of Americans” have already benefited from the health care law....
256 2013-11-12 The hotel operator priced its initial public offering on Tuesday at $20 a share, in the middle of its expected range. At that price, the company will have raised $565 million and will be valued at $4 billion....
257 2013-11-12 The growth of the earnings gap between college and high school graduates slowed in the last decade, after expanding sharply over the previous 20 years. The long rise followed a dip in the supply of college graduates, especially among men.
258 2013-11-12 At that price, the eight-year-old company will have raised $187.5 million in its market debut. The I.P.O. will also value it at nearly $1.1 billion....
259 2013-11-12 The Securities and Exchange Commission has agreed to defer the prosecution of a small hedge fund accused of fraud — a new tool to encourage people under investigation to cooperate....
260 2013-11-12 Loans to veterans in New Jersey are up. Six tools to track online ads. Free products from Google....
261 2013-11-12 President Obama will nominate Timothy G. Massad to head the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. | An idea to use a for-profit approach in the world of nonprofits is now taking hold. That’s just one among several new concepts DealBook examines ...
262 2013-11-12 President Obama nominated Timothy G. Massad, who oversaw the unwinding of the government’s bailout program, to succeed Gary Gensler at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
263 2013-11-12 Mr. Gurlitt had 1,400 artworks, possibly looted during the Nazi era, stashed in his Munich home....
264 2013-11-12 This type of business is sometimes called a “lifestyle business.” Such businesses can provide a nice living for the owner, but they are not likely to be sold for a high price when it’s time to leave....
265 2013-11-12 What you need to know for Tuesday: Jockeying for top cop, robot head bangers and actual snow....
266 2013-11-12 WASHINGTON — The chief digital architect for the federal health insurance marketplace has told congressional investigators that he was not aware of tests that indicated potential security flaws in the system, which opened to the public on Oct. 1.

The official, Henry Chao, made the statement Nov. 1 to investigators for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led by Representative Darrell Issa of California.

Mr. Issa, a Republican and a fierce critic of the 2010 health care law, released excerpts from the interview late Monday. Mr. Chao and other administration officials are scheduled to testify Wednesday at a committee hearing on technical problems with the website, HealthCare.gov, that have frustrated millions of Americans trying to use it.

In the interview, Mr. Chao said he had not seen a Sept. 3 memorandum describing potential security risks in the online insurance marketplace. The memo, from Tony Trenkle, the chief information officer at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, noted six security problems, two of which were described as posing high risks.

Mr. Chao, the deputy chief information officer at the Medicare agency, said he was surprised he had not been informed of the findings, based on tests by the Mitre Corporation, a contractor responsible for assessing the website’s security controls. The controls help prevent unauthorized access and identity theft.

On Sept. 27, Mr. Chao and another official sent a memo to the head of the agency recommending that the website go live on Oct. 1, even though security testing was “only partly completed.” At that time, he said, he was not aware of the test findings that indicated possible risks to security.
267 2013-11-12 Mr. Farazmand and his brother Arash, a 28-year-old drummer, were among four people shot in the house, which was the band’s home base. Two other members of the band, the bassist Koory Mirz and Siavash Karampour, a singer known as Obash, were not there when the shooting started.

The trio of Koory, Looloosh and Obash was “really the core of the band,” Mr. Keyes said. “They were always adding and dropping a fourth member.”

The core, though, had held together since their days dodging the police in Tehran, where merely inciting young people to dance could have landed them in jail. Their travails were portrayed in “No One Knows About Persian Cats,” a 2009 film by the Iranian director Bahman Ghobadi.

After the film won a special jury prize at the Cannes Film Festival and was screened at festivals around the world, the musicians became objects of global fascination.

“The government suddenly got very interested,” Mr. Karampour said in an interview with Rolling Stone in 2011. “They made a TV series about musicians and said all these people are Satanists and we have to execute all of them and they don’t believe in God. So after we saw that stuff and after the film we thought, man, we have to get out of the country.”

The bandmates sought visas in late 2009 to go on tour in the United States. According to notes from a State Department cable that was released by WikiLeaks, they told the consul staff in Istanbul about their encounters with Iranian officials.

They recounted several occasions when the police raided their closed-door concerts in soundproofed basements or isolated warehouses. “One raid led to the detention of one band member under official charges of ‘Satan worship,’ ” the cable said. It took a combination of bribes and parental pleading to get him released after two weeks, it said.

Even after settling in Brooklyn, the band avoided being as political as some Iranian-Americans wanted, said Mr. Karampour.

“We try not to say Iran, Iran, Iran; because the essence of the band is not only that we’re from Iran,” he told Rolling Stone. He added that their songs were “surrealistic, symbolic” stories. “You can relate them to Iran or to America, whatever. We don’t want to be a political band only.”

Neighbors and other people who had encountered the bandmates in New York described them as friendly, fun-loving young men who could often be seen riding skateboards to and from the townhouse.

Rahill Jamalifard, a member of another Iranian band, Habibi, said the shootings shook the community. “It’s devastating because you see these kids — they were initially in this movie that Iranians are really proud of. And it’s like, ‘Oh look, we have an indie rock scene. I recognized them. I heard of them.’ ”
268 2013-11-12 In the original case, Apple accused Samsung of violating several of its patents and “ripped off” its iPhones and iPads. In the trial, which lasted about a month, Apple’s executives and designers detailed their design processes and compared Apple’s products with Samsung’s to illustrate how the products were similar.

Jury selection for the trial on the damages award started Tuesday, and is expected to last about a week. Some of Apple’s top leaders, including Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide product marketing, are expected to testify.

The trial will involve five patents, including one that covers the design of the face of a mobile device. It will also cover 13 products, including Samsung’s Galaxy Tab tablet and Samsung’s Captivate smartphone.

Much of the trial is likely to focus on how the damages should be calculated. The jury could decide Samsung has to pay for Apple’s lost profit as a result of Samsung’s products being in the market. Or it could also decide that Samsung must pay royalties for each device it has sold that carry the features covered by the patents.

The amount of damages may have become muddied in last year’s trial because the jurors were required to fill out a complex 20-page form when calculating the amount owed to Apple. In the new damages trial, jurors will instead be required to fill out a much simpler one-page form.

In the trial last year, Samsung was criticized for engaging in some foul play, like when it publicly released some evidence that the judge had ordered to be excluded.

Samsung was scrutinized again last week in a separate case, in which a judge determined that the company violated a court-ordered agreement to keep some Apple documents secret. During the discovery process, Apple had given Samsung confidential patent licensing agreements with Nokia, Ericsson and other companies — privileged information only for Samsung’s lawyers working on the case.

But Samsung was found to have shared the documents internally with employees and unauthorized lawyers so it could leverage its negotiations with Nokia and Ericsson. Apple and Nokia are expected to recommend a punishment for Samsung in a hearing on Dec. 9.

In its patent feud with Samsung, Apple has been largely victorious in the United States. Both companies convinced the United States International Trade Commission that the other had violated patents, resulting in bans on each other’s products. However, the Obama administration ultimately vetoed the ban on Apple products, but upheld the ban on Samsung products.

Another battle between Apple and Samsung is not far away. The two companies are scheduled for another trial in March 2014, which involves a different set of Apple patents and some newer products, including Samsung’s popular Galaxy S III smartphone — a product that surpassed the iPhone in sales at one point. That lawsuit, which will also be overseen by Judge Koh, could result in even larger damages if Samsung were to be found guilty.

That lawsuit is most likely what Samsung is most concerned with, Mr. Bessen said. “People already are aware that Samsung was found guilty,” Mr. Bessen said. “Their new trial is coming up on some of the later products. If Samsung can show they were able to reduce the damages, it might help them.”
269 2013-11-12 Business has been brisk at the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, with a record number of passengers spending record amounts of money eating and shopping. But for an estimated 6,500 workers at the airport and its nearby hotels, car rental agencies and parking lots, the activity has not translated into economic security, let alone prosperity. Wages for airport-related jobs average an estimated $11 an hour, ranging from less than $10 an hour for airline contractors, like baggage handlers and cabin cleaners, to about $13 an hour for car-rental employees.

That could soon change. Although the votes are still being tallied, the people of SeaTac, the small city south of Seattle where the airport is, have shown support for a ballot initiative to raise the minimum wage of the airport’s transportation and hospitality workers to $15 an hour, starting Jan. 1.

That would make the minimum wage at Sea-Tac airport considerably higher than Washington State’s minimum of $9.19 an hour. It would be more than the $12.93-an-hour minimum at the San Francisco International Airport, which was enacted in 2000. And it would blow away the federal minimum of $7.25 an hour, in place since 2009, and exceed a proposal in recent legislation, sponsored by Congressional Democrats and supported by President Obama, for a new federal minimum of $10.10 an hour.

All of which makes $15 an hour sound too high. Hardly. Over the last half-century, American workers have achieved productivity gains that can easily support a $15-an-hour minimum wage. In fact, if the minimum wage had kept pace over time with the average growth in productivity, it would be about $17 an hour. The problem is that the benefits of that growth have flowed increasingly to profits, shareholders and executives, not workers. The result has been bigger returns to capital, higher executive pay — and widening income inequality.

Efforts by the states and the federal government to raise the minimum wage are an important way to counter that dynamic. But they must be seen as modest and partial steps in the direction of fair wages. Other steps include more progressive income taxes, enhanced rights to form unions without retaliation, and government job-creation programs, because a tighter labor market would force employers to compete for workers.

Fast-food workers, Walmart employees and staff of federal contractors have all been agitating recently for higher pay from profitable employers. They deserve raises, and they deserve to have the federal government behind them.
270 2013-11-12 A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit created a public-policy crisis earlier this month when it stayed the remedies ordered by Judge Shira Scheindlin of Federal District Court to correct civil rights violations associated with the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk policy. And by wrongly removing Judge Scheindlin from the case, the panel sent a chilling message to district court judges who challenge the practices of the police and other government entities. Instead of letting this matter linger, the full court should agree to review the panel’s ruling.

Judge Scheindlin ruled in August that the practices used in the stop-and-frisk program violated the constitutional rights of minority citizens. The panel stayed for now the remedies she ordered, including the appointment of an independent monitor, and it took the unusual step of removing her from the case even though no one involved in the five-year litigation had ever questioned her fairness in court or filed a motion seeking to disqualify her. By acting without justification and without giving her the opportunity to defend herself, the appeals panel raised questions about its own motives.

The removal order, however, did not go to the substance of Judge Scheindlin’s rulings in the case. City Hall, however, has nonetheless asked the appeals court to vacate her decisions.

The appeals court has no plausible basis for overturning those rulings, given the evidence before it at this moment. Its first order of business should be to review the panel’s ill-advised decision of removing Judge Scheindlin and holding up remedies that would protect the constitutional rights of the city’s residents.
271 2013-11-12 The report projects that if private haulers retire their older trucks by 2020, particulate matter emissions would be reduced by 796 tons during that time period; it would be the equivalent of removing 341,829 cars from city roads every year between 2014 and 2030, the report said. Nitrogen oxides would also be reduced by 12,054 tons, or the equivalent of removing 862,704 new cars or 143,784 old cars from the roads every year.

Under the proposal, a refuse collection company would be given several options, including retrofitting older trucks with new engines that meet the 2007 federal emission standards, or replacing them entirely with new vehicles that do. Shari C. Hyman, the commissioner of the Business Integrity Commission, called the proposed mandate “a balanced approach that will help achieve the air quality goals of the administration without unfairly burdening private industry.”

The report, which was written by M. J. Bradley & Associates using city data, estimated that the overall cost of the proposal to the private haulers would be $484 million, on top of the $571.4 million they would be paying to replace trucks through normal turnover. However, commission officials said this figure could be significantly lower if trucks were retrofitted instead of replaced. The report also noted that with more new trucks and fewer old ones, savings on repairs and maintenance could be as much as $15.5 million.

Several companies’ representatives said they supported the proposal. “With or without legislation, we support cleaner emissions for our industry and, frankly, every industry,” said Ron Bergamini, chief executive officer of Action Environmental Group, the parent company of Action Carting, one of the city’s largest haulers with 80 trucks on city roads every day. He said he expected that half of those trucks would have to be replaced or retrofitted by 2020 — at a cost of about $270,000 for each new truck, and $25,000 to $35,000 for each retrofit.

But others said that while they supported the concept of reducing emissions, they remained concerned about the proposed legislation.

“Companies that collect waste and recyclables in New York City typically operate on very narrow margins and are limited as to their ability to raise prices,” said David Biderman, general counsel for the National Solid Waste Management Association, a trade group that represents more than 750 waste and recycling companies nationally, including 75 in the New York region. “This proposed legislation as well as other legislative proposals pending before the City Council are likely to increase carters’ costs significantly over the next few years if they are enacted.”

Patrick Hyland, executive director of the New York Metropolitan Trucking Association, an industry group for more than 50 heavy construction truck companies, said that he had initially resisted the proposal but that the commission’s willingness to adopt a 2020 deadline after considering an earlier date had made it “more palatable” to his members, who typically spend $160,000 to $190,000 on each new truck.

“I voiced my concerns about hitting them with something like this while some of them were still digging themselves out of the economic downturn, coupled with Hurricane Sandy,” Mr. Hyland said. “They need to prepare themselves financially.”

Jim Tripp, senior counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund, said he saw the proposal for private haulers as an “innovative” step in the Bloomberg administration’s efforts to improve air quality, which have included banning smoking in public places and phasing out the use of certain kinds of home heating oils. “I think it will have a citywide benefit since we all have garbage picked up and these trucks are everywhere,” he said.
272 2013-11-12 My family has never experienced any anti-Semitism in our 25 years in the community, nor do we know of any other Jewish families who have experienced this. We are at home in this town.

With 14 employees, my partner and I have a busy dental practice that is truly a hub of this town. I had a high school junior in my office, and I asked her opinion about your article. She said it was discussed during her English class. Not one student had experienced or witnessed any anti-Semitic events during his years at school. No swastikas on walls, no mention of Ku Klux Klan activity.

I am very saddened that this negative attention is being brought to our beautiful, peaceful hamlet, which is filled with good-hearted, hard-working people.

As a former superintendent of schools, I was astonished by the statement attributed to the Pine Bush superintendent, who in the face of blatant anti-Semitism and bullying said that “changing inbred prejudice may be a bit unrealistic.”

For decades anti-bias programs have been adopted by most districts with great success. School disciplinary codes stress that any form of antireligious attacks subjects the student to immediate disciplinary action. When schoolteachers or administrators do not react to any attack on a student’s religion or ethnicity, they are guilty of allowing the behavior to continue and become the accepted norm.

I was disheartened to read of the widespread, perhaps even community-condoned, anti-Semitism in the Pine Bush school district. I asked myself if I could possibly be reading about a town 90 minutes from New York City in the second decade of the 21st century.

As a boy growing up in Madison, Wis., during World War II, I heard my father called — as some kind of backhanded compliment — a “white Jew” and had myself been taunted occasionally with such epithets as “dirty Jew,” “Christ-killer” or “pork-dodger.”

But the still tender scars from such verbal wounds were produced by a swastika-loving few, not by a hate-waving many, as seems the case here.

Even if Pine Bush were the only town in today’s America where this “Jews don’t belong here” brand of xenophobia exists — and it isn’t — it would be one town too many. Sadly, our country’s acclaimed melting pot still contains chunks of bitter, poisonous gristle.

A player complains that he was bullied in a professional football locker room, leading to the indefinite suspension of the alleged perpetrator, national debate and the hiring of a prominent lawyer to investigate.

Countless Pine Bush Jewish children are relentlessly harassed over many years, and the best the school district can offer is “your expectations for changing inbred prejudice may be a bit unrealistic.”

Don’t these young children deserve at least the same consideration as a 6-foot-5, 300-plus-pound millionaire?
273 2013-11-12 When the forces of the music industry go after websites for using copyrighted content without permission, that content tends to come in the form of MP3 files or YouTube videos.

But the National Music Publishers’ Association, a trade group representing thousands of publishers, noted in an online news conference on Monday that the Internet was also filled with sites that reprint song lyrics without licenses, selling advertising based on the enormous traffic they attract. According to the association, there are five million Google searches each day for lyrics, and more than half of all lyric page views are on unlicensed sites.

David Israelite, the president of the trade group, said that his organization was filing take-down notices against what it called the 50 “worst offenders” based on a web search conducted by David Lowery, a researcher at the University of Georgia. Mr. Lowery, best known as the lead singer of the alternative rock bands Camper Van Beethoven and Cracker, has become an outspoken advocate for artists’ rights in the digital age, which has often put him at odds with technology companies large and small.

“These lyric sites have ignored the law and profited off the songwriters’ creative works, and N.M.P.A. will not allow this to continue,” Mr. Israelite said in a statement, referring to his organization. “This is not a campaign against personal blogs, fan sites or the many websites that provide lyrics legally. N.M.P.A. is targeting 50 sites that engage in blatant illegal behavior, which significantly impacts songwriters’ ability to make a living.”

No. 1 on Mr. Lowery’s “Undesirable Lyric Website List” may come as a surprise to many fans: Rap Genius, whose detailed annotations of hip-hop songs — sometimes scholarly, sometimes farcical — are widely cited by journalists and bloggers. Last year, the site attracted a $15 million investment from Andreessen Horowitz, one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms. In October, according to comScore, 5.3 million unique visitors from desktop computers in the United States went to Rap Genius.
274 2013-11-12 Fiery chunks of a European satellite fell from the sky, the latest in a parade of what scientists worryingly call “uncontrolled entries.” And new research showed that asteroids like the one that exploded over Russia in February will probably hit Earth more often than previously expected. All in all, not a bad week to begin a long journey to Mars.

A one-ton European satellite that once mapped Earth’s gravitational field ran out of propellant last month, and by Sunday night it had re-entered the atmosphere somewhere over the South Atlantic Ocean. It mostly burned up in the process, according to United States tracking data; whatever debris survived most likely fell into the ocean just off the tip of South America, the BBC reported.

Still, spent satellites haphazardly returning to Earth constitute a worrisome trend, with more than 100 tons of debris expected to fall from the sky this year alone.

When a 60-foot asteroid exploded over the Russian city of Chelyabinsk in February, shattering windows and injuring more than 1,000 people, scientists called it a once-in-a-century occurrence. But such devastating events are more likely to occur once every decade or two, according to two papers in the journal Nature.

The findings have helped revive talk of planetary defense efforts, such as the creation of an International Asteroid Warning Network, or launching an asteroid-seeking telescope into space. The United Nations General Assembly is expected to adopt a number of recommendations next month.
275 2013-11-12 But with the prospect of a deal suddenly more real than it has been for a decade, Mr. Kerry is having to fend off those who want to pre-empt it. He is insisting to allies that the United States will drive a hard bargain with the Iranians and doing his best to dispel rumors.

The latest round of talks failed, he said, not because of dissent from France, as has been reported, but because the Iranians rejected an offer put on the table by the French, along with the United States, Britain, China, Germany and Russia. “The French signed off on it; we signed off on it,” Mr. Kerry said. “There was unity, but Iran couldn’t take it.”

He offered familiar arguments as well: Without diplomacy, he said, Iran is much more likely to obtain a nuclear bomb, which would set off an arms race in the Middle East and leave everyone less secure. He even raised his own service in Vietnam as a reminder of war’s futility.

Still, the forces arrayed against a deal are diverse and potent: Israel, Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Muslim states, as well as a sizable contingent of Iran hawks in Congress. Mr. Netanyahu, who warned that Geneva was shaping up as a “deal of the century” for Iran, is calling on other leaders to rally opposition. An Israeli minister, Naftali Bennett, is mobilizing Jewish groups in the United States to try to block it.

On Wednesday, Mr. Kerry is to testify behind closed doors before the Senate Banking Committee to urge senators not to move ahead with a new, tougher set of sanctions on Iran. But powerful Democrats, like Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, who heads the Foreign Relations Committee, have already called for the bill to be passed.

A 10-day pause before the next round of talks is an added danger, giving opponents time to marshal their ammunition and stoke enough doubt about a deal that the United States and its partners could have less flexibility to work out differences the next time.

The deep qualms of America’s allies in the Middle East are rooted in three things, said Robert M. Danin, a former State Department official who worked in the region: genuine fear of Iran, frustration that the United States has not consulted them adequately, and a more generalized doubt that Washington can be counted on to safeguard their interests.

“Put simply, they worry that we are fair-weather friends who can’t be depended on to cover their backs,” said Mr. Danin, who is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

The easiest remedy would be to build up America’s military presence in the Persian Gulf, something the Obama administration did in its first term. But with budget pressures and President Obama’s avowed desire to shift America’s foreign policy focus to Asia, that is less realistic this time. While Mr. Kerry spoke Monday about protecting America’s friends here, he did not mention aircraft carriers or Patriot missile batteries.

Failing that, Mr. Danin said, there were other steps the United States could still take, including back-channel communications with allies and highly visible diplomatic gestures. After negotiating past midnight on Sunday in Geneva, Mr. Kerry flew six and a half hours to have dinner with the crown prince of the Abu Dhabi, Mohammed bin Zayed. Mr. Kerry’s chief negotiator, Wendy R. Sherman, went straight to Jerusalem to brief officials and journalists about the negotiations.

Standing next to Mr. Kerry in Abu Dhabi, the Emirati foreign minister, Abdullah bin Zayed, said he was satisfied with the level of consultation with the United States on Iran. He offered Mr. Kerry polite encouragement to keep trying for a deal, though he left little doubt he would oppose any agreement that would give Iran the right to enrich uranium.

Citing the nuclear agreement the United Arab Emirates has with the United States as a model for other countries in the region, the foreign minister said, “We have accepted not to enrich.”

Negotiations in Geneva faltered in large part over Iran’s push for language that would give it a formal right to enrichment, according to Western diplomats. But given that Iran already has 19,000 centrifuges, many experts and former administration officials say that such an accommodation will inevitably have to be part of a final agreement.

Persuading Israel, Saudi Arabia and members of Congress to go along with that, analysts say, will require a lobbying campaign far more intense than the one Mr. Kerry is now waging. To succeed, some said, the administration will need to bring in a bigger gun.

“President Obama himself will have to step up and lead this effort,” said Cliff Kupchan, an Iran expert at the Eurasia Group, a risk consultancy. “U.S. assurance will have to come from the very top.”
276 2013-11-12 BANGKOK — The International Court of Justice on Monday handed Cambodia a partial victory in its territorial dispute with Thailand over the land surrounding an ancient temple along the country’s border.

The court, the top judicial body of the United Nations, said in its judgment that Cambodia had sovereignty over the immediate area around Preah Vihear Temple — the promontory on which it sits. But the court left unresolved who controls a larger disputed area, where Cambodian and Thai troops have clashed in recent years.

Thailand, the court said, is “under an obligation to withdraw from that territory the Thai military or police forces, or other guards or keepers, that were stationed there.”

Nationalist groups have urged the Thai government not to respect the verdict. In a nationally televised speech after news of the decision, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said the government would negotiate further on the issue with Cambodia.

Ownership of the temple and its surrounding areas, a dispute that dates back decades, is an emotional one and has been used by politicians on both sides of the border to stoke nationalist feelings.

Cambodia was awarded sovereignty over the temple itself in a 1962 decision by the same court, based in The Hague, and Monday’s judgment clarified that decision.

The border between Thailand and Cambodia was drawn by French officials in the early 20th century.

News services reported that Cambodia’s foreign minister, Hor Namhong, had said the ruling was “good enough.”
277 2013-11-13 WEISS--Dr. Charles. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi, Walter J. Molofsky, M.D., Chairman, Jacob D. Gold, Preside...
278 2013-11-13 ROSENSTOCK--Lisa. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Michael and the entire family. Frederic Krieger, President...
279 2013-11-13 ROSENSTOCK--Lisa, (nee Wahl) of Leonia, NJ on November 11, 2013. Beloved wife of Michael Rosenstock. Cherished daughter of Rita and the late Irving. Devoted mother of Debra. Dear sister of Susan. Funeral Thursday, November 14 at 10:30am at Temple ...
280 2013-11-13 Part philosophy lecture, part animal-rights exposé, “Speciesism: The Movie” is a painfully gauche, galumphing attack on factory farming, meat eating, animal experimentation and human supremacy. So many evils, so little time.

This lack of focus precludes all but the most superficial roundup of viewpoints and arguments, but it’s also completely consistent with the shock-and-awe tone and improbable naïveté of the film’s writer and director, Mark Devries. (When he says “Factory? Farms?” it’s as though he’s never heard of them.) Intrigued by the term “speciesism,” first used by the British psychologist Richard Ryder in the 1970s and which assumes human interests to be more valuable than those of other species, Mr. Devries becomes our earnest guide to his moral awakening.

It’s a zigzagging journey that lurches from the media-goading campaigns of animal-advocacy groups to hog farms in North Carolina, where nearby residents rail against manure-contaminated air and groundwater. Pit stops at the American Nazi Party and the Simon Wiesenthal Center (where Mr. Devries is calmly informed that his comparison of factory farming to the Holocaust is an analogy too far) alternate with distressing clips of chicks being macerated and cattle wading in their own excrement.

We’ve seen the sins of agribusiness before, in more elegant movies, but Mr. Devries, 26 (and only 20 when he began making the film), doesn’t limit himself to harassing farmers and feedlot supervisors. Committed vegans, noted ethicists and others weigh in (though, sadly, neither George Orwell nor “Planet of the Apes” is called on to suggest that speciesism may not be limited to humans). Mr. Devries’s short-attention-span style may be all over the place, but no one can say he doesn’t care.
281 2013-11-13 Apple’s and Samsung’s lawyers gave their opening statements in a trial to determine the remaining damages that Samsung will have to pay Apple for infringing on patents....
282 2013-11-13 A Brazilian tour operator backed by the Carlyle Group could raise as much as 1 billion reais ($428 million) for its existing shareholders through a planned offering....
283 2013-11-13 “The Marshall Mathers LP 2” by Eminem sold 792,000 copies, the second-highest weekly tally for any album this year....
284 2013-11-13 Caroline Shaw’s “Partita” is available for remixing in a fund-raising project for New Amsterdam Presents....
285 2013-11-13 The $142 million sale of Francis Bacon’s triptych of Lucian Freud has a matching, perhaps a bit tenuous, trio of lessons for the broader world of finance, the author writes....
286 2013-11-13 Promotions are up 5 percent over last year, when the Wall Street firm named 266 employees managing director....
287 2013-11-13 Trans fats and small businesses. Sheryl Sandberg shares a must-see video on sexism. The Washington, D.C. start-up scene is thriving. The Wahlberg family restaurant becomes a reality TV show....
288 2013-11-13 The popular online storage service is introducing a business version that offers a different take on enterprise software: The company has control, but the worker is the center of attention....
289 2013-11-13 Perella Weinberg Partners has hired Jonathan Prather, a managing director within Goldman Sachs’s global industrials group, as a partner in its advisory business....
290 2013-11-13 The company said it was ending a longstanding practice called “stack ranking,” which required managers to grade their subordinates on a bell curve....
291 2013-11-13 Saying it would “oppose pressure and confrontation” on the United Nations Human Rights Council and advance the cause of human rights, China was elected to it for a three-year term along with Cuba, Saudi Arabia and Russia....
292 2013-11-13 Andy Cohen is the most identifiable talent on the Bravo cable channel, thanks to his successful weeknight talk show, “Watch What Happens Live.” But while talk-show host has been his public identity, he also has worked full time as one of the top corporate executives at Bravo.

That will all change on Wednesday, thanks to a new deal with Bravo that underscores Mr. Cohen’s rising importance to the network as an on-air star, the equally important place his show occupies at the channel, and the recognition that corporate suits are a bit easier to replace than a host who draws about 900,000 viewers to each show (counting delayed viewing).

Mr. Cohen has agreed to a two-year deal to extend his work on “Watch What Happens Live” (where he also serves as executive producer), while his new production company, Most Talkative, will develop prime-time shows for the network. He will give up his position as executive vice president for talent and development at Bravo, but will remain an executive producer on all the many “Real Housewives” iterations.

Mr. Cohen said in an interview that when his show expanded to five nights a week two years ago, it signaled an “inevitable transition” for him away from his executive work. But he said he had not given his programming position short shrift, having been instrumental in the development of numerous new shows on Bravo, including “Married to Medicine,” “Fashion ” and “Shahs of Sunset.”

Having a top executive spend his days in the corporate offices and his late nights live on television might have been unusual, said Frances Berwick, the Bravo president, “but it happened gradually over time.”
293 2013-11-13 At the same time, opium crop eradication efforts have flagged, with the overall area targeted down 24 percent from the previous year.

Still, Afghan law enforcement officials insisted that they were having an effect. “Last year alone we confiscated 14 percent of the narcotics produced in Afghanistan and arrested 4,000 smugglers, including small, midrange and major smugglers,” said Maj. Gen. Khalilullah Bakhtiyar, head of operations for the Afghan government’s Counter Narcotics Police. He noted that official Afghan government figures for 2013, however, were not yet available since the year has not finished.

The record opium figures have come despite billions of dollars and years of effort by the international community to reduce the number of poppies grown in Afghanistan. It has been one of the rare unifying issues in the region, drawing in countries like Russia and Iran that are outside the NATO-led military coalition. Both have extremely high heroin addiction rates, most of it attributed to drugs from Afghanistan.

In addition, Afghanistan has a rapidly growing addiction problem of its own, with more than 5 percent of the population estimated to be using drugs, one of the highest rates in the world.

The international community and the Afghan government have differed on how to combat the problem. Afghan officials often emphasize efforts to reduce demand in other countries. The American government alone has spent more than $6 billion to curb opium production since 2001, including crop eradication programs and subsidies for alternative crops.

But those efforts have faltered. Alternative crops cannot command the sort of prices even to farmers that opium does, especially after shortages led to historically high prices in 2012. And the NATO-led coalition has abandoned any crop eradication by its soldiers for fear of driving farmers over to the insurgents, a policy strongly criticized by the Russians, among others.

Among the biggest beneficiaries of the illicit opium economy have been the Taliban. The militants have opposed eradication efforts in order to build support among farmers in rural areas crucial to their insurgency, particularly in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Helmand. And where opium is produced in areas where they are prevalent, they assess a 10 percent tax on it, a major source of finance for their activities, officials said.
294 2013-11-13 After being abused and stalked by her children’s father, Kim Lemon got help to protect her family and became a better mother along the way....
295 2013-11-13 Six weeks into the rollout of the health care law, some of the online insurance exchanges run by states are confronting serious issues that mirror those of the larger federal exchange....
296 2013-11-13 That Byrd, 36, was able to get as much money as he did, although not from the Mets, underlined how valuable power is around the league. Only 30 players hit more home runs than Byrd last season (he had 24, including his three with the Pirates), and Joey Votto and Carlos Beltran matched his total.

“There’s not a lot of power out there — it’s very simple,” Phillies General Manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said.

Alderson noted that the Mets, like nearly everyone else, would be looking for outfielders with power, too. The team hit 130 home runs last season, tied for 25th in the majors, and Byrd was by far their most productive threat outside David Wright.

To replace the production Byrd provided, Alderson will presumably have to spend significant money on another outfielder. Or he could choose to hold back, not spend much at all on one player, and essentially wait until 2015, when, among other things, Matt Harvey should be pitching again.

Alderson indicated he would meet here with Scott Boras, the agent for outfielders Shin-Soo Choo and Jacoby Ellsbury, both of whom may be seeking deals for more money than the Mets want to pay. He also noted that Matt Brown, the agent for Curtis Granderson, was not here, which means whatever interest the Mets have in a player who can play center field, hit a lot of home runs when healthy and who is no longer tied to the Yankees would have to be pursued after the general managers’ meetings.

A multiyear deal for Granderson will probably not be as costly as one for Ellsbury or Choo, but it is not clear the Mets will want to meet Granderson’s price.

Alderson floated the idea of obtaining three new starting outfielders, although that may not be realistic. For now, the Mets’ best outfield option for 2014 is Juan Lagares, who hit .242 as a rookie last season while playing stellar defense. He seems to be an important part of the team’s future.

EXPANDING REPLAY After a long day of meetings and discussion among the league’s general managers, Joe Torre, baseball’s executive vice president for baseball operations, seemed encouraged by progress on two fronts that could bring changes to the game.

Torre said that baseball’s owners could soon vote to approve expanded replay. He sounded confident, too, that the players union and the umpires would agree to the new replay system that would be installed for the 2014 season.

An expanded replay system, which opens up much of the umpires’ decisions to challenges by managers, was tested at the Arizona Fall League, with the replays averaging 1 minute 40 seconds, Torre said. The system will be tested again in spring training.

Torre also said a plan to outlaw the violent collisions at home, in which runners who are clearly going to be out slam into the catcher in the hope of dislodging the ball, is gaining traction.

“There’s a pretty good possibility that something eventually will happen,” Torre said. “Whether it’s going to be soon enough to be done for this coming year, that remains to be seen.”

Torre added: “The players are bigger, stronger, faster. It’s like in other sports. They make adjustments in other sports for that reason — to protect people.”

HURDLE IS N.L.’S TOP MANAGER Clint Hurdle won the National League Manager of the Year award after leading the small-market Pittsburgh Pirates to a charming turnaround.

Hurdle was selected first on 25 of 30 ballots in a vote by members of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America after taking the Pirates to the playoffs in their first winning season since 1992. Don Mattingly of the Los Angeles Dodgers came in second, and Fredi Gonzalez of Atlanta third. (AP)
297 2013-11-13 The United Nations General Assembly elected China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Vietnam, Cuba and nine others on Tuesday to fill 14 seats for three-year terms on the 47-member Human Rights Council, the body that evaluates and investigates the rights records of United Nations member states. Western rights groups were particularly offended that China, Russia and Saudi Arabia won seats even though those countries have refused to allow the council’s investigators to examine complaints of abuse. The council, based in Geneva, has often been accused of hypocrisy and double standards, depending on the countries targeted for investigation. The other nations chosen on Tuesday were Algeria, Britain, France, the Maldives, Macedonia, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia and South Africa.
298 2013-11-13 It is among the strongest tenets of the Mafia code: Never kill a police officer. But a prosecutor told jurors in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on Tuesday that a former mobster ordered his hit men to do just that.

Without much hesitation, the prosecutor said, the killers trailed the officer, Ralph C. Dols, learning his daily routine, waiting for the right moment. Then one night in 1997, they ambushed him with a hail of bullets when he returned home from his Coney Island shift.

The reason for the special violation of the code: The mobster was jealous. Officer Dols had married the ex-wife of the consigliere of the Colombo crime family.

This was the account that the federal prosecutor, Samuel P. Nitze, gave in opening arguments on Tuesday in the trial of the mobster, Joel Cacace. Mr. Nitze said that three men killed Officer Dols at the orders of Mr. Cacace (pronounced kuh-CASE). Mr. Nitze said Mr. Cacace had “the power to keep his hands clean while others did his dirty work.”

Mr. Nitze laid out a case that promises to have all the markings of a classic mob trial, including testimony from two hit men who have admitted their involvement in the killing. One of them, Joseph Competiello, took the stand on Tuesday. During the opening arguments and early testimony, Mr. Cacace, 72, leaned back calmly in his chair, his belly protruding, his long silver hair swept back into a ponytail.

One of his lawyers, Susan G. Kellman, called the government’s case a “fable” built on the testimony of killers, whom she alternately called animals and poor excuses for human beings. She argued that the government had no evidence that Mr. Cacace gave the orders to kill — other than the accounts of those killers. She asked the jurors: If they will look you in the face and blow your head off, how can you expect them to tell you the truth?
299 2013-11-13 A dog food company has expanded a recall of its teriyaki dog treats over salmonella concerns. Officials from the company, Bailey’s Choice, say a recall of Teriyaki Chicken Treats has expanded to include Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Delaware and Tennessee. The company first issued a recall of several varieties of chicken treats last week after the Georgia Department of Agriculture found salmonella in the product. The company’s owner, Roger Thomas, said the company had repaired a thermostat that caused a dehydrator used to maintain proper temperatures to malfunction.
300 2013-11-13 Dozens of problematic ballots could determine the fate of an initiative that seeks to establish a $15 minimum wage for many workers in the airport city of SeaTac. The ballot measure was winning by just 43 votes on Tuesday as officials in King County resumed counting votes. There are probably also hundreds more votes to be counted because of the lengthy ballot-collection process caused by the state’s vote-by-mail system. The race was expected to draw about 6,000 votes. Both labor and business groups spent large sums to influence the outcome.
301 2013-11-13 Many children with autism have particular fascinations, and Connor’s is with highway exit signs. For our family, driving up and down the interstate was a fun day out. We never suspected he’d attempt to get there on foot.

Luckily, a passing driver noticed our son; the driver turned around, just in case. When Connor failed to answer a few basic questions, he was taken to another nearby school. That school called the police. The police had no idea how to deal with Connor: An officer mistook our mostly nonverbal child for a defiant rule-breaker who needed some “tough love.”

Finally, a staff member at the school reached me, but exactly how long Connor had been missing by the time I got to him, no one could tell me. Connor was hysterical, shaking. I scooped him up in a hug, whispering through my own tears, “You’re O.K.”

That was our big wake-up call, but it didn’t end there. Connor’s wandering had started in day care and continued through school. He slipped out during classroom transitions, as Avonte did. We found ourselves keeping Connor home on days we feared it might be easier for him to slip away. Here I was, an advocate for others, yet I could not keep my own child safe.

Today, the National Autism Association, where I work, provides information and resources for caregivers. Back then, there were no fact sheets to support our pleas for greater vigilance. And, to this day, there is no guidance from the ; no protocols, not even a mandate to notify parents of any wandering attempts. At the N.A.A., we often hear from parents who have a child who cannot sleep, forcing caregivers to barricade doors and take shifts staying awake. Others are so desperate that they hide their child’s shoes to slow them down in case they escape.

Under federal criteria, which most states follow, the Amber Alert system can be used only for children known to have been abducted. Wandering doesn’t count. Instead, the refrain most often thrown at parents is simply “watch your child better,” or “find a school that will watch your child better.”

Imagine if that were the advice given to those who care for Alzheimer’s patients. In fact, the Department of Justice provides about $1 million a year for first-responder training on Alzheimer’s-related wandering and tracking technology. There is no equivalent funding for autism-specific wandering and no more than a promise, in 2011, from , the secretary of health and human services, to give the issue “serious consideration.”

If consideration had become action, perhaps Avonte would be home safe right now. There is still a lack of awareness in schools. Simply to provide better teacher training on wandering would help prevent future disappearances.

So where is the federal autism program on wandering prevention? Yes, budgets are tight, but here is our choice: We can spend the money now on awareness and training, or later, on huge, intensive searches for missing children.

Now 13, my son wears a tracking device, and is learning ways to keep himself safe. In his room are miniature replicas of his favorite exit signs, and a laptop, which he uses to draw them whenever he likes. He hasn’t attempted to reach the highway since getting the laptop. He’s also at middle school now, cared for by an amazing staff. While Connor still has that can make bolting behaviors difficult to prevent, we finally have the resources to help keep him safe.

But not nearly enough is being done to keep children like Avonte from disappearing. Too many parents are still going through the anguish of losing their wandering children.
302 2013-11-13 “The L.A.P.D. diversified under Bratton,” said Peter Bibring, a supervising attorney at the Southern California branch of the American Civil Liberties Union. “He helped make accountability and constitutional policing part of the culture.”

If you think you’re hearing a “but” about to be launched, you’re right on key. “But, there were an extraordinary number of stops of pedestrians that were going on when he came in,” he said, “especially considering that there are so few pedestrians on the streets to begin with.”

In the last half of 2008, the last period of Mr. Bratton’s tenure for which data is available, Los Angeles officers on average made 22 stops; that year, New York officers made an average of 15. But fewer of the stops in Los Angeles led to searches than in New York, Mr. Bibring said.

“Per officer, L.A.P.D. was making more stops than the N.Y.P.D.,” Mr. Bibring said. “Bratton didn’t create the problem. There were an extraordinary number of stops when he came. But they continued throughout his tenure.” You might be excused for thinking the future of stop-and-frisk policing is a central issue to governing New York, keeping it safe and protecting innocent people from being unreasonably touched and searched. The city is fighting in federal court with a strong resemblance to the dead-end Japanese soldiers on isolated islands who, unaware that World War II had ended and the other side had won, fought on for months.

In the first three months of 2013, 99,788 people were subjected to stop-and-frisk encounters in New York City; a year earlier, 203,500 had been. So the practice has been reduced by more than half. Crime is dropping. The world has not ended.

Call it a retreat by the city, or, as the Police Department describes it, better training of officers. The change began about 18 months ago when the city was heading toward the big class-action lawsuit.

Just about 20 years ago, Mr. Bratton was appointed police commissioner under Rudolph W. Giuliani.

He was never less than entertaining: He could be found many evenings at Elaine’s, or in other swell restaurants on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. A decline in crime that had started before his arrival became an avalanche. He was on the cover of magazines. The publicity was a bit reckless: The Giuliani people lived by the motto, one peacock at a time. As soon as it could be arranged, Mr. Bratton was rolled up in a carpet and heaved out the door. He dusted himself off and wasted no calories on false modesty.

He also became an open, unafraid voice of urging restraint in police actions. His successor, eager to match Mr. Bratton’s record, ginned up aggressive, high-risk street patrols against the counsel of experienced police supervisors. For two innocent, unarmed black men, the results were catastrophic: Amadou Diallo and Patrick Dorismond were both shot dead during encounters with the expanded units.

At the time, Mr. Bratton said: “You got all these young black and Hispanic guys being bumped up by the expanded street-crime unit.”

There was no need, he said in 2000. “In the early 1990s, making arrests was like fishing in a stocked pond,” Mr. Bratton said. “Eventually, you started to have fewer fish.”

On Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Bratton did not want to discuss his time in Los Angeles or his prospects for a return to New York or the selection process.

“Normally, I’d be happy to talk,” he said.
303 2013-11-13 KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The long-running competition for jobs between Kansas and Missouri that has elicited all manner of battlefield imagery about arming and disarming, border wars and turf battles now has Gov. Jay Nixon of Missouri signaling for a new one: truce.

Speaking to a group of business leaders on Tuesday, Mr. Nixon, a Democrat, called for a moratorium on state financial incentives that simply move businesses from one side of the state line to the other, rather than bring new jobs to the region.

“That is bad for taxpayers,” Mr. Nixon said of the moving of jobs. “It’s bad for our state budget, and it’s not good for our economy.”

Later, he added, “This so-called border war between our two states has gone on long enough.”

The fight to attract businesses seems to have been escalating in recent years in the form of tax policy. Kansas lawmakers, during their past two sessions, have passed the largest income tax cuts in the state’s history. Their counterparts in Missouri counterpunched by trying to pass their own major tax cut this year, but the effort failed when Mr. Nixon vetoed it, saying that the measure would have prevented the state from paying for vital services like education and mental health care.

Tuesday’s announcement zeroed in on incentives given directly to businesses.

Since 2009, when Kansas started an incentive program similar to one in Missouri that allows employers to retain their employees’ state income tax for a fixed time, the two states have forgiven a combined $212 million in taxes, according to Bill Hall, the president of the Hall Family Foundation. And Kansas seems to lead in the fight to attract jobs. More than 3,200 jobs within the greater Kansas City area have moved from Missouri to Kansas during that period, and just over 2,800 have gone the other way.
304 2013-11-13 “It’ll bite somebody in the butt if they don’t concentrate in that area,” said Gregg Popovich, the coach of the San Antonio Spurs.

Steve Clifford, the coach of the Charlotte Bobcats, said he knew the league was serious when the Chicago Bulls were cited for three infractions against the Knicks on Oct. 31. Clifford shared his observations at practice. Other coaches have incorporated drills, telling their players to treat the ball like a hot potato. If you touch it, drop it.

“Look, you have to play with great discipline to be a good player in this league,” Clifford said. “To avoid batting the ball away when it goes through the basket shouldn’t be that hard of a thing. Seriously. It costs your team points.”

The Knicks’ Metta World Peace, a 15-year veteran, came to that realization last week in a game against the Bobcats. World Peace had a hand, quite literally, in three delay-of-game calls, including once when he tapped the ball to his teammate Raymond Felton (who threw it to an official, which was a no-no) and later when he tossed the ball over his head like a bouquet of flowers. While the Knicks sailed to an easy win, World Peace was annoyed.

“It’s their league,” said World Peace, who clearly had no idea what he had done wrong. “It’s a hard adjustment for these guys making the rules because a lot of them have never played basketball. It’s like me trying to make rules for Microsoft or something.”

Rod Thorn, the N.B.A.’s president for basketball operations, said the rule’s revival actually grew out of a meeting of the league’s general managers in May. Offenses, they argued, needed the freedom to inbound the ball as quickly as possible without meddlesome opponents getting in the way.

The league’s nine-member competition committee later recommended that the N.B.A. dust off the rule. Teams were warned before the season began that it would be a point of emphasis. All those little passes to the officials? Players were not being cooperative. They were trying to slow the pace of the game.

“Usually,” Thorn said, “the pass was not real good.”

At the same time, the N.B.A.’s crackdown on various high jinks — and this is merely the latest example — has come at a cost. Some of the games within the game are disappearing. Kenny Charles, a guard with the Buffalo Braves and the Atlanta Hawks before he retired in 1977, recalled the great skill with which many of his contemporaries subverted the rules. Randy Smith, for example, mastered the art of grabbing an opponent’s shorts to prevent him from getting through a screen.

“You’d need a cab ride to get around the pick,” Charles said. “There was a craft to it, though. It’s old-school stuff you don’t see much anymore.”

And against high-powered offenses, players always had the option of slapping the ball away after sinking a shot. Charles said he would try to make it look more authentic by acting frustrated, though that must have struck the officials as odd. Charles’s team, after all, was the one that had just scored.

“It was a tactic,” Charles said. “If you saw three of your teammates near the end line and you’re about to be outnumbered, you’d toss that ball away in a second.”

It was a nuisance to teams that wanted to push the tempo. Mychal Thompson, who was part of two championship teams with the “Showtime” Los Angeles Lakers of the late 1980s, said Coach Pat Riley had his own rule for the players who were responsible for inbounding the ball: don’t let it touch the floor after it fell through the hoop. An opponent who interfered (and many interfered) did so for the sole purpose of interrupting the Lakers’ fast-break offense.

“We wanted to get the ball to Magic Johnson as quickly as possible,” Thompson said. “I love the rule. I wish it was enforced when we were playing.”

It has become much more difficult for players to get away with extracurriculars. The league added a third referee to game crews in 1988, and then made a concerted effort to reduce rough play starting in 1996.

Steve Javie, a former N.B.A. referee who works as an analyst for ESPN, said the officials used to have greater discretion when it came to making calls. There were gray areas, he said. Say a defensive player angling for a rebound got banged by his opponent, and the ball went out of bounds as he attempted to secure it. Javie would award the defensive team the ball even if that player touched it last because Javie considered the contact to be marginal — not necessarily enough to merit a foul, but enough to compensate the defense with possession.

Javie said he would not be able to make that kind of judgment call today. The rule book is no longer subject to interpretation, he said, largely because every game is televised and every possession is available in slow motion. Consider that referees have to review their own calls on courtside monitors.

“Everybody can see everything now, so there’s total transparency,” Javie said. “Fans will ask: If I can see it, why didn’t the ref call it? The art of officiating has been taken away. It’s still a craft, but not as much as it once was.”

Most coaches and players seem to agree that the delay-of-game rule is a good one, and one worthy of enforcement. Still, habits are hard to break.

“If you’re standing under the basket and the ball just happens to hit you in the chest, you can’t help but put your hands out,” said Cole Aldrich, a reserve center with the Knicks. “You’ve done it for so long, it’s an adjustment.”
305 2013-11-13 The pitfalls of backing one side in such a conflict were on full display this week after the Congolese government walked out on peace talks with the rebels.

“Despite a change in the military situation, it is important that there be a political conclusion to the dialogue,” said a group of envoys representing the international community in a statement on Monday, including Mr. Kobler and his counterparts from the United States, African Union and European Union.

Still, the intervention brigade, combined with forceful diplomatic pressure and financial incentives for neighboring Rwanda, has made a dent in a seemingly endless war.

“I think it has contributed to rebuilding the credibility of the U.N., which was almost nonexistent in the Congo after years of humiliation,” said Jean-Marie Guéhenno, who was the United Nations peacekeeping chief from 2000 to 2008, and under whose watch its blue helmets were overwhelmed by rebel forces in eastern Congo.

The shift could have broad implications for peacekeeping operations all over the world. Nearly 100,000 uniformed personnel serve under the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations, from the Western Sahara and Haiti to the island of Cyprus and the mountains of Kashmir.

The United States special envoy to the Great Lakes region of Africa, Russ Feingold, described the intervention brigade as “a stronger approach that can give peacekeeping operations more strength in the future and help resolve knotty problems.”

He added, “The story has yet to be written, but the first couple chapters are very good.”

Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, described the new brigade as having “invigorated” the efforts of both Congolese troops and the rest of the United Nations mission.

The decision to send the blue helmets into offensive operations has not met with universal approval. Humanitarian aid organizations worry that the shift could put their workers at risk because armed groups will not distinguish between soldiers and those who feed, heal and house civilians in war.

“You can have a helicopter one day used to deliver the Force Intervention Brigade troops to attack a village and next day to deliver aid to that same village,” said Michiel Hofman, senior humanitarian specialist for Doctors Without Borders in Brussels. “In this case it’s not even a blurring of the lines.”

Mr. Guéhenno, who now teaches at Columbia University, warned against relying too much on force, saying that the key to ending the war in Congo, is persuading regional leaders to cooperate, out of their own mutual self-interest.

“It’s not a SWAT team that’s going to clean up a bad neighborhood,” Mr. Guéhenno said. “That requires politics.”

A more aggressive approach could also alienate countries like India and Uruguay, which have traditionally sent many troops to serve in United Nations operations. Such countries see peacekeeping missions as a way to get training, equipment and extra pay for their forces with relatively little risk of casualties.

“Some of the troop-contributing countries are quite uneasy with what they see as the direction peacekeeping is taking,” said a senior United Nations official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk publicly.

The Security Council was “careful to say it was not a precedent, but every time you say that that’s exactly what you’re making,” the official said.

Mr. Kobler’s military counterpart in Congo, whom he describes as his “twin,” Lt. Gen. Carlos Alberto dos Santos Cruz, has used all the soldiers under his command more aggressively and said that he has no plan to change tactics.

“We are going to exercise our mandate to the maximum possible, not only against M23, against all the groups,” General Cruz said. “When we finish one problem, we are in our heads thinking about the next step.”

Dozens of armed groups remain in eastern Congo, a region where millions have died in a war that has drawn in the country’s neighbors and raged for two decades. The Congolese Army is also part of the problem: It has been cited for wide-ranging human rights abuses for years. Analysts warn that the defeat of a single group like the M23, which was plagued by internal dissent and weakened even before the latest offensive, is no reason for triumphalism.

Intense diplomatic pressure on Rwanda to cooperate and financial incentives, namely a handsome package from the World Bank, also helped.

The United Nations force in Congo includes nearly 19,000 military personnel and costs nearly $1.5 billion a year.

Mr. Kobler, an experienced German diplomat, served stints as ambassador in Egypt and Iraq, and more recently for the United Nations in Afghanistan.

Wiry and energetic, Mr. Kobler has ricocheted across the region to seek an end to the fighting. The day the most recent round of fighting erupted last month, Mr. Kobler flew immediately from the Congolese capital, Kinshasa, to the eastern city of Goma, a thousand miles away, to tour the front line. The next day he flew to Kigali, Rwanda, for meetings, then on to Kampala, Uganda, before ending the weekend here.

He returned the following day with the governor of the province. On the helicopter ride there he peered out the window at the farmed hillsides, waving to farmers and children below as if he could conduct public relations for the United Nations from the air.

The visit included a memorial service for a fallen Tanzanian peacekeeper, Lt. Rajabu Ahmed Mlima, 36, who was killed by rebel fire under a blooming bougainvillea as the intervention brigade fought the rebels. His death was a reminder that aggressive military tactics can exact a heavy toll. To the low thrum of helicopter rotors overhead, Mr. Kobler and other dignitaries laid garlands over a framed photograph of Lieutenant Mlima.

“This is a sad moment. We see one of us depart with the ultimate sacrifice,” Mr. Kobler said. “He lost his life for the values of the United Nations, for protecting civilians, for defending human rights, for fighting for the benefit of the Democratic Republic of Congo.”
306 2013-11-13 Thomas L. Friedman’s support for Obamacare on behalf of America’s work force is both appropriate and commendable. As well, it should be mentioned that our traditional system of employment-based health insurance, based as it is on the employers’ rolling those costs into the price of their products and services, is unsustainable.

No other industrialized country does this, leaving our business at a disadvantage in a highly competitive field.

The American auto industry, for example, at one point estimated that 10 to 12 percent of the price of its cars represented the cost of health insurance for its employees and retirees.

To the degree that Obamacare offers alternative means of funding, business should be supportive as well.

The writer is a former Democratic governor of New Jersey.
307 2013-11-13 The precise value of the settlement is unclear because lawyers for patients are still trying to estimate how many of the 12,000 related lawsuits involve patients who had a replacement. Lawyers believe that number may be 7,000 to 8,000 cases.

The final cost of the deal to Johnson & Johnson could rise, depending on how many claimants who received the device undergo replacement operations in the future, the lawyers said. Under the plan, patients who have not had a replacement would not receive compensation, the lawyers said.

The A.S.R. hip was sold by DePuy until mid-2010, when the company recalled it amid sharply rising early failure rates. The device, which had a metal ball and a metal cup, sheds metallic debris as it wears, generating particles that have damaged tissue in some patients or caused crippling injuries.

DePuy officials have long insisted that they acted appropriately in recalling the device when they did. However, internal company documents disclosed during the trial of a patient lawsuit this year showed that DePuy officials were long aware that the hip had a flawed design and was failing prematurely at a high rate.

Many artificial hips last 15 years or more before they wear out and need to be replaced. But by 2008, data from orthopedic databases outside the United States also showed that the A.S.R. was failing at high rates in patients after just a few years.

Internal DePuy projections estimate that it will fail in 40 percent of those patients in five years, a rate eight times higher than for many other hip devices.

It had been long anticipated that DePuy would try to settle the case. Of the two lawsuits that have gone to trial, the company lost one lawsuit and won the other one.

However, it was facing the start of several new trials around the country with the prospect of large damage awards. The outlines of a settlement proposal were reported Tuesday by Bloomberg News.

The hip was first sold by DePuy in 2003 outside the United States for use in an alternative hip replacement procedure called resurfacing. Two years later, DePuy started selling another version for use here in standard hip replacements that used the same cup component as the resurfacing device. Only the standard version was sold in the United States; both were sold outside the country.

About 93,000 patients received an A.S.R., about one-third of them in the United States.

Problems with the design first came to light in Australia and England just a few years after its marketing began. But DePuy officials insisted for years to surgeons who complained about that device that patient problems reflected their surgical technique rather than the implant’s design.

Last year, The New York Times reported that DePuy executives decided in 2009 to phase out the A.S.R. and sell existing inventories weeks after the Food and Drug Administration asked the company for more safety data about the implant.

The agency also told the company at that time that it was rejecting its efforts to sell the resurfacing version of the device in the United States because of concerns about “high concentration of metal ions” in the blood of patients who received it.

DePuy never disclosed the F.D.A. ruling to regulators in other countries, where it was still marketing the resurfacing version of the implant.

The head of DePuy’s orthopedic unit, Andrew Ekdahl, oversaw the introduction of the hip and was warned by a company consultant in 2008 that the implant appeared to have a design flaw, according to internal DePuy documents disclosed during a trial earlier this year.

When DePuy recalled the hip in 2010, it announced a program in which it offered to pay the medical costs of a replacement procedure.

All-metal replacement hips like the A.S.R. were once highly popular with orthopedic surgeons who believed the devices would last longer than traditional replacement devices made of plastic and metal. But the metal devices are rarely used anymore because of their high early failure rates.

While the settlement, if approved, would resolve much of the litigation against DePuy involving that device, it continues to face thousands of lawsuits involving another all-metal hip that it no longer sells called the Pinnacle.
308 2013-11-13 Count Georgette Farkas among the former employees of Daniel Boulud who have left the nest to start restaurants (think Andrew Carmellini). For much of her career, she was Mr. Boulud’s marketing manager, working for a time in the kitchen. Now she has opened a French restaurant with a focus on the rotisserie, visible from the open kitchen. David Malbequi is the chef in charge of the spits and everything else, like terrine of foie gras, roasted leeks and, from the rotisserie, a whole fish, chicken for two and duck breast. It all gets served in a handsome dining room adorned with Portuguese tiles and mirrors in elegant frames. Leather banquettes outline the room, and there are free-standing tables: 14 East 60th Street; 212-390-8060; rotisserieg.com.

THE BREW INN This pub serves only New York beers with seasonal gastro-pub fare. (Opens Thursday): 924 Manhattan Avenue (Kent Street), Greenpoint, Brooklyn; 718-576-3345; thebrewinnnyc.com.

CAFé STANDARD The more casual dining component of Andre Balazs’ makeover of this hotel has opened, with John Fraser overseeing the seasonal menu: Standard East Village, 25 Cooper Square (Fifth Street); 212-475-5700; standardhotels.com.

HUDSON MALONE Doug Quinn, an iconic bartender with a following (from P. J. Clarke’s), opens his own place, a saloon with some vintage décor. It offers cocktails and, in a month or so, classic New York fare like seafood, a burger and a pork chop. A second-floor room with a speakeasy feeling will open in early 2014: 218 East 53rd Street; 212-355-6607; hudsonmalone.com.

LOUIE AND CHAN It has taken David Wiesner four years to open this restaurant and lounge, named to evoke the Italian and Chinese immigrants of the early 1900s. The ground-floor dining room and bar has an Italian menu, including pizza. Downstairs a lounge will open soon, with Asian accents in the drinks. Another area for music behind the lounge, called the 303, is in the wings. There is a ground-floor private dining room. (Saturday): 303 Broome Street (Forsyth Street); 212-837-2816; louieandchan.com.
309 2013-11-13 A recent study of Northwestern University indicating that non-tenure-track faculty are better teachers than tenure-track faculty (“Study Sees Benefit in Courses With Nontenured Instructors”) has been met with disbelief and derision — by tenure-track faculty and the American Association of University Professors.

It calls into question the myth that the two-track system in academe is an equal opportunity merit system. It is not; it is in fact a caste system with the tenured faculty occupying the upper caste and the off-track faculty serving as the “untouchables.”

This is not the first study to indicate that adjuncts and other “contingent faculty” are the best teachers. In the book “Off-Track Profs: Nontenured Teachers in Higher Education,” John G. Cross and Edie N. Goldenberg studied student evaluations at 10 elite research universities, including Northwestern, from 1989 to 2001.

They concluded that non-tenure-track instructors “usually (but not always) obtain higher scores than other types of instructors.” They added, “This is not surprising since non-tenure-track faculty are hired as teachers and are evaluated with teaching performance in mind.”

Following the adage “publish or perish,” tenured faculty, by contrast, may view teaching as an ancillary function to their research. I would add that the scarcity of tenure-track positions has led to the hiring of adjuncts with excellent credentials, who, lacking any job security, must stay at the top of their game.

While the tenure-track faculty have comparatively high wages, great benefits and lifetime job security in the form of tenure, one million contingent professors have none of these things, often teaching for decades for poverty-level wages, and wondering whether they will even have a job next quarter. Last year The Chronicle of Higher Education published an article called “The Ph.D. Now Comes With Food Stamps.”

The writer is the editor of the forthcoming book “Equality for Contingent Faculty: Overcoming the Two-Tier System.”
310 2013-11-13 Boucheron, for example, has become known for its intricate designs of hedgehogs, sea horses, lemurs, owls and flamingos. Frogs crawl over the dials of some Boucheron watches. The house’s new Nuri ring — Nuri means parrot in Indonesian — features a cockatoo with a pear-cut pink sapphire body, pavé blue, violet and pink sapphire wings and crest, and a diamond-set head with two violet cabochon sapphires, in white gold. There is also an all-diamond version of the Nuri, with an emerald eye.

“The nature of the animal designs allows followers of the collection to build and create their own menagerie,” said Claire Choisne, director of creations at Boucheron. “The animals they choose to wear on any given day may be dependent on their emotions, mood and style.”

Tapping into the individuality of the wearer is key in any jewelry design, and several houses have discovered the value of celebrating a particular culture, especially one steeped in an ancient belief in the powers of animal spirits.

Amrapali, one of India’s best-known craft jewelers, based in Jaipur, celebrates the country’s animal life — both zoological and in the Hindu pantheon.

“At Amrapali, we can’t compete with the big jewelers, so we have to be unusual and bold,” said Sameer Lilani, director for Britain and Europe at Amrapali. “One way we do that is by using a lot of emeralds, tanzanites and rubies.”

“Blue sapphires were traditionally worn only by royalty and certain families, but yellow sapphires are lucky for everyone, so we use that stone a lot,” he added.

Its individualistic style, combining bold colors and animal motifs, has made Amrapali a favorite with clients drawn to Indian heritage.

One example is a necklace of gold elephants. “This necklace symbolizes how elephants are seen travelling in herds, often in lines as they follow their migratory route around India,” Mr. Lilani said. “Ganesh, the elephant, is worshiped across India and symbolizes hope and good fortune.”

The symbolism that attracts clients to Amrapali also works for other jewelry houses in very different cultures. Different animals may symbolize power, but in almost all cultures animal jewelry has long been associated with wealth and royalty.

So it was perhaps no surprise when Floyd K. Roland, then premier of Canada’s Northwest Territories, gave a matching Harry Winston-designed polar bear brooch and cufflinks set in diamonds and platinum to Britain’s Prince William and Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, during their first royal tour of North America in 2011.

“By the late ’20s and early ’30s ladies were allowed to wear figurative motifs, starting with birds. In the late ’30s there was a sense of humor about it all with insects, dragonflies and lady birds,” said Mr. Rainero of Cartier. “Thanks to those people 50 or 60 years ago, there are no limits now. People can express themselves the way they want. They can have one piece that is pastel and fun, and then decide to wear a crocodile bracelet that’s a watch. That freedom is very modern.”

That freedom is what made animal imagery so bold, he said, citing the Cartier panther as an early example of a glamour with enduring appeal. Kanye West earlier this year bedecked his now-fiancée Kim Kardashian with up to $75,000 worth of Cartier panther bracelets.

“It is iconic because unconsciously the panther is known to be elegant but also ferocious and independent,” Mr. Rainero said. “It’s a metaphor for all of that.”

While another large and graceful cat is one of the enduring images of India, for Mr. Lilani the most iconic image at Amrapali is not a tiger but a peacock. The bird shows up in several designs, such as a gold, silver and diamond bracelet of two peacocks guarding domed minarets that made quite a splash when it was introduced last year, at a reported price of $50,000.

“People can always relate to animals, and everyone has their favorite,” Mr. Lilani said. “In India, we have a lot of symbolism in animals, as you do in many cultures, such as birds and mythical creatures.”

“We use tigers, of course, but we like to go slightly deeper,” he said. “The national bird of India is the peacock, which symbolizes grace, beauty and intelligence, and I think what we do with it is completely different and unusual.”

Sometimes animal symbolism may be about more than national culture, religious tradition or finding quirky ways to show a cute or slithery critter.

It can also be deeply personal. The Cartier panther is forever associated with the love affair between King Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson, the divorced American for whom he abdicated the British throne in 1936 in order to marry.

The panther bracelet that he gave her sold for £4.5 million, or $7.3 million, at auction in 2010.

For Boucheron, another famous animal icon was also about love — though perhaps not quite so high-profile.

Frederic Boucheron, the company’s founder, “was drawn to the snake, believing it possessed protective properties,” Ms. Choisne said. “On the eve of one of his travels, Frederic gave his wife Gabrielle a snake necklace to protect her in his absence.”

“The snake from then on became one of the house’s most iconic designs,” she added. “It will always be that for us, no matter how many different jewels and colors we give it through the years.”
311 2013-11-13 The stock market drifted mostly lower on Tuesday after rising bond yields spurred more debate about how soon the Federal Reserve would start to taper its economic stimulus program.

Fed officials offered diverging views and added to the uncertainty about the outlook for the Fed’s easy-money policies. Among them, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, told CNBC that the Fed’s program of buying $85 billion in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities every month to stimulate the economy could not continue forever.

The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 32.43 points, or 0.21 percent, to close at 15,750.67, backing off its nominal record high on Monday. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 4.20 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,767.69. The Nasdaq composite index eked out a gain of just 0.13 of a point, to close at 3,919.92.

The day’s declines were led by the financial, energy and utilities sectors. A 2.1 percent drop in oil prices hurt energy stocks like Chevron, which slid $1.08, or 0.9 percent, to $120.

“Worries over the timing of the taper” have been driving the market, said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist with Prudential Financial.
312 2013-11-13 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Toss the apples with the lemon juice in a medium bowl. Line a sheet pan with parchment.

2. Heat a large frying pan over high heat and add the butter. Wait until it stops foaming and is becoming light brown, and add the diced apples, turbinado sugar, vanilla, cinnamon and nutmeg. Spread the apples in a layer and cook without moving them for a couple of minutes, then turn the heat to medium-high and sauté, moving the apples around in the pan, until golden brown, about 5 to 7 minutes. Scrape out onto the lined sheet pan and allow to cool completely.

3. Spread the cooled apples evenly over the pre-baked tart shell.

4. Make the almond topping. Beat the egg whites lightly in a bowl, just until slightly foamy. Whisk in the sugar and stir in the almonds. Spread evenly over the apples.

5. Place the tart on a sheet pan and bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, or until the crust and topping are golden brown. Remove from the oven and cool on a rack.

Advance preparation: You can prepare the apples a day ahead of making the tart. The tart will keep for a day.

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
313 2013-11-14 ROSENSTOCK--Lisa Wahl. The Board and staff of the S.L.E. Lupus Foundation and Lupus Research Institute express our deepest sympathies to the family of Lisa Wahl Rosenstock, an early pioneer and true champion in the fight against lupus. We extend o...
314 2013-11-14 Daniel S. Loeb, George Soros and John Paulson disclosed new positions in FedEx on Thursday....
315 2013-11-14 The answer to the whispered question at art auctions this week — “How’s Steve’s stuff selling?” — in the wake of the guilty plea by Steven A. Cohen’s hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors....
316 2013-11-14 In a 2002 study, for example, Peter Savolainen, now at the Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden, and his colleagues concluded that dogs evolved in East Asia. Eight years later, however, Robert Wayne, a geneticist at the University of California, Los Angeles, and his colleagues analyzed some new dog breeds and concluded that the Middle East was where dogs got their start. (All such studies suggest that a few breeds may have been independently domesticated, although they differ on which ones and where.)

Dr. Savolainen and his colleagues continued to sequence DNA from more dogs, and they published more evidence for an East Asian origin of dogs — narrowing it down to South China.

While early studies of canine origins were limited to fragments of DNA, scientists are now starting to sequence entire genomes of dogs and wolves. In May, for example, Dr. Salovainen and Chinese colleagues reported that Chinese native dogs had the most wolflike genomes. By tallying up the mutations in the different dog and wolf genomes, they estimated that the ancestors of Chinese village dogs and wolves split about 32,000 years ago.

If this were true, then the first dogs would have become domesticated not by farmers, but by Chinese hunter-gatherers more than 20,000 years before the dawn of agriculture.

Dr. Wayne and his colleagues think that is wrong.

A dog may have wolflike DNA because it is a dog-wolf hybrid. In a paper that is not yet published, they analyze wolf and dog genomes to look for signs of ancient interbreeding. They cite evidence that, indeed, some of the DNA in dogs in East Asia comes from wolf interbreeding.

“That’s going to pump up the resemblance,” Dr. Wayne said.

Now Dr. Wayne and his colleagues are introducing a new line of evidence to the dog debate: ancient DNA. Over the past two decades, scientists have developed increasingly powerful tools to rescue fragments of DNA from fossils, producing “an explosion in the samples,” said Beth Shapiro of the University of California, Santa Cruz, a collaborator with Dr. Wayne.

On Thursday in the journal Science, Dr. Wayne, Dr. Shapiro and their colleagues report on the first large-scale comparison of DNA from both living and fossil dogs and wolves. They managed to extract DNA from 18 fossils found in Europe, Russia and the New World. They compared their genes to those from 49 wolves, 77 dogs and 4 coyotes.

The scientists examined a special kind of DNA found in a structure in the cell called the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial DNA comes only from mothers. Because each cell may have thousands of mitochondria, it is easier to gather enough genetic fragments to reconstruct its DNA.

The scientists did not find that living dogs were closely related to wolves from the Middle East or China. Instead, their closest relatives were ancient dogs and wolves from Europe.

“It’s a simple story, and the story is they were domesticated in Europe,” Dr. Shapiro said.

Dr. Shapiro and Dr. Wayne and their colleagues estimate that dogs split off from European wolves sometime between 18,000 and 30,000 years ago. At the time, Northern Europe was covered in glaciers and the southern portion was a grassland steppe where humans hunted for mammoths, horses and other big game.

“Humans couldn’t take everything, and that was a great treasure trove,” Dr. Wayne said. Some wolves began to follow the European hunters to scavenge on the carcasses they left behind. As they migrated along with people, they became isolated from other wolves.

Dog evolution experts praised the scientists for gathering so much new data. “I think it’s terrific,” said Adam Boyko, a Cornell biologist. Dr. Savolainen agreed. “I think it’s a fantastic sample,” he said.

But Dr. Savolainen said the analysis was flawed. “It’s not a correct scientific study, because it’s geographically biased,” he said.

The study lacks ancient DNA from fossils from East Asia or the Middle East, and so it’s not possible to tell whether the roots of dog evolution are anchored in those regions. “You just need to have samples from everywhere,” Dr. Savolainen said.

He also rejects Dr. Wayne’s argument that interbreeding in East Asia creates an illusion that dogs originated there. Dr. Savolainen points out that the study suggesting interbreeding was based on a wolf from northern China. “What they need to have is samples from south China,” he said.

There’s just one catch. South China is now so densely settled by people that no wolves live there. A similar problem applies to the fossil record.

“It may be impossible to go this way,” Dr. Savolainen said.

Dr. Wayne is not quite so pessimistic. He and his colleagues are hoping to widen their scope and find more DNA from fossils of dogs outside of Europe, while also looking at the genes of living dogs that might hold important clues. Yet he thinks it unlikely that the new evidence will change the basic conclusion of his latest study.

“But there have been so many surprises in the history of this research on dog domestication that I’m holding my breath till we get more information,” Dr. Wayne said.
317 2013-11-14 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
318 2013-11-14 The mixed benefits of advertising on Twitter. Why gas prices are falling.I managing your time a waste of time?...
319 2013-11-14 In this lesson, students will apply inferencing skills to create comics, videos, or “missing chapters” showing what happens after their favorite literary works end....
320 2013-11-14 The city’s net outflow generally remains lower than it was before the recession began, and immigration has surged to nearly 10-year highs, according to new data from the Census Bureau....
321 2013-11-14 For people with severe arthritis, knee or hip replacement may have an added benefit: a reduction in the risk for cardiovascular disease....
322 2013-11-14 A small business that elects to raise money from the masses should prepare for a lifetime of disclosure and fees, if recently proposed rules from the Securities and Exchange Commission take effect....
323 2013-11-14 By chronicling the Delano grape strike in California in the 1960s, Jon Lewis exposed the harrowing story of labor behind the fruits and vegetables that Americans consumed without thought....
324 2013-11-14 Mr. Bal spoke about his unexpected termination from the magazine....
325 2013-11-14 Chinese animal rights advocates are buoyed by news the government is moving toward ending the mandatory testing of cosmetics on animals, in line with growing international norms....
326 2013-11-14 This word has appeared in 25 New York Times articles in the past year....
327 2013-11-14 “I don’t think his intergalactic metaphor is exactly right,” Alderson said when told of Boras’s comments. Asked what was wrong with the metaphor, Alderson said, “I’m not sure, because I’ve got to first understand it.”

On Tuesday night the Mets met with Jhonny Peralta, who was here with his agent. Without naming Peralta, Alderson said it was always positive to meet a player in person.

Peralta, normally a shortstop, hit .303 with 11 homers in 107 games for the Detroit Tigers last season. He was suspended for 50 games in the Biogenesis scandal and rejoined the team’s lineup at the end of the season. He became one of the few hitters the Tigers could rely on in the playoffs, batting .333. Because Detroit had acquired Jose Iglesias, Peralta played some left field.

Signing him would be a coup for the Mets, although bigger names are out there.

Boras mostly discussed Jacoby Ellsbury, Shin-Soo Choo and Stephen Drew, three of his free-agent clients who might fit well with either the Yankees or the Mets.

Boras described Ellsbury as a center fielder who had power to pair with his speed. Boras said Ellsbury’s home run total dropped because his role was to get on base this season, and he was playing with a swollen hand and wrist.

He called Drew a winner after his stops in Arizona, Oakland and Boston — a shortstop with a reliable glove and some pop in his bat.

Boras said Choo was “along the lines of Michael Jordan in Korea.” Without specifically referring to the Mets, who could benefit from connecting with the large Korean population in Queens, Boras noted that some teams, in some cities, could prosper by adding him.

The Yankees could use Choo, too. He gets on base, throws well, is a well-respected teammate and could provide some power by taking advantage of the short right-field fence at Yankee Stadium.

The Yankees met with Boras on Wednesday, and with the agents for Carlos Beltran and Brian McCann. Alderson had spoken with Boras before the meetings, but Choo could cost too much for the Mets. Alderson has indicated that he will not spend $100 million on one player this off-season. When Boras was told that, he said: “The hardest thing about limits is that it doesn’t limit others. It limits you.”

Someday, Alderson and Boras presumably will try to negotiate what is likely to be a lucrative deal for the Mets’ ace, Matt Harvey. Boras said Harvey was doing well after Tommy John surgery and would start his rehabilitation in a few weeks.

If the Mets do not sign Peralta or someone else by then, their fans could get restless.

“Do I sense it?” Alderson said of the fans’ anxiety. “Yeah, to some extent. Do I tune it out? Yes, to the largest extent possible. Because for us this is a day-to-day proposition, and it’s not that predictable. So I just sort of have to take it out of the equation to some extent but be aware of the overall environment as well.”

WILSON NOT IN YANKEES’ PLANS Brian Cashman, the Yankees’ general manager, hears a similar refrain from agents at functions like these every year: “All their players want to be Yankees.”

“Well,” Cashman said Wednesday, “Brian Wilson doesn’t want to be a Yankee.”

Cashman explained that Wilson’s agent had said the closer would not shave his beard, meaning he would not comply with the Yankees’ policy on facial hair, which prohibits players from sporting anything beyond a mustache.

Not even for the right price?

“I didn’t ask,” Cashman said. “I was told don’t even bother.”
328 2013-11-14 “This is the start of a shift in the way people interact with computers.”

IBM is wielding Watson in a fight to control the world of cloud computing — huge collections of computer servers connected over the Internet — with other big technology companies like Amazon.com, Google and Microsoft. It is no coincidence that IBM discussed its Watson news the same week Amazon was hosting clients at a conference here to pitch its own computing cloud, called Amazon Web Services or A.W.S.

The competition is still young, but its impact will be significant.

“Companies, governments and people will struggle to figure out what to do with all this,” said Jamie Popkin, an analyst with the research company Gartner. “It means there is going to be a new pace and velocity, making people rethink when humans make decisions, while machines make other decisions.”

Watson, a project on which IBM spent 14 years, is an artificial learning system that digests large volumes of information to find hidden meanings. Initial uses — besides besting humans on game shows — include examining medical patients and records to find an unexpected diagnosis, a bit like the genius portrayed in the television show “House.” Other uses include an online personal shopper and a virtual health aide that tailors exercises by asking questions.

IBM is opening Watson to more people in part to see what additional businesses might be created.

Watson is prominent, but similar projects are being run by other companies. On Tuesday, a company appearing at the Amazon conference said it had run in 18 hours a project on Amazon’s cloud of computer servers that would have taken 264 years on a single server.

The project, related to finding better materials for solar panels, cost $33,000, compared with an estimated $68 million to build and run a similar computer just a few years ago. Akin more to conventional supercomputing than Watson’s question-and-answer cognitive computing, the project was the first of several announced at the Amazon conference.

“It’s now $90 an hour to rent 10,000 computers,” the equivalent of a giant machine that would cost $4.4 million, said Jason Stowe, the chief executive of Cycle Computing, the company that did the Amazon supercomputing exercise, and whose clients include The Hartford, Novartis, and Johnson & Johnson. “Soon smart people will be renting a conference room to do some supercomputing.”

While revenues of Amazon’s cloud business are still small enough that the company does not have to disclose them, Amazon officials say Jeff Bezos, the company’s chief executive, believes A.W.S. could eventually dwarf Amazon’s businesses in books and merchandise, enterprises with $51 billion in revenue. This year, Gartner calculated that A.W.S. had five times the computing power of 14 other cloud computing companies, including IBM, combined.

Since then, IBM has spent an estimated $2 billion to acquire a cloud company called SoftLayer and has reconfigured Watson as a cloud product. It also hired buses that drove around the A.W.S. conference in Las Vegas, sporting ads that said they showed its superiority in cloud computing.

Besides gaining bragging rights and a much bigger customer base, IBM may be accelerating the growth of Watson’s power by putting it in the cloud. Mr. Gold said that Watson would retain learning from each customer interaction, gaining the ability to do things like interacting in different languages or identifying human preferences. IBM has taken steps to keep these improvements for its own benefit, by retaining rights in user agreements that customers are required to sign.

What is not yet clear is IBM’s plan to make money from taking Watson to the computing cloud. The company is experimenting with charging for data storage, or selling computing on a metered basis, like water or electricity. “There is no question the model will change,” Mr. Gold said. “You have to have flexibility to handle the breadth of cases we expect to see.”

It is likely that the competition among advanced computing systems will increase, lowering prices and delivering more capabilities to whatever use companies make of them.

This year, Google and a corporation associated with NASA acquired for study an experimental computer that appears to make use of quantum properties to deliver results sometimes 3,600 times faster than traditional supercomputers. The maker of the quantum computer, D-Wave Systems of Burnaby, British Columbia, counts Mr. Bezos as an investor.
329 2013-11-14 With Mr. Donziger’s guidance, Ecuadorean rain forest villagers won a judgment in 2011 of more than $18 billion in a provincial Ecuadorean court against Chevron, a decision that was affirmed this week by Ecuador’s highest court, although it reduced the penalties to $9.5 billion.

Chevron has virtually no assets in Ecuador, so lawyers for the Ecuadorean villagers hope to persuade courts in Argentina, Brazil and Canada to confiscate company assets for payment. Chevron hopes that a victory in the nonjury trial in Manhattan will strengthen its argument in foreign courts against enforcing the judgment.

In his prepared testimony, Mr. Donziger repeated his long insistence that Texaco, before it was bought by Chevron, spilled millions of gallons of toxic wastewater into rivers of the Ecuadorean Amazon in the 1970s and ’80s and left behind unlined waste pits filled with toxic sludge, badly damaging the lives and culture of several indigenous groups. He cites numerous efforts by Chevron to settle out of court.

Chevron disagrees and has waged a withering counterattack in court. Randy Mastro, a lawyer for Chevron, accused Mr. Donziger of leading a “racketeering enterprise” intended to “coerce a big payday against a big company until the pain went away.” If Mr. Donziger is allowed to succeed, Mr. Mastro said, it will jeopardize American corporations’ ability to work in many countries with imperfect judicial systems.

Chevron has said that Texaco complied with an agreement it negotiated with the Ecuadorean government to clean up its area of operations, and Texaco’s former partner Petroecuador is responsible for pollution that was left behind. The company refuses to pay any damages, contending that Ecuadorean courts, with the prodding of the Ecuadorean president, Rafael Correa, were prejudiced as well as corrupted by Mr. Donziger and his associates.

Mr. Donziger, who graduated from Harvard Law School, has become something of a hero to many environmentalists who praise him for his dogged pursuit of the case.

The trial has so far been dominated by witnesses who have accused Mr. Donziger of a series of ethical shortcomings.

Chevron’s star witness has been the former Ecuadorean judge Alberto Guerra, who testified that plaintiffs paid him $1,000 a month to ghostwrite favorable opinions for the presiding judge, Nicolas Zambrano. He also testified that Mr. Zambrano told him that Mr. Donziger and his allies promised to pay Mr. Zambrano $500,000 out of the eventual damages as long as he agreed to a favorable verdict.

Mr. Guerra said Mr. Donziger thanked him for his work in a 2009 meeting at a restaurant in Quito, Ecuador. In his court testimony, Mr. Zambrano denied he took money.

“I did not bribe Judge Zambrano,” Mr. Donziger said in his written testimony. “Chevron has no evidence that I had any involvement in bribing any judge apart from Guerra’s thoroughly false and corrupt testimony.”

Mr. Donziger said that at the meeting in Quito, where he hoped to pick up “useful tidbits of courthouse gossip,” “Mr. Guerra openly asked for a bribe. I immediately and unequivocally refused.”

Much of the trial so far has delved into a report written by an expert witness named Richard Cabrera, appointed by the Ecuadorean court.

The lawyer Joseph Kohn, formerly a major financier of the suit, testified that Mr. Donziger had withheld information from him about the suspected ghostwriting of the report.

“Mr. Donziger lied to me,” Mr. Kohn said. Cross-examining his former associate, Mr. Donziger suggested Mr. Kohn knew nothing about Ecuadorean legal customs, which allowed for the plaintiffs’ collaboration with a court expert.

But Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer who had briefly been retained by Mr. Donziger in 2010, said he was shocked to learn from a consultant working on the case that the consultant had written significant sections of the Cabrera report. Mr. Shinder withdrew from the case and the consultant, Douglas Beltman, has since renounced his work.

“It still bothers me,” Mr. Shinder said, “that we’ll never know if there was a case to be made against Chevron.”

In his testimony, Mr. Donziger describes at length his involvement with the Cabrera report, which he said was based on extensive fieldwork. While acknowledging that an executive summary and annexes “were drafted by others,” Mr. Donziger insisted in the draft of his testimony that Mr. Cabrera exercised independent judgment when signing the report.

He conceded that he had concealed his relationship with Mr. Cabrera in part because “our local counsel felt Chevron would mischaracterize the contacts if it found out about them, or file numerous motions to further delay the trial.” He also conceded that the plaintiffs paid Mr. Cabrera “outside the court process” because the payments were made when the court was “effectively shut down by what I considered to be Chevron’s abusive litigation tactics.” They were not bribes, he said, as Chevron has claimed.

“Although I have often been confused about the issues involved, I now believe the process used to create the executive summary of the Cabrera report was fundamentally consistent with Ecuador law, custom and practice,” Mr. Donziger added. He said, “At no time did I act with fraudulent or criminal intent.”
330 2013-11-14 A federal appeals panel in Manhattan that had abruptly removed Judge Shira A. Scheindlin from New York City’s high-profile stop-and-frisk litigation and questioned her conduct in the case issued a lengthy explanation on Wednesday, saying it had made “no findings of misconduct, actual bias or actual partiality” by the judge.

The three-judge panel’s Oct. 31 order has been the subject of pointed debate among judges, lawyers and others, and the statement on Wednesday appeared to be an effort to soften the tone of the original ruling, if not its import. The new opinion was another turn in the stop-and-frisk litigation, in which Judge Scheindlin issued a landmark decision in August imposing sweeping changes on the Police Department, including the appointment of a monitor.

That decision and the remedies the judge ordered were stayed by the panel’s Oct. 31 decision, and the new ruling, by the same panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, does not lift that stay. That means Judge Scheindlin’s rulings remain blocked unless, for example, the city’s appeal is withdrawn, a step Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio has promised to take after he is sworn in on Jan. 1.

But in the opinion issued late Wednesday, the three-judge panel seemed eager to explain its terse Oct. 31 order, in which it bluntly declared that Judge Scheindlin “ran afoul” of the judicial code of conduct by appearing to steer the stop-and-frisk litigation to her docket in 2007 and by giving press interviews while the case was pending. The judge’s actions had compromised “the appearance of impartiality surrounding this litigation,” the panel had said.

The tone of the new opinion is completely different. It describes Judge Scheindlin as “a long-serving and distinguished jurist.” It notes that the earlier order had referred to the judicial code of conduct. “We now clarify that we did not intend to imply in our previous order that Judge Scheindlin engaged in misconduct,” the panel said.
331 2013-11-14 On Wednesday, the question of whether the university had any race-neutral alternatives available, and whether the campus had reached a so-called critical mass of minority students, was the focus of debate.

The Fifth Circuit judges, who appeared equally skeptical of some of the arguments made by Ms. Fisher’s lawyer, wondered aloud whether they should send the case back to a district court. They listened to arguments from all sides without making any rulings. A decision is not likely to come for weeks or months.

Lawyers for the university as well as those representing black and Hispanic students argued that there were no race-neutral alternatives available that would allow it to achieve the benefits of diversity.

Many black students, they argued, experienced racial isolation on campus between 1997 and 2004, when the university did not consider race in admissions. During that period, they said, African-Americans never made up more than 4.5 percent of any freshman class.

The case was filed by Ms. Fisher, who said that because she is white the University of Texas had denied her admission in 2008.  The university said she would not have been admitted even without any policies focused on diversity. She  has since graduated from Louisiana State University.

When the appeals court first heard Ms. Fisher’s case in 2011, it upheld the admissions program, saying it had been authorized by the Supreme Court’s 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger.  That decision, by a 5-to-4 vote, said that public colleges and universities could not use point systems or quotas to increase minority enrollment but could take race into account in vaguer ways. But the Supreme Court was not satisfied with the Fifth Circuit’s analysis.  In its 7-to-1 decision in June, it told the court to take a more skeptical look at the university’s admissions practices.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, writing for the majority, reaffirmed that educational diversity is an interest sufficient to overcome the general ban on racial classifications by the government. But he added that public universities must have good reasons for the particular methods they use to achieve that goal.  They must, he wrote, show that “available, workable race-neutral alternatives do not suffice” before taking account of race in admissions decisions.

On the issue of critical mass, Gregory Garre, the university’s lawyer, described it to the judges as an abstract process that met Supreme Court standards, and was based on data on minority admissions as well as faculty observations. The Supreme Court has used the term to describe a university’s qualitative rather than quantitative assessment of whether it has achieved sufficient diversity.

William C. Powers Jr., the university’s president, expressed concern about the effect that losing the case would have. “It would be a setback to diversity, not just at the University of Texas, but at universities across the country,” he said after the hearing.
332 2013-11-14 About 2,000 people are enrolling in private health care plans daily through the state’s website, officials said, a rate that has picked up considerably over the past few weeks....
333 2013-11-14 The fact that the United Nations General Assembly elected China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Cuba — among others — for three-year terms on the Human Rights Council is too ironic to be believable.

These new members have refused to allow the council’s investigators to examine abuse complaints in their own countries, yet they have been elected to a council that investigates such records of members of the United Nations. What is the message?
334 2013-11-14 In these first days of her unlikely campaign, Ms. Williamson is making the case that an injection of her brand of spirituality is what American politics needs. “America has swerved from its ethical center,” she said. “Most of us want to feel that we can have a progressive conversation and contextualize it morally. To me, drone use is a moral issue.”

Almost as an afterthought, as if mindful of her new profession, she added, “And also, I think strategically it’s just absurd.”

Ms. Williamson has chosen an unusual race for her initial foray into politics. She faces the daunting task of trying to unseat Representative Henry A. Waxman, a popular Democrat who has coasted to re-election for nearly 40 years, in an increasingly Democratic state. The district stretches south along the coast from Malibu, through some of the wealthiest communities in the country.

Ms. Williamson will label herself an independent on the June ballot. But in an interview, she described herself as a “lifelong Democrat” and acknowledged that she had voted for Mr. Waxman many times herself.

She offered very few substantial policy differences with him, and, perhaps unsurprisingly, she has adopted rhetoric more common to positive spiritual discourse than traditional campaigns, declining to refer to him as her opponent. (“We are just two people applying for the same job,” she said.)

As with most celebrity candidates, she is facing questions about why she is running, particularly against someone she disagrees with so little.

Mr. Waxman pointedly noted the lack of differences in a written statement, signaling a potential weakness in her challenge.

“I’m gratified Ms. Williamson thinks I’m doing a good job and agrees with me on most issues,” he said. “And while some think it would make more sense for her to challenge a Republican and help us regain control of the House, I respect her right to run.”

In 2009, Ms. Williamson explored running in a Northern California district near San Francisco. Instead she chose to run in her home district, where she said she would have the best chance to alter the political discourse, which she called her primary goal.

“Democracy as we know it is being dismantled in front of our eyes,” Ms. Williamson said. “I can’t any longer toe the line that if we just vote here a little different or vote there a little different, that it will all be O.K., when both major political parties are moving in such a corporatist direction.”

She added, responding to critics, “Would a man ever be called vain for speaking his mind?”

Bob Shrum, a Democratic consultant, said celebrity candidates had been successful when they had a well-established history of serious political involvement (like Reagan before his successful run for governor in 1966), or they faced another candidate whom the public simply could not stomach (like Mr. Schwarzenegger, who took advantage of the recall against the unpopular Gov. Gray Davis to win office in 2003).

Mr. Shrum said he did not understand why Ms. Williamson was running.

“It seems like a candidacy without much rationale,” he said. “Henry Waxman is doing everything he can to prevent the House Republicans from acting like crazy people, and I think folks know that.”

With a redrawn, less Democratic district, Mr. Waxman may be more vulnerable than in years past, if only slightly. He faced his toughest re-election bid last year, when Bill Bloomfield, the co-founder of the bipartisan group No Labels, took 47 percent of the vote after spending millions of his own money to paint Mr. Waxman as a stubborn partisan who had spent too long in Washington.

Ms. Williamson appears to be hoping to tap into that same anti-Washington sentiment, a popular tactic that cuts across ideological lines in a year when congressional approval ratings have fallen into single digits. (Brett Roske, who has also declared for the race, is also running as an independent.)

She has presented her scant political experience as an asset, and at the bookstore last month, she played on her own mistrust of government. (“Look at Fukushima,” she said of Japan’s crippled nuclear plant. “Should we or should we not agree with the U.S. government that none of that radioactive energy is making its way here? Hello!”)

“There is an insidious lockout,” she said. “Financial leverage determines political influence in a very disproportionate way. Looking to the political status quo to fix this situation, when the political status quo created this situation, is naïve at best.”

Southern California voters have shown a willingness to give celebrity candidates a serious listen, though they are just as frequently the subject of lampooning.

Mr. Schwarzenegger endured nonstop jokes about his role in the “Terminator” movies, but was able to capitalize on his fame and access to well-heeled donors.

Acknowledging that she would need to raise millions of dollars to be competitive, Ms. Williamson has begun tapping her nationwide network of supporters, many of them in Hollywood. Jane Lynch, star of the television series “Glee,” is throwing a house party for the campaign.

Still, Mr. Waxman’s last opponent, Mr. Bloomfield, who left the Republican Party to run as an independent, appealed not only to anti-Washington voters, but also to the conservative voters in this redrawn district.

That is not a constituency likely to respond to Ms. Williamson, who is advocating free college, universal health care, universal preschool, gay marriage, an end to domestic nuclear energy production and “massive investment” in renewable energy.

At the bookstore last month, one man in the crowd suggested, “You need new voters, I think.”

Ms. Williamson disagreed. But when asked what constituencies her campaign might target, she said there were none. “The kind of politics that sees some voters as more important than other voters, that’s not why I’m doing this,” she said. “I’m speaking to the American in people.
335 2013-11-14 ROME — Italian prosecutors have opened an investigation into whether Apple paid all its taxes in the country, an official in Milan said on Wednesday.

The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing, said that a “fiscal verification” of Apple was underway, but would not disclose details, like the time period in question. The investigation is still preliminary, and a judge will determine whether prosecutors have a case.

The inquiry was first reported by Italian news outlets on Wednesday. According to an article published by the weekly magazine L’Espresso, investigators are looking into whether Apple avoided Italian taxes by filing returns through a subsidiary in Ireland, where corporate taxes are lower.

In a statement, Apple said: “Apple pays every dollar and euro it owes in taxes and we are continuously audited by governments around the world. The Italian tax authorities already audited Apple Italy in 2007, 2008 and 2009 and confirmed that we were in full compliance with the O.E.C.D. documentation and transparency requirements. We are confident the current review will reach the same conclusion.”

In recent years, tax authorities in Italy have scrutinized multinational companies more closely. Last June, the fashion designer duo Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana were found guilty of tax evasion in a case relating to the sale in 2004 of their brands to a Luxembourg company in order to pay lower taxes. They have appealed the conviction. Italian investigators are also examining Google’s finances.
336 2013-11-14 Mr. de Blasio has denounced the letter grades, which were introduced in 2007, as blunt instruments that do not convey a nuanced portrait of a school’s strengths and weaknesses.

Lis Smith, a spokeswoman for Mr. de Blasio, said on Wednesday that letter grades offered “little real insight to parents and are not a reliable indicator of how schools are actually performing.”

Mr. de Blasio has said he would continue to make available the detailed report cards that accompany the letter grades given to schools each year, though he would convene a panel of parents and educators to determine whether they should continue in the long run.

Across the country, 14 states give letter grades to schools, according to the Foundation for Excellence in Education, a group founded by Jeb Bush. Advocates of the practice argue that letter grades — a glaring F, for instance — help nudge schools toward better performance in a way that vague pronouncements of proficiency do not. They also say the ratings help identify schools that are making gains with struggling students, so their strategies can be shared. Some states and cities have experimented with alternatives to letter grades, including star ratings and Roman numerals. Michigan uses a color-coded system, rating schools as green, lime, yellow, orange or red.

New York State issues report cards to schools that include information on test scores and demographics, but do not offer overall judgments, aside from noting compliance with federal standards.

Mr. Bloomberg took the idea of grading schools to a new level, inviting data experts to design a model that did not penalize schools with high populations of disadvantaged students, in the hope that they could be judged more fairly against affluent schools.

The result was one of the most complex grading systems in the country, which compared schools serving similar student populations and focused on how much progress students made each year on exams — not just their overall performance.

Almost from the outset, Mr. Bloomberg’s report cards came under attack. Teachers faulted the mayor for emphasizing grades in deciding which schools to close, and for maligning struggling schools. Parents denounced his emphasis on test scores. (In the report cards released on Wednesday, which covered the 2012-13 school year, test scores made up 85 percent of grades for elementary and middle schools; the remaining portion was based on surveys of students, parents and teachers, and attendance rates.)

Mr. Bloomberg was undeterred. The city brought letter grades to restaurants, based on sanitation inspections. Some city officials even began using the A-through-F system to informally rate their subordinates.

But the report card system encountered hiccups, including in 2009, when 97 percent of schools were awarded A’s and B’s. The city responded by refining its formula each year, but the criticism did not abate. “Bloomberg and his team tried to build a system that was as robust as they were able to design, but in schools, unlike in financial markets, there is a lot of sentiment,” said Frederick M. Hess, an education scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, adding, “No matter how sophisticated or smart the systems are, they’re ultimately vulnerable to those concerns.”

In the early years, Mr. Bloomberg, flanked by top education officials, made a point of trumpeting letter grades at news conferences, warning of harsh consequences for failing schools.

But the public rollout became more low-key in recent years. This time, the mayor was not present when grades were released to the news media; nor was the schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott.

In presenting the results, Shael Polakow-Suransky, the department’s second-in-command, said the city had made progress in trying to make the report cards more nuanced during Mr. Bloomberg’s tenure. He said the city had begun experimenting in using alternative measures, such as class projects and student grades, instead of standardized exams.

In addition, the city has turned its focus to how well schools prepare students for college. This year, the city judged high schools on whether their graduates were still enrolled in college after three semesters — a point at which many students drop out, education officials said.

The latest report cards incorporated student scores on reading and math exams aligned with more rigorous standards known as the Common Core, which were introduced in grades three through eight in the spring. Many schools reported dismal results on the tests, prompting the city to adjust its grading formula for schools to account for the difficulty of the exams.

The Education Department said it would not begin phasing out schools based on the results from the report cards this year. Mr. de Blasio has said he would move away from Mr. Bloomberg’s practice of closing schools.

The reaction to Mr. Bloomberg’s final report cards was mixed. Some educators welcomed what they saw as the end of an era, while others said they thought it was important that the city not lose its focus on measuring results.

Elizabeth Phillips, principal of Public School 321, an elementary school in Park Slope, Brooklyn, said the school had always earned a grade of A or B. But she said the grades were “completely meaningless.”

“They fluctuate dramatically, from year to year, even when there are no significant changes in the instruction, or the leadership or the teaching staff,” said Ms. Phillips, who has led the school for 15 years.

At Public School 3, an elementary school in the West Village, parents were optimistic about how Mr. de Blasio could change the grading system. The school received an A this year, after earning C’s the two years prior.

“It does not paint the entire picture of any school,” Dana Abraham, a co-president of the school’s PTA, said.
337 2013-11-14 In the food-obsessed Bay Area, The San Francisco Chronicle’s food section has been as much of a city institution as the cable car, and to many San Franciscans, more useful. Over the years it has won many awards and developed a dedicated following.

Now, The Chronicle, owned by the Hearst Corporation, is planning to eliminate its stand-alone food section and integrate it into a single lifestyle section — tentatively titled “Artisan” — with material from other parts of the newspaper, including the home section, according to employees who have been told of the plans.

Although the merger is set to take place by February, the decision has not been publicly announced. Staff members of the newspaper, who spoke to The New York Times about the plan, insisted on anonymity because they said they feared reprisals for disclosing it.

The publisher of The Chronicle, Jeffrey Johnson, did not return calls seeking comment. However, the managing editor, Audrey Cooper, posted a response online saying that The Chronicle was actually increasing its investment in food and wine coverage.

“We are undergoing a newspaperwide section-by-section review with the idea that we need to reimagine sections to more intuitive cultural topics that are more aligned with how Northern Californians think and live,” she wrote on Wednesday.
338 2013-11-14 And though the scene shifts in the second of the short play’s three “acts” (70 minutes, no intermission), the despondency merely finds a different focus. Members of a onetime couple argue over who has a closer relationship with their unseen 11-year-old daughter.

As the venom intensifies, it becomes clear that squabbling over their child allows the adults to continue to pick at one another. In one of the play’s few bitterly comic moments, the pair reflects on the 13 years of “satisfaction” (their word) that they shared, only to decide later that the more accurate number might be 10 or seven or even two.

The play’s final and most dramatically satisfying encounter brings the ex-wife (an incisive Sharlene Whyte) together with Elayne, whom we discover is the combative mother’s older sister. “You worry me,” the younger of the two says to a sibling who voices that same exact concern in return. Only then do we discover the degree of self-harming and worse that has come to define Elayne as she attempts to sequester herself from the outside world that her sister brings into the room.

As directed by Ms. Green, “Nut” doesn’t name any of the possible conditions that it seems to describe, relying instead on Ms. Marshall’s remarkably open face to chart an indrawn despair that resists the TV-movie treatment one might find elsewhere. (The actress, something of a regular in Ms. Green’s work, co-stars alongside Idris Elba in her forthcoming film-directing debut, “Second Coming.”)

It will be intriguing to see whether the comparative literalism of film adjusts Ms. Green’s thinking, which in scenic terms in “Nut” forsakes specificity in favor of an abstract, industrial-looking set dominated by a swaying mobile that perhaps speaks to the precarious balance of the characters’ lives: Think Alexander Calder but rusty, and you’ve got the idea.

And whatever the resonances of the title, the play itself swings from the wearyingly fractious to the absorbing and back again, and one can’t help but feel that it ought to be more moving than it is. But a commendably unforced Ms. Marshall is at every point compelling as she allows us incremental access to Elayne’s largely unspoken well of grief.

“Dare me to do it?” she asks her sister in the final moments, as Elayne lets the ash from a lit cigarette gather in her hand. In that image rests the entire play, a portrait of a mind in torment attempting to keep itself from turning to dust.

Two other recent openings, both revivals, leave playgoers to interpret events as they see fit, as well, filling in the authors’ presumably purposeful blanks.

We’re some way into “Home,” the David Storey reclamation at East London’s Arcola Theater, before we realize that the two elderly men before us are inhabiting not an old-age home but some sort of mental facility populated by patients of all ages who can be difficult or dangerous or both.

The play was originally produced as a vehicle for those great actor-knights, John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson, both of whom received Tony nominations on the occasion of its Broadway transfer in 1970. Amelia Sears’s production can’t compete with that sense of occasion but it does allow the excellent Paul Copley and Jack Shepherd to evoke anew Mr. Storey’s mixture of absurdist humor and abiding pain — the sort of world where a barely heard “oh dear” speaks volumes about heading not so gently toward the abyss.

“Passing By,” from the London-based American playwright Martin Sherman (“Bent,” “When She Danced”), is a slight piece from the same period as “Home” that mostly registers nowadays for what it represented at the time. Andrew Keates’s patchy if heartfelt staging is at the 68-seat Tristan Bates Theater through Nov. 30.

Forty-odd years ago, there weren’t many plays about a gay couple seen simply existing together free from the clichés of gay-themed theater, like the bitchery and camp on view in “The Boys in the Band,” Mart Crowley’s defining 1968 comedy-drama. Not much happens in “Passing By” beyond two young men who meet in a New York movie theater and then move in together when first one and then the other falls ill; once they get better, they go their separate ways, which explains the title.

But why does the more neurotic of the two, Toby (the likable Rik Makarem), a wine salesmen and would-be artist, up and leave at the end for London, a capital scarcely spoken of before? Presumably because that’s what Mr. Sherman himself did, not long after writing this play. Where his character went, so did a playwright without whose ensuing trans-Atlantic career this production would not be happening right now.

Passing By. Directed by Andrew Keates. Tristan Bates Theater. Through Nov. 30.
339 2013-11-14 Bratislava, Slovakia — The World New Music Days festival was first held in Salzburg in 1922 — around the time Arnold Schoenberg was perfecting his 12-note compositional system — and it remains a robust champion of new music. This year the 11-day program, sponsored by the International Society of Contemporary Music, was spread over three cities — Kosice and Bratislava in Slovakia, and Vienna — and included some 25 concerts, which were supplemented by many others thanks to partnerships with local organizations. A new opera was among the many works to receive their world premieres.

“Some people think of us as the last bastion of European modernism,” said John Davis, the president of the society’s executive committee, during a concert intermission, “but our membership is increasingly diverse.” Three years ago the festival was held in Mr. Davis’s home country of Australia; Hong Kong is another recent site. “The character of our festival depends a lot on the local scene,” he said.

The Slovak component included works rooted in European modernism as well as more recent ones showing greater stylistic variety. The new opera “Dorian Gray,” by the young Slovak composer Lubica Cekovska, represents the latter. Ms. Cekovska’s easily grasped, mildly dissonant style, with lyrically oriented vocal lines, underscores, as far as it goes, the unsettling nature of Oscar Wilde’s sinister novel. Tension is created by steady drumbeats, insistent rhythms and swelling chords. Yet, Ms. Cekovska’s music at times was too tame for Wilde’s chilling tale — depraved, some would say — of a painting that mysteriously ages to reflect the increasingly twisted soul of its subject, the beguiling Dorian Gray, while he remains eternally young.

As published in Wilde’s lifetime, the 1890 novel — which prefigured the writer’s trial and conviction for “gross indecency” five years later — was pruned of homoerotic content. Ms. Cekovska’s opera, while generally following its model, includes a scene in which a Turkish boy is encircled by “gentlemen” who apparently have gang rape in mind.

But the opera, as seen in Nicola Raab’s generally persuasive staging with sets by Anne Marie Legenstein and Alix Burgstaller that decadently depict Victorian drawing rooms, is marred by the decision to have the picture consist simply of an empty frame, an idea that perhaps seemed bold in concept but misfires in execution. Ms. Cekovska interestingly conveys the picture’s disfiguration musically through wordless boy-soprano melodies that recur increasingly distorted. But the melodies, to say nothing of the drama itself, need a visual analogue.

The Canadian author Kate Pullinger solidly crafted the English-language libretto. Eric Fennell, dressed in velvet, sings Dorian’s seductive vocal lines with a honeyed tenor voice, and Katarina Jahasova-Sturova brings an iridescent soprano to Sibyl Vane, the actress who kills herself after Dorian reneges on his proposal to marry her. The theater’s orchestra plays well under the conductor Christopher Ward’s accomplished leadership.
340 2013-11-14 Still, Motorola believes the phone will appeal to enough people outside China to be a success. Unlike many cheap smartphones on the market, the Moto G will have a big high-resolution screen and run the latest Android software to support the latest apps on the market. It has a 4.5-inch screen, which puts it right between the smaller iPhone 5S and the larger Galaxy S4 from Samsung Electronics.

There are some trade-offs that come with making the phone less expensive. The Moto G is bulkier than many popular smartphones — weighing five ounces, it is more than an ounce heavier than an iPhone 5S, which costs $650 without a contract.

The Moto G also lacks a special feature that made Moto X, its higher-priced sibling, stand out: the ability of the device to continually listen for a user’s voice and quickly react to commands.

But the low-end smartphone’s goal is not to be a flashy piece of gadgetry representing the latest innovation. It is an effort by Motorola to return to growth by reaching as many people as possible, Mr. Woodside said.

“Google’s mission is to organize all the world’s information and make it universally accessible,” he said. “For Motorola, one of the things we’re trying to do is create a very high-quality mobile Internet experience over time for hundreds of millions of people.”

Smartphones have surpassed the traditional cellphone in sales in the United States and some parts of Europe, and many manufacturers are looking overseas for growth. While Apple and Samsung make most of the profit in the worldwide smartphone market, the makers of cheaper phones — including Huawei, Yulong and ZTE of China, and Micromax and Karbonn of India — are selling well in emerging markets where high-end smartphones are not popular.

However, like other American companies, Motorola will most likely face tough competition overseas, where many manufacturers have been selling low-end smartphones for years for less than the Moto G. Details about the Moto G leaked online ahead of Motorola’s official announcement, and some analysts who looked at the specifications did not find it very compelling.

“It’s heavy, thick and it’s pretty expensive,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst for Alekstra, a mobile trends research firm.

Along with the bulkier size, the $180 price tag is still not as aggressive as what some other manufacturers have released in the low end of the market, Mr. Kuittinen added. For example, Samsung’s Galaxy Young, which weighs 3.4 ounces and has a 3-inch screen, costs $100 on Amazon.com. Chinese handset makers like Huawei and ZTE also make Android phones that cost as little as $100.

Motorola says it will sell the Moto G at a profit. The device will go on sale Wednesday in Brazil and parts of Europe, and then in January in other parts of the world like India and Southeast Asia. The phone will also go on sale in January in the United States, where the company thinks the device could appeal to people who cannot afford a fancy smartphone, particularly children.

The success of the Moto G will largely depend on how aggressive Motorola and Google market it, said Chetan Sharma, an independent telecom analyst who does consulting for carriers. Motorola will not only have to advertise the phone, but it will also have to persuade the carriers to train retail workers to sell the device to consumers who walk into the store, he said.

But along with being unable to sell phones in China, Motorola faces another big limitation. Unlike most manufacturers, Motorola, which Google bought last year for $12.5 billion and then retooled, has to be cautious about its approach to selling hardware. If it were too aggressive — for example, if it were to sell the smartphones at a loss and make the money back later with ads — it could harm Google’s partners who sell phones using Google’s Android operating system, which could eventually move people away from Android devices.

“That’s the tight line they always have to walk,” Mr. Sharma said. “How hard and how far do they push their own devices?”
341 2013-11-14 On Friday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he had directed the State Police and the State Division of Human Rights to investigate the allegations, which, he said, if true, were “deeply disturbing.”

“The public has a right to know the truth, and parents across the state have the right to know that their children can attend our schools without fear of this reprehensible behavior,” Mr. Cuomo said.

Eric T. Schneiderman, the state attorney general, said on Friday that his office was also investigating the matter.

The school district is contesting the lawsuit, which is pending, and has denied that it condones anti-Semitic behavior or that such activity is pervasive in the schools. The superintendent, Joan M. Carbone, has said in a statement posted on the district’s website that the district “takes all reports of discrimination or bullying seriously,” and that school officials and staff members “respond promptly” when incidents are reported and take “appropriate remedial action.”

James M. Margolin, a spokesman for Mr. Bharara, declined this week to comment about the investigation.

The office’s letter to the district’s lawyer suggests that federal investigators will address “potential violations” of civil rights laws by the district in allowing discrimination to occur.

“If any violations are found, we look forward to conferring with you concerning appropriate corrective actions,” says the letter, which is signed by Michael J. Byars, an assistant United States attorney.

Ilann M. Maazel, a lawyer for the families that filed the suit, said the plaintiffs would cooperate with the investigation. “This is a school district that badly needs substantial reform,” Mr. Maazel said.

Several Jewish parents quoted in the Times article said that school officials had told them that complaints about anti-Semitic harassment of students were isolated; the parents said they were not informed that such complaints had been raised by other families.

On Friday, Mr. Cuomo also made public a letter he had sent to John B. King Jr., the state education commissioner, asking what, if anything, his department knew about the allegations and what it might have done to address them.

The Education Department responded that it became aware of the allegations only on Friday and that it was working to “determine an immediate course of action to protect students and ensure that all students can attend Pine Bush without fear of harassment or physical attack.”
342 2013-11-14 SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s financial regulator said Wednesday that it would lift a ban on covered short-selling of publicly traded financial sector stocks, citing improved market conditions as well as a desire to bolster trading activity.

The Financial Services Commission said investors could start covered short-selling activities for the stocks of financial companies on Thursday.

The ban had been in place since Oct. 1, 2008, an emergency measure to reduce volatility during the global financial crisis. The regulator said the need to retain the measure had diminished because the stock market had stabilized.

“The covered short-selling ban reduced the market’s efficiency and led to a significant decline in trading volumes for the sector,” the regulator said in a statement. Covered short-selling takes place when investors borrow shares in a company and sell them on, typically as a bet that they can repurchase those stocks at a lower price and return them to the lender at a later date.

The regulator said that the daily average trading value for financial stocks, which account for 12 percent of total market capitalization, fell to 352.5 billion won, or $329.1 million, during the first half of 2013, from 935.2 billion won in 2008. It said that ending the covered short-selling ban on the sector would help bolster activity.

However, the regulator has no plans to lift the existing ban on naked short-selling for stocks listed in South Korea. Naked short-selling occurs when an investor shorts a stock without having first borrowed the shares.

The regulator also said it planned to submit new legislation to Parliament with the aim to require individual investors to publicly disclose major covered short-selling positions starting sometime in the first half of 2014.
343 2013-11-14 I’ve been a fan of Moleskine notebooks for years because of their rugged appearance and warm textures, which invite me to jot my thoughts down. But with the advent of smartphones, carrying the notebooks around seemed redundant because I could make notes digitally. So I ditched the notebooks for a smooth, cold iPhone.

But Pad and Quill has offered a compromise. The company, which was founded in 2010 in Minneapolis, uses materials like cloth, leather and wood to make handcrafted cases for Kindle e-readers and Apple devices like the iPhone and iPad.

Resembling bound notebooks, the cases are a handsome blend of technology and craftsmanship. The leather covers are made in Mexico, and the wood is cut and finished in St. Paul, where the cases are then assembled in a bindery.

For my iPhone 5, I tried out the $70 Little Pocket Book, which Pad and Quill’s president, Brian Holmes, says is the company’s most popular item. The phone rests in a cradle of Baltic birch, which is then wrapped in top-grain leather. The exterior is stitched and embossed and includes an elastic band that keeps the case closed. The front flap has three small interior pockets for cards and a larger one for bills. The case even has a ribbon that looks like a bookmark, completing the appearance of a notebook.

The case adds some bulk, but it still fit in my front pants pocket. The birch cradle has channels that keep the ports and buttons accessible, and the back of the case has a hole for the camera’s aperture, although to take a photo, you have to hold the front flap and the elastic closure out of the way.

Over all, the Little Pocket Book an attractive, sturdy case. I only wish there were a tiny stylus inside, to help with my note-taking.
344 2013-11-15 The latest issue of T takes us to many destinations in many different ways....
345 2013-11-15 Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe.
346 2013-11-15 Stark contrasts in income (from chef-taught nannies to food stamps), but one thing in common: parents struggle to teach their children to make healthy choices in a world of caloric excess....
347 2013-11-15 The ice skating rink at McCarren Park, north Brooklyn’s “first and only” outdoor skating rink, opened Friday. It will be open through January, seven days a week....
348 2013-11-15 The spinoff of GE Capital’s North America retail finance business will help the company focus on its core businesses....
349 2013-11-15 Running more than one business at a time. New S.B.A. measures for veterans. Businesses that don’t back up data....
350 2013-11-15 Women who have undergone bariatric surgery are more likely to deliver premature and low birth weight babies, a large new study shows....
351 2013-11-15 General Electric formally disclosed its plans to hold an initial public offering of its North American retail finance unit on Friday, as part of an effort to shrink its enormous finance arm....
352 2013-11-15 Credit: Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times
353 2013-11-15 Many companies are choosing to renew existing policies so they can put off assessing the new Affordable Care Act-compliant policies....
354 2013-11-15 The unmarried lovers in Laurie Collyer’s “Sunlight Jr.” are young working-class Americans buffeted by woe. The feisty, resilient Melissa (Naomi Watts) has a minimum-wage job at the convenience store that gives the movie its name. Her live-in boyfriend, Richie (Matt Dillon), a former TV repairman, has subsisted on disability benefits since a motorcycle accident left him in a wheelchair. Their home is a shabby motel somewhere in west central Florida.

The principal pleasure in Melissa and Richie’s life is sex. An intense, protracted love scene reveals the strength of their physical bond. But how long can that last? And, as the saying goes, “You can’t live on love alone.” Because they both smoke cigarettes, and Richie is a heavy drinker, much of their meager income goes to feed bad habits. The movie suggests that Melissa was once addicted to prescription painkillers. Her ex-boyfriend Justin (Norman Reedus) is a menacing, snake-eyed lout who owns cheap real estate and peddles pills obtained in fly-by-night “clinics” that are ubiquitous in Florida’s strip malls.

For all their hardship, Melissa and Richie are managing to get by when misfortune strikes. Melissa, newly pregnant, is given “the graveyard shift” at work by her nasty, domineering boss, Edwin (Antoni Corone). It is too much for her, and in fury and disgust, she quits her job. Almost immediately, the couple are evicted from the motel for nonpayment of rent and forced to stay with Melissa’s alcoholic mother, Kathleen (Tess Harper), who cares for foster children in a house infested with bedbugs.

“Sunlight Jr.” is inspired by Barbara Ehrenreich’s book “Nickel and Dimed,” a devastating examination of America’s working poor. Like the book, it unblinkingly portrays a reality so scary and depressing that it is usually sidestepped or cosmeticized by popular entertainment.

When Melissa has an episode of bleeding, she panics and visits a clinic for a sonogram. Because of the medical expenses, Richie explodes with frustration when she tells him. The couple, initially thrilled at the prospect of parenthood, immediately realize that they can’t afford a baby.

“Sunlight Jr.” is a noble effort by Ms. Collyer (“Sherrybaby”) to evoke what she calls “the shattered American dream” in the movie’s production notes. It presents Melissa and Richie as a typical working-class couple, stuck at the lower end of the social ladder, dependent on minimum-wage jobs and public assistance.
355 2013-11-15 Verizon has agreed to pay New York City at least $50 million because of software cost overruns associated with the city’s 911 system, city officials said on Thursday.

Verizon was hired by the city in 2006 to develop software to transfer phone calls from residents to the new 911 system. But the company fell behind schedule, then failed to meet city standards in 2009 for testing of the software, known as Vesta. That prompted delays, until the system became operational in 2011.

Since then, the system has worked well, handling 21 million 911 calls, city officials say. Still, the city, angered by the delay, withheld payment until it was compensated. And though Verizon balked initially, a settlement was reached last month. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Comptroller John C. Liu announced on Thursday that Verizon had signed off on the payment.

The deal also calls on Verizon to help train city workers to eventually take over the operation and maintenance of the Vesta system, a move that could save $10 million because of a reduced reliance on outside contractors.

“Taxpayers should be confident that when companies do not live up to their commitments, we hold them financially accountable, and this agreement delivers what taxpayers deserve,” Mr. Liu said in a statement.
356 2013-11-15 The goal is to have ads telling “a story that reflects the brand’s bold, stylized personality,” said Brian A. Smith, Lexus vice president for marketing.

On the schmaltzy side, Kohl’s, known for holiday ads that concentrate on sales, deals and coupons, began its Christmas 2013 campaign this week with a commercial that unexpectedly takes an emotional tack. In the spot, by Peterson Milla Hooks, a young couple gives a holiday makeover to the apartment of an elderly neighbor while she is out.

Another way to generate warm and fuzzy feelings among holiday shoppers is to help charities raise money. For the first time, Town & Country magazine, part of the Hearst Corporation, is sponsoring an initiative, Light Up the Holidays, that will support fund-raising efforts of retailers on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, Calif., and Madison Avenue in New York. The initiative includes 44-page gift guides, distributed within selected December issues of Town & Country and at hotels and restaurants; events at participating stores hosted by the magazine; door mats for store entrances; and street banners.

“It’s not just about spending,” Jennifer Levene Bruno, publisher and chief revenue officer at Town & Country, said of the season. “What we’re really focused on is the great spirit of giving back.”

“We’re already thinking about” repeating the initiative for Christmas 2014, she added, including “other potential markets, which could include Chicago and Dallas.”

Others are still wondering how they will fare for Christmas 2013.

“We certainly believe it’s going to be very competitive,” said Jeff Pearson, senior vice president for marketing at the H. H. Gregg retail chain, which sells home appliances and electronics, as can be seen by the growing list of retailers — including H. H. Gregg — that will seek to lure early-bird shoppers by opening on Thanksgiving.

Another method of compensating for the shorter holiday season this year — six fewer days compared with last — is to tell customers they “can already start shopping and get some very good deals between now and Thanksgiving,” Mr. Pearson said. And after Thanksgiving, H. H. Gregg plans a promotion, “Black Friday on Us,” that will involve a mobile game called Endless Blitz, social media like Facebook and a section of the H. H. Gregg website.

Despite the daunting challenges that loom in the next 40 days, “we still believe it’s going to be a solid holiday season,” Mr. Pearson said, adding, “You have to do your best to stand out.” H. H. Gregg uses several agencies for advertising, including Plow Digital and two Publicis Groupe agencies, Rosetta and Spark.

If laughter is, as they say, the best medicine, it may also help a plea to buy Christmas gifts go down more easily. Nick Graham, the entrepreneur known for using humor to promote apparel brands like Joe Boxer, is bringing the funny to introduce an online retail venture, nickgraham.com, in time for this Christmas.

“It’s a perfect time to launch, in a lot of ways,” Mr. Graham said. Brick-and-mortar retailers “may not be ‘getting ’em in the door,’ ” he added, but consumers “are shopping at home.”

Among the lighthearted touches Mr. Graham is incorporating into a campaign are 10 percent discounts for customers also named Nick Graham and orders delivered free in Manhattan from Dec. 21 to 24 by Santa Clauses dressed in suits festooned with Mr. Graham’s favorite, polka dots.
357 2013-11-15 About 87 percent of the marijuana arrests in the Bloomberg era have been of blacks and Latinos, most of them men, and generally under the age of 25 — although surveys consistently show that whites are more likely to use it.

These drug busts were the No. 1 harvest of the city’s stop, question and frisk policing from 2009 through 2012, according to a report released Thursday by the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman. Marijuana possession was the most common charge of those arrested during those stops. The few whites and Asians arrested on these charges were 50 percent more likely than blacks to have the case “adjourned in contemplation of dismissal,” the report showed.

Now, having a little bit of pot, like a joint, is not a crime as long as you don’t burn or openly display it. Having it in my backpack was a violation of law, meaning that it is an offense that is lower than a misdemeanor. Pot in the backpack is approximately the same as making an illegal turn in a car. Taking it out and waving it in the face of a police officer or lighting up a joint on the street would drive it up to the lowest-level misdemeanor.

How was it that all the black and Latino males were displaying or burning pot where it could be seen by the police?

The answer is that many of them were asked during the stops to empty their pockets. What had been a concealed joint and the merest violation of the law was transformed into a misdemeanor by being “openly displayed.” If these were illegal searches — and they very well could have been — good luck trying to prove it.

LAST year, the Bronx Defenders, which represents poor people in criminal court, tried to have suppression hearings in 54 cases involving marijuana possession. In such hearings, the police officer would have been required to testify about the circumstances under which the marijuana was found. If it was the result of an illegal search, the judge could have barred the use of the evidence.

But not once did the hearings go forward: missing paperwork, officer’s day off, the drip, drip of wasted time. On average, each case required five court appearances, and stretched over eight months. Most of the charges were dropped or lowered to noncriminal violations.

The process itself was the punishment, and it was inflicted almost exclusively on blacks and Latinos.

Michael A. Cardozo, the chief lawyer for the city, is eager to get an appeals court to throw out the findings of fact by a judge who ruled against the city in a lawsuit over the stop-and-frisk tactics. Mr. Cardozo appears to believe, mistakenly, that losing a lawsuit is going to damage the legacy of his patron, Mayor Bloomberg.

Undoing a lawsuit will not unstain this history.

As for me, the pot got to a couple of people who might need it to get through some medical storms. It’s too risky for me to use: I already have a hard enough time keeping my backpack zipped.
358 2013-11-15 The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit embarrassed itself again on Wednesday by reaffirming a hasty and ill-considered decision last month to remove the presiding judge from the court battle over New York City’s stop-and-frisk program and to stay her remedies for the policy’s civil rights violations.

The new ruling tries to appear less highhanded than the first but sticks by the unconvincing claim that the panel had no choice but to disqualify Judge Shira Scheindlin for comments she made in court and in press interviews. It said she gave “the appearance” of impartiality, even though the city never challenged her fairness during five long years of litigation. The panel undercut its own argument by describing her as a “distinguished jurist” and making clear that she was not guilty of judicial misconduct or ethics violations.

From the very beginning, the appeals court approached this matter as it might some arcane dispute over patent law — when in fact it is one of the most important civil rights cases to be heard in New York in decades. The case turned on data showing that millions of people were stopped on the street — mostly young black and Hispanic men — and that nearly 90 percent had broken no law.

Judge Scheindlin found in Floyd v. City of New York that the tactics underlying the program violated the civil rights of minority citizens. That seemed unassailably just, given the data presented at trial. The ruling also vindicated the anger and discontent of law-abiding citizens who had become fearful of even leaving their homes lest they encounter police officers.

The appeals panel said Judge Scheindlin improperly invited the plaintiffs to file the Floyd case and improperly used the assignment process that had led to her presiding over three related cases. But before taking action in a complex and interlocking set of cases like these, the panel should have invited both sides into the court to determine what actually happened. Instead, it issued a terse ruling that failed to adequately explain its actions and seemed almost indifferent to the great significance of the case.

Judge Scheindlin felt ambushed, and petitioned the court for the opportunity to defend herself. This week’s ruling denied that motion and also backed away from some of the serious charges that were implied in the earlier ruling. And by finding no actual misconduct by the judge, the appeals court seemed to signal to the city that there are no grounds to vacate Judge Scheindlin’s decisions.
359 2013-11-15 As the memory begins to fade of those sweeping protests, which began to save Gezi Park in central Istanbul from being razed and became the most serious challenge to Mr. Erdogan’s decade in power, the government has moved aggressively against its perceived adversaries. More than a thousand students, teachers, doctors and activists — even mosque imams — have been hauled in for questioning for their role in the civic unrest.

Dozens of journalists have lost their jobs for reporting on the demonstrations, and one of Turkey’s wealthiest families now has an army of tax inspectors digging through its accounts, apparently for giving refuge in a fancy hotel it owns to demonstrators escaping clouds of tear gas last summer.

But in a country with a long history of military coups, police brutality, torture and disappearances, many Turks and outside experts said they were actually expecting a more brutal crackdown after the protests. They note that while many people have been questioned for their participation, comparatively few have been charged with crimes, although a prosecutor in Ankara has threatened to charge nearly 500 people in a single court case.

“It is not a witch hunt, but definitely the government has tightened the screws,” said Saban Kardas, a professor at the University of Economics and Technology in Ankara. “It’s a preventive move, so these protests don’t happen again.”

The government, it seems, has mounted a delicate balancing act, analysts say: crack down just hard enough to keep critics of the government off the streets, especially as Turkey prepares for three elections over the next 18 months, but not so hard that Turkey’s international image is further damaged, especially in financial circles crucial to sustaining the economy.

Turkey has also been chastened by the failure of its Middle East policy, once seen as a reorientation away from the West toward the Arab world, and has recently restarted long-stalled negotiations to join the European Union.

“This is Turkey, a candidate for the E.U. and a NATO member,” said Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, the head of the Ankara office for the German Marshall Fund of the United States, a research organization. “Some things that may be normal in Belarus won’t be acceptable here.” Still, he added, “What is happening in Turkey is not suitable for a civilized, democratic country.”

Turkey’s secular opposition, the Republican People’s Party, recently circulated a document titled, “Turkish government’s retaliation to Gezi,” in which it equated Mr. Erdogan to Machiavelli, and wrote, “the one-man government has initiated a ruthless campaign for retaliation against the persons involved in the Gezi movement.” Inside is a list of 77 journalists who were either fired or forced to resign, including Yavuz Baydar, who had been the ombudsman for the pro-government newspaper Sabah.

After being fired for criticizing his newspaper’s coverage of the protests, Mr. Baydar wrote in The Guardian, “the country’s journalists are enslaved in newsrooms run by greedy and ruthless media proprietors, whose economic interests make them submissive to Erdogan.”

While the greatest political consequence of the protests may be that Mr. Erdogan has, for now, been forced to abandon plans to establish a more powerful presidency — which he would run for in an election next year — then analysts say the greatest impact on the culture has been an even greater intolerance by the authorities for dissent, and a coarsening of the political discourse.

Some critics and analysts say they have seen something more sinister: a rise in anti-Semitism, in a country with strained relations with Israel. In his fiery speeches during the protests, Mr. Erdogan blamed an assortment of foreign actors for the unrest, including the “interest rate lobby” — what many regarded as code for Jews — and “Zionists.” Some of Turkey’s Jews, a community of roughly 15,000, are emigrating because, according to a recent report in an English-language Turkish newspaper, Hurriyet Daily News, of “anti-Semitism, triggered by harsh statements from the Turkish government.”

Steven A. Cook, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a longtime commentator on Turkish affairs, recently wrote, “Turkish political discourse is darker and the attacks on foreign observers of Turkish politics have become relentless.”
360 2013-11-15 But some analysts said there were strong reasons that Boeing, in the end, would decide to keep production of the 777X in Washington.

Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with the Teal Group in Fairfax., Va., said the Puget Sound area had clear advantages, including an excellent port, a skilled aerospace work force and longtime experience in building sophisticated aircraft.

“In terms of economics, it would make absolutely no sense to walk away from Washington because of this rejection,” Mr. Aboulafia said. “But in terms of psychology, it’s hard to tell what Boeing will do.”

Scott Hamilton, managing director of the Leeham Company, an aviation consulting firm in Issaquah, Wash., said he was not surprised that the contract was voted down, saying Boeing was trying to go too far too fast with its demands for concessions. He added that the machinists and Boeing, despite the bad blood, might resume bargaining.

“I think there is going to be great pressure on Boeing to return to the bargaining table, certainly from Governor Inslee and, I would imagine, the whole Washington congressional delegation,” Mr. Hamilton said.

Minutes after the union announced the rejection of the deal, Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, appeared before television cameras to say that he would continue fighting for the project.

“It’s a decision that prevented us from winning this tonight,” Mr. Inslee said. “We could have won it tonight without anyone even getting in the front door.”

“We are fully ready, able and willing to compete 100 percent to win this airplane,” he added.

On Saturday, state legislators in Washington approved a law extending $8.7 billion in tax breaks to Boeing through 2040 to help persuade it to locate 777X production in the Puget Sound area.

But for any deal to be reached, a rift will have to be healed with the many workers who were angry that Boeing was pushing for a concession-filled contract at a time when the company is on course to report record earnings this year and its stock hit a record high this month. Moreover, many Boeing workers were convinced that the company was bluffing in its threats to build the 777X elsewhere should workers reject the deal.

Many workers assert that Washington State has such an impressive work force and track record in building aircraft that Boeing could not seriously consider building the 777X elsewhere — even though Boeing, upset with the machinists’ swagger and strikes, opened a second production line for the 787 Dreamliner in South Carolina in 2011.

Maud Daudon, the president of the Seattle Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, said she took Boeing at its word.

“I don’t think Boeing was bluffing,” she said. “They’re under huge competitive pressure. They need to move forward on the plane.”

Many Boeing workers had a host of objections to the proposed contract extension, which came in the middle of an existing contract.

A chief objection was that Boeing’s pension contributions would be discontinued and replaced with expanded 401(k) retirement plans — even though Boeing would fund the plans far more generously than most companies do.

“This is a work force that has family traditions — grandparents, sons, daughters, nieces, nephews — and the proposal was asking them to toss aside retirement security for future workers, for their own family members,” said Jeff Johnson, president of the Washington State Labor Council, the umbrella group for the state’s unions. “They just couldn’t do it.”

The union members were also angry that it would take 16 years, up from the current six, for future hires to climb to their full pay grade. And they were upset that the deal would alternate between a pay freeze one year and a 1 percent raise the next, on top of a cost-of-living adjustment.

Jake Rosenfeld, a professor and labor expert at the University of Washington, said, “What the company clearly wants is South Carolina labor standards with the expert skills that Washington State Boeing workers possess.”

In his statement after the vote, Mr. Conner, head of Boeing’s commercial aviation division, said, “Our goal was twofold: to enable the 777X and its new composite wing to be produced in Puget Sound and to create a competitive structure to ensure that we continue market-leading pay, health care and retirement benefits while preserving jobs and our industrial base here in the region.”

One group among the 31,000 union members who were to vote on the deal — they belong to District 751 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers — created a website, 751voteno.com, that said it was “one of the most destructive and divisive proposals that we, as union members, have ever faced.”

Opponents warned that accepting the deal would divide and weaken the union by in effect creating two tiers of workers. And many were angry at officials from the union’s headquarters in Washington, D.C., for negotiating the deal with seemingly little input from the affiliates in Washington State.

“It’s a shame,” said Paul Veltkamp, a quality inspector on Boeing’s 747 assembly line in Everett, Wash. “If the company had come to us with something that was not so draconian, they’d probably have a good chance of winning ratification.”

He said he feared that Boeing might be so angry at the machinists that it might not negotiate a revised deal to build the 777X in the Puget Sound area.
361 2013-11-15 They were working adjacent to the no man’s land that for 40 years has divided two enemy nations that remain technically at war. Israel captured most of the Golan Heights, a strategic plateau of 700 square miles, from Syria in 1967, and annexed it in 1981, but much of the world considers the area illegally occupied.

Since the onset of the Syrian uprising, the Israeli military has beefed up its presence in preparation for a possible spillover of the violence, and the longstanding quiet is now constantly threatened by the raging civil war next door: Mortar rounds and rockets have fallen here 60 times in the past year, according to the Israeli military, which fired back 10 times.

In June, a bloody battle near the destroyed old city of Quneitra briefly gave Syrian rebels control of the lone border crossing, threatening the continued operations of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force that controls the demilitarized zone.

This was the violent backdrop to the makeshift graffiti studio for the members of the group, who came armed with $12,000 of spray paint, underwritten by an alumni group of Birthright Israel, which provides free trips to Israel for young Jews.

They splashed some anodyne slogans like “Art Over War” and “Get Lost a Lot — Find Yourself” on the drab detritus, along with a few Jewish stars. The Czech painter, Dmitrij Proskein, who calls himself Chemis because his graffiti began with doodles in a too-easy high school chemistry class, made a few murals, including one of a haunting little girl holding a stethoscope to a bullet-ridden wall at the base.

Mostly, though, they made their mysterious tags — Gypsy, Norm, Aroe, Merk — on what was left from long-ago battles: the bombed-out base, a sprawling set of barracks, a small Syrian tank by the side of the road.

“That’s what graffiti artists do, they write their names,” explained Craig Dershowitz, the founder of Artists 4 Israel, whose copious tattoos include one of the ardent Zionist Zeev Jabotinsky. “The statement is simply: We’re here. If it’s a no man’s land for everyone else, then we might as well claim it for art.”

Artists 4 Israel previously painted bomb shelters in the Israeli border town of Sderot, a frequent target of rocket fire from the Gaza Strip, and last year caught flak for a West Village mural about gay rights in the Middle East. The group promoted the Golan tour as its “most dangerous mission yet.”

Mr. Dershowitz at times sounded like an army commander himself. “Go! You’re painting that tank,” he barked at a small crew after pulling off Route 98. “Give it ‘Art Over War,’ go!”

The tiny tank bore some faded, basic graffiti in Hebrew and Arabic, but Col, Chemis and Vincent Santovella, a Newark man who paints the “Lost” messages, quickly covered it with their bold strokes as bombs fell within earshot.

Most of the group’s time, and paint, was spent at the military and intelligence base, a huge two-story structure that a local tour guide said was built by the Soviet Union in the 1950s. The guide, Chen Kristal, said it had been the headquarters for the Syrian top brass, and that the famous Israeli spy Eli Cohen, who was eventually hanged in Damascus, had also been stationed there.

It is a graffiti painter’s dream, with an L-shaped retaining wall around an endless series of empty rooms, some with plants sprouting inside. Here, too, generations of amateurs had left an anthropological treasure map: “Carol + Barak” in Hebrew, “Death to betrayers of the country” in Arabic, Beatles songs — “All You Need Is Love,” “With a Little Help From My Friends” — in English.

Chemis climbed what was left of a spiral staircase and set to work on a startling religious icon, a halo of gold around the head and a can of gold spray paint in hand. “That’s his religion,” Mr. Dershowitz explained. “He cares about art.”

The Golan tourism officials who had assisted with the trip were peeved that the group ignored their admonition not to paint inside the building, but a United Nations patrol car rolled through without complaint. And Zion Cohen, who comes to the base every other day to shoot arrows from a bow at a target he set up 50 yards away along the now-Technicolor retaining wall, pronounced the work “marvelous.”

“It’s coloring the shooting,” said Mr. Cohen, 61. “It’s covering all the bullets from 40 years ago.” (Actually, Aroe purposefully painted as though behind the bullet holes, to honor history rather than obscure it.)

Up on the roof, an Arab-Israeli couple celebrating a birthday sipped tea from a thermos, as Mr. Kristal, the guide, identified points of interest: the United Nations checkpoint and fence splitting the area of separation; a smaller fence with yellow flags marking mines; the ghost village of Old Quneitra; an Israeli flag over a grape orchard. And a fresh landmark: “Syria’s Business,” one of the graffiti painters had scrawled up there.

Col, who has a day job in advertising for Ralph Lauren and has L-O-V-E and H-O-P-E tattooed on his knuckles, was in his element.

“I like painting in destroyed places,” he said. “If you asked anybody if they want to be here, they’d say no. For artists, it’s very inviting. The explosion of colors really adds to, technically, what’s happened to the building.”
362 2013-11-15 In comparison, the Dow Jones industrial average rose by 7.4 percent per year during the same period.

Then, in 1965, Mr. Buffett took control of a small textile manufacturer and through a combination of buying stocks and, later, buying entire companies, achieved a 19.7 percent annual increase in ’s stock price while the average was increasing by 9.4 percent.

Not surprisingly, Mr. Buffett’s views are clear: “I’d be a bum on the street with a tin cup if the markets were always efficient.”

A significant number of endowments and foundations have also succeeded in posting stellar results. Since 1993, Yale’s endowment appreciated by 13.5 percent per year, while the S.&P. rose by 8.6 percent.

To be sure, some of this outperformance results from Yale’s perspicacity in identifying new areas with promise, as it did more than two decades ago by being among the first large institutions to move into .

But even within traditional investment areas, like public equities, Yale and many of its peers have surpassed the indexes, largely by allocating funds to savvy outside investment managers.

Over the past 20 years, for example, ’s public stock portfolios returned close to 11 percent per year, compared with about 9 percent for the indexes.

While selecting good managers or attractive stocks has led to superior returns for the savvy, trying to quickly time the market has been less successful.

Sophisticated investors have learned that even when they are convinced that an overall market is expensive or cheap, markets can indeed be irrational and predicting the timing of the inevitable correction can be challenging.

As the economist (who outperformed the averages in his own investing) purportedly said, markets can remain irrational longer than an investor can remain solvent.

Among the raps against investment managers are the high fees some charge, particularly hedge fund managers. But returns are always measured after taking fees into account.

Of course, for every investor who is beating the market, another must be falling short. That’s certainly true, and among the losers are that cater to small, individual investors who do not generally have access to top managers.

According to a recent study by the research firm Dalbar, typical equity mutual fund returns over the last 20 years were about half (4.25 percent) of market gains (8.2 percent).

That suggests that individuals should not park their money in actively managed mutual funds, let alone pick stocks or try to time the market.

Yet so many do, often on the basis of a cable television show recommendation or just their own intuition. But most of us would not repair our home’s electrical system or deliver our own babies without proper training.

Fortunately, Mr. Fama’s work on efficient markets did a favor for the small investor: it spawned low-cost index funds that replicate market averages.

That’s where the nonexpert should park his money. Of course, decisions have to be made about how much cash to hold and whether to own some bonds.

By all means, make those decisions. But as the commercials say, when it comes to active investing, “don’t try this at home.”
363 2013-11-15 On Wednesday night, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo signed into law the bill that will let Hudson River Park, the popular but financially beleaguered greensward on the West Side of Manhattan, sell development rights in order to collect much-needed revenue.

The State Legislature passed the bill in June, as a way to help the park, a city-state hybrid that was meant to be self-supporting, solve its financial woes. The park’s Pier 40, at Houston Street, was supposed to generate revenue, but instead needs $100 million of repairs to thousands of deteriorated pilings and its roof.

That pier, along with a few others at the park, is slated for commercial development under the 1998 act creating the park. But entertainment and retail proposals for the 15-acre pier have died in the face of community opposition, leaving the Hudson River Park Trust, the public benefit corporation overseeing the park, without a key source of revenue.

Under the new law, the trust will be able to sell air rights for developments up to one block east of the park’s boundaries, across the West Side Highway. The trust estimates that there are about 1.6 million square feet of air rights that could be transferred from a half-dozen park piers. The law also expands some of the allowable commercial uses at Pier 40, as well as others designated for development in the park. In addition to entertainment and retail, developers will be able to build film and television studios, schools, amusement rides and performing arts spaces.

Pier 40’s worsening condition also jeopardized a major source of current park revenue — parking for more than 1,700 cars, and playing fields used by a number of sports leagues.
364 2013-11-15 With the moratorium lifted in October, Mr. Roberts has begun finalizing contracts for more than $168 million in grants that were initially approved in August and December 2012. So far, he has finalized 26 of the 118 grants that had been stalled by the moratorium. The oversight board will set its priorities for future grant applicants at its Nov. 22 meeting.

The restructuring of the agency has strengthened the oversight committee’s discretion over Cprit grants, said Mr. Roberts, who said that the agency’s former grant processes had consolidated power with the executive director. The oversight committee had had the power only to approve a slate of grants chosen by the executive director. Now a committee comprising Cprit’s staff leaders and the commissioner of the Department of State Health Services must review all of the grants, and then the oversight committee can vote on grants individually.

Dr. Gail Tomlinson, the director of the pediatric cancer program at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, was one of the researchers affected by the moratorium. Although Cprit financed two years of the institute’s research on pediatric liver cancer, the moratorium stalled final contract negotiations for an additional Cprit grant that was tentatively approved to expand her research.

“It was difficult,” she said. “We couldn’t create any new data because we clearly didn’t have funds for that. And the analysis was put on hold.”

Dr. Tomlinson is looking forward to regaining momentum. She said Cprit offered a unique opportunity for Texas institutions to fill gaps in research amid cutbacks in federal financing.

Since 2010, the agency has awarded nearly 500 grants totaling $836 million and screened nearly 300,000 Texans for cancer. The majority of Cprit’s grant recipients continued their work throughout the moratorium, but some organizations whose grants expired were forced to discontinue screening programs or delay research projects.

“Believe me, we all sighed a huge sigh of relief” when the moratorium was lifted, said Dorothy Gibbons, chief executive of the Rose, a nonprofit organization that offers breast and cervical cancer screenings to uninsured women in East Texas. The Rose, which received $3.8 million in Cprit grants, has screened nearly 9,000 women so far with that financing.

“The potential of losing Cprit was more than most of us even wanted to think about, because that was our only hope out there,” she said.
365 2013-11-15 “My Days” is the title of a program of mostly Renaissance works for voices and viols that was presented Tuesday at St. Thomas by that church’s Choir of Men and Boys and the wonderful English viol consort Fretwork. It’s also the title of an arresting new work by Nico Muhly, a touching declaration of fraternity with the great Elizabethan composers that had its United States premiere that evening.

Mr. Muhly’s affinity for English Renaissance music was born during the hours he spent as a child chorister studying and performing this material. So it was with a sense of visceral familiarity that he decided to use a commission from Wigmore Hall in London to write a homage to Orlando Gibbons that would draw on the stylistically ambidextrous talents of Fretwork and the all-male Hilliard Ensemble.

For the American premiere, that vocal ensemble was replaced by a finely balanced quartet from St. Thomas made up of the alto Geoffrey Williams, the tenors Martin Coyle and Lawrence Jones, and the bass Craig Phillips. In “My Days,” Mr. Muhly sets a contemporary account of Gibbons’s death in 1625, embedding it in Psalm 39, which includes the words “Behold, thou hast made my days as it were a span long.”

To hear it performed right after Gibbons’s own setting of that psalm offered the same forensic pleasure one might experience poring over photographs of family members separated by generations, retracing physiognomic similarities while noting the changes of fashion. Both composers play with the friction created by close harmonies and tangled instrumental lines, but in “My Days,” the dissonances are more stringent and more frequent, and Mr. Muhly draws a wider spectrum of colors from the viols.

The program also included songs for solo lute and for solo treble and lute by John Dowland that sounded as lovely as they were fragile, skirting the border of audibility inside the vast church. In choral works by John Sheppard, William Byrd and Thomas Tallis, the choir proved itself to be one of the city’s finest. Its sound, molded by John Scott, a conductor trained at St. John’s College, Cambridge, was smooth and evenly blended — except in Gibbons’s “Cries of London,” where a warren of street hawkers’ voices was rendered with speechlike zest.
366 2013-11-15 Q. How fast does my Internet connection have to be to stream movies on an Apple TV?

A. Apple recommends at least a 2.5-megabits-per-second connection to stream video smoothly in standard definition, but suggests even faster connections for streaming high-definition movies and television shows with the latest model of its Apple TV set-top box. For video in the 720p low end of the high-def scale, a 6-megabits-per-second connection is recommended, and to watch content in the 1080p format, a consistent 8-megabits-per-second connection is advised.

If you are not sure of your Internet connection speed, check with your service provider. Online bandwidth tests you can run in your browser, like Speakeasy Speed Test or Ookla Speedtest can give you a general idea; Verizon has an online test as well. Try to run the test when no one else on the network is downloading large files or playing a bandwidth-intensive online video game.

Watching video over connection speeds that are slower than recommended may lead to stalling and buffering while you try to watch movies and shows. The Apple TV box can be connected to a home network wirelessly or with an Ethernet cable to the router. For a wireless connection, the current Apple TV model needs an access point or router using 802.11a, g or n technology and a good, strong network signal.

Q. How can I get rid of this giant “Recommended for You” thing on my Nexus tablet Home screen?

A. The “Recommended for You” widget from the Google Play store offers suggestions for apps, music, movies and other content that Google thinks you may want, based on previous purchases. If you would rather use the Home screen real estate for something else, remove it by pressing and holding the widget with your finger and then dragging it to the Remove icon at the top of the screen.

To redecorate the Home screen, you can remove other widgets and apps from view the same way. (Keep in mind that these are just Home screen shortcuts to the apps and widgets; the actual programs are still tucked away in your apps collection.)

To add apps or widgets to the Home screen, tap the All Apps icon. At the top of the screen, tap either Apps or Widgets. Press and hold your finger on the item you want to add until the Home screen pops up in the background, and then drag it to your desired location.
367 2013-11-15 Ireland’s banks are still laboring under a mountain of bad debt incurred during the property boom that preceded the country’s economic crash, and extra capital may still be needed.

But a credit line might have come with conditions attached, and the Irish government said that, after discussions with other governments and with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, it was confident it could manage a full return to economic sovereignty without the need for a special credit line.

In a statement, the Irish government contended that, having already raised some money on the bond markets, it held €20 billion, or $27 billion, in cash reserves that could be used to meet maturing commitments and funding costs until early 2015. The interest rates on its sovereign debt are low and public finances under control, it added.

“This is the right decision for Ireland, and now is the right time to take this decision,” Enda Kenny, the prime minister, told the Irish Parliament. “This is the latest in a series of steps to return Ireland to normal economic, budgetary and funding conditions.”

Within the euro zone, there had been an intense debate over whether Ireland should request a credit line. Some said doing so would set a precedent and subsequently make it easier for other nations, like Portugal, to leave bailout programs with a credit line.

The decision to do without a credit line was also seen as a statement of confidence in the Irish economy and was welcomed by Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg, who said Ireland could afford to “go it alone.”

“Markets have been giving Ireland, much earlier than the Southern European countries, the benefit of the doubt.”

Mr. Schulz added that a successful Irish exit from the bailout program could lift Portugal’s prospects of regaining its economic sovereignty next year, possibly with some transitional help from international lenders. The four countries received bailouts from the troika of international lenders: the International Monetary Fund; the European Commission, which is the European Union’s administrative arm; and the European Central Bank.

But economists are still concerned about the strength of the overall European economy and the latest G.D.P. figures did little to assuage that. The overall European Union, made up of 28 countries, grew 0.2 percent from the second quarter, and 1 percent on an annualized basis, Eurostat said.

On an annualized basis, Europe’s 0.4 percent growth compares poorly with the United States’ annualized 2.8 percent third-quarter growth and the 1.9 percent Japan reported on Thursday. China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, expanded at a robust 7.8 percent rate in the third quarter.

In Germany, growth in the three months that ended in September amounted to an annualized rate of 1.2 percent. France experienced a decline of about 0.4 percent. There was some positive news, as Spain and the Netherlands broke out of recession with 0.4 percent gains, and Britain led major European Union economies with 3.2 percent growth. But Italy continued to limp along with a 0.5 percent quarterly contraction.

Some Irish ministers did say publicly that they did not want to accept new economic conditions, beyond the steps they were already committed to taking under the bailout, in exchange for a standby credit line.

Ireland has been seen as a laboratory for the type of austerity measures favored by some Northern European creditor nations like Germany.

Christine Lagarde, the I.M.F. managing director, said on Thursday that the Irish authorities had established “a very strong track record of policy implementation.”

“This bodes well as Ireland exits its E.U.-I.M.F.-supported program,” she said in a statement. “Although uncertainties remain in Europe and the global economy more broadly, Ireland is in a strong position in terms of its bond yields and has built a sizable cash buffer. We look forward to continuing to work with the authorities as they address the challenges that remain.”

By quitting the bailout scheme, Ireland will become fully reliant on bond markets to help finance its continuing operations and make good on payments to investors who have bought its debt.

But Ireland’s existing loans to those international lenders will still need to be paid back and these repayments will take many years to complete, with the final one due in 2042.

Ireland has already tested its market access with some bond issues and in March sold €5 billion worth of 10-year bonds. The yield on the debt was 4.15 percent.
368 2013-11-15 Michael Steiner, executive vice president of Ovation Travel Group, a management company in New York, said corporate clients had mostly ended the restrictions they set on their employees’ ability to fly in first and business class during the recession.

Greeley Koch, executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, said the rule of thumb for his group’s members’ travelers is that they can fly in business class on flights that are eight hours or longer, while first-class tickets can be purchased “very selectively by top senior executives.”

Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Hudson Crossing, said there was “no question the competition posed by Middle Eastern airlines raises the bar for leading airlines in Europe and Asia,” in terms of in-flight offerings.

In addition, Michael Derchin, airline analyst for CRT Capital Research, said that after four years of “solid” profitability, airlines in the United States could now afford in-flight-product improvements, not feasible when they were in bankruptcy. But Mr. Harteveldt suggested that those carriers would not invest as heavily in services as their overseas competitors, since they must keep fares down to meet pricing demands of corporate customers.

Singapore Airlines’ new first-class seat, now available on two 777-300ER aircraft flying between Singapore and Heathrow, is almost three feet wide and 82 inches long, or about one by two meters, and has a 24-inch LCD entertainment screen. Its new, 78-inch-long business-class seat has a 132-degree recline with two sitting positions; its entertainment system includes an 18-inch LCD screen. Over all, Singapore is investing almost $150 million on cabin improvements in a total of eight 777-300ER aircraft — a sum that also covers some upgrades in economy class.

Tai Lu Chew, Singapore Airlines’ vice president of product innovation, said the first- and business-class products — designed, respectively, with the help of BMW Group’s DesignworksUSA and James Park Associates — pay particular attention to ergonomics, comfort and convenience. The new seats will also be offered on A350 aircraft.

Lufthansa began rolling out a new business class in March 2012. It will be installed on A330, A340, A380 and 747-400 aircraft by 2015. It features a seat that converts into a 6.5-foot-long, fully flat bed and contains additional storage space for personal effects. The seats — which contain an adjustable air cushion system and a 15-inch video screen — are configured in a V- or H-shaped layout, depending on the aircraft.

Lufthansa declined to say how much it was spending on its new business-class product, but it said in March 2012 that it would spend about 3 billion euros, or $4 billion, over two years on general improvements.

Virgin Atlantic last year introduced an 87-inch “bed surface,” in its A330-300 business-class cabins, with a leather seat that reclines 50 percent more than its predecessor. The seats all have aisle access and an entertainment system with a 12.1-inch touch screen monitor. Chris Rossi, Virgin Atlantic’s senior vice president of North America, said the airline was investing more than $170 million in its new business class.

KLM began upgrading its business-class service on its 747-400 aircraft last July; 22 planes will offer it by April. Created with the help of the Dutch designer Hella Jongerius, the service features fully-flat seats and a 17-inch video screen. And KLM’s sister airline, Air France, said in June it would unveil new business- and first-class services next year.

Since June, United Airlines has been offering an 180-degree flat-bed seat and a personal, on-demand entertainment system in business- and first-class cabins of all long-haul 747, 757, 767 and 777 international aircraft; it also offers business-class service on its 757 transcontinental aircraft.

By next year, Delta’s entire international widebody fleet will be equipped with full flat-bed seats with direct aisle access and an upgraded entertainment system. Delta declined to quantify expenditures on these services, though it has spent $3 billion on all passenger products and services since 2010.

American Airlines’ new 777-300 fleet — now operated from hubs to London and Sao Paolo, with additional service to these cities and Hong Kong to be added next year — is configured with three classes of service, with fully lie-flat seats in first and business class, all with direct aisle access. The first-class seat converts into an 82.5-inch-long bed with a 17-inch touch-screen entertainment monitor, while the business-class seat lets travelers adjust their back, head rest and leg rest, and has a 15.4-inch touch screen monitor. The carrier’s A321 transcontinental aircraft, which will begin operating in January, will offer similar first- and business-class products. American declined to quantify its investment in these services.

JetBlue, meanwhile, which has not offered premium class since its start-up in 2000, next June will offer Mint on new A321 aircraft flying from New York to Los Angeles; San Francisco flights will be added later in the year. Mint will feature a 22.3 inch wide seat that will convert into a fully lie-flat bed up to 80 inches long, and will contain air cushions with adjustable firmness, a massage function and 15-inch entertainment screen. The introductory, one-way, nonrefundable fare will be $599, compared with competitors’ lowest business-class fares of close to $2,200. JetBlue declined to quantify its investment in Mint.

Now “is a good time to be one of the people who have the wherewithal to fly first or business class,” said Tim Winship, editor and publisher of FrequentFlier.com, a Web site that covers travel loyalty programs. But the investment for the carriers is “pretty significant” and “it remains to be seen what the return on their investment will be,” he noted.

Mr. Koch of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives agreed: “Spending money, getting travelers to come, that’s a risk for the airlines. But they have to do it, otherwise they’ll be passed by.”
369 2013-11-15 Inflation has remained a primary concern for the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, over the last few months. The bank raised its benchmark interest rate to 7.75 percent from 7.5 percent late last month in an effort to control rapidly rising inflationary pressures.

“Recent stabilization of the currency has helped dampen the impact from higher imported inflation and administrative fuel price increases, although the pass-through is likely not fully done,” Mr. Eskesen said.

Analysts expect that the central bank will keep a close eye on inflation for its next monetary policy review, in December. “As price pressures remain worrying, the Reserve Bank is likely to continue to tweak monetary policy until inflation is brought under control,” said Anis Chakravarty, senior director at Deloitte India. “I believe that two more increases in interest rates are likely before the end of the financial year in March.”

Other analysts do not expect an immediate rise in interest rates because core inflation, which excludes certain items with volatile prices, has remained modest at 2.6 percent. “While the Reserve Bank of India will maintain a hawkish stance on monetary policy, a rate hike looks unlikely in the current calendar year,” said Sujan Hajra, executive director and chief economist at AnandRathi, a financial services company in Mumbai. “If inflation increases further, there might be a hike of 25 basis points in the first quarter of the next calendar year.”

There are concerns in the industrial sector that a further increase in interest rates would hamper growth significantly. “The rising trajectory of inflation should not come in the way of the monetary policy slated to be announced next month, as industry is already reeling under a protracted period of slowdown, with no visible signs of recovery in sight,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of the Confederation of Indian Industry.

The commerce ministry also revised the wholesale price reading for August to 7 percent from the 6.1 percent reported previously.
370 2013-11-15 HONG KONG — A prominent human rights campaigner in southern China won his first meeting with a lawyer on Thursday after more than three months in detention and said he had been on a hunger strike, one of his lawyers said.

Yang Maodong, a writer and businessman better known by his pen name, Guo Feixiong, was detained by the police in Guangzhou, in Guangdong Province, in early August on allegations of “assembling a crowd to disrupt order in a public place.” He is one of several well-known rights advocates held on similar accusations after participating in grass-roots campaigns pressing the Communist Party for stronger legal and political rights.

Until now, Mr. Yang has not been allowed to see a lawyer, which his lawyers and supporters have said is a blatant violation of Chinese law. Mr. Yang’s lack of access to visitors prompted speculation from some of his supporters that he was ill, had been physically abused or was on a hunger strike.

Mr. Yang told a lawyer who was allowed to visit him, Chen Guangwu, that days after he was detained, he began to refuse to eat food, accepting for 25 days only glucose drinks and a nutritional intravenous drip. Mr. Chen declined to talk about the meeting. The account of it was given by Mr. Yang’s other lawyer, Sui Muqing, who said the police had excluded him from the meeting.

“Guo Feixiong’s health now is still poor,” Mr. Sui said in a telephone interview, citing a description from Mr. Chen. “He’s still suffering the effects. He staged the hunger strike because he felt that the police simply don’t have a good reason to arrest him. It was to show defiance.”
371 2013-11-15 Members of a union representing thousands of Boeing employees voted late Wednesday to reject a controversial labor deal that would have cut compensation but have kept assembly of the company’s new 777X jets in Washington State, raising the chance that Boeing will move more production away from its traditional manufacturing base in the Seattle area.

In a ballot that was seen as a bellwether for the state of organized labor in America, 67 percent of the members of the local branch of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers voted against the eight-year contract extension, according to a statement posted on the union’s website.

“We preserved something sacred by rejecting the Boeing proposal,” Tom Wroblewski, the local president of the union, said in the statement. “We’ve held on to our pensions and that’s big. At a time when financial planners are talking about a ‘retirement crisis’ in America, we have preserved a tool that will help our members retire with more comfort and dignity.”

Boeing, which last week had threatened to relocate assembly of the highly anticipated new jet model to other locations if the union contract failed to pass, expressed regret over the result.

“We are very disappointed in the outcome of the union vote,” Ray Conner, the president and chief executive of Boeing’s commercial aircraft division, said late Wednesday in an emailed statement. “Without the terms of this contract extension, we’re left with no choice but to open the process competitively and pursue all options for the 777X.”

State legislators in Washington had on Saturday passed a measure extending nearly $9 billion worth of tax breaks to Boeing through 2040 with a goal of enticing the company to locate production of the 777X in Seattle’s Puget Sound area, but that had been largely contingent on the union approving the contract extension.
372 2013-11-16 The level of carbon dioxide, the most important heat-trapping gas in the atmosphere, continues to rise. The debate over how to address the effects intensified at a United Nations meeting that began this week, with some countries claiming the need for compensation. But determining each country’s responsibility is a complicated task.
373 2013-11-16 Melissa Iverson was transformed after doctors put her on buprenorphine following a psychotic break.
374 2013-11-16 D’Angelo Harrison scored 25 points, and St. John’s overcame a bad-shooting second half to beat Wagner, 73-57, the Red Storm’s 10th straight home-opening win. Sir’Dominic Pointer had 10 points for the Red Storm.

■ Kevin Ware scored quickly in his return for No. 3 Louisville, and the defending N.C.A.A. champion Cardinals posted their school-record 19th straight win, beating visiting Cornell, 99-54. Ware shattered his leg during last season’s Midwest Regional final.
375 2013-11-16 Elmer Lokkins and Gustavo Archilla kept their relationship private for nearly 60 years. Some knew; some just wondered. Most did not discuss the situation. Uncle Gus and Uncle Elmer, their family called them.

Then, when they were both in their 80s, after a lifetime of refraining from even holding hands in public, they embraced in front of their family for the first time. It was November 2003, and they had just married in Canada, having traveled there from their home in Manhattan.

Soon they were being sought out for interviews and appearances. They participated in gay rights parades, including New York’s annual Wedding March. As same-sex marriage gained momentum in the United States, they became powerful symbols for supporters: faces of commitment, of enduring love.

But they were also still Uncle Gus and Uncle Elmer.

“When they got married and started talking about it, it was a little strange,” Christina Dean, Mr. Archilla’s niece, said this week. “Because you’re used to them being one way, and then they became famous.”

Mr. Lokkins died on Oct. 12 in Marco Island, Fla., less than a year after Mr. Archilla. Mr. Lokkins was 94, Mr. Archilla 96. They moved to Florida to be close to Ms. Dean and other family members.

When Mr. Archilla died, they had been married for nine years. But they had been together since that September day in 1945 when they met by chance in Columbus Circle.
376 2013-11-16 McCormack helped take the Browns to N.F.L. championships in 1954 and 1955 and an Eastern Conference title in 1957. He was a Pro Bowl player six times, including each of his last three seasons, and was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1984.

Michael Joseph McCormack Jr. was born on June 21, 1930, in Chicago and graduated from the University of Kansas. After making the Pro Bowl playing for the Yanks at right tackle, he spent two years in the Army. While he was gone, the Yanks became the Dallas Texans, but that franchise foundered, and McCormack’s rights were obtained by a new Baltimore Colts team.

Paul Brown, who built powerful Browns teams in the decade after World War II, had not forgotten about McCormack’s rookie season. When Brown traded 10 players to the Colts in 1953, McCormack was among the five he received.

Brown moved McCormack from offensive tackle to middle guard on defense when he joined the Browns in 1954.

Replacing Bill Willis, a future Hall of Famer who had retired, McCormack joined with the star defensive end Len Ford in an outstanding pass rush that complemented the Browns’ high-powered offense, which featured Graham’s passing to Dante Lavelli.

The Browns had been beaten by the Detroit Lions in the 1952 and 1953 N.F.L. championship games, but they routed the Lions, 56-10, to win the 1954 title. McCormack swiped the football out of the hands of Lions quarterback Bobby Layne — it was ruled a fumble recovery — to set up an early Browns touchdown.

McCormack returned to offensive right tackle in 1955, when the Browns won the N.F.L. championship again, defeating the Los Angeles Rams. When Jim Brown made his debut with Cleveland in 1957, beginning a career as one of pro football’s greatest runners, the Browns went to the league championship game again, losing to the Lions.

McCormack later turned to coaching. He worked first as an assistant with the Washington Redskins and was head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles from 1973 to 1975 and the Baltimore Colts in 1980 and 1981. But he never had a winning season.

He had hoped to model himself on Paul Brown.

“Paul taught football,” he told The Plain Dealer of Cleveland in 2010. “I tried to teach the same way, but as a head coach I guess my emotions got away from me.”

McCormack was an assistant coach with the Cincinnati Bengals in the late 1970s when Brown was their general manager.

The Seattle Seahawks hired him in 1982 as director of football operations. He replaced Jack Patera as interim coach during a strike-shortened season, winning 4 of 7 games, but did not want to coach again. He was promoted to president and general manager in 1983 and named Chuck Knox the head coach. Under their leadership, the Seahawks made the playoffs four times in six seasons.

McCormack became the president of the Carolina Panthers when they were awarded an expansion franchise in 1993. He oversaw the assembling of a staff led by General Manager Bill Polian and Coach Dom Capers. The Panthers, who began play in 1995, went to the National Football Conference championship game in their second season. McCormack retired afterward, and the Panthers erected a statue of him at their Ericsson Stadium in 1997.

Besides his wife, the former Ann Helsby, whom he married in 1956, McCormack is survived by their sons, Michael and Tim; their daughters, Molly Rieman and Colleen Fischeffer; 10 grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and a sister, Sue McCormack.

For all his prowess on the offensive line, McCormack was especially proud of his 1954 season on defense for the Browns.

He remembered a 6-0 victory over the Eagles in November.

“They got down to the 1-yard line,” he told The Plain Dealer. “On the first play, I made the tackle for a yard loss. The second play, I made a tackle for a yard loss again.”

After a delay of game pushed the Eagles back 5 yards, “I rushed the passer and he threw incomplete,” McCormack recalled. “Then on fourth down, I pulled out of the line and went into pass defense. I’ve still got the broken ring finger where I hit the ball and made it incomplete.”
377 2013-11-16 American Airlines says it will list its shares on Nasdaq under “AAL” after the merger with US Airways. American’s parent, the AMR Corporation, had been listed on the New York Stock Exchange as AMR until the shares were removed after the company filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2011.
378 2013-11-16 Novak Djokovic of Serbia and Tomas Berdych of the defending champion Czech Republic did what was expected of them, winning their matches and leaving the Davis Cup final at 1-1 after the opening day in Belgrade, Serbia.

Djokovic beat Radek Stepanek, 7-5, 6-1, 6-4, in the first singles. Berdych then defeated Dusan Lajovic, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3, on the indoor hardcourt. With their 13-1 record in Davis Cup doubles, Berdych and Stepanek have a chance to give the Czechs the lead in the best-of-five series on Saturday. It was not known if Djokovic would play doubles or rest for Sunday’s reverse singles.
379 2013-11-16 CAIRO — Dozens of people were killed in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, on Friday after militiamen opened fire on unarmed protesters, setting off some of the worst violence in the capital since the revolt against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi almost three years ago.

The bloodshed at the protest on Friday afternoon quickly devolved into clashes involving armed citizens and rival militias, witnesses said. At hospitals, bodies arrived mangled by heavy-weapons fire. Air force jets flew sorties over the city, as pickup trucks carrying reinforcements of fighters raced to the clashes.

The protest that led to the violence was part of a rising tide of citizen anger against Libya’s multitude of militias, made up of thousands of men who fought Colonel Qaddafi’s forces and never laid down their arms. The militias have fed Libya’s chronic insecurity, fighting among themselves while exerting control over vital installations and even resources like oil. Fighters pledge loyalty to their commanders, tribes or towns, rather than the weak central government.

Yet the nature of the violence on Friday seemed to represent an especially ominous turn for the country, dragging it back to the winter three years ago when Colonel Qaddafi’s soldiers, roaming the capital in jeeps, gunned down protesters in the streets.

A Health Ministry official told Reuters that at least 32 people had been killed and that 391 had been injured. Libya’s prime minister, Ali Zeidan, demanded an “exit of armed groups from Tripoli,” according to Reuters. But his government seems largely powerless to make demands, a point starkly illustrated last month when Mr. Zeidan was briefly kidnapped by militiamen.

Libyans have taken it upon themselves to dislodge the militias, with protests that have provoked violent responses, mostly in the eastern city of Benghazi. Witnesses said both the size of the protest on Friday and the scale of the confrontation were rare in the capital.
380 2013-11-16 Pictures From the Week in Business
381 2013-11-16 A former aide to Imelda Marcos who is accused of selling a Monet masterpiece that she did not own was wheeled out of court during the prosecution’s closing arguments on Friday morning after experiencing chest pains and nausea.

The summations continued in her absence, as an ambulance rushed the accused woman, Vilma Bautista, 74, to New York Downtown Hospital, where she was still being treated in the emergency room late Friday afternoon. Her relatives in court said she had a heart ailment, but provided no details.

Ms. Bautista’s lawyers waived her right to be present so the prosecutor could finish. Jurors were told by Justice Renee A. White of State Supreme Court in Manhattan to ignore the empty chair at the defense table and to read nothing into the defendant’s absence.

Ms. Bautista is charged with conspiring with two nephews to sell four valuable paintings that Mrs. Marcos, former first lady of the Philippines, bought in the 1970s at the height of her husband’s power as president. The paintings disappeared from an Upper East Side townhouse used by Mrs. Marcos shortly before Ferdinand Marcos was ousted in the mid-1980s.

Prosecutors say Ms. Bautista secretly kept the works for a quarter of a century, then, when she was running short of money, tried to sell them on the black market in July 2009 through her two nephews, even though some of the paintings were being sought by the Philippine government. Emails between the nephews outline their plans to sell the paintings.

Evidence at the trial has shown that, in September 2010, Ms. Bautista sold the most valuable of the paintings — Claude Monet’s “Le Bassin aux Nymphéas” (1899) from his waterlily series — to the London gallery Hazlitt, Gooden & Fox, which then resold it to Alan Howard, a billionaire hedge fund manager in Switzerland.
382 2013-11-16 Gary Clark Jr. began his encore at the Apollo Theater on Thursday night in an air of pensive solitude, perched on a chair with a harmonica and his guitar. Unhurried, calmly self-possessed, he drifted through “In the Evening (When the Sun Goes Down),” in an arrangement that subtly acknowledged Big Bill Broonzy and Lightnin’ Hopkins, among other stewards of that song. “It’s so lonesome when your lover’s not around,” he sang in a soft, clear voice, trusting that pitiful line to do its own work.

This moment might have been routine business for Mr. Clark, who has a similar version of the song on “12 Years a Slave (Music From and Inspired by the Motion Picture)” (Columbia), a compilation album due out on Tuesday. (He has also performed it, memorably, at the White House.) But in the context of the show, it was a valuable counterweight, a moment powerful precisely for its smallness and near-stillness, rather than its glorious heat or bounding momentum.

Mr. Clark, who at 29 is easily the most heralded bluesman of his generation, is a soft-spoken beanpole of a guitarist possessed of rare dynamic powers, including the ability to make a solo feel both effortless and feverish. Over the course of this two-hour show he kept putting together improvised seminars on the importance of pacing, typically overwhelming not with intricacy or velocity but rather something like narrative suspense. His rapport with a growly, in-the-pocket band — the guitarist Eric Zapata, the bassist Johnny Bradley and the drummer Johnny Radelat — was lean and casually deep.

Their set list hasn’t changed much since the release last year of “Blak and Blu” (Reprise), Mr. Clark’s debut album, which carefully positioned him as a soul and rock eclectic, and not merely a fetish object for hungry blues hounds. By now, that fight has been settled in his favor, with the perversely fortunate result that Mr. Clark feels free to deliver unbridled blues heroism in concert, without distraction or disclaimer.

So he came alive during a cover of Lowell Fulson’s “3 O’Clock Blues,” the tune that yielded breakout hits for both Fulson and B. B. King. Later, in a slow-burn plaint of his own called “Please Come Home,” Mr. Clark reeled off a solo as if in tribute to King, giving his notes a plangent shudder of vibrato before biting them off at the ends, and leaving big gaps between phrases, as if gathering breath. (Shawn and Savannah Clark, his sisters, joined on background vocals during the chorus.)

Albert King (no relation to B. B., other than mythic) was another worthy touchstone: Mr. Clark brought spirit and fire to his classic “Oh Pretty Woman,” ceding the spotlight to Mr. Zapata, and then reclaiming it with brittle control. And the second tune in the encore was “Don’t Throw Your Love on Me So Strong,” with a bracing, splintery guitar solo by a surprise guest, Doyle Bramhall II, and a more restrained, reverb-soaked one by Mr. Zapata. When it was Mr. Clark’s turn, he eased his way in with terse and crying phrases, hinting credibly at a vocal approach well before he stepped back to the microphone.
383 2013-11-16 “My Days” is the title of a program of mostly Renaissance works for voices and viols that was presented Tuesday at St. Thomas by that church’s Choir of Men and Boys and the wonderful English viol consort Fretwork. It’s also the title of an arresting new work by Nico Muhly, a touching declaration of fraternity with the great Elizabethan composers that had its United States premiere that evening.

Mr. Muhly’s affinity for English Renaissance music was born during the hours he spent as a child chorister studying and performing this material. So it was with a sense of visceral familiarity that he decided to use a commission from Wigmore Hall in London to write a homage to Orlando Gibbons that would draw on the stylistically ambidextrous talents of Fretwork and the all-male Hilliard Ensemble.

For this performance, that vocal ensemble was replaced by a finely balanced quartet from St. Thomas made up of the alto Geoffrey Williams, the tenors Martin Coyle and Lawrence Jones, and the bass Craig Phillips. In “My Days,” Mr. Muhly sets a contemporary account of Gibbons’s death in 1625, embedding it in Psalm 39, which includes the words “Behold, thou hast made my days as it were a span long.”

To hear it performed right after Gibbons’s own setting of that psalm offered the same forensic pleasure one might experience poring over photographs of family members separated by generations, retracing physiognomic similarities while noting the changes of fashion. Both composers play with the friction created by close harmonies and tangled instrumental lines, but in “My Days,” the dissonances are more stringent and more frequent, and Mr. Muhly draws a wider spectrum of colors from the viols.

The program also included songs for solo lute and for solo treble and lute by John Dowland that sounded as lovely as they were fragile, skirting the border of audibility inside the vast church. In choral works by John Sheppard, William Byrd and Thomas Tallis, the choir proved itself to be one of the city’s finest. Its sound, molded by John Scott, a conductor trained at St. John’s College, Cambridge, was smooth and evenly blended — except in Gibbons’s “Cries of London,” where a warren of street hawkers’ voices was rendered with speechlike zest.
384 2013-11-16 Sometime between then and now, the atmosphere went away, and Mars today is an airless, frigid desert with average surface temperatures of minus 64 degrees Fahrenheit, or minus 53 degrees Celsius.

The once-bountiful air molecules must have either gone up, escaping into space, or down, transformed by chemical reactions into rock. Hydrogen, the lightest of gases, can simply float away from gravity’s grasp. Heavier molecules like oxygen and carbon dioxide might have been knocked out by particles and radiation streaming from the sun.

“As the solar wind sweeps by, it is able to strip off the atmospheric gas,” Dr. Jakosky said. “It’s actually stripped away, molecule by molecule, atom by atom.”

To figure out the puzzle of the missing atmosphere, Maven will carefully measure the wisps that remain.

The spacecraft — which will widen to the length of a school bus after it fans out its solar arrays — will loop Mars in an elliptical, 4.5-hour orbit, climbing 3,860 miles above the planet then swooping down to within 93 miles of the surface. It will also make some particularly deep dips, to within 77.6 miles of the surface.

Maven’s eight instruments will take stock of what is in Mars’s upper atmosphere as well as catalog the solar wind particles bombarding Mars. That will allow the scientists to determine not only the rate at which the atmosphere is disappearing, but also the particulars of how it is disappearing.

“There are a lot of processes that we think may have played a role, and we don’t have the measurements to understand them today,” Dr. Jakosky said.

James F. Kasting, a professor of geosciences at Pennsylvania State University who is not involved with the Maven mission, said it would be useful to know how quickly Mars was losing its atmosphere today. He was less sure about what it would say about Mars in the ancient past. “Conditions would have been, I think, very different,” he said.

The young sun, for example, was about 30 percent dimmer, but emitted more ultraviolet light.

But Dr. Kasting also said the data could help in understanding whether distant Earth-size planets that are being discovered around other stars would be likely to have significant atmospheres. “That’s interesting for us who are interested in exo-Earths,” he said.

Forecasts on Friday gave a 60 percent chance of favorable weather during Monday’s two-hour launch window, with concerns that a cold weather front would generate clouds, strong winds and thunderstorms. If weather or technical problems keep Maven on the ground, NASA will still have three more weeks to launch it before Mars and Earth move too far out of alignment.

The $671 million mission was almost derailed by the federal government shutdown last month, with work halted when almost all of NASA’s employees and contractors were furloughed. Within a couple of days, however, top NASA officials decided that Maven’s launching fell into the category of “essential,” not because of an urgent need to study the Martian atmosphere but because Maven is also to serve as a communication relay for the Curiosity and Opportunity rovers on Mars.

NASA has two other orbiters circling Mars — Mars Odyssey and Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter — but both are aging. If Maven does not launch this year, the next chance would be in 2016, and a less favorable configuration of orbits means that it would have to expend more fuel to get to Mars, diminishing its worth as a communication relay. At present, NASA does not have any plans for orbiters to follow Maven.

But Maven is back on schedule, Dr. Jakosky said, and once it completes its primary work, it should be able to stay in orbit for almost another decade. “We’re hoping for a very long mission,” he said.
385 2013-11-16 The official also said the sides had already been talking about financial services, but could not continue those discussions this week because key officials were traveling with the Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, on a trip to China. The European official spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Asked whether officials from regulatory authorities might attend the talks, which could include agencies like the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Mullaney replied that “the exact composition of the team is still to be determined.”

Ignacio García Bercero, the chief European negotiator, who appeared with Mr. Mullaney, seemed pleased with the talks.

“Something I would like to stress, a meeting on financial services regulation is scheduled,” Mr. García Bercero said. “From the European Union perspective we are very satisfied with the outcome of this week’s meetings.”

A sticking point for the Americans has been the Dodd-Frank Act, which was passed in 2010 and meant to overhaul the American financial system and which regulators in the United States have been reluctant to revisit.

In an interview in September, Mr. Mullaney’s boss, United States Trade Representative Michael B. Froman, said, “Our view is that there is nothing that we should do, or are going to do, through TTIP that would weaken Dodd-Frank.” He was referring to the shorthand name for the trade talks, which are formally known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership negotiations.

“We think it’s important that the work already underway in bilateral mechanisms, as well as forums like the Financial Stability Board, continue to make progress in parallel alongside the trade negotiations,” Mr. Froman said. The Financial Stability Board, based in Switzerland, is an international association that includes central banks and finance ministries.

The trade negotiations began in July, and the second round was delayed until this week because of the recent government shutdown in the United States. The third full round of negotiations on all topics is to take place in Washington in December.

The trans-Atlantic deal, if an agreement can be reached, would apply to nearly a billion people who live in the United States and the European Union and would be meant to make it easier for products to be traded between those two markets.

The negotiations could also become de facto global standards, given the size of the combined trans-Atlantic market. The United States and the European Union are already the world’s two largest trading partners, with $2.6 billion in goods and services exchanged daily, according to a European estimate.
386 2013-11-16 New cities are joining the effort to head off home foreclosures by using a twist on the power of eminent domain, despite threats of financial retaliation from Wall Street and Washington.

On Saturday, Mayor Wayne Smith of Irvington, N.J., will announce that his mostly working-class city is proceeding with a legal study of the plan. Irvington could try to head off legal action and repercussions through what are called “friendly condemnations,” in which incentives are used to persuade the owner to drop any objections, he said. “We figure if this program works it can help anywhere from 500 to 1,000 homes.”

This summer the similarly working-class city of Richmond, Calif., in a heavily industrial part of the San Francisco Bay Area, became the first to identify homes worth far less than their owners owe, and offer to buy not the houses themselves, but the mortgages. The city intends to reduce the debt on those mortgages, saying that will prevent foreclosure, blight and falling property values. If the owners of the mortgages — mostly banks and investors — balk, the letters said, the city could use eminent domain to condemn and buy them.

Since then, intense pressure from Wall Street and real estate interests, including warnings that mortgages will become difficult or impossible for Richmond residents to get, has whittled away support for the plan. The city has yet to actually use its power of eminent domain, but it is already fighting two lawsuits filed in federal courts.

Still, cities hard hit by the housing crash are showing interest. Yonkers, just north of New York City, will soon take up a resolution to study the use of eminent domain to reduce debt, and support is building in Newark as well. In California, Pomona and Oakland are considering it as well. .
387 2013-11-16 It was started back in 1912 by businesses primarily to correct advertising abuses. It now operates as a nonprofit with almost five million businesses in the bureau’s database; only about 400,000 of those are accredited.

Accredited is a term that may confuse consumers. A business can only be called accredited if it pays a fee, which varies by location, but starts at about $300 annually and goes up, and meets standards set by the bureau, which include a scoutlike list of requirements such as advertising honestly, telling the truth and being transparent.

A business is also listed in the bureau’s database if it asks to be or if a consumer files a complaint.

Local Better Business Bureaus are funded primarily by accreditation fees. The national office receives a portion of those fees and is also funded by corporations through its self-regulatory programs.

Now about those ratings: Companies are given an A-plus through F rating based on a number of factors, including the size of the business, how long it has operated, how it responds to each complaint and whether that complaint has been resolved — or the Better Business Bureau deems it resolved.

Even if the customer is dissatisfied in the end but the business seems to have made “a good-faith effort,” as decided by the bureau, then the complaint is decided in the company’s favor, said a bureau spokeswoman, Katherine Hutt.

In the last several years, the Better Business Bureau has been battered by bad ratings of its own. News reports, including a scathing one on 20/20, detailed how the Los Angeles Better Business Bureau inflated the grade of a business if the company bought a membership.

In 2011, David Segal, who writes The Haggler column for The New York Times, did a series looking at customers’ complaints about the bureau.

Since then, the bureau has made some changes. It used to give an A-plus only to accredited businesses, Ms. Hutt said. That is no longer true.

“That was misinterpreted as pay for play,” she said. “Accredited and unaccredited are now judged exactly the same.” She points out that more than 1.2 million businesses in the database have an A-plus rating, and of those, just over 300,000 are accredited.

In July, the bureau made permanent a pilot program that gives details about the complaints filed; before they were simply put in categories such as “advertising issue” or “problem with a service or product.”

Earlier this year, after a lengthy and what Ms. Hutt called an “exhaustive internal process,” the Los Angeles bureau, one of 113 local chapters in the United States and Canada, was kicked out. A new one is expected to open soon.

The Los Angeles chapter was one of a kind, Ms. Hutt said, and is not part of any systemic problem.

That doesn’t mean everyone is happy with the bureau. On its own blog, frustrated consumers vent: “The BBB is a waste of time. You have done nothing for me and the companies just laugh about the ‘threat’ of the BBB,” writes George Patrin. Similar comments are all over the web.

On the other hand, Ashley writes that: “I personally have had a great experience with the BBB. After filing a complaint with them I was able to get just under $2,000 back from a company that did not provide their promised services.”

Angie’s List is in some ways the flip side of the bureau. The consumer buys a membership, whose cost varies by location but $29 a year is fairly typical, said Angie Hicks, the founder of the 18-year-old company. The list now has some two million members, double from two years ago.

A member can peruse the companies and leave a review (a nonmember can also leave a review). Companies are graded on an A to F scale, and the grades are averaged if more than one person reviews them.

The perk for companies that are rated B or higher is that they can buy advertising. This comes in the form of coupons offered to members for discounts on services, Ms. Hicks said. And those that advertise are put at the top of default searches, which Consumer Reports said in a September report of ratings services, skews the results.

Most users are probably not aware that “70 percent of the company’s revenues comes from advertising purchased by service providers,” said Jeff Blyskal, a senior writer for Consumer Reports, who did the ratings report.

Ms. Hicks disagreed. She said that members liked the idea that companies offered discount coupons — and that those companies come up first on search results.

As with the Better Business Bureau, there are plenty of satisfied and dissatisfied customers who have used Angie’s List. And as an accredited company, it does have an A-plus rating with the Better Business Bureau, with 233 complaints over the last three years, all of them closed.

Another option is Yelp, which compared to the Better Business Bureau and Angie’s List, is either sheer anarchy or refreshingly open. Anyone can look up a company on Yelp or leave a review. (It also has an A-plus rating with the Better Business Bureau, is not accredited and had 1,181 closed complaints over the last three years.)

The Consumers Report review also noted that allowing a company to get in touch with a disgruntled customer and make amends — and the customer can then take down a negative review — “undercuts the integrity and accuracy of the ratings.”

It’s not easy to sort all this out. So some advice from the experts: Don’t rely on any one source, especially if you’re making an expensive investment. Check out specialized websites — for example, PCWorld if you’re looking for a computer. If you have a real problem with a business, go to the local or state agency that licenses the service you’re using.

And don’t drive yourself crazy. Remember that one or two people can really skew the process. Consumers Report looked at one plumbing company in the San Francisco area for its review. Angie’s List gave it a grade of F based on a review by one irate customer. It was an accredited company with the Better Business Bureau, which awarded it an A-plus, with two complaints deemed resolved. And based on 20 reviews, it received a 2.5 out of maximum of 5 on Yelp.
388 2013-11-16 “Japan can get dramatic emission reductions while shutting down nuclear entirely,” said Martin Kaiser, head of the Greenpeace delegation. Greenpeace said its own calculations showed Japan could achieve emissions cuts of more than 20 percent without relying on nuclear power if it more aggressively pursued renewable energy.

Since the 2011 disaster, Japan’s nuclear power program, which had provided about 30 percent of the country’s electricity, has ground to a halt amid public anxiety over safety, and the country has had to fill much of the gap by burning fossil fuels. The current government has been trying for months to get the public consensus it would like before turning some reactors back on, but so far its assurances that new, tighter regulations will keep the plants safe have not convinced many Japanese.

And though Japan’s largest business lobby has argued, along with the government, that energy-poor Japan needs nuclear power to bring down energy costs, opposition to bringing reactors online remains strong.

Higher-than-expected emissions from Japan would be a major setback in the fight against global warming. The announcement added to concerns in Warsaw about the difficulty in reducing the atmospheric pollution that many scientists say makes extreme weather events, possibly including the devastating typhoon that hit the Philippines last week, more severe and more frequent.

Climate negotiations have been moving very slowly since a meeting in Copenhagen in 2009 that ended in acrimony after the United States and rapidly developing countries like China were unable to come to terms on how to allocate responsibility.

The Warsaw conference has adopted a narrow goal of creating a road map for replacing the Kyoto Protocol, which technically expired last year, and to address the thorny issues of how poor countries should be compensated for the costs of adapting to climate change.

“There is regret about the announcement from Japan,” Christiana Figueres, leader of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the body overseeing the Warsaw talks, said at a news conference. But she added that Japan had made significant strides in energy efficiency and renewable power, and said she hoped that the new target would prove conservative.

In an apparent bid to deflect criticism of its new target, Japan said it would provide about $16 billion in private and public funds through 2015 to help developing countries curb their greenhouse gas emissions.

While Japan’s surprisingly modest plan was an unwelcome development to climate delegates, it was just one of many indications that negotiators would have a difficult time arranging anything beyond a cosmetic deal in Warsaw. It came just two days after Australia’s new conservative government introduced a bill in Parliament to repeal the carbon tax enacted by its Labor predecessor.

Signatories to the United Nations treaty agreed in 2010 to cut greenhouse gas emissions to hold the rise in global temperatures to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 2 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels — the most scientists say the earth can tolerate before the effects of global warming become vastly more pernicious. Backtracking by Japan and Australia on emissions, as well as efforts by the United States and China that some criticize as too weak, would not bode well for reaching the temperature target.

More broadly, Japan’s action shows the crucial role that many experts say nuclear power must play if the world has any chance of reaching its emissions goals. Just two weeks ago, four prominent climate scientists wrote an open letter calling for environmental groups to embrace nuclear power as the only hope to head off catastrophic global warming.

“Energy demand is going to increase,” Stuart Neil, senior director of external relations and communications for the World Energy Council, an alliance of governments, corporations and energy activists, said Friday by telephone from Warsaw. “We need to look at that in a sustainable way. But the reality is that we’re looking at a doubling of demand by 2050,” with most growth outside the developed world.

In 2011, Japan was the world’s fifth-biggest emitter of carbon dioxide, after China, the United States, India and Russia. Together, these countries and the European Union account for about 70 percent of total global carbon dioxide emissions, according to the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States.

Japan had been a laggard in pursuing renewable energy, choosing instead to rely on its reactors to pare back greenhouse emissions. Before the accident, less than 3 percent of the electricity Japan generated came from renewable energy sources, excluding hydropower.

The energy shortfall resulting from the closing of its nuclear plants has left Japan scrambling to fire up old coal- and gas-powered stations, and ramp up its imports of fossil fuels. In the year through March, Japan released the equivalent of 1.2 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, more than 7 percent higher than the year preceding the nuclear accident and 14 percent higher than levels in 1990.

To kick-start its renewable power program, Japan introduced incentives to diversify its energy sources last year. In the program’s first 12 months, through June, the country added renewable power equal to the output of about four nuclear reactors.

Japan’s new target assumes that the country will achieve energy savings of about 20 percent by investing in renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technology, Mr. Ishihara said. Japan seeks to reduce emissions from 2005 levels by 3.8 percent, he said. Japan’s nuclear reactors around the country were shut down for regular maintenance after the disaster at Fukushima Daiichi spewed radioactive materials over northeastern Japan, but the government did not count on the antinuclear feelings that greeted its attempts to try to restart them.
389 2013-11-16 GENEVA — The international chemical weapons watchdog agency approved a plan for the elimination of Syria’s chemical arms on Friday that calls for most of the arsenal to be destroyed outside the country, despite another refusal by one of the countries approached to help with the disposal.

After daylong discussions at its headquarters in The Hague, the agency, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, approved a plan that required the “most critical” chemicals in Syria’s stockpile of 1,300 metric tons of toxic munitions to be transported out of the country by the end of December and the removal of all but one of the other precursors and chemical substances by Feb. 5.

The approval came on the same day that Albania turned down an American request to help destroy Syria’s chemical weapons, dealing a blow to Washington’s efforts to find a country prepared to undertake the politically sensitive disarmament project. Several weeks earlier, Norway also rejected the request, saying it did not have the equipment or expertise to destroy the weapons on its soil.

“It is impossible for Albania to get involved in this operation,” Prime Minister Edi Rama said Friday in a televised address to the nation, according to Reuters. “We lack the necessary capacities.” Demonstrators and opposition lawmakers had shown strong resistance to the use of Albanian soil to dispose of chemical weapons, a process that would create substantial amounts of toxic waste.

The approval of Syria’s blueprint by the chemical weapons organization takes Syria past another key milestone in carrying out an agreement reached by Russia and the United States in September that calls for the destruction of Syria’s stockpile by the middle of next year.
390 2013-11-17 New guidelines recommend statins for people whose risk of a heart attack or stroke in the next 10 years is 7.5 percent or higher. But calculators to estimate a person’s 10-year risk may overestimate the actual risk of heart attack or stroke, according to an analysis of three large studies.
391 2013-11-17 Children who undergo chemotherapy treatments for cancer have an increased risk of developing early heart disease, even as children, a new study suggests....
392 2013-11-17 “He’s had that a couple games ago, from what I think I recall,” Coach Jason Kidd said of Pierce. “It was bothering him a lot last night.”

On top of those more recent injuries, Andrei Kirilenko, expected to be the team’s top bench player when the season began, was back in New York, rehabilitating a sore back that caused him to miss a fourth straight game.

“That’s the way the league is built,” Kidd said. “You’re going to have guys that are going to be out some nights. Other guys are going to have to step up.”

Results were mixed in that regard. Joe Johnson, who hit a layup at the buzzer Friday night to secure the win, scored 13 points Saturday on just 5-of-17 shooting. Shaun Livingston, who was another bright spot Friday while filling in for Williams, shot 4 for 14 against the Clippers.

The game turned the Clippers’ way for good when Paul tossed a long alley-oop pass to Griffin for a thunderous two-handed slam with 2 minutes 35 seconds remaining in the third quarter. That play, part of an 18-0 run, made the score 72-67 and seemed to precipitate an end to the Nets’ evening.

The absences of Garnett and Pierce — they were not at the arena Saturday — meant they missed an opportunity to be reunited on the court with Doc Rivers, who coached the Boston Celtics for nine seasons before moving to the Clippers in June.

Rivers said it was fine for him to miss out on seeing his former players, with whom he won a championship in 2008. He said he spoke to them on the phone and via text message more now than he did when they were in Boston together.

And he said coaching against them would have felt almost like playing against his son, Austin, a player for the New Orleans Pelicans. It would present a confusing mixture of loyalties.

Still, he was eager to praise them. Asked what he enjoyed about coaching Pierce and Garnett, he said: “They’re just so darn professional. I caught them at the perfect time.”

Rivers said that because they had gone through long individual careers, they were able to prioritize team success. Rivers noted that there was “very little clutter.”

Rivers reminisced in particular about the joys of having Pierce, whom he called a “professional scorer,” on his team.

“I don’t know how he scores,” Rivers joked. “He looks like he’s going one mile an hour, and yet he’s always open and he always makes big shots. That was nice to have.”

The Nets did not enjoy that luxury — or the luxury of three other starters — on Saturday night.
393 2013-11-17 Melissa Jean Currier and Andrew Wilson Briggie were married Saturday at the Lord Thompson Manor, an event space in Thompson, Conn. Catherine Nugent-Panepinto, an aunt of the bride and a justice of the Niagara County Supreme Court in New York, officiated.

The bride, 31, works in New York as the special events director at National Geographic, which is based in Washington. She graduated from Boston College and is a daughter of Laura A. Currier and Kevin M. Currier of Andover, Mass.

The groom, also 31, is a paralegal at the New York law firm Fross Zelnick Lehrman & Zissu. He graduated from Columbia and is the son of Margaret E. Wilson of Collinsville, Conn., and Clifford Briggie of West Hartford, Conn. The groom is the stepson of Daniel J. Papapietro.

The couple founded EV2BK Productions & Management, a New York company that manages local artists and bands.
394 2013-11-17 Dr. Emily Nicole Breidbart and Daniel Ross Bikoff were married Saturday evening by Rabbi Perry Raphael Rank at Temple Beth Sholom in Roslyn Heights, N.Y.

The bride, 29, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a fellow in pediatric endocrinology and metabolism at Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center. She graduated with distinction from Cornell and received a medical degree from New York University.

She is the daughter of Joan L. Breidbart and Dr. David M. Breidbart of Woodbury, N.Y. The bride’s father is a pulmonologist and senior partner in North Shore Pulmonary Associates, a group practice in Lake Success, N.Y. Her mother assists with the business management of the practice.

The groom, 30, is a senior business analyst in New York for the benefits funds of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union. He graduated summa cum laude from Washington University in St. Louis.

He is a son of Louise R. Bikoff and Paul A. Bikoff, both of Huntington, N.Y. The groom’s mother is a senior accountant at MGI Repetti, an accounting firm in Plainview, N.Y. His father retired as the owner of an insurance agency in Huntington that bore his name.
395 2013-11-17 The Czech Republic took a 2-1 lead in the Davis Cup finals on Saturday after sweeping Serbia in doubles.

Tomas Berdych and Radek Stepanek defeated Nenad Zimonjic and Ilija Bozoljac, 6-2, 6-4, 7-6 (4), at Belgrade Arena, leaving the Czechs one victory from retaining the Cup.

Berdych plays Novak Djokovic in the first singles match Sunday. The Cup could be decided when Stepanek plays Dusan Lajovic in the later match.
396 2013-11-17 When the state paid Christopher Scott for his wrongful conviction and more than a decade behind bars, he turned the money into his dream business and help for other exonerated prisoners....
397 2013-11-17 Google Two Stanford graduate students, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, began developing the algorithm behind the Google search engine in the mid-1990s in a Stanford dorm room. The university earned $337 million from licensing the search algorithm to Google and bragging rights for its affiliation with yet another high-tech home run. Atheros This wireless chip start-up was co-founded in 1998 by John Hennessy, then the dean of Stanford’s school of engineering and now its president, and Teresa Meng, a professor of electrical engineering at the university. Qualcomm bought Atheros in 2011 for $3.1 billion. Gatorade A team of physicians at the university’s medical school developed the formula for this popular sports drink in 1965 after being approached by a coach from the school’s Gators football team, who was concerned about dehydration among players. The university sued to gain a cut of shares of Gatorade. It settled the case in the early 1970s in a deal that gives it 20 percent of the royalties from Gatorade, which has brought in more than $200 million for the school. Genentech The company that created the biotechnology business in 1976 was founded by a venture capitalist, Robert Swanson, and a biochemist at the University of California at San Francisco, Herbert Boyer. The company was sued by U.C.S.F. over one of Genentech’s earliest drugs, Protropin, a growth hormone the university said was based on stolen research. Genentech agreed to settle the case for $200 million in 1999, without admitting guilt. Gigapan Systems This company, which emerged out of a collaboration between Carnegie Mellon and NASA, develops hardware and software for creating high-resolution panoramic images using ordinary digital cameras. The technology was originally developed to capture panoramic photographs of Mars. Akamai Tom Leighton, an M.I.T. applied mathematics professor, and Daniel Lewin, a graduate student, won a university entrepreneurship competition in 1997 with their idea for a network for speeding up the delivery of content over the Internet. Akamai obtained an exclusive technology license from M.I.T. and today has a market value over $8 billion. Mosaic Browser The graphical browser credited with kicking off the growth of the web was developed in the early 1990s at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, a technology research partnership housed at the University of Illinois. The team that created it was led by Marc Andreessen, who left the N.C.S.A. to be a co-founder of Netscape. The N.C.S.A. widely licensed the code for Mosaic before other browsers took over the market. Taxol Chemists from this university were the first to develop a synthetic version of this cancer drug in the early 1990s. A licensing agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb has generated over $350 million in royalties for the university over the life of the drug.
398 2013-11-17 A Boeing executive said on Saturday that the aviation company had no plans to reopen talks with a union representing workers in Washington State who rejected a labor contract linked to the company’s newest jet, and he vowed the company would “look very broadly” at where else the airliner could be built.

On Wednesday, machinists in Washington voted down a contract negotiated between Boeing and leaders of the International Association of Machinists that would have kept production of Boeing’s profitable wide-body series in the Seattle area in return for lower benefits.

Boeing is keeping “all options open” on where to build the planned 777X airliner and expects to make a decision “within the next several months,” Raymond L. Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial aircraft division, said at a news conference on the eve of the Dubai Airshow.

Asked whether Boeing was willing to go back into talks with the union after its members rejected the contract proposal, Mr. Conner said, “At this point, we have no plans to do that.”

Mr. Conner said the 777X could still be built in the Seattle area, where Boeing makes most of its jets, but the company would look at other sites, including one in Japan where wings are produced. The composite wing for the 787 Dreamliner is made in Japan.

“The vote didn’t go the way we had hoped, so we are now exploring all our options with respect to the 777X,” he said.

He also rejected suggestions that the talks had been driven by a need to speed up production of the new plane in response to competition from its European rival Airbus, saying Boeing was sticking to plans to deliver the proposed jet in 2020.
399 2013-11-17 While the tenure-track faculty have comparatively high wages, great benefits and lifetime job security in the form of tenure, one million contingent professors have none of these things, often teaching for decades for poverty-level wages, and wondering whether they will even have a job next quarter. Last year The Chronicle of Higher Education published an article called “The Ph.D. Now Comes With Food Stamps.”

The writer is the editor of the forthcoming book “Equality for Contingent Faculty: Overcoming the Two-Tier System.”

In our study, Morton O. Schapiro, Kevin B. Soter and I found that non-tenure-track faculty tend to outperform tenure-track faculty in introductory courses. The interpretations of our findings have varied immensely across academic, policy and media circles.

What some of these interpretations have failed to note is that in the milieu where our study takes place (Northwestern University), most non-tenure-track faculty members are long-term, full-time instructors with benefits, career ladders and job security.

In other words, our study compares full-time faculty who are recruited, retained and rewarded largely on the basis of their teaching quality to full-time faculty who are recruited, retained and rewarded largely on the basis of their research quality. It’s not surprising to find that designated full-time teachers excel at teaching.

Tenure-track, research-intensive faculty — many of whom are exceptional teachers themselves — play an important role at the heart of the research university, and so do faculty members who are primarily instructors. All faculty members deserve our respect — and the opportunity to advance in their careers.

The writer is the director of the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, and co-author of the study at the center of this discussion.

As head of an academic department at a doctoral-research university, I am not surprised at the Northwestern study findings. In fact, I would be dismayed if this were not the case, because when I look to hire a non-tenure-track faculty member, I am looking specifically for a good teacher. When I hire someone for a tenure-track position, I look for someone who can teach, yes, but more important conduct fundable research that meets the university’s land-grant mission.

We cannot afford to pay adjunct faculty as much as tenure-track faculty because their jobs generally don’t include bringing in external dollars that help keep the whole enterprise going. At a time when state legislatures keep cutting back on resources to universities, I don’t see that we will be able to resolve that discrepancy anytime soon.

The writer is head of the environment and society department at Utah State University.

Mr. Hoeller makes several fair points that are largely undisputed by tenured faculty: that non-tenure-track faculty teach for crummy wages, enjoy neither the job security nor health benefits of tenured faculty and are often of as high quality as those who have secured tenure-track employment.

The prevailing view of those outside academia seems to be that tenured research faculty are pampered, underworked and lazy with respect to their teaching duties. Nothing could be farther from the truth.

In public universities, passing a tenure review requires assiduous attention to the caliber of teaching. Most crucially, Mr. Hoeller does not acknowledge the intense mentoring workload that tenured research faculty carry and “contingent faculty” do not.

Directing theses and dissertations, writing hundreds of letters of recommendation for students each year, reading thousands of pages of dissertation or thesis chapters, committee work for curriculum and university oversight — are all duties of the tenured research academic, who must also continue to publish in order to see even the most negligible of salary increases.

We all want to see “contingent faculty” be less exploited. But it doesn’t help to make a false argument that their work is better than their “luckier” colleagues.

The writer is a professor of English at Indiana University.

Most of the points raised in Mr. Hoeller’s letter reflect my experience as an adjunct assistant professor of political science at a college in the City University of New York. I fully endorse the view that there is a caste system in the faculty.

Very often, universities deliberately leave tenure-track positions vacant because they find it cheaper to get the job done by adjuncts, who, as the letter says, work “for poverty-level wages.” They remain at that level even if they teach two or three courses a semester, which is the same amount of work done by the tenure-track faculty who enjoy “high wages, great benefits and lifetime job security.”

Just to keep the wolf from the door, adjuncts are forced to supplement their income by taking additional jobs outside teaching. In a profession governed by the “publish or perish” rule — it is not merely an “adage” any longer — adjuncts perish, because they have no energy and time left to do research and produce publishable material.

Frustrated and tired, many of them not only give up their dream of becoming tenured professors, but they quit teaching altogether. I am one of them.

To the extent that judgments about which teachers are better depend on student evaluations, those judgments may be flawed for at least two reasons.

First, student evaluations can be manipulated. I get better evaluations when I hand out doughnuts during the class when students fill out evaluations, even if I announce that I am attempting to affect the results. Adjuncts whose retention depends on teaching evaluations have a greater incentive to manipulate evaluations than tenured faculty.

Second, while students are able to assess some things, other important matters are beyond their ability to evaluate. For example, students cannot be expected to know when professors make inaccurate statements or skip over important points.

Student evaluations are a better measure of popularity than competence. Adjuncts may in fact be better teachers, but studies not based on student evaluations are needed to prove it.

The writer is a professor at St. John’s University School of Law.

There is an alternative, of course, that Mr. Hoeller’s letter does not mention: a professionalized, tenure-track appointment as a lecturer, as is common in the University of California system and I’m sure elsewhere.

Individuals with aspirations in teaching, rather than original scholarship, are hired as lecturers with “potential security of employment.” They are evaluated for tenure in the same time frame as assistant professors, and the evaluation is based on teaching and service, broadly envisioned. Such a system validates the teaching track and provides those who choose it with the respect they deserve.

Unfortunately, temporary “adjunct” appointments, without benefits, are cheaper. That probably explains why the professional lecturer paradigm is not as widespread as it should be.

The writer is a professor of biochemistry at Portland State University.

What Mr. Hoeller describes is life in the big research institutions, a place where few newly minted Ph.D.’s will ever work. Most Ph.D.’s will go to smaller state teaching institutions, where quality teaching is the primary focus.

With a four- or even five-course load per semester and little time for research, quality teaching is paramount, and the primary consideration for tenure and promotion.

The writer is an assistant professor of English at Savannah State University.

Yes, I am one of those million “untouchables” that Mr. Hoeller described so accurately.

I earned a Ph.D. in drama from New York University in 1974 with dreams of becoming a professor of theater arts one day. Like most dedicated professionals, I spent years researching, writing and publishing with high hopes that my impressive résumé would eventually catch the attention of some hiring committee. Yes, I was offered plenty of work, but it was all part-time, nontenured teaching.

Over time I accumulated a fairly large stack of positive student and faculty evaluations, which I proudly kept in my files, thinking they might come in handy when a full-time position became available.

Now, 39 years later, after having spent decades working as an adjunct instructor at dozens of universities for poverty-level wages with no benefits, and no lifetime job security or even professional respect for that matter, it is so consoling to know that a recent study of Northwestern University indicated that non-tenure-track adjuncts make better teachers.

This will be a comforting thought when I am again offered only a part-time position and told that I should be grateful for the job since “adjuncts are a dime a dozen and save the colleges a ton of money.”

I certainly can agree with Mr. Figlio, co-author of the recent Northwestern study, that “all faculty members deserve our respect — and the opportunity to advance in their careers.” But this is precisely what the two-track system in academe fails to provide to three out of every four college professors who teach off the tenure track.

Mr. Figlio explains his research findings — that off-track faculty are more effective teachers than tenure-track faculty — by suggesting that Northwestern’s contingent faculty are treated better than those elsewhere. But the Cross and Goldenberg 10-campus study had similar findings, so Northwestern cannot be that unique. And contrary to Mr. Sovern’s point, their study concluded that student evaluations were the best available measure of teaching effectiveness.

The non-teaching duties of tenure-track faculty can in no way justify the vastly inferior pay and lack of job security for contingent faculty. Ms. Charnes and Mr. Brunson don’t mention that adjuncts also engage in non-teaching duties, for which they are neither paid nor rewarded.

Mr. Perona cites what has been called “professors of practice,” who are rare and generally not treated equally.

It is not surprising to see the two-track system defended by those who profit from it the most. But as the Supreme Court ruled in Brown v. Board of Education, even a “separate but equal” system is inherently unequal. It cannot be reformed; it must be abolished.
400 2013-11-17 Cynthia Gibbs-Pratt, who lives in a Bronx neighborhood far from her family, tries to hide the fact that her eyesight is deteriorating because she doesn&#8217;t want to be perceived as vulnerable....
401 2013-11-17 Lessons from mentors over the years?

Steve Ross, who took his father-in-law’s two funeral homes and turned them into Warner Communications and then Time Warner, took me under his wing. Steve used to say: “You’ll never be fired here for making a mistake. You’ll be fired for not making a mistake. Because if you’re not making a mistake, it tells me that you’re not trying anything new.”

I think if you get it right 50 percent of the time, you’re close to a genius. So you’ve got to be prepared to be wrong many times or most of the time. You need to have a bias toward very quick decision-making. If you make the wrong move, then quickly change it until you get it right. Whatever you’re going to do, do it quicker. If we can double up on time, we can do twice as much. Things don’t have to be perfect.

One thing I preach a lot here is, “Weed the garden.” If I try 10 new things and, just for example, let’s say two are clear winners and two are clear losers. That means I’ve got six in between. What do I do with those? Most organizations — and when I’m not careful, including me — let everything live except the clear losers. And what happens over time is that stuff in between doesn’t really help you. It takes up a lot of resources. It’s confusing. It’s muddy.

If you let that stuff build up — and with the next 10 things you do, there are two clear winners and six that are the gunk — then pretty soon my whole organization is basically mediocrity and gunk. So if you can bring yourself to say, “I’m only going to let clear winners live. I’m going to take the resources I put for the other eight things and try again,” you can keep a crisp organization. That’s why start-ups are so crisp — because they don’t have a lot of gunk yet. But over time, they often build up gunk. So we always talk about weeding the garden. Part of it is being honest with yourself. What really is a winner?

It does seem to be a persistent problem in a lot of organizations.

If you listen carefully, you’ll hear justifications for keeping certain things going. When you start saying things like, “This sort of helps with ...” or, “Well, it does have a ...” these are all the words that are clues that something is not a clear winner.

That’s the danger to an organization. It’s not your clear losers. It goes back to the idea of “don’t be afraid of mistakes.” You’ll make a lot of them. I think a lot of people only want to keep it at two mistakes out of 10, instead of eight out of 10, because they want to keep their batting average better. But nobody’s keeping score. If we’re keeping score, what kind of organization do we have? Are we succeeding a lot? Nobody’s counting how many mistakes you make.

People will ask me in interviews, “What are the biggest mistakes you’ve made?” I have no idea. I make mistakes all the time. I don’t count them. I don’t remember them. The beauty of a bad memory is I never feel so bad.

Somebody who takes a very long time to get to the point. Patience is not a virtue of mine. Urgency wins. There are times when people come in with a presentation, and I’ll say: “What is it you want from me? What is the decision?” I find 70 percent of the time, I don’t need to know any of the other stuff. I’ll just say, “Do this or that” and we’ve saved 50 minutes. Although it may come across as impatience, it really allows us to move faster. Or at least that’s my rationalization, and I’m sticking to it.
402 2013-11-17 OAKLAND, Calif. — San Francisco transit officials are calling for a return to the bargaining table, saying an expensive provision was erroneously included in a labor contract that settled a union dispute.

Late Friday, the contract with San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit’s two largest unions appeared to be facing uncertainty as the agency said it was seeking the renewed talks.

After a closed-door meeting during the afternoon to discuss the issue and review its likely costs, BART officials said a family medical leave provision giving its 2,300 union workers up to six weeks of paid time off each year would be too expensive.

On Thursday, BART officials announced that the provision had been inadvertently included in the agreement, which transit and union negotiators signed off on in October. The board, which is scheduled to vote on the contract Thursday, has now ordered the agency’s general manager to restart talks with representatives from the unions, Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1555 and Service Employees International Union Local 1021. A new chief negotiator is expected to be announced.

“We are not comfortable with the potential liability that could result from the adoption of this contract provision,” the board said in a statement issued on Friday night. It was “never the district’s intention to include the disputed Family Medical Leave Act proposal in the contract,” it added, adding that the medical leave provision was erroneously included in the contract language by an unidentified temporary employee in July.

The executive director of SEIU Local 1021, Peter Castelli, said on Friday that it would probably be a few days before his union decided how to respond.
403 2013-11-17 The phenomenon gathered at a dark pace in the 1980s, focused on sportswear and sneakers. In 1989 Michael Eugene Thomas, a 15-year-old from Maryland, was strangled to death over a pair of Nike Air Jordans. Other crimes were committed over Fila sneakers, Avia high-tops and Triple Fat Goose jackets. Today, teenagers are targeted for their iPhones.

Last weekend’s shooting was not the first attack related to the Marmot biggie. In January, a young member of the Boys’ Club of New York, a social support organization, was shot for his Marmot jacket, according to Meishay Gattis, the director of the Harriman Clubhouse at the Boys’ Club on the Lower East Side.

“I asked our kids why, and they told me it was probably a form of initiation,” Mr. Gattis said. “The idea is to get as many differently colored Marmot jackets as possible, then post the pictures of the jackets on Instagram or Twitter. They call it Skittles.”

Kris Gibbs, 22, a part-time staff member at the Boys’ Club, said he owned two Marmot jackets. The premium was on owning the most expensive Marmot, he said, adding that Pelle Pelle and Moncler are also popular brands.

Adding to the allure of the jacket may have been the fact that the Mammoth parka was discontinued last year. Jordan Campbell, a spokesman for Marmot Mountain in Santa Rosa, Calif., said the decision was “due to waning sales and warmer winter temperatures,” rather than its links to violence. (Paragon had been selling its remaining stock, according to The Daily News.)

As to what motivations belie such violence, some point to peer pressure.

“If they don’t acquire that Marmot jacket, their status, maybe even their lives, are endangered on the street,” Mr. Gattis said.

Helen Frank, a spokeswoman for the Boys’ Club, said it tries to offer a different standard for what it means to be a “real man.”

But good intentions must duel with ravenous consumerism. Mr. Gibbs recalled “the big lines and crazy lot of fights” over the Nike Air Jordan 11 Concord sneaker when it was rereleased in 2011.

And Angel Gonzalez, a blogger at Sneaker Freaker magazine, recalled the ruckus when the New Balance x Staple White Pigeon sneaker was released last year. No one was killed or injured, he wrote, “but the intense feeling of that morning is something I will never forget.”

In 2005, the police intervened, he said, after the debut of the Pigeon Dunk SB sneaker at Reed Space on the Lower East Side.

Now that the Marmot biggie is no longer available, another coveted fashion item will likely take its unenviable place.
404 2013-11-17 As 2013 is winding down, a fresh season of auto shows is booting up. Three big international salons — in Los Angeles, Tokyo and Guangzhou, China — are opening this week more or less on top of one another.

The potential complications for automakers, as they struggle to allocate manpower, budgets and new models over a tripleheader of shows stretching across 17 time zones, is staggering. But at least one company, Jaguar, is trying to have some fun with it, introducing its new F-Type Coupe at a press preview on Tuesday evening in Los Angeles — at the same time it unveils the car to the press in Tokyo, where it will be lunchtime on Wednesday.

The conflicts play out this way: Press previews for both the Tokyo and Los Angeles shows are scheduled for Wednesday, but because of the time difference Tokyo’s Wednesday has a 17-hour head start. That’s why Jaguar scheduled its Los Angeles program for Tuesday night.

Adding to the confusion, Guangzhou’s press previews are set to start on Thursday, but with a 16-hour time change factored in, that’s effectively when Wednesday’s events will be unfolding in Los Angeles.

Automakers are approaching the conflicts with different solutions. Lexus, the luxury brand that Toyota first introduced in America a generation ago, is unveiling cars in Tokyo and Guangzhou, but not in Los Angeles. Infiniti, which is not sold in Japan, does have its logo on a new Skyline model being introduced by Nissan — but not wearing the Nissan name — in Tokyo. Confused? You’re not alone.

The Los Angeles show promises world premieres of nearly two dozen new models during its two days of previews, as well as a design competition. The Tokyo show, which underwent a severe downsizing in recent years as a result of the recession, is showcasing a mixed bag of new cars, trucks, farm equipment, motorcycles and power equipment. The upstart Guangzhou show, which aspires to become a major international event like its larger counterparts in Beijing and Shanghai, has more modest ambitions.
405 2013-11-17 It is a gross misunderstanding of advertising to think that the way to get people to eat broccoli is merely to create a terrific ad campaign. As the advertising expert Bill Bernbach once said, “Nothing kills a bad product faster than good advertising.” The average American homemaker boils the hell out of broccoli and serves it plain. The result is the flavorless rubber we are all too familiar with. In Chinese or French cuisine, broccoli is steamed and seasoned. The result is highly appetizing, with a good texture and flavor. Fix the preparation, then create your clever advertising. RANDOLPH HOBLER, President, Marketing Mastery, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

Broccoli ought to be eaten right after it’s harvested; by the time it ends up in grocery stores, it’s too late. Broccoli is a sturdy vegetable whose decline is not manifested visually, only on the palate. If there’s ever a wonder vegetable that is screaming to be promoted, however, it’s cabbage. It’s cheap, stores well and is perhaps the single most versatile vegetable of the ones commonly available in everyday American produce aisles. KARL SAUR, Melrose, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

THE PRESIDENT WANTS YOU TO GET RICH ON OBAMACARE

Yikes! Do we really want a system that relegates patients to the status of unintended beneficiaries? I saw something like this coming a mile away when the Affordable Care Act became law, but I didn’t know how it would manifest itself. Now I get the swindle. Wring the totally irrational waste from the system, but instead of eliminating it, thereby returning it to society, we just let the usual suspects siphon it off. I’m more a fan of single payer, although A.C.A. is far superior to what we had. But can’t we do anything without giving free rein to the corporatists to engage in looting wherever they find a dollar? SLOWRITER59, Chandler, Ariz., posted on nytimes.com

Tom Scully — the subject of Adam Davidson’s article — is a staunch Republican with some liberal leanings. He’s in it for the money. But there seems to be a second side of this man, which apparently many online commenters missed: His idea is to build a better product that’s cheaper for the customer and not made in China. Everybody makes money, and the patient gets better care. That’s the way to do business. JOHN P. DONNELLY, Rock Hall, Md., posted on nytimes.com

Health care cannot be an entirely nonprofit enterprise. Companies have to have some profit in order to be able to innovate. But keeping costs down is a big issue. The A.C.A. is only one of many, many steps that will have to be taken. VICKI MAYFIELD, Chicago, posted on nytimes.com

THE PILLS OF LAST RESORT

This article does a good job in laying out the complexities of deciding whether a drug “works” or not. However, it may have downplayed just how many promising drugs fail in Phase 3 clinical trials for lack of efficacy and unpredicted toxicity. Even after all the careful trials, we sometimes get it wrong. Just this week, Ariad Pharmaceuticals suspended sales of its leukemia drug Iclusig (a kinase inhibitor like many of the drugs highlighted in this article) because a large number of patients developed blood clots in an ongoing trial. And the cost to develop these drugs may well be in the billions of dollars. It’s a tricky needle to thread, with huge risks for everyone involved. RON HAWLEY, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com
406 2013-11-17 Then Wortham accuses Howard Gardner, one of the book’s authors, of being a grumpy old fogey because he gave short shrift to a “bright and somewhat aggressive student brandishing his smartphone” who confronted him after a lecture. “This makes the rest of the book difficult to digest,” Wortham writes.

Has she never heard of common courtesy, which the student violated by “brandishing his smartphone” in his professor’s face? Perhaps the issue here is not attitudes toward technology but awareness of manners.

Please don’t do this again! I look forward to reading the Book Review each Sunday and was profoundly disappointed when I saw the special issue on Nov. 3. It is the very eclectic nature of the Book Review that makes it so important to us avid readers who await each week’s issue to find out what is new, good, bad and just mediocre in our bibliophilic-centered universe, or to suffer the aggravation of some wrongheaded review of a favorite book. Just let the Book Review be a review of select works of fiction and nonfiction, with the regular features I so enjoy.

I am always pleased to see the American Historical Association’s annual meeting play a significant role in a juicy tale about historians and our work. But I was taken aback by Jill Abramson’s reference in “The Elusive President” (Oct. 27) to the possibility of a historian being “banished from the organization” for bringing the John F. Kennedy biographer Nigel Hamilton into our midst. Abramson tells us that a “prominent historian” informed her “that because he had invited Hamilton to a meeting of the American Historical Association,” Arthur Schlesinger Jr. pointedly warned him of this possible fate.

We have checked our records going back to 1992, the year “JFK: Reckless Youth” was published. Nigel Hamilton does not appear on any program (nor does Schlesinger), so at best he was “invited” to stroll through the conference hotel — perhaps with a badge or perhaps not, since our records do not include mere registration.

We have also checked the minutes of our governing council and can’t find anyone who has been “banished from the organization.” Even a historian as distinguished as Schlesinger cannot induce the A.H.A. to drop a member from its rolls for the sin of bringing the wrong person to our annual meeting. The A.H.A. doesn’t do that sort of thing. This little tale just doesn’t ring true.

The writer is executive director of the American Historical Association.

I was surprised that neither essay in the Bookends feature mentioned Willa Cather as a candidate for the author of the “Great American Novel” by a woman (Oct. 20). Despite the recent publication of her letters, she still has not gained the visibility she deserves. Both “My Ántonia” and “Death Comes for the Archbishop” depict, brilliantly, the “ordinary emotions and manners of American existence” — the definition of a great American novel suggested by John William De Forest in 1868.

As a child, Donna Tartt disclosed in her By the Book interview (Oct. 20), she avoided “books that had the big silver Caldecott award sticker on the front, because I loved fairy tales, ghost stories, adventures, whereas the Caldecott prize stories often had a dutiful tone that tended more towards social issues.”

But the Caldecott Medal is given “to the artist of the most distinguished American picture book for children,” and many of the winners have created books that are full of adventure and quite fanciful: “The Invention of Hugo Cabret,” by Brian Selznick; “Jumanji,” by Chris Van Allsburg; “Hey, Al,” by Arthur Yorinks and Richard Egielski; and “The Three Pigs,” by David Wiesner, to name only four. Tartt probably meant that she avoided winners of the Newbery Medal, which does tend, in my opinion, to honor stories that feature dutiful characters living in small iconic American towns.

The writer is director of outreach at the Center for East Asian Studies at the University of Kansas.
407 2013-11-17 The moment Gary Davis popped his head out of the subway station on Central Park North and Lenox Avenue in 2004, he understood he was looking at an extraordinary spot. An architect and real estate developer, he had been invited to the block by a lawyer for the owner of a two-story corner building there, and though Mr. Davis recalls not being “very excited about Harlem,” he was quick to see the site’s potential. He then sent a photographer 120 feet above the street in a bucket attached to a crane arm; the resulting pictures showed breathtaking panoramic views of Central Park and miles beyond.

In 2007, 111 Central Park North, a 19-story glass-fronted luxury condominium, was opened on the site by the Athena Group, of which Mr. Davis was the executive vice president. He liked his surroundings so much that when the project was done, he bought a two-bedroom apartment on the seventh floor. (Although he declined to say what he paid, similar units were selling for around $1.4 million.)

“This is why I live here,” he said the other day, standing on his balcony and gesturing expansively at the park and the glorious cityscape of Manhattan, clear down to 1 World Trade Center. In the evenings, he said, the individual buildings on Central Park South soften into a purplish-gray mass whose craggy profile reminds him of the view of the Rocky Mountains from his childhood balcony in Denver.

Mr. Davis’s fellow residents on Central Park North are an eclectic bunch, even by New York standards. Along with regular folk like teachers, his neighbors on the three-block-long corridor include the Yankees outfielder Ichiro Suzuki, who rents a full-floor condo upstairs; L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco International chief executive convicted of grand larceny, conspiracy and fraud, who lives at the Lincoln Correctional Facility down the street; and the numerous ducks that ply the water of the Harlem Meer, some of which have nested on a terrace at No. 111. Just across Lenox is the Park View Hotel, sometimes a source of noise that has compelled neighbors to shut their windows in summer.

Willie Kathryn Suggs, a real estate broker who specializes in Harlem, says that No. 111 has provided the greatest lift to the area since the construction in the late 1980s of Towers on the Park, a mixed-income condo complex flanking West 110th Street west of Frederick Douglass Circle. At 201 Central Park North, a prewar building, a one-bedroom condo sold for $811 a square foot in May, a 20 percent jump from its sale price in 2004.

At 45 Central Park North, an income-restricted co-op, prices are lower, and bidding can get fierce. A three-bedroom on the second floor, listed in July at $469,000, attracted multiple offers above $500,000, said Mitchell Hall, an associate broker with the Corcoran Group.

Jason Stone, the winning bidder along with his wife, Meredith, said he imagined watching their son, now 19 months old, play hockey at Lasker Rink, which is visible from their windows. “I’ve been reading about uberluxury apartments on Central Park South where the developers are looking for $7,000 to $8,000 a square foot,” said Mr. Stone, a structural engineer. “For less than 10 percent of that, I have Central Park views as well.”
408 2013-11-18 Animal rights advocates are trying to stop performances by Bengal tigers, Asian elephants and chimpanzees at a major, government-backed circus show, saying they are cruel....
409 2013-11-18 The police wanted to ensure that the suspects would not be able to collude on their statements before they could be interrogated....
410 2013-11-18 A consensus of professional strategists became convinced months ago that compared with bonds, stocks were a good bet....
411 2013-11-18 Rand Paul’s very bad idea....
412 2013-11-18 Some of the top financial government officials appointed in the Obama administration’s first term have moved into the private sector, while others are taking on new posts in Washington....
413 2013-11-18 The Cleveland Plain Dealer reported that a Walmart in Ohio is organizing a Thanksgiving drive for needy workers....
414 2013-11-18 Kristen A. Elliott joined Glam Media, New York, in a new post, vice president of sales for the East region. She had most recently been vice president and publisher of the women’s health and fitness print group, as well as the women and celebrity digital group, at American Media Inc.

Matt Garcia, director of account service and business development at NSG/SWAT, New York, part of the Nue Studio Group, was promoted to partner.

Mike Gullaksen and Jeff Johnson, comanaging directors at Covario, San Diego, were named co-chief executives, leading the company’s operations together with Claire Long, who is chief financial and operating officer. Mr. Gullaksen and Mr. Johnson assume duties from Russ Mann, who had been chief executive; he was named chairman.

Icon International Communications, Singapore, was acquired by Ketchum, New York, part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Ketchum and Icon had worked together in a partnership for the last five years. Icon will be renamed Ketchum Icon and will be led by John Bailey, who had been managing director of Icon in Singapore. Icon’s operations in Australia and Indonesia, which are owned and led by Phil Burford and Chris Gray, will continue to operate as part of what Ketchum calls its exclusive affiliate network.

Philip Khosid joined the Ayzenberg Group, Pasadena, Calif., as a creative director, a new post. He had been executive creative director at Dare, involved with the agency’s Los Angeles, New York and Toronto offices.

Gary Lacinski joined Circle Press/1800 Postcards, New York, in a new post, business development director. He had most recently been New York project director for Meridian Printing, East Greenwich, R.I.

David LaMarca joined Health magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner, in a new post, digital sales director. He had been fashion and retail director at PopSugar, New York.

Michael Lamb joined MediaMath, New York, in a new post, chief commercial officer. He had been a partner in the New York office of McKinsey & Company.

Jennifer Marder joined More magazine, New York, part of the Meredith Corporation, in a new post, national advertising manager. She had been advertising director at WWD and WWD.com, part of the Fairchild Fashion Media division of Advance Publications.

Peter Naylor has become the first executive to be named to a publisher-in-residence program being started by the Interactive Advertising Bureau, New York. He had most recently been executive vice president of sales at NBC News Digital, part of the NBCUniversal unit of Comcast. Mr. Naylor also served as chairman of the bureau’s board from February 2012 to February 2013.

Pereira & O’Dell, San Francisco, is opening a second office in Brazil after winning the account of B2W Digital, an online retailer. An office in Rio de Janeiro will join the agency’s office in São Paulo. Periera & O’Dell also has an office in New York.

Davin Power joined the Chicago office of DigitasLBi, part of the Publicis Groupe, as executive vice president of account management, leading the DigitasLBi work as agency of record on the Sprint account as part of the Team Sprint unit of the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Power succeeds Brian Nienhaus, who, the agency said, is exploring other opportunities at DigitasLBi and within the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Power had been executive vice president and global client services director on the S.C. Johnson account at BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, and was based at the Energy BBDO office in Chicago.

Andy Prakken joined Duffey Petrosky, Farmington Hills, Mich., in a new post, executive vice president and chief integration officer of business intelligence. He had most recently been executive vice president and chief media officer at Team Detroit, part of WPP.

Andrew Price, executive creative director at Factory Design Labs, Denver, was named global chief creative officer, a post that had been vacant.

PricewaterhouseCoopers U.S. completed an acquisition of substantially all the assets of BTG Partners, Miami, a digital consultancy. Financial terms were not disclosed. More than 120 BTG employees will join the PricewaterhouseCoopers U.S. advisory practice. David Clarke, chief executive at BTG, and Andrea Fishman, chief client officer, will join PricewaterhouseCoopers as principals. The Jordan Edmiston Group, New York, represented BGT in the deal.

Christa Robinson joined Tribune Company, Chicago, as chief communications officer, based in New York. Gary Weitman continues as senior vice president of corporate relations, based in Chicago. Ms. Robinson had most recently been senior vice president of communications at CNN, part of the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner.

The Sacramento Kings named MeringCarson, Sacramento, Calif., to work on creative and digital assignments in media that include broadcast, print and online. Billings were not disclosed. The team had previously worked with local agencies on a project basis.

Karen Spiegel joined Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as executive vice president and global chief communications officer, based in New York. She succeeds Wally Petersen, who was based in Chicago; he departed after the agency’s global chief executive, Laurence Boschetto, left and was replaced by Carter Murray. Ms. Spiegel had been senior vice president and managing director at another Interpublic agency, R/GA, New York, where she also supervised internal and external communications.

VH1, New York, part of Viacom, consolidated its media planning and buying account and awarded it to Mediahub/Mullen, Boston, part of the Mullen division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, which becomes the cable channel’s media agency of record. VH1 spends an estimated $10 million each year on advertising. The media planning duties had been handled by Fallon, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe, and the media buying duties had been handled by Horizon Media, New York.

Yahoo and Starcom, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, reached a yearlong agreement that will provide Starcom access to exclusive data and content from Yahoo to make it easier for Starcom to buy digital video for clients. Financial terms were not disclosed.
415 2013-11-18 You’ve seen these questions around the Internet for some time. Now corporate customers will be able to make some sense of them....
416 2013-11-18 Why businesses are moving downtown. An Affordable Care Act success. And a social network for the dead....
417 2013-11-18 An electrical short circuit ignited the blaze in the monastery founded by the Third Dalai Lama in 1580....
418 2013-11-18 The cloud computing company will unveil its latest way to blur the lines between how businesses use technology and consumers use social media....
419 2013-11-18 President George W. Bush himself said the Detroit arrests and several others like them after Sept. 11 had “thwarted terrorists,” and prosecutors described the men as part of a “a sleeper operational combat cell.” The case had all the markings of a major terrorist plot derailed, with the F.B.I. aggressively embracing its new mandate to “connect the dots” and break up plots before they could hit.

Intead, after years of legal wrangling, the “Detroit Sleeper Cell” became something very different: a cautionary tale about the dangers of pursuing terrorism cases too zealously and connecting dots where they might not exist.

The Justice Department, after winning terrorism convictions against two of the men in 2003, took the extraordinary step the next year of moving to throw out the charges and repudiating its own case. Prosecutors, remarkably, discredited their own witnesses and found fault with virtually every part of a case they had brought.

The prosecution, the Justice Department belatedly acknowleged, was a “three-legged stool” that toppled under its own weight.

The videotape found of Las Vegas landmarks, originally thought to be a terrorist “casing” video, might have been simply a tourist’s keepsake. An audiotape thought to contain an anti-American hate speech appeared to be just an old children’s song in Arabic about a duck.

And the odd sketch in a day planner of what looked like a blueprint for an attack on a Turkish air base? Perhaps nothing more than a mentally ill man’s doodling of a Middle East map, prosecutors were forced to acknowledge.

Prosecutors turned against prosecutors. Ethics inquiries were opened and criminal charges filed — this time against two government officials who helped put the case together. Attorney General Ashcroft was reprimanded by the judge in the case for falsely linking the suspects to the Sep. 11 attacks in violation of a gag order.

There were no clear winners in the case; a certain loser was the federal government itself, as its “new paradigm” of thwarting terrorists before they struck clashed headlong into age-old notions of justice and due process.

As a reporter in Washington covering terrorism, I was always fascinated by the Detroit case and what it said about the country’s shifting attitudes toward terrorism after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

In the immediate aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, the fear that gripped Washington over “second-wave” attacks was overwhelming. The near-certainty of another attack was an article of faith among Bush administration officials.

We in the media breathlessly covered every warning and tip about threats real and imagined: scuba divers, cargo trucks, tourist helicopters around the Statue of Liberty, a cable-cutting blowtorch on the Brooklyn Bridge and more, as if they were the next big attack. The F.B.I. and the C.I.A. had failed to connect the dots before the 9/11 attacks, and the country was determined not to let that happen again.

As the first major terrorism prosecution after 9/11, the Detroit case tapped into that national psyche and garnered worldwide attention as a result.

But by 2004, the year that the case collapsed in court, the pendulum had begun to shift. Three years removed from Sept. 11, the Bush administration was facing tougher scrutiny of its tactics in the “war on terror” from the media, the courts and the public at large. The Detroit case, once a symbol of the new threat of Islamic terrorism, became a symbol of government over-reaching instead.

Weeks after the collapse of the Detroit prosecution, a Times colleague, Danny Hakim, and I wrote a long investigative piece that examined the unraveling of such a high-profile case. What we found was infighting within the Justice Department, internal doubts about the strength of the case, tainted witnesses and questionable legal tactics.

We found that, inside the Justice Department, prosecutors believed aspects of the case were weak even as they were moving ahead with a major terrorism indictment against the Detroit men.

“We can charge this case with the hope that the case might get better,” the head of the counter-terrorism section wrote in 2002, “and the certainty that it will not get much worse.”

In fact, it did.

Twelve years after the dramatic arrests of “the Detroit Sleeper Cell,” remnants of the case are still being litigated in the federal courts. The difference now is that the Justice Department is the defendant — the result of a long feud between the department and a former employee, Richard Convertino, the original prosecutor in the Detroit case.

The Justice Department blamed Mr. Convertino for much of the bungled case and even brought criminal obstruction charges against him in 2006 for reportedly withholding evidence from defense lawyers for the Detroit men. But Mr. Convertino was acquitted of the charges and insisted he became the scapegoat for bad decisions that were largely made by higher-ups in Washington.

Last year, an appeals court revived a lawsuit that Mr. Convertino filed against the Justice Department. He is trying to establish that someone at the department improperly and anonymously leaked his name to The Detroit Free Press in 2004 as the target of an internal ethics investigation growing out of his handling of the Detroit case.

Earlier this year, a judge ordered the newspaper to turn over internal documents related to its original story on the ethics charges. The legal battle over Mr. Convertino’s lawsuit could mean still more embarrassment for the Justice Department in a case it once embraced.

This week’s Retro Report is the 20th in a documentary series. The video project was started with a grant from Christopher Buck. Retro Report has a staff of 13 journalists and 10 contributors led by Kyra Darnton, a former “60 Minutes” producer. It is a nonprofit video news organization that aims to provide a thoughtful counterweight to today’s 24/7 news cycle. The videos are typically 10 to 14 minutes long.
420 2013-11-18 The author of this week’s cover article — who spent three days aboard a boat with migrants trying to reach Australia — explains how the piece came together....
421 2013-11-18 The Czech Republic retained its Davis Cup title on Sunday as Radek Stepanek ruthlessly exploited the inexperience of Dusan Lajovic in the decisive match to seal a 3-2 victory over Serbia in Belgrade.

The Czechs became the first nation to retain the Davis Cup since Spain did so in 2009. Stepanek won, 6-3, 6-1, 6-1, combining baseline and volleying skills to run Lajovic ragged. Earlier, Novak Djokovic beat Tomas Berdych, 6-4, 7-6 (5), 6-2, to level the competition at 2-2.
422 2013-11-18 The problems were identified by two Harvard Medical School professors whose findings will be published Tuesday in a commentary in , a major medical journal. The professors, Dr. Paul M. Ridker and Dr. Nancy Cook, had pointed out the problems a year earlier when the ’s National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, which originally was developing the guidelines, sent a draft to each professor independently to review. Both reported back that the calculator was not working among the populations it was tested on by the guideline makers.

That was unfortunate because the committee thought the researchers had been given the professors’ responses, said Dr. Donald Lloyd-Jones, co-chairman of the guidelines task force and chairman of the department of at .

Drs. Ridker and Cook saw the final guidelines and risk calculator on Tuesday at 4 p.m., when a news embargo was lifted, and saw that the problems remained.

On Saturday night, members of the association and the college of cardiology held a hastily called closed-door meeting with Dr. Ridker, who directs the Center for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention at in . He showed them his data and pointed out the problem. On Sunday, officials from the organizations struggled with how to respond.

Other experts said there has not been a real appreciation of the difficulties with this and other risk calculators. “I don’t think people have a good idea of what needs to be done,” said Dr. Michael Blaha, director of clinical research at the Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Heart Disease at , who was not associated with forming the new guidelines.

Dr. Blaha said the problem might have stemmed from the fact that the calculator uses as reference points data collected more than a decade ago, when more people smoked and had strokes and heart attacks earlier in life. For example, the guideline makers used data from studies in the 1990s to determine how various risk factors like cholesterol levels and led to actual heart attacks and strokes over a decade of observation.

But people have changed in the past few decades, Dr. Blaha said. Among other things, there is no longer such a big gap between women’s risks and those of men at a given age. And people get heart attacks and strokes at older ages.

“The cohorts were from a different era,” Dr. Blaha said.

This week, after they saw the guidelines and the calculator, Dr. Ridker and Dr. Cook evaluated it using three large studies that involved thousands of people and continued for at least a decade. They knew the subjects’ characteristics at the start — their ages, whether they smoked, their cholesterol levels, their blood pressures. Then they asked how many had heart attacks or strokes in the next 10 years and how many would the risk calculator predict.

The answer was that the calculator overpredicted risk by 75 to 150 percent, depending on the population. A man whose risk was 4 percent, for example, might show up as having an 8 percent risk. With a 4 percent risk, he would not warrant treatment — the guidelines that say treatment is advised for those with at least a 7.5 percent risk and that treatment can be considered for those whose risk is 5 percent.

“Miscalibration to this extent should be reconciled and addressed before these new prediction models are widely implemented,” Dr. Ridker and Dr. Cook wrote in The Lancet. “If real, such systematic overestimation of risk will lead to considerable overprescription.”

In a response on Sunday, Dr. Smith of the guidelines committee said the concerns raised by Dr. Cook and Dr. Ridker “merit attention.”

But, he continued, “a lot of people put a lot of thought into how can we identify people who can benefit from therapy.” Further, said Dr. Smith, who is also a professor of medicine at the and a past president of the American Heart Association, “What we have come forward with represents the best efforts of people who have been working for five years.”

The chairmen of the guidelines panel said they believed the three populations Dr. Ridker and Dr. Cook examined were unusually healthy and so their heart attack and rates might be lower than expected.

Asked to comment on the situation on Sunday, some doctors said they worried that, with many people already leery of statins, the public would lose its trust in the guidelines or the heart associations.

“We’re surrounded by a real disaster in terms of credibility,” said Dr. Peter Libby, the chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital.

What are patients and doctors to do? On Sunday, there seemed to be no firm answers, except that those at the highest risk, like people who have had a heart attack or have , should take statins.

The guideline developers said they were not totally surprised by the problems with the calculator.

“We recognize a potential for overestimates, especially at the high end of risk,” said Dr. David Goff, the dean of the School of Public Health and the co-chairman of the guidelines’ risk assessment working group.

Last year, not long after it received the assessments from Dr. Ridker and Dr. Cook, the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute removed itself from the development of the guidelines, saying that was not its mission. The institute handed responsibility to the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology.

Dr. Michael Lauer, the director of the division of cardiovascular sciences at the institute, said on Sunday that it had received many reviews and sent them to the other groups, together with the responses of the guidelines’ authors.

Some doctors who tested the calculator with hypothetical patients wondered if they should trust the results.

Dr. Nissen entered the figures for a 60-year-old African-American man with no risk factors — of 150, (the good cholesterol) of 45, systolic blood pressure of 125 — who was not a diabetic or a smoker. He ended up with a 10-year risk of 7.5 percent, meaning he should be taking cholesterol-lowering statins despite being in a seemingly low-risk group.

Dr. Nissen also calculated the figures for a healthy white man, age 60, and also got a risk factor of 7.5 percent.

“Something is terribly wrong,” Dr. Nissen said. Using the calculator’s results, he said, “your average healthy Joe gets treated, virtually every African-American man over 65 gets treated.”
423 2013-11-18 ■ Steve Minichini, president at TargetCast TCM, New York, was named chief innovation and growth officer, a new post. The agency is part of the Maxxcom Global Media division of MDC Partners.

■ Mitchell Caplan joined Olson, Minneapolis, as chief marketing officer, succeeding Bob Molhoek, who becomes senior vice president for organic client growth, a new post. Mr. Caplan most recently was a partner and managing director at Digital Pulp, New York, and before that he worked for agencies like the Kaplan Thaler Group, McCann Erickson Worldwide and Y&R. Mr. Caplan will divide his time between the Olson headquarters in Minneapolis and the agency’s office in New York.

■ Ellen Comley joined Blitz Media, Waltham, Mass., as chief media officer, succeeding Mary McCarthy, who is leaving, the agency said, for personal and family-related reasons. Ms. Comley most recently was executive vice president and managing director at Havas Media, Boston, part of Havas.

■ Alex Van Gestel, managing director of McKinney New York — part of the McKinney unit of Cheil USA, owned by Cheil Worldwide — is leaving, the agency said. His duties will be assumed by two executives at the office: Yusuf Chuku, director for strategic services, and Peter Nicholson, executive creative director.

■ Jonathan Block-Verk joined the New York office of Shazam as executive vice president for strategic partnerships and head of television, a new post. He was president and chief executive at PromaxBDA, Santa Monica, Calif., the association for television and video marketing executives; PromaxBDA said it hoped to name a successor in the coming weeks.

■ Emma Gilpin-Jacobs was named director of communications for Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister of Britain. She most recently was global communications director for The Financial Times Group. Before that, she held posts like international director for public relations at Time Inc.

■ Grand Central Marketing, New York, was acquired by Allied Integrated Marketing, Hollywood, Calif. Financial terms were not disclosed. Grand Central, which specializes in experiential marketing, will become part of the Allied experiential marketing business; the combined division, with main offices in Los Angeles and New York, will be named Allied Experiential. Matthew Glass, chief executive at Grand Central, and Jennifer Granozio, chief operating officer at Grand Central, will lead Allied Experiential and become senior vice presidents of Allied.

■ Giant Step Digital, which will specialize in digital and social media, was opened by the Castle Group, Boston, and Landis Communications, San Francisco. Castle and Landis, which will continue operating separately, already collaborate on assignments and have shared business as members of the Public Relations Global Network. Sandy Lish of Castle and David Landis of Landis will be co-presidents of Giant Step.

■ MWW, East Rutherford, N.J., expanded into Europe by acquiring Parys Communications, London. Financial terms were not disclosed. Parys will become the London office of MWW, and Patrick Herridge, managing director at Parys, becomes British managing director for MWW. MWW also has offices in cities that include Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Washington.

■ Clearpath Health Communications, New York, was opened by two New York agencies: Cooney/Waters, part of the Cooney/Waters Group unit of the Creston Group, and Russo Partners. Russo and Cooney/Waters will continue to operate separately.
424 2013-11-18 On Friday, Albania turned down an appeal by the United States to destroy the weapons on its territory, after thousands of Albanians took to the street in protest. Norway rejected an earlier request, saying it did not have the expertise or the facilities to destroy the weapons. The issue caused a major political dispute there as well.

As a result, Syria’s chemical weapons material may be on the high seas for a long time, as officials seek a country willing and able to destroy it. Already there are fears that the cargo ships bearing the material could become the weapons equivalent of a barge loaded with garbage that left Long Island in 1987 but could not find a place to unload for four months. American law prohibits the importation of chemical weapons for destruction here, and Russia says it is still overwhelmed by the task of destroying its own stockpiles.

The more immediate concern is that over the next six weeks, the material — more than 600 tons of precursor chemicals, mostly stored in one- and two-ton containers — will present a huge, slow-moving target for the Syrian opposition groups at war with the Assad government — and sometimes in conflict with one another.

“The transportation stage of any operation is usually a critical, vulnerable stage,” a senior Defense Department official said.

The Syrian military appears to understand the challenge. Over the weekend, there were reports of fighting along the highway that links Damascus with the coast. Much of the area, near the Lebanese border, is mountainous and has been highly contested.

The original American idea was to avoid transporting the weapons at all. Early plans, developed more than a year ago, called for destroying the materials in place in Syria. But that would have required a major presence of outside troops, and there were numerous environmental hazards. It also would have taken years to build the necessary facilities.

Thought was also given to flying the chemicals out of their sites, but that would have carried other risks, American officials said.

Instead, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, or O.P.C.W., which announced the plan for removing the material late on Friday, is expected to train Syrian forces to package, seal and safeguard the containers for transportation in truck convoys to the port from 23 declared weapons sites. Then the organization has to oversee the maritime voyage — assuming that a destination can be arranged.

The plan “sets ambitious milestones to be met by the government of Syria,” Ahmet Uzumcu, the director general of the disarmament organization, said Friday. “This next phase will be the most challenging, and its timely execution will require the existence of a secure environment for the verification and transport of chemical weapons.”

Under an agreement reached in September, Russia and the United States are to work closely with the disarmament agency and Syrian officials to develop a plan for “the security of the monitoring and destruction mission.” But the accord noted the “primary responsibility of the Syrian government in this regard.”

The effort will be helped by the fact that the precursor chemicals are useless as weapons before they are mixed. But as one senior American official said, “The biggest challenge we’re facing now is convoy security, from the sites to the port.”

Assessing the threat is not easy. Senior Qaeda leaders in Pakistan and Qaeda-linked elements in Syria have made clear their desire to seize precursor chemicals, possibly to develop their own chemical arsenal. But one former senior White House official said that the threat posed by the extremist militants, while not inconsequential, was moderated by intelligence reports that they were neither well trained nor well equipped to deal with the highly toxic materials.

“This material would obviously be a target for any opposition element,” one senior Defense Department official said. “But we have seen reporting — both O.P.C.W. and others — that indicates the regime is serious about security.”

Moreover, a former senior White House official said that while relying on the Syrian government for security is not an ideal solution, the Syrians have shown surprising prowess in the past year in moving and consolidating their chemical weapons stocks around the country, to prevent them from falling into rebel hands. In addition, the former official said, Russia has an incentive, as an ally of the Assad government, to help ensure that the chemical agents are disposed of safely.

Iraq and Afghanistan have given militant groups more than a decade of experience in mounting attacks on convoys, using improvised roadway bombs, small arms and mortar strikes. American officials note, however, that attacking a convoy to kill and injure was not as complex as attacking a convoy to seize its cargo without damaging it.

“Al Qaeda is known more for brute force, not finesse,” one military officer said. “As you can imagine, grabbing chemical weapons would most definitely require finesse.”
425 2013-11-18 Onstage, Dr. King’s body language — one hand cupping his chin, the other lying gently on a table with a pen between his fingers — oozed calm. And when he was given a chance to speak, he reiterated the state’s commitment to its current course.

“The reason that 45 states, the District of Columbia and Department of Defense schools have all come together around the Common Core is the clear need to ensure that all of our students graduate from high school ready for college and career success,” he said.

He was then drowned out by boos.

Dr. King is holding the listening tour as several major changes occur all at once, in a way that has redefined the classroom experience virtually overnight. Schools have begun to adopt tougher curriculums in accordance with the Common Core. New tests based on those standards began last year, before the curriculums were fully in place, causing students who once easily passed tests to suddenly be branded as failing.

Meanwhile, a new teacher evaluation system has led districts to add even more bubble tests, even in the early grades. And the state has angered some parents with plans to share students’ academic data on an Internet cloud to help education companies develop digital teaching materials more closely tailored to children’s needs.

Dr. King plans to host six more forums outside New York City through Dec. 9, and at least five in the city in the coming weeks.

“Experiencing the frustrations and emotions of the change process is part of leadership,” Dr. King said in an interview last week. “So, I see this as part of my responsibility to both hear people out about their concerns, to make thoughtful adjustments where appropriate, and also that we continue to explain why we are so convinced about the urgency and importance of raising standards.”

If Dr. King, 38, seems professorial to the extreme, it could be his background: He has an undergraduate degree from Harvard, a law degree from Yale and a doctorate in education from Columbia. His father was the first African-American principal in Brooklyn, his mother a guidance counselor born in Puerto Rico. He was orphaned at age 12, after both parents succumbed to illness — hardships that he credits public-school teachers with helping him get through.

After three years of teaching, he was a founder of Roxbury Preparatory, a celebrated charter school in Massachusetts. Then he helped start Uncommon Schools, a network of charters based in New York, before joining the State Education Department in 2009 as a deputy commissioner. He was named commissioner in 2011.

His restraint has not succeeded in calming the crowds that have come to see him. At a forum near Poughkeepsie last month, the criticism grew so visceral — there were derogatory names and obscene gestures — that he canceled several forthcoming hearings, then rolled out a new schedule and format. Instead of sitting onstage alone or nearly alone, he now sits at a dais surrounded by others, including state or local officials, as a way to spread some of the vitriol around and make the state’s case appear to be coming from more than one man. But he is still the main aim; as he spoke on Long Island last week, one woman mimicked the Charlie Brown teacher.

“John is doing a yeoman’s job, staying cool, focusing on the policy issues,” said Merryl H. Tisch, the chancellor of the State Board of Regents, who has served as one of Dr. King’s psychological bodyguards at the forums. “People are asking complicated questions, but I haven’t seen him miss a beat.”

Some of Dr. King’s supporters blame teachers’ unions for whipping up some of the emotion. Timothy Daly, the president of the New Teacher Project, a group focused on teacher effectiveness and aligned with the reform movement, said that public displays of aggression toward Dr. King were political tactics that should be cause for concern.

“This is the first African-American leader of the State Education Department,” he said. “And to watch him be shouted at and insulted by largely white audiences in the suburbs is discomforting and it is jarring that, not only has it happened, but it has happened repeatedly.”

Dr. King said it was impossible to know what forces drive an individual’s behavior or tone, but he does not believe race was driving the debate on state education policy. And Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of the New York State United Teachers, said it was wrong to characterize the union as driving the opposition to reform. But he did fault Dr. King for not making bigger adjustments to alleviate some of the classroom disruptions.

“I hold the commissioner less accountable for implementations not working than I hold him accountable for failing to accept that fact and making the significant course corrections that could right this ship,” Mr. Iannuzzi said. “That is the greater failure in my mind.”

Dr. King said in an interview that interrupting the changes now would not make sense, and noted that the state signed on to the Common Core three years ago. Many of the tests that teachers and parents are complaining about are mandated by federal law, he said, and some, like Regents exams, have been in place for more than a century. But he said that the forums were contributing to some rethinking in his office. Most significantly, the state is looking for ways to eliminate some testing.

“I think the debate about whether we need higher standards is a settled debate,” Dr. King said. “It is really a question of how do we continue to support people through the implementation.”
426 2013-11-18 New guidelines recommend statins for people whose risk of a heart attack or stroke in the next 10 years is 7.5 percent or higher. But calculators to estimate a person’s 10-year risk may overestimate the actual risk of heart attack or stroke, according to an analysis of three large studies.
427 2013-11-18 “The Killing,” the twice-canceled AMC cop drama, has been renewed — this time by Netflix — for a fourth season. Netflix announced that this six-episode season would be a streaming exclusive and would be made available simultaneously around the world; AMC is not involved in the deal. The first three seasons are already available on Netflix, and the company said that the fourth would be the last one. The principal creative team and cast are set to return, including the series creator and show runner, Veena Sud, and its stars Mireille Enos and Joel Kinnaman. “The Killing” was canceled by AMC for the first time in July 2012 after its second season, but it was resurrected in January for a third season. It returned with little fanfare both critically and in the ratings — the last three episodes of Season 3 on AMC hovered around 1.5 million total viewers — and was promptly canceled again in September. “The Killing” was originally based on the Danish series “Forbrydelsen.”
428 2013-11-18 This brings us to the real “Good Boy” in Ms. Schwegel’s scheme of things: Butch, the German shepherd-Belgian Malinois mix who is Pete’s official partner and also a beloved Murphy pet. Butchie, as Joel calls him, is a highly trained specialist in drug sniffing, and his presence at the teenagers’ wild party causes pandemonium. When Joel has to flee, he brings Butchie along as his faithful companion.

For all the dog books currently in vogue, it’s hard to beat this one for canine verisimilitude or talent. Butchie is a fully credible character, and he’s arguably a lot more human than some of the book’s other players. He and Joel make a great team, since they both operate on the same kind of cues about their surroundings. They embark on an odyssey through Chicago, and Ms. Schwegel makes it a busy, suspenseful journey. And not a silent one: Joel likes to talk to Butchie. This smart dog seems to grasp a lot of what Joel is saying.

As Joel and Butchie travel — and Pete tries frantically to find them — they share the same needs for food, water, safety and shelter. Joel’s resourcefulness in providing all of these things is warmly rendered, as are Butchie’s best efforts to make himself helpful. Since they have only $4 on which to survive indefinitely, Joel makes very careful choices about finding food. One of his few coups is landing stale, discounted Kaiser rolls.

But Joel wakes up after a two-hour nap to find Butchie acting guiltily — dog behavior that Ms. Schwegel captures perfectly. Joel asks what happened. Joel’s backpack has been raided, and the last roll is nowhere to be found. “Butchie could wag his tail all day,” Ms. Schwegel writes, voicing Joel’s thoughts, “but that’s no answer.” After this transgression prompts the rare cry of “Bad dog” in “The Good Boy,” Butchie is told that it’s his turn to find provisions. The dog just curls up, “tail over his nose, and lets his eyes get heavy. Doesn’t inspire much confidence in his hunting skills.”

On a parallel track that works equally well, Pete’s own hunting skills are being put to the test. He’s already out of favor with his superiors; now he has two children who have gotten into trouble. He needs to find out who was at that party, how and why gunshots were fired, and how badly behaved McKenna was that night. And that’s not the worst of it. Pete arrived at the party scene and got tough on the hoods he thought were drug dealers. One of them had a camera — and one was the brother of one of Juan Moreno’s victims. It looks like police malfeasance, and Pete is a Page 1 villain to the tabloids again.

Ms. Schwegel does not milk this material for unexpected twists and turns. This is not a Harlan Coben book, in which a kindly adult tries to save at-risk children and a new crisis arrives at the end of every chapter. Ms. Schwegel’s pace is slower and her path more meandering, as befits a story of lost characters trying to find their way back to the peace they once knew. “The Good Boy” is not sentimental (beyond the occasional “I love you, puppy”), but it puts a high value on rekindling parent-child love and keeping bad guys out of good people’s lives.

Special kudos to “Popcorn Feet,” as Joel calls Butchie, and Joel even knows the name of the bacteria that give dogs’ feet their aroma. The dog elevates a fairly conventional detective story into something much more lovable. Many books end with thanks to people who inspired the author, but this one also gives a shout-out to Brix, a real four-legged member of the Chicago Police Department’s K9 unit. Brix has a Facebook page. He’s got big soulful eyes and a lot of fans. That will not surprise Ms. Schwegel’s readers.
429 2013-11-18 And instead of letting engineers design the plant, as often happens at an industrial site, Sims hired Selldorf Architects, a glamorous New York firm known for doing Chelsea art galleries and cultural institutions. This was not an unprecedented move. The city enlisted Ennead Architects to design the Newtown Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Even so, it was something akin to A&E getting Pierre Boulez to compose a soundtrack for “Duck Dynasty.”

Partly to game the public review process, but also to build a well-designed plant — welcoming to the public, beckoning from the waterfront.

Recycling is a high-minded although notoriously low-margin, capital-intensive, volume-based industry, dependent on increasing public participation. So the plant needed to be a good citizen and neighbor. At the same time, it had to function as an advertisement for itself.

Selldorf was, in retrospect, an inspired choice. The German-born Annabelle Selldorf runs the firm, which stresses crisp lines, elegant volumes and a clean, formal vocabulary in which nothing goes to waste.

Devising a site plan, Ms. Selldorf knew that the main, shedlike L-shaped building with all the recycling equipment had to hug the southern edge of the pier, where barges would unload. That meant the northern edge could become a public-friendly zone, with the education and visitors center, trees, bioswales, a grassy entrance and parking for school buses. The center, including offices, a cafeteria, classrooms and a terrace with a killer view over the harbor, became a light-filled, three-story shoe box, parallel with the pier.

The geometry of buildings produced a satisfying suite of courtyards, a mini-cityscape. The broad pitched roof suspended over the main building creates a clerestory for light and air. For visitors, the drama of the architecture unfolds moving through it: a sky-high catwalk linking the visitors center to the main building leads to a bird’s-eye view of the mountain of recycling machines. Cranes, trucks and barges disgorge the city’s discards below; the machines sort and crush the maelstrom.

It’s bound to be an awesome spectacle.

In its stripped-down aesthetic, the plant brings to mind factories in Germany or Norway, where recycling is routine and good design integral to the social compact. An enormous rooftop solar array that Sims says is the largest in the city, helps power the facility. Mussels dangle on ropes from the pier, birds patrol the shore, a wind turbine is on its way.

Will it inspire people to recycle?

That’s the $110 million bet. New York City taxpayers invested $60 million in the site; Sims, $50 million. Eventually, the city will own the whole kit and caboodle. Architecture added 1 percent to the final bill, estimates Sims’s general manager, Tom Outerbridge, a pittance considering the fees for many public projects involving front-rank architects. Ms. Selldorf told me that she appreciated the tight fiscal leash, as all good artists want constraints.

She used recycled steel. Materials are off-the-shelf. Instead of a clunky corrugation, the default skin for warehouses, she opted for a thinner, rounded paneling (modest extra cost), which shimmers in the light. She grouped downspouts to syncopate one facade and flipped the skeleton (the beams and struts) from inside the walls to the outside on part of the main building to give its flesh some bones.

Urban waterfront projects these days foretell a better quality of life. They boast parks and kayak launches, bike paths and luxury apartments.

But the waterfront still must serve the city’s infrastructure, otherwise even more industry moves by truck through the streets. Keeping industry on the waterfront improves quality of life, too.

That the new Sims plant was built at all is testament to decades of perseverance by environmentalists, and to the power of local government in this era of Washington gridlock. That it adds an improbable grace note to a gritty stretch of Brooklyn waterfront can be chalked up to enlightened industry harnessing the power of architecture.
430 2013-11-18 ATHENS — A previously unknown guerrilla group has claimed responsibility for killing two members of Greece’s neofascist party Golden Dawn this month and has threatened more attacks against the party.

A police spokesman said Sunday that counterterrorism officers were examining the authenticity of an 18-page document about the Nov. 1 shooting signed by a group calling itself the Militant Popular Revolutionary Forces. “We’re taking it very seriously, but we can’t draw any conclusions yet about whether this is genuine, and if so, who these people are,” the spokesman said.

The document, which was published on the news website www.zougla.gr on Saturday, said the assault outside the offices of Golden Dawn in a northern suburb of Athens, which killed two party members, was “retaliation” for the killing in September of an anti-fascist rapper, Pavlos Fyssas, by a self-professed supporter of Golden Dawn.

“It is the starting point of a popular campaign to send the neo-Nazi scum of Golden Dawn where they belong, to the trash can of history,” the document said.

The group called for a “coordinated attack” against the “whole Golden Dawn hierarchy.” “We should open their heads with a hammer and cut their hands with a sickle to make an example of them,” it said.

A terrorism expert said the proclamation had a “scent of the past,” with the style of its writing reminiscent of “far-left terrorism” not seen here since the early 1990s. “The group’s name may be new, but the people behind it are not new; they come from the same pool,” said Mary Bossis, a professor of international security at the University of Piraeus, near Athens.
431 2013-11-18 Student exchanges between the United States and other countries continue to expand, according to the Open Doors Report on International Educational Exchange. The report, published last week, said the numbers of foreigners attending postsecondary institutions in the United States and Americans studying abroad were at record highs.

Released by the Institute of International Education, a nonprofit organization, the report said the number of foreign students at American universities and colleges in the 2012-2013 academic year rose 55,000 from the previous year to nearly 820,000.

Undergraduate students from China accounted for the biggest increase, 26 percent, raising the number of Chinese students of all levels at postsecondary institutions to 235,000.

The number of Americans going abroad for credit university courses rose to just over 283,000 in the 2011-12 academic year, the latest year for which those figures are available, a record, but still meaning that fewer than 10 percent of American students will have studied abroad during their undergraduate degree.

“We need to increase substantially the number of U.S. students who go abroad,” said Allan E. Goodman, the institute’s president. — CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE
432 2013-11-18 SIMI VALLEY, Calif. — The United States military is considering a mission to train Libyan security personnel with the goal of creating a force of 5,000 to 7,000 conventional soldiers and a separate, smaller unit for specialized counterterrorism missions, according to the top officer at the United States Special Operations Command.

Speaking on Saturday at the Reagan National Defense Forum at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Library here, the commander, Adm. William H. McRaven, said no final decisions had been made about a training mission to support Libya, where militia violence has increased in recent days.

It has not been decided which nations would be involved or where the training would take place, officials said, but the overall mission would be organized by the military’s Africa Command.

Admiral McRaven and other officials noted that the Pentagon’s evolving national security strategy calls for building counterterrorism capabilities among local forces in allied and partner nations, rather than having American troops on the ground to carry out missions.

He acknowledged that there would be some risk in training security forces in a country where militias have shifting ties, and that some who entered the training program might have questionable backgrounds. In particular, he cautioned that it would be difficult to vet fully all Libyan personnel who might be trained by Americans.

“There is probably some risk that some of the people we will be training with do not have the most clean record,” Admiral McRaven said. “At the end of the day, it is the best solution we can find to train them to deal with their own problems.”
433 2013-11-18 Still, the biggest news from the air show was the formal introduction of the twin-engine 777X, which will provide a more fuel-efficient replacement for Boeing’s popular 777 jets by about 2020.

Boeing executives reiterated on Saturday that they would consider several sites to build the plane after union machinists in Washington State resoundingly rejected a proposed contract extension last week.

The updated 777 will have new engines and lighter-weight carbon composite wings and will save 12 percent on fuel costs compared with rival planes, Boeing said.

It will come in two versions: a 777-9X, which will be able to carry more than 400 passengers as far as 8,200 nautical miles, and a 777-8X, which will seat 350 passengers but fly more than 9,300 nautical miles.

Boeing said the planes, which are still being designed, would be formally named later. Production is scheduled to begin in 2017.

Etihad Airways also announced an order, for 25 of the 777Xs. Emirates and Etihad are both based in the United Arab Emirates. Qatar Airways said it would buy 50 of the new jets.

All told, Boeing said it received orders on the first day of the air show for 342 planes, including 737s and its new 787 Dreamliner. That included the 1,000th order for Dreamliner, the first passenger jet made substantially with carbon composites to reduce weight and fuel costs.

The 777X and the 787 will compete with Airbus’s forthcoming A350 family of jets, which also will be made extensively with carbon composites. The A350 models have already picked up several orders from customers who had traditionally bought Boeing planes.

Boeing had said that it would build the 777X in Washington, possibly creating 10,000 jobs, if the machinists approved an eight-year contract extension that would protect the company from strikes through 2024.

But the workers rejected the proposal by 2 to 1, with many workers taking issue with provisions that would freeze their pension benefits, increase their health care costs and provide salary increases of only 1 percent every other year on top of cost-of-living escalations. As a result, Boeing said it would open the competition for the plant to cities in South Carolina, Alabama, California and Utah.

R. Thomas Buffenbarger, the president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers union, told Reuters on Friday that Boeing had pushed hard for a quick contract extension in Washington because it worried that the development of the A350 was running about two years ahead of the 777X.

Mr. Buffenbarger conceded that the union was now in “a precarious situation.” But because the existing contract does not end until 2016, the union does not intend to approach Boeing about further negotiations.

Raymond L. Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial aircraft division, told reporters in Dubai on Saturday that the company had no plans to reopen the talks with the union.

Some of the other states in the running have offered tax incentives to Boeing and could also provide cheaper labor that is not necessarily unionized. The Washington Legislature passed tax incentives for the company on Nov. 9, and the state’s governor, Jay R. Inslee, has said he would work to resolve differences between Boeing and the union.
434 2013-11-19 “I don’t pay at none of these restaurants,” the Mayor of Spring Street said.

“They like her, that’s why,” the Comptroller said.

“I get it for nothing,” the Mayor said.

“She gets it for nothing!” the Comptroller said.

The Mayor — Gina Cecala, 82 years old and about five feet tall — got up from the folding lawn chair in front of her apartment building and walked into the French bakery next door. Without saying a word, she reached into the glass display case and pulled out a little ramekin of crème brûlée, turned around and walked out.

“I’m good to everybody around here,” Mrs. Cecala said. “And they’re all looking after me.”

Mrs. Cecala is a sturdy New York-born Italian with nearly wrinkle-free pale skin and thick black hair. For several hours a day, every day, she sits sentinel in front of the building where she has lived most of her life. Most of the time, her best friend, Edna Proto — 84, and known as the Comptroller — keeps her company.

They engage in running commentary about the world going by, bantering with mail carriers, delivery people, beggars, friends and strangers. Mrs. Cecala has extra chairs inside for anyone who wants to stay awhile.

On a hot day, the owner of Gatsby’s bar might bring a glass of beer. Neighbors bring flowers and gift certificates for taking in their packages and looking after their cats. One gave her $150 when he heard it was her birthday.

“You can’t find a better friend than her,” Mrs. Proto said.

A man carrying a black plastic trash bag placed it on an already heaping pile by the curb.

“No, you’ve got to put it next to that,” Mrs. Cecala ordered. “Next, yeah.”

The man looked up quickly, then did as he was told.

Rima Yamamura, a manager at a crepe shop on the other side of Mrs. Cecala’s perch, came out and put a hand on her shoulder.

“Gina knows everybody,” she said. “We feel secure when they’re here.”

“That’s right,” Mrs. Cecala said. “We sit here. We watch the store, just in case.”

Mrs. Cecala brought the owners a bromeliad for good luck on the first day of business and shouted at pedestrians to come in and try the chicken teriyaki crepe.

Lauren Roche, a 27-year-old who worked next door when it was a cake shop, said she was intimidated at first because Mrs. Cecala was really loud and always yelling at people.

“If there’s any chaos on the street, she wants to be in the middle of putting a halt to it,” she said.

Ms. Roche recalled a time when a homeless man brought Mrs. Cecala flowers to apologize for his drunken panhandling.

“Even he knew he couldn’t do whatever he wanted,” she said.

Sit for a few minutes with Mrs. Cecala and she will tell about walking Robert De Niro’s mother’s dog. Or about the mob boss John J. Gotti, who strolled the streets and bought ice cream for “the ladies” or escorted them home in the evening.

“If somebody got robbed around here,” Mrs. Cecala said, “he found out who it was and he made them come over and bring back the stuff they took.”

The Comptroller closed her eyes and nodded in agreement.

“He was my best friend,” Mrs. Cecala said.

John Tudda, a retired jewelry designer who has been living in the area since disembarking a ship from Italy in 1958, remembers seeing Mrs. Cecala sit outside with her family in the days when the living room extended onto the street. When someone yelled “Anthony” out the window, he joked, every other boy would turn around.

“It’s not Little Italy anymore,” he said. “There aren’t many of us left.”

It can be a pain if everyone knows your business, he admitted, but these days, his building feels more like a hotel.

“Tourists take pictures of me and Edna,” Mrs. Cecala said.

But Mrs. Cecala will never leave.

“I would never be happy living somewhere else,” she said. “Never, right, Edna?”

“I love this neighborhood,” the Mayor said. “This is my neighborhood.”
435 2013-11-19 Jefferson County, Ala., will ask a federal court on Wednesday to approve its plan for exiting bankruptcy, including court oversight for a period of 40 years....
436 2013-11-19 A nearly full house showed up at this year’s event, the last one with Steven A. Ballmer as the company’s chief executive....
437 2013-11-19 A study finds that spending on programs including food stamps, Medicaid and unemployment benefits increased by 18 percent between 2007 and 2010 as families slipped down the income ladder....
438 2013-11-19 The first group of potential jurors included a member of Occupy Wall Street member and people who had been investigated by the S.E.C....
439 2013-11-19 The latest installment on the clever “Blank on Blank” web series features Grace Kelly reminiscing about John F. Kennedy not long after the president was assassinated....
440 2013-11-19 An end-of-year checklist for business owners. A pillow made for cuddling. Keeping the holiday season festive and productive....
441 2013-11-19 John Edwards is opening a new law practice. | The Justice Department is set to announce the final details of a $13 billion settlement with JPMorgan Chase. | Dropbox is seeking $250 million in financing. | Timothy F. Geithner’s new job presents l...
442 2013-11-19 Val Haller, a music-obsessed baby boomer and the founder of the Web site Valslist.com, matches tracks from her generation to those of her 20-something sons’ generation.

When the song “Take Me to the River” comes to mind I think of David Byrne and the new wave ‘80s band Talking Heads. Fact is, Al Green (and his guitarist Mabon Hodges) wrote and recorded it in 1974. Talking Heads made waves when they released it as a single in 1979. Variations ensued with covers by Levon Helm, Foghat and Annie Lennox, to name a few. A new Philly rock band that caught my attention in the summer, Song Dogs, just released their take on the song. Reminiscent of the Allman Brothers, The Band and Neil Young, the group includes six members, three of whom share the lead vocals, offering lots of variety from track to track on their debut album “Wild Country.” It seems that classic rock is in their blood: their website blog entries almost read as if they were written by a boomer, paying homage to their rock heroes from the past.

Below, after the “Take Me to the River” covers, you’ll find two original songs by Song Dogs. On Tuesday the band is releasing a new single, “Anyway.” (It can be heard on Soundcloud here.) Meanwhile, David Byrne is planning to perform at a special benefit on Nov. 25 at Terminal 5 in Manhattan for victims of Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
443 2013-11-19 The life and materials sciences company Royal DSM said on Tuesday that it would form a joint venture with the New York private equity firm JLL Partners....
444 2013-11-19 The suspension of a prize-winning reporter has provided more inspiration for the animators at Next Media of Taiwan....
445 2013-11-19 Smith’s prospects will be debated after the season. The general manager, John Idzik, will have a strong voice. But will Ryan? When he endured Sanchez’s shortcomings in 2009, when the first-year head coach and the rookie quarterback were building their legacies together, Ryan was not coaching for an extension. Despite Idzik’s public praise of him two weeks ago, Ryan is not assured of being retained.

A strong finish would help his cause. A three-game losing streak would not. Ryan’s fate could be tied, more than ever, to his handling of a quarterback situation that, with the callow backup Matt Simms looming, will grow more complex if Smith struggles and the Jets lose Sunday in Baltimore. Smith, who Ryan said will “without question” start against the Ravens, is humble and well-liked and diligent, and he has, after all, led the Jets to four victories when they were tied or trailing in the fourth quarter. But, unlike Sanchez, he is not the so-called face of the franchise; the Jets do not have as sizable an investment in Smith, a second-round pick, as they did in Sanchez, who was selected fifth over all.

“Obviously, everyone’s a fan of the backup quarterback when something goes wrong,” said Simms, who on Sunday replaced Smith for the second time in three games. “I’m very well aware of that.”

Central to the Jets’ playoff chances — they are tied with Miami for the A.F.C.’s second wild-card berth but hold the tiebreaker advantage because of a better record in divisional games — is competent quarterback play. The Jets know Smith can supply that. They have seen it. They just need to see it again.

That is why Ryan and his staff have been discussing several possible ways to restore it. Ryan said he might award Simms a few first-team snaps during practice, resurrecting a motivational tactic he used with Sanchez. He is unlikely to resuscitate the color-coded system implemented for Sanchez in 2009 — after another Week 11 blowout to a divisional rival, no less — but could pursue a decidedly conservative game plan intended to prevent Smith from making costly mistakes.

“My confidence level’s high,” guard Willie Colon said after Sunday’s game. “He’s my quarterback. I’m going to ride with Geno ’til the end.”

Smith looked overwhelmed from the outset on Sunday. Or rather, from the Jets’ fourth play. That is when Marcell Dareus drilled Smith in the chest as he threw, driving him into the turf. Smith rose to a squat, and then rolled in pain onto his back. He missed only one snap, but the hit affected him. His pocket presence evaporated.

“He never had the feel that he normally has,” Ryan said.

Sometimes, Smith held onto the ball instead of running. Other times, he rushed, forcing a throw to his first read — as he did on the screen to Santonio Holmes that Da’Norris Searcy intercepted and returned for a touchdown — instead of going through his progressions.

Much about the Jets is couched in the conditional. If their secondary would stop allowing deep passes. If their receivers would gain better separation. If Smith would stop turning the ball over. Ryan, of course, dealt with these problems before — especially the last one. His endorsement of Sanchez, perhaps to his detriment, was grounded in a single belief: Sticking with him gave the Jets the best chance to win.

That was once a simple decision for Ryan. It might not be so much anymore.
446 2013-11-19 With trade talk swirling and the pressure to win mounting, the Knicks (3-6) might be leaving town at an opportune time. Five of their next six games will be on the road, starting Tuesday night against the Detroit Pistons. The Knicks have been dreadful at Madison Square Garden, where they have lost five straight.

On Monday, Coach Mike Woodson again questioned his team’s effort. He can excuse missed shots, he said. He cannot justify an absence of focus.

“Not good enough,” he said. “I’m not here to teach effort, and I think our players understand that.”

For Felton, 29, the opening weeks of the season have been a slog. He injured his hamstring in a preseason game against the Washington Wizards on Oct. 17, and then had the muscle tighten in the regular-season opener against the Milwaukee Bucks on Oct. 30.

His play has suffered. His points per possession, a measure of offensive efficiency, are .746 over all and an anemic .672 in half-court sets, which ranks in the league’s 17th percentile, according to Synergy Sports. He is shooting 22.7 percent in fourth quarters, an indication of fatigue.

Felton has never been mistaken for the second coming of Bill Bradley. For his career, Felton is a 41.3 percent shooter. His conditioning has occasionally been cause for concern, particularly when he played for the Portland Trail Blazers in 2011-12.

Still, Felton has seldom been quite so ineffective as a scorer — or as a defender. Opposing guards are scoring 25.3 points per 48 minutes against him, according to 82games.com. Last Thursday, he was outplayed by the Houston Rockets’ Jeremy Lin, who collected 21 points, 5 rebounds and 3 assists in a 109-106 win. Felton finished with 8 points and 7 assists in 41 minutes. The game underscored the Knicks’ decision to let the 25-year-old Lin leave as a free agent two summers ago.

Felton has acknowledged that he has not played well. But unless Woodson gives more minutes to Pablo Prigioni or Beno Udrih, Felton will continue to play — and play a lot.

Woodson voiced his support for Felton last week when he was asked if there was an ideal type of point guard to bring out the best in Carmelo Anthony. “Raymond Felton,” Woodson said.

Ivorie Manning, a Las Vegas-based shooting coach who has worked with Felton, said he called Felton last week to see if he wanted to meet. Manning said he could sense that Felton was playing under stress.

“He just said, ‘I’m not making any excuses, but my hamstring is killing me,’ ” Manning said in a telephone interview. “I can tell. With me being here in town, and us not going to the gym last night, that tells me what kind of state he’s in. I know how much he likes to work, but he just wants to rest at this point. Ray is not one to rest.”

A large part of Felton’s game, Manning said, is predicated on his ability to get into the lane. Once there, Felton has two options. If he draws defenders, he can pass the ball to an open teammate under the basket. Or, if he has the space, he can come to a jump stop and launch a short floater.

In recent weeks, though, both options have been limited, Manning said. With Chandler sidelined, Felton has been operating without a reliable post presence if he penetrates and the defense collapses. And because his plant leg is injured, Felton is missing his usual explosion when he does shoot. He has converted only half his attempts within five feet of the basket.

“The last thing you want to do when you have a hamstring injury is come to a quick stop and shoot,” Manning said.

As a result, Felton has settled for more outside jumpers, with 34 of his 109 field-goal attempts coming from 3-point range.

This has not been an especially sound strategy for Felton, who has made seven of them, or 20.6 percent.

“The lift is not there,” Felton said. “But no excuses. I’ve got to figure it out.”

Metta World Peace, who did not practice Monday because of a sore left knee, will not make the trip. He was also mourning the death of a family member, Mike Woodson said. ... Center Jeremy Tyler could join the Erie BayHawks, the Knicks’ Development League affiliate, by Wednesday, according to Ivorie Manning, who has been working with him.
447 2013-11-19 Prosecutors in the Aurora theater shootings want the defendant, James Holmes, to undergo further sanity evaluation, suggesting the first evaluation might have found he was insane. Court records made public Monday show that prosecutors made the request Friday. The findings of the first evaluation have not been disclosed. Mr. Holmes pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity to charges of killing 12 people and injuring 70 in 2012. The first evaluation was conducted by the state hospital. A finding of insanity would make it harder for prosecutors to persuade a jury to convict Mr. Holmes of murder and sentence him to death.
448 2013-11-19 “It’s a major case in terms of the number of stores,” said James J. Brudney, a professor at Fordham University Law School. “And it has a national scope in terms of unlawful threats and terminations.”

Last year, a union-backed group called Our Walmart organized protests at 1,000 Walmart stores in 46 states, a spokeswoman said. Thousands of people participated, demonstrating against retaliation against workers and in support of higher wages, although the company asserted that many were not employees.

In advance of that day of heavy discounts and widely publicized protests, David Tovar, a Walmart spokesman, said on CBS News, “If associates are scheduled to work on Black Friday, we expect them to show up and to do their job, and if they don’t, depending on the circumstances, there could be consequences.”

A news release distributed by the board counsel’s office said Mr. Tovar “threatened employees with reprisal” on two national television broadcasts. The general counsel also asserted that Walmart “unlawfully threatened,” disciplined or fired employees for engaging in strikes or protests in more than a dozen states, including California, Colorado, Texas and Massachusetts. The board also said that Walmart disciplined or fired employees for activities other than strikes in four states.

A union spokeswoman said that at least 43 workers were disciplined and at least 23 were fired.

Whether employees are unionized or not, federal law, under the National Labor Relations Act, protects certain activities, like protesting or organizing for better wages or working conditions.

In a statement, a Walmart spokesman strongly disagreed with the general counsel’s move.

“This is just a procedural step and we will pursue our options to defend the company because we believe our actions were legal and justified,” said Kory Lundberg, the spokesman.

“It’s important to note that there has not been one decision in the last five years by the N.L.R.B. or by a court finding that Walmart violated the National Labor Relations Act,” Mr. Lundberg said. “That is because we take our obligations under the act very seriously and we train our managers accordingly.”

In a conference call with reporters Monday about planning for another round of protests this year on Black Friday, during which the labor board’s complaint was first announced, several labor activists and union leaders celebrated the board’s decision, including Joseph Hansen, the president of the United Food and Commercial Workers.

“In this morning’s Cleveland Plain Dealer, a Walmart spokesman said the company had a very strong anti-retaliation policy,” Mr. Hansen said. “Yet today, the government confirmed it will prosecute Walmart for illegally firing and disciplining workers who just exercised their rights. Quite frankly, enough is enough.”

The article in The Plain Dealer was not primarily about retaliation, but about wages. The article described a holiday food drive at a Walmart in nearby Canton, Ohio, which included a sign that said, “Please donate food items here so associates in need can enjoy Thanksgiving Dinner.” The article went viral, and activists said it showed that Walmart employees were poorly paid.

Mr. Lundberg said the decision to host the drive was made at the store level to help employees in unexpected hardships, not chronically in need. He said that last year the drive benefited a woman who had stopped receiving child support payments.

In addition to the findings that are at issue between Walmart and the labor relations board, the general counsel’s office said it found no evidence to support other accusations made. Among these findings: the company did not interfere with workers’ right to strike by telling protesters to move off store property in Illinois and Texas, and stores in California and Washington did not illegally change work schedules or coerce employees in retaliation.

During this holiday season, Walmart has been active in a public-relations campaign, including TV ads, featuring the treatment of its workers.

On Monday, Walmart said it promoted more than 350 employees during town hall meetings in Atlanta, Dallas and Phoenix.
449 2013-11-19 But there also is another issue, said Dr. H. Gilbert Welch, a medical professor at Dartmouth. The calculator, like many others used in medicine, is based on a mathematical model that assumes that risk rises in a straight line. As levels of blood pressure rise, for example, the chances of a heart attack or stroke rise in concert, the calculator assumes. In reality, Dr. Welch said, that line is far from straight.

“The model suggests that lowering systolic blood pressure from 130 to 100 is nearly as important as from 180 to 150,” he said. “I doubt there is a cardiologist in the country that believes that.”

When the guidelines were being developed, several outside reviewers, including the two Harvard researchers and Dr. Roger Blumenthal from Johns Hopkins University, pointed out that the tool seemed to exaggerate risk. The calculator, Dr. Blumenthal said, “was clearly not satisfactory.”

In response, he said, the guidelines committee added a tiebreaker for doctors to use with patients whose risk score was equivocal. Those patients could have other tests, such as a heart scan for coronary calcium, which can determine if they have plaque in their arteries, and a blood test for a protein, C.R.P., that is associated with increased risk.

But the heart groups do not plan to change or eliminate the calculator, in part because there is no good alternative. Prescribing statins is often a judgment call, doctors say, except for patients whose chance of a heart attack or stroke is extremely high, like those who have already had a heart attack or who have diabetes.

Previous treatment guidelines, which were released in 2004, also included a risk calculator, but researchers recently discovered that it, too, overestimates risk.

In fact, said Dr. Michael Blaha of Johns Hopkins, the old calculator overestimated risk much greater than the new one, mainly because it was based on data from the 1980s and from the largely white male population of Framingham, Mass.

“The new risk calculator is actually better,” Dr. Blaha said. “People did not appreciate the problems with the Framingham calculator.”

Dr. Blaha and his colleagues discovered the flaws of the calculator based on the Framingham Heart Study a couple of years ago but did not publish their results because they were waiting for the new calculator to appear. They thought any issues with the old calculator would soon be moot.

“It’s a touchy subject,” Dr. Blaha said of the old calculator’s problems.

Many doctors never used the Framingham calculator anyway, said Dr. Benjamin Ansell of the University of California, Los Angeles. Instead, they mostly offered statins to people with very high cholesterol levels, ignoring the fact that those who have lower cholesterol levels but other risk factors, like smoking or high blood pressure, often benefited.

But others used the Framingham calculator to help patients make informed decisions. Dr. Lisa Schwartz and Dr. Steven Woloshin at Dartmouth, for example, said they would show patients their risk percentage and then recalculate what it would be if they were under treatment.

Dr. Ansell said he feared that the problems with the new calculator would make doctors and patients skeptical of the new guidelines in general, even though most of the advice on how to prevent heart attacks and stroke — such as through weight control, diet, exercise and smoking cessation — has nothing to do with the calculator.

“It will be that much more challenging to implement this or subsequent guidelines,” Dr. Ansell said. “It’s a definite setback.”

Dr. Michael Pignone of the University of North Carolina said it was time to take another look at the new calculator. The guideline committee members are experts, he said, but “getting it right is really hard.”

“It should be fixed,” he said. “And before we launch it on the public, we should launch it on the skeptical doctors. This matters to millions of people.”
450 2013-11-19 “Coal is king, still,” said Glen P. Peters, a researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo and a leader of the group that produced the new analysis.

The countries of the world have set a goal of limiting global warming to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 2 degrees Celsius, above the preindustrial level. But that will require emissions to peak and begin to decline toward a low level by 2050.

“At the moment, it’s very hard to see any evidence that we’re going to peak any time soon,” Dr. Peters said.

In Warsaw this week, negotiations are underway toward a new global climate treaty intended to limit emissions, but it is not even supposed to take effect until 2020, and no deal is assured.

In a speech on Monday in Warsaw, the United Nations’ top officer on climate change warned coal industry executives that much of the world’s coal will need to be left in the ground if international climate goals are to be met.

Christiana Figueres, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, told industry leaders at the World Coal Summit, which the Polish government called somewhat incongruously to run at the same time as the 19th meeting of the United Nations climate conference, that they were putting the global climate and their shareholders at risk by failing to support the search for alternative methods of producing energy. Poland relies on coal for nearly 90 percent of its electricity, and the government has upset the European mainstream by spurning efforts to slow the use of the fuel.

“Let me be clear from the outset that my joining you today is neither a tacit approval of coal use, nor is it a call for the immediate disappearance of coal,” Ms. Figueres said. “But I am here to say that coal must change rapidly and dramatically for everyone’s sake.”

She cited a “business continuation risk” for the coal industry if it does not play a larger role in finding ways to limit emissions.

One option would be to capture emissions of carbon dioxide from coal-burning power plants and inject them into deep underground formations, but development of that technology, known as carbon capture and storage, has received little support from the industry or from governments.

Godfrey G. Gomwe, chairman of the World Coal Association’s energy and climate committee, responded in a speech that, with “1.3 billion people in the world who live without access to electricity,” the questions of climate change and poverty reduction could not be separated.

“A life lived without access to modern energy is a life lived in poverty,” said Mr. Gomwe, who is also chief executive of the mining company Anglo American’s thermal coal business. “As much as some may wish it, coal is not going away.”

Todd Stern, the United States envoy on climate change, said at a news conference in Warsaw that the world’s reliance on coal is “not going to change overnight.” But, “high efficiency coal is certainly better than low efficiency coal,” he added, noting that carbon capture and storage technology was “the most important hope” for coal’s future.
451 2013-11-19 Maria Bartiromo, one of the first women to become a star on television by reporting on business news, is leaving her longtime home at CNBC for its rival, the Fox Business Network.

CNBC confirmed the news Monday, thanking Ms. Bartiromo for her 20-year career at CNBC.

The network issued a statement: “After 20 years of groundbreaking work at CNBC, Maria Bartiromo will be leaving the company as her contract expires on November 24th. Her contributions to CNBC are too numerous to list but we thank her for all of her hard work over the years and wish her the best.”

Word of the deal with Fox Business was posted on the Drudge Report.

Ms. Bartiromo is expected to work on a program about the day’s developments on Wall Street. Her new deal is also expected to include exposure on the far-more-watched Fox News. (Neither Fox outlet commented publicly on Monday about the hiring.)

The signing is a coup of sorts for Fox Business, which has struggled to establish a profile. Last week, Fox Business averaged fewer than 10,000 viewers in the group that attracts advertisers, those between the ages of 25 and 54. CNBC had more than three times as many with 31,000.

Ms. Bartiromo, who was the first correspondent to report live every day from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, was among the best-known faces on CNBC. She also has a connection to Roger Ailes, the Fox News chairman, who also leads Fox Business. He was in charge of CNBC in 1993 when Ms. Bartiromo joined that network.
452 2013-11-19 Moses managed admirably, performing significantly better than if she had been choosing arms at random. Further investigation revealed that she was not using smell to find the treats. Instead, she seemed to be using external landmarks to navigate, just as mammals do.

Things became even more interesting when Dr. Wilkinson hung a black curtain around the maze, depriving Moses of the rich environmental cues that had surrounded her. The tortoise adopted a new navigational strategy, exploring the maze systematically by entering whatever arm was directly adjacent to the one she had just left. This approach is “an enormously great” way of solving the task, Dr. Wilkinson said, and a strategy rarely seen in mammals.

Navigational skills are important, but the research also hints at something even more impressive: behavioral flexibility, or the ability to alter one’s behavior as external circumstances change. This flexibility, which allows animals to take advantage of new environments or food sources, has been well documented in birds and primates, and scientists are now beginning to believe that it exists in reptiles, too.

Anole, a tropical lizard, have a very specific method of acquiring food, striking at moving prey from above. But Manuel S. Leal, a biologist at Duke University, created a situation in which this strategy simply would not work, hiding a tasty insect larva inside a small hole and covering the hole with a tightfitting blue cap.

Two of the six lizards he tested tried to extract the treat by attacking the blue disk from above, to no avail. But the other four puzzled out new approaches. Two lizards came at the disk sideways, using their mouths to bite and lift it, while the others used their snouts as levers to pry it off the baited well.

Then Dr. Leal increased the difficulty by hiding the larvae under a new cap, this one blue and yellow. He used the solid blue disk to cover an adjacent, empty well. In tests of four lizards, two recognized the switch and learned that getting the bait now required flipping the multicolored disk instead of the blue one.

Other studies have documented similar levels of flexibility and problem solving. Dr. Burghardt, for instance, presented monitor lizards with an utterly unfamiliar apparatus, a clear plastic tube with two hinged doors and several live mice inside. The lizards rapidly figured out how to rotate the tube and open the doors to capture the prey. “It really amazed us that they all solved the problem very quickly and then did much better the second time,” Dr. Burghardt said. “That’s a sign of real learning.”

So how did we miss this for so long? Scientists say that many early studies of reptile cognition, conducted in the 1950s and ’60s, had critical design flaws.

By using experiments originally designed for mammals, researchers may have been setting reptiles up for failure. For instance, scientists commonly use “aversive stimuli,” such as loud sounds and bright lights, to shape rodent behavior. But reptiles respond to many of these stimuli by freezing, thereby not performing.

Scientists may also have been asking reptiles to perform impossible tasks. Lizards do not use their legs to manipulate objects, Dr. Leal said, “so you cannot develop an experiment where you’re expecting them to unwrap a box, for example.”

What’s more, because they are coldblooded, reptiles are particularly sensitive to environmental conditions. Rats and mice can run a maze just fine in a 70-degree lab, but many reptilian species need a much warmer environment — with air temperatures in the mid-80s or 90s. “They seem to learn the quickest at body temperatures that are very uncomfortable for us,” Dr. Burghardt said.

Now that scientists have gotten better at designing experiments for reptiles, they are uncovering all kinds of surprising abilities. Some of the most intriguing work involves social learning. The conventional wisdom is that because reptiles are largely solitary, asocial creatures, they are incapable of learning through observation.

New research calls that assumption into question. In another study of red-footed tortoises, Dr. Wilkinson deposited a tortoise on one side of a wire fence and a piece of strawberry on the other, in sight but just out of reach. To get their snouts on the treat, the tortoises needed to take a long detour around the edge of the fence.

Not one tortoise figured this out on its own. (Unable to reach the reward, some of the animals simply decided to nap.) But when they watched a trained tortoise navigate around the fence, all the observers learned to follow suit.

Other studies of reptiles have turned up similar results, challenging the popular theory that social learning evolved as a byproduct of — and a special adaptation for — group living. Instead, Dr. Wilkinson said, social learning may be merely an outgrowth of an animal’s general ability to learn.

The field of reptile cognition is in its infancy, but it already suggests that “intelligence” may be more widely distributed through the animal kingdom than had been imagined. As Dr. Burghardt put it, “People are starting to take some of the tests that were developed for the ‘smart’ animals and adapting them to use with other species, and finding that the ‘smart’ animals may not be so special.”
453 2013-11-19 Well, hooray, but hang on a minute while we contemplate raw, naked economics. First of all, what, exactly, is a “low-cost carrier?” In much of the media, the first name that reflexively pops out is Southwest Airlines.

Say what? Southwest says it is “definitely” interested in acquiring some of the 52 slots that would become available at Reagan National Airport — and 17 at La Guardia Airport — after the two merging airlines release them under terms of the settlement. But do we really agree with defining Southwest as a low-cost carrier? Not me, and probably not you, either. I like Southwest and fly it when it’s feasible for me, but you can’t get to Shanghai on Southwest, and I routinely find its fares on many domestic routes to be higher than its rivals’ on comparable routes.

Topaz International, a corporate travel auditing firm, found last November in a study of 100 business travel markets that fares on eight competing airlines, on comparable routes, were lower than Southwest’s over 60 percent of the time. Alone among the major carriers, Southwest does not charge for checked bags, potentially skewing those comparisons on costs. But business travelers, who make up about a third of Southwest’s passengers, a relatively low percentage, tend not to check bags anyway on domestic routes like Southwest’s.

And Southwest’s prices have been rising, as the airline cuts back on periodic fare sales. In a recent conference call, the chief financial officer, Tammy Romo, referred to the “nice healthy fares” — up 11 percent in the third quarter.

The issue of defining low-cost carrier aside, what other ramifications does the merger portend? Here Mr. Boyd and others see some good news. In the South, for example, the merged carrier, which the principals are calling the “New American,” will increase air travel access, including global access, in places where it is limited by the US Airways route structure. “One upside is that places like Sarasota, Fla., will probably get more air service,” Mr. Boyd said.

When the merger is in place, the former US Airways will have shifted from one international airline alliance, Star, to another, Oneworld, where American has far-flung worldwide partners including British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Qantas, Qatar and Japan Airlines.

“What this basically does is level the playing field a whole lot more for the Oneworld alliance, which has been way behind the curve, particularly in the deep South,” Mr. Boyd said. On the other hand, he said, the shift in alliances raises questions about easy partnership access to and from China by the new American Airlines. In China, Star Alliance — one of whose major partners is United Airlines — is considered to have wider presence than Oneworld. And a US Airways move out of Star will diminish easy access for that alliance’s international partners to the strong US Airways networks on the United States East Coast and in the South.

In the domestic market, it’s unclear to what extent other carriers in the “low cost” niche, including JetBlue, Spirit and Allegiant, will move to significantly expand service by acquiring newly open gates at Reagan National and La Guardia, and other airports like Boston Logan, Chicago O’Hare, Dallas Love Field and Los Angeles International where a relatively small number of slots will become available. Low-cost carriers are “increasingly unreliable as a source of competitive discipline in the industry,” Diana L. Moss, the vice president of the American Antitrust Institute, said in Senate testimony this year on the merger implications.

Business travelers have other concerns about the merger besides prices. Among them are misgivings about the effects of funneling the membership (and mileage points) of the US Airways Dividend Miles program. I’d like to hear more from business travelers on whether upgrades and awards travel will be harder to get in a giant mileage program.

There’s also growing concern among consumer advocates about the effects of this new merged presence on international competition, fares and so-called fare and ancillary fee transparency in a global market where consolidation and reliance on international alliances and code-share route partnerships are growing.

And that’s an aspect of raw, naked economics that we’ll leave for another time.
454 2013-11-19 “It makes good common sense clinically,” she continued. “If you have a depression, you’re often awake all night, it’s extremely lonely, it’s dark, you’re aware every moment that the world around you is sleeping, every concern you have is magnified.”

The study is the first of four on sleep and depression nearing completion, all financed by the National Institute of Mental Health. They are evaluating a type of talk therapy for insomnia that is cheap, relatively brief and usually effective, but not currently a part of standard treatment.

The new report, from a team at Ryerson University in Toronto, found that 87 percent of patients who resolved their insomnia in four biweekly talk therapy sessions also saw their depression symptoms dissolve after eight weeks of treatment, either with an antidepressant drug or a placebo pill — almost twice the rate of those who could not shake their insomnia. Those numbers are in line with a previous pilot study of insomnia treatment at Stanford.

In an interview, the report’s lead author, Colleen E. Carney, said, “The way this story is unfolding, I think we need to start augmenting standard depression treatment with therapy focused on insomnia.”

Dr. Carney acknowledged that the study was small — just 66 patients — and said a clearer picture should emerge as the other teams of scientists released their results. Those studies are being done at Stanford, Duke and the University of Pittsburgh and include about 70 subjects each. Dr. Carney will present her data on Saturday at a convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, in Nashville.

Doctors have known for years that sleep problems are intertwined with mood disorders. But only recently have they begun to investigate the effects of treating both at the same time. Antidepressant drugs like Prozac help many people, as does talk therapy, but in rigorous studies the treatments, administered individually, only slightly outperform placebo pills. Used together the treatments produce a cure rate — full recovery — for about 40 percent of patients.

Adding insomnia therapy, however, to an antidepressant would sharply lift the cure rate, Dr. Carney’s data suggests, as do the findings from the Stanford pilot study, which included 30 people.

Doctors have long considered poor sleep to be a symptom of depression that would clear up with treatments, said Rachel Manber, a professor in the psychiatry and behavioral sciences department at Stanford, whose 2008 pilot trial of insomnia therapy provided the rationale for larger studies. “But we now know that’s not the case,” she said. “The relationship is bidirectional — that insomnia can precede the depression.”

Full-blown insomnia is more serious than the sleep problems most people occasionally have. To qualify for a diagnosis, people must have endured at least a month of chronic sleep loss that has caused problems at work, at home or in important relationships. Several studies now suggest that developing insomnia doubles a person’s risk of later becoming depressed — the sleep problem preceding the mood disorder, rather than the other way around.

The therapy that Dr. Manber, Dr. Carney and the other researchers are using is called cognitive behavior therapy for insomnia, or CBT-I for short. The therapist teaches people to establish a regular wake-up time and stick to it; get out of bed during waking periods; avoid eating, reading, watching TV or similar activities in bed; and eliminate daytime napping.

The aim is to reserve time in bed for only sleeping and — at least as important — to “curb this idea that sleeping requires effort, that it’s something you have to fix,” Dr. Carney said. “That’s when people get in trouble, when they begin to think they have to do something to get to sleep.”

This kind of therapy is distinct from what is commonly known as sleep hygiene: exercising regularly, but not too close to bedtime, and avoiding coffee and too much alcohol in the evening. These healthful habits do not amount to an effective treatment for insomnia.

In her 2008 pilot study testing CBT-I in people with depression, Dr. Manber of Stanford used sleep hygiene as part of her control treatment. She found that 60 percent of patients who received seven sessions of the talk therapy and an antidepressant fully recovered from their depression, compared with 33 percent who got the same drug and the sleep hygiene therapy.

In the four larger trials expected to be published in 2014, researchers had participants keep sleep journals to track the effect of the CBT-I therapy, writing down what time they went to bed every night, what time they tried to fall asleep, how long it took, how many awakenings they had and what time they woke up.

When the diaries show consistent, seldom-interrupted, good-quality slumber, the therapist conducts an interview to determine if there are any lingering issues. If there are none, the person has recovered. The therapy results in sharp reductions in nighttime wakefulness for most people who follow through.

In interviews, several researchers noted that the National Institute of Mental Health had sharply curtailed funding for work in sleep treatment. Aleksandra Vicentic, the acting chief of the agency’s behavioral and integrative neuroscience research branch, said that in 2009 the funding strategy changed for sleep projects.

In an effort to illuminate the biology of sleep’s impact on behavior, the agency is now focusing on how sleep affects the functioning of neural circuits. But Dr. Vicentic added that the agency continued to fund clinical work like the depression trials.

Dr. Andrew Krystal, who is running the CBT-I study at Duke, called sleep “this huge, still unexplored frontier of psychiatry.”

“The body has complex circadian cycles, and mostly in psychiatry we’ve ignored them,” he said. “Our treatments are driven by convenience. We treat during the day and make little effort to find out what’s happening at night.”
455 2013-11-19 Though Ms. Bautista was the one facing charges, the monthlong trial focused attention on the struggle of Philippine authorities to track down and recover millions of dollars’ worth of missing artwork that was purchased with public money during the Marcos era.

The trial also shed light on a complex $43 million transaction in September 2010 that transferred one of the Monets — the majestic “Le Bassin aux Nymphéas” — from Ms. Bautista to a Panamanian company, then to a London gallery and finally to Alan Howard, a hedge fund manager in Switzerland.

That deal had gone forward even though the only evidence Ms. Bautista possessed that she was authorized to sell the painting was a single-page document from 1991, purportedly signed by Mrs. Marcos.

“Everyone held their noses and closed their eyes because it was in their shared financial interest to do so,” one of the prosecutors, Ted Starishevsky, said during summations on Friday.

The jury found Ms. Bautista guilty of conspiracy for having plotted with her two nephews, Chaiyot Jansen Navalaksana and Pongsak Navalaksana, to sell four paintings on the Asian black market.

All the works had been taken in late 1995 from the walls of an Upper East Side townhouse, owned by the Philippine government, where Mrs. Marcos stayed and threw lavish parties when in New York.

Mrs. Bautista was also convicted of criminal tax fraud for failing to report to state and city tax officials on the $28 million she received from the sale of the painting. She faces up 25 years in prison on the top charge.

“We all agreed the evidence was damning,” one juror, who asked that her name not be used, said as the jury left the courtroom. “It was just good evidence.”

Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, likened the conviction to a “white-collar cold case” that came to light only because prosecutors had analyzed Ms. Bautista’s finances and tax returns.  He said the case also highlighted the darker side of the art market. “We have solved the mystery of a painting that has been missing for decades,” he said.

Ms. Bautista’s lawyers, Susan and Fran Hoffinger, had argued to the jury that their client was authorized to act as Mrs. Marcos’s agent and had intended to send some of the proceeds to her, but could not because the district attorney’s office had seized the money.

Prosecutors never accused Ms. Bautista of stealing, but they presented evidence that she had hidden the paintings at her apartment on East 64th Street. Beginning in July 2009, as she was running short of money, she enlisted her nephews to find a private collector willing to buy the work.

The jury was shown more than a dozen emails sent between Ms. Bautista’s nephews outlining their plans to sell the paintings on her behalf. The two men expressed worries about being caught and going to jail.

Prosecutors presented evidence raising questions about the document authorizing Ms. Bautista to sell the painting. The notary who signed it admitted under oath that Mrs. Marcos was not present when he notarized it, and that he had done it as a favor to one of Ms. Bautista’s sisters.

Still, in the summer of 2010, a London Gallery — Hazlitt, Gooden & Fox — agreed to buy the painting and then resell it to Mr. Howard.

The gallery deposited $28 million into Ms. Bautista’s bank account. In April 2011, she failed to report the $28 million windfall on her state tax return and paid about $80 in taxes.

“This transaction was never intended to see the light of day,” Mr. Starishevsky said.
456 2013-11-19 Ms. Figueres was speaking at the World Coal Summit, called somewhat incongruously by the Polish government to run at the same time as the 19th meeting of the United Nations climate conference. Poland relies on coal for more than 88 percent of its electricity, and the government has roiled the European mainstream by spurning efforts to slow the use of the fuel.

Godfrey G. Gomwe, chairman of the World Coal Association’s energy and climate committee, responded in a speech that, with “1.3 billion people in the world who live without access to electricity,” the questions of climate change and poverty reduction could not be separated.

“A life lived without access to modern energy is a life lived in poverty,” said Mr. Gomwe, who is also chief executive of the mining company Anglo American’s thermal coal business. “As much as some may wish it, coal is not going away.”

The answer to coal’s carbon pollution problem, Mr. Gomwe said, was investment in higher efficiency plants to reduce emissions, with the developed world helping poorer countries if needed.

Environmentalists criticized the very existence of the coal summit. Alden Meyer, director of strategy and policy at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an American advocacy group, called the summit “a distraction.”

“The summit’s focus on continued reliance on coal is directly counter to the goal of these climate negotiations,” Mr. Meyer said in a statement, “which is to dramatically reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases in order to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. Every year countries come together at these negotiations to find a global solution to climate change, and yet our host is embracing a chief cause of the problem.”

Delegates to the United Nations conference began meeting here last week to chart the road toward a global agreement, planned for a 2015 meeting in Paris, to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which technically expired last year. Discussions are focusing on the details of process, as well as the thorny questions of how the developed world can help poor countries cope with a warming planet, both financially and technologically, and questions of historical responsibility for global warming.

The climate meeting draws thousands of delegates and activists, who use it as a forum for networking and criticizing countries they consider barriers to an enforceable global treaty. In a departure from recent climate meetings, the Americans are not being portrayed as among the chief villains, in part because President Obama appears sincerely committed to reining in greenhouse gases and helping poorer countries adapt. Environmentalists’ wrath is now more directed at Japan and Australia, who are seen as backtracking on earlier climate-friendly policies.

Japan on Friday retreated from its previous emissions target, saying that the loss of its nuclear power base in the wake of the Fukushima Daiichi catastrophe had caused it to revise its outlook for clean energy production.

Australia, meanwhile, has taken an increasingly cool approach to the question of global warming, keeping its environment minister home to work on legislation to repeal a carbon tax enacted by the previous government.

“All the Americans have to do is stand next to the Australians and Japanese, and in the current climate, they appear as the leaders,” Ria Voorhaar, a spokeswoman for the Climate Action Network, an alliance of environmental organizations, said.

Separately, in Beijing on Monday, the president of China, Xi Jinping, told former President Bill Clinton that climate change policy and energy were among the areas where their two countries should cooperate more, the official Chinese news agency, Xinhua, reported.

“With the shared efforts of successive leaders of both countries, Sino-U.S. relations have been built into a skyscraper,” Mr. Xi told Mr. Clinton. “Both our sides must continue our efforts, and add building blocks to Sino-U.S. relations.”

Mr. Xi said: “Our two sides have been enhancing cooperation in politics, economics and trade, at a people-to-people level, and in other areas, and we should respond together to challenges such as climate change and energy security.”
457 2013-11-19 Japan’s maglev could easily become Mr. Abe’s boondoggle unless Japan can export it. Even in Japan, the maglev faces considerable skepticism. One reason is the cost, which is as breathtaking as the speed: the estimated budget for the Tokyo-Osaka line has risen to nearly $100 billion.

So Mr. Abe is looking for a prominent overseas showcase. That is why the former politicians were here.

Mr. Pataki, along with the other dignitaries on the train, including Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader; former Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania; and former Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, are helping him make the sale. Along with former Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, who could not make the trip, they are on the advisory board of The Northeast Maglev, a company in Washington that wants to build the Washington-New York line.

Japan has long been a pioneer in high-speed rail. It introduced bullet trains, or Shinkansen, to the world in 1964, on the eve of the Tokyo Olympics. But other countries have caught up. France and Germany developed high-speed trains that matched the Japanese speeds. China has built a high-speed network that surpasses Japan’s in its reach if not quite its speed.

To stake its claim to leadership in a new generation of faster technology, Japan plans to begin construction of its first intercity maglev line next year, linking Tokyo with Nagoya and, eventually, Osaka. In tests, the Japanese maglev has reached speeds up to 580 kilometers an hour, or 360 m.p.h., the world record for a train.

“It is truly a dream technology,” Mr. Abe said in a speech at the New York Stock Exchange in September.

When it comes to maglev, though, there is still a question of credibility. “Americans think levitation only occurs in horror movies,” Mr. Rendell said.

With the Japanese maglev, levitation occurs at about 90 m.p.h. That is when the wheels, shod with rubber tires, lift off the concrete guideway. Then the maglev train floats four inches above the U-shaped guideway, held aloft and propelled forward by superconducting magnets.

To get the American line off the ground, Japan has come up with a method of financing that is similarly novel. In a meeting with President Obama last winter, Mr. Abe offered to provide the maglev guideway and propulsion system free for the first portion of the line, linking Washington and Baltimore via Baltimore-Washington International Airport, a distance of about 40 miles.

Analysts say Japan has had trouble exporting the technology. It figures if the United States takes it, others will follow.

The Northeast Maglev, the company behind the effort, wants to raise the rest of the money from private investors and public sources. The company was founded in 2010 but only recently began ramping up its lobbying in Washington, with Mr. Daschle, now a policy adviser to the law firm DLA Piper, serving as a central figure in those efforts.

The Northeast Maglev’s chief executive is Wayne L. Rogers, an investor in renewable energy and other projects. Japanese financing would be provided by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, which arranges support for Japanese exports.

It’s not just the cost that makes Japanese skeptical of the maglev plans. The maglev line, to be built by the Central Japan Railway Company, would pass straight through some of the most mountainous terrain in the country, including the Japanese Alps. About 86 percent of the route is to run through tunnels, creating monumental engineering challenges and raising concerns about the effects of earthquakes.

The Tokyo-Nagoya portion is not expected to be completed until 2027, with the Nagoya-Osaka stretch to follow only in 2045. The National Institute of Population and Social Security Research expects that by that time, the population of Japan will have declined to about 105 million from the current 127 million, raising questions of whether there will be enough people to ride a speedy new train.

“If you seriously take a look at its high cost and low demand, you’ll find it makes no business sense,” said Reijiro Hashiyama, a visiting professor at Chiba University of Commerce who has argued against the project for years.

Central Japan Railway insists that the new line will stoke demand — taking away business from airlines — by decreasing journey times and serving new destinations. The company, which was set up when Japan privatized its national rail system in 1987, says it will finance construction through operating cash flow, including the profit generated by its Shinkansen line.

“In the past, the United States led the way in transport technology,” said Yoshiyuki Kasai, the company’s chairman, at the control center of the maglev test track here. “Now the U.S. transportation infrastructure is in bad shape. This time, why don’t the U.S.A. and Japan lead the world together?”
458 2013-11-20 Everyone loves a good cookie (or a chewy brownie, or a stick of biscotti). Here are recipes to keep your sweet tooth satisfied through the holidays.
459 2013-11-20 The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said the number of people on food stamps was declining month to month in about half the states and increasing incrementally in the other half....
460 2013-11-20 Our favorite recipes explained in two minutes or less.
461 2013-11-20 A one-of-a-kind Leica designed by Marc Newson and Apple’s Jony Ive is part of an auction to be held to benefit RED, the charity founded by Bono and Bobby Shriver....
462 2013-11-20 Credit: Elizabeth D. Herman for The New York Times
463 2013-11-20 Food and water remain scarce, but aid is beginning to reach typhoon-affected areas....
464 2013-11-20 ThoughtWorks of Chicago and RJMetrics of Philadelphia have chosen opposing approaches....
465 2013-11-20 Timothy G. Massad has been nominated to head the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, but little is known about his views on regulation of derivatives....
466 2013-11-20 The Helping Paws Visitor Program run by the Maui Humane Society in Hawaii offers visitors the chance to spend afternoons with the shelter’s dogs and cats–and to escort animals off the island for adoption....
467 2013-11-20 The review by Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority is the latest area of focus by regulators on whether traders manipulated a variety of financial benchmarks....
468 2013-11-20 The owner of a restaurant chain is sentenced to prison for tax evasion. How a small-business exemption could undermine an online sales tax. Are we in a tech bubble?...
469 2013-11-20 Metropolitan Diary: A businessman pulled a rider off a crowded A train so he could take her place....
470 2013-11-20 There is no way to know how the government’s cooperating witness in the trial of Michael S. Steinberg will come across to the jury....
471 2013-11-20 Fresh out of college, Rebecca Cenni went from one staffing agency to another seeking a job. No one hired her, she said, because she wanted way too much money, lacked typing skills and didn’t know how to use a computer....
472 2013-11-20 With other measures failing to halt rising prices in cities, some Chinese are hoping that a hinted-at property tax can rein in the real estate market. But opposition is likely among the wealthy and powerful....
473 2013-11-20 Millions of Zimbabwe residents are at risk of waterborne diseases including a resumption of cholera because of a water and sanitation crisis in the capital, Harare, Human Rights Watch said in a report on Tuesday. The report, issued five years after cholera killed more than 4,000 Zimbabweans and sickened 100,000, described a collapse in water and sanitation services. Residents must often drink from shallow, unprotected wells befouled by sewage, according to the report, which was based on research conducted over the last two years.
474 2013-11-20 If the Mets were going to puff out their chests and declare themselves spenders this off-season, they might as well act like it, at least once in a while. So on Monday night, Sandy Alderson, the Mets’ general manager; Jeff Wilpon, the chief operating officer, and John Ricco, the assistant general manager, met for dinner in Manhattan with Jay Z and associates and listened to their pitch on Robinson Cano, the Yankees second baseman who has become the highest-priced item on baseball’s free-agent market.

The dinner occurred on the same day that the Mets deemed LaTroy Hawkins too expensive, at $2.5 million, to keep in their bullpen, but no matter. Jay Z, rapper, record producer, entrepreneur and, more recently, sports agent, and his associates Brodie Van Wagenen and Juan Perez invited the Mets to dinner. Even if Jay Z is asking for a contract in excess of $300 million for Cano, which might be a little pricey for a Mets team that has barely spent $3 million on any free agent in recent seasons, why not go?

When news of the dinner meeting became public — it was first reported by The New York Post — there were plenty of wisecracks to go around on Twitter, even if Cano would fit nicely into the Mets’ batting order as a left-handed cleanup hitter behind David Wright.

But Alderson, who often enough has poked fun at his team’s limited finances, refrained from any quips when he spoke about the dinner at a get-together on Tuesday with writers who cover the Mets.

“It wasn’t terribly surprising that the fact of the meeting became known within minutes of dessert,” Alderson said, implying that Jay Z and his team wanted the Yankees to know that they were talking to someone else about Cano.
475 2013-11-20 “I have no recollection who it referred to,” Mr. Donziger replied. “I don’t think I paid a lot of attention to these emails.”

The exchange was part of a series of questions by Mr. Mastro in which he repeatedly sought to raise doubts about Mr. Donziger’s credibility.

Mr. Donziger, who maintained his composure through the questioning, has denied bribing anyone, and he argues that he was up against a powerful corporation that took many of the actions he is accused of taking, including paying witnesses, manipulating evidence and meeting privately with court officials. Chevron denies committing any fraud.

Mr. Donziger first became interested in the case in the early 1990s, when he heard stories about how Texaco, later acquired by Chevron, cut through Amazon forests, drilled wells and poured toxic oil waste into unlined pits in the 1970s and 1980s. Only two years out of Harvard Law School, Mr. Donziger plunged into a class-action lawsuit brought by inhabitants of the Amazonian village of Lago Agrio. Eventually, Mr. Donziger emerged as the lead legal organizer for the plaintiffs and helped manage the case up to the multibillion-dollar judgment in 2011.

Chevron appealed that award and filed the civil suit against Mr. Donziger and others. The company would use a ruling against him to strengthen its argument in foreign courts against enforcing the Ecuadorean judgment.

The racketeering case, which is being heard without a jury by Judge Lewis A. Kaplan, has brought a flood of revelations. Mr. Donziger has been compelled to surrender a diary detailing secret meetings with Ecuadorean judges. He was also forced to hand over email correspondence containing messages from one of his Ecuadorean colleagues, which included the references to the “puppeteer” that Mr. Donziger earlier this year said referred to a fee dispute with a “very bossy lawyer.”

Mr. Mastro also questioned Mr. Donziger about the fact that his colleagues had helped prepare an environmental report to the Ecuadorean judge by a court-appointed witness and engineer, Dr. Richard Cabrera, suggesting that they had tried to conceal that involvement and had used threats to persuade a judge to appoint Mr. Cabrera as an expert.

“You knew that Richard Cabrera would be issuing whatever multibillion-dollar report that you and your legal team wanted?” Mr. Mastro asked.

“We had an expectation that he would issue an accurate report,” Mr. Donziger replied.

Most damaging have been claims by Chevron that Mr. Donziger meddled in the court’s decision. The company filed a declaration several months ago by the former Ecuadorean judge Alberto Guerra describing how he and Judge Zambrano allowed the plaintiffs’ lawyers to write their entire judgment in exchange for $500,000 from the expected recovery.

Mr. Zambrano and Mr. Donziger have denied any bribery. And Mr. Donziger’s lawyers have said that Judge Guerra is not credible because he has changed details of his story and because Chevron has paid him more than $300,000 over two years and moved him and his family to the United States.

Days after Judge Zambrano took over the Lago Agrio case, an Ecuadorean lawyer sent an email to Mr. Donziger reading, “The puppeteer won’t move his puppet unless the audience pays him,” Mr. Mastro said in court on Tuesday. Mr. Mastro then cited payments to Mr. Guerra that he said followed that message, which Chevron has claimed were bribes.

A few minutes later Mr. Mastro asked Mr. Donziger about a meeting in 2010 that he had at a restaurant in Ecuador with Mr. Guerra, who was said to have offered to arrange a favorable judgment in exchange for a half-million-dollar bribe.

“Whatever money we had, it would not be used to bribe a judge,” Mr. Donziger replied.
476 2013-11-20 CAIRO — The protesters’ numbers were small, compared with the millions who have marched through Egypt’s streets in recent months. And at one point, a soccer game on television seemed more urgent than the chants.

Even so, a demonstration on Tuesday in Cairo’s Tahrir Square seemed to represent a breakthrough for young leftists and other revolutionary activists who have struggled to find their voice since the military ousted President Mohamed Morsi in July, splitting the country into polarized, feuding camps.

Galvanized by anger and marching under the banners of slain comrades on Tuesday, the activists tried to offer an alternative in Egypt’s sclerotic political scene. As they have in the past, the activists condemned Mr. Morsi’s Islamist movement, the Muslim Brotherhood. But now, just as vigorously, they denounced the military and its leader, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, brazenly defying Egypt’s ultranationalist mood.

The protests seemed to temporarily restore Tahrir Square as a sanctuary for dissent after the many pro-military rallies in the square that followed Mr. Morsi’s fall, a change that seemed to stun some of the military’s fans.

With arguments, and then rocks, activists clashed with some of General Sisi’s supporters on the edge of the square. Other protesters defaced a memorial that had been erected by the military-led government the day before, seeing it as an insidious attempt to appropriate the memory of their struggle.
477 2013-11-20 Studies and lawsuits have shown that many clinical trial results, particularly negative ones, are not published. Critics say that hampers medical practice and violates an obligation to patients, who try experimental treatments in part to advance knowledge.

“We think that when you enter into a clinical trial, and we enter into contracts with our patients, there’s an obligation that we are going to do the right thing,” said Dr. Nicholls, a cardiologist at the South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute in Adelaide.

The Phase 3 trial involved 5,145 patients in various countries with acute coronary syndrome, a sudden blockage of blood flow to heart muscles. It tested whether the drug varespladib could reduce the risk of heart attacks, stroke, death and chest pains requiring hospitalization.

The trial was terminated early by the safety monitoring committee in March 2012. The company announced that the committee had determined that there was no chance the drug would succeed in the trial.

The results show that patients who got the drug actually had a higher risk of cardiovascular problems, mainly heart attacks, than those who received a placebo.

Dr. Nicholls said in an interview that Anthera continually promised to provide the complete data but did not. Finally, the company told him this spring that it had given the drug back to Eli Lilly, the original developer of the drug. The investigators were then able to get the data almost immediately from Lilly, he said.

Dr. Nicholls said that Anthera was also supposed to ensure that all patients were surveyed six months after the trial ended to see if they were still alive. But that data was collected for only 31 percent of the patients, making it impossible to clearly determine if the drug had increased the risk of death, he said.

Dr. Hislop of Anthera said the organization hired by the company to oversee the trial had tried vigorously to get that data. But some investigators, who were the ones who knew the patients’ identities, did not cooperate.

He said that because of the need to collect the six-month follow-up data, the study database was kept open until early this year. That was just before the company gave back the drug to Lilly.

Anthera, based in Hayward, Calif., was founded in 2004 and does not yet have a drug on the market. It is testing a treatment for lupus.
478 2013-11-20 A federal judge gave a stay of execution to a white supremacist serial killer, Joseph Paul Franklin, just hours before his scheduled death at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. Judge Nanette K. Laughrey ruled late Tuesday afternoon that a lawsuit filed by Mr. Franklin and 20 other death row inmates challenging Missouri’s execution protocol must first be resolved. The ruling criticizes the timing of the state’s changes to how it administers capital punishment. Mr. Franklin, 63, was scheduled to die for killing Gerald Gordon, 42, in a sniper attack outside a suburban St. Louis synagogue in 1977. It was one of as many as 20 killings committed by Mr. Franklin, who targeted blacks and Jews. Missouri had planned to be the first state to use propofol as a lethal drug, but Gov. Jay Nixon ordered the Department of Corrections to find a new drug after an outcry from the medical profession over use of the popular anesthetic in an execution. The department turned to pentobarbital made through a compounding pharmacy. The judge said Mr. Franklin “has been afforded no time to research the risk of pain associated with the department’s new protocol, the quality of the pentobarbital provided and the record of the source of the pentobarbital.”
479 2013-11-20 No American companies, ships or personnel would be involved under this proposal, although officials said it was possible that the American military would help provide security in the international waters where the barge would be situated, whether by assigning warships or surveillance planes to the mission.

The second proposal focuses on a highly sophisticated mobile system developed by the Pentagon, known as the Field Deployable Hydrolysis System, which is designed to convert chemical agents into compounds that cannot be used for military purposes by mixing them with water and other chemicals and then heating them, American officials said.

The system, which the Pentagon says can be operated within 10 days of being shipped to a new location, would be used to neutralize the large quantities of precursor chemicals that could be used by the Syrian government to make sarin and other forms of poison gas and thus replenish its chemical weapons arsenal.

Secretary of State John Kerry, according to administration officials, was referring to the two proposals in remarks on Monday when he was asked whether the effort to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons, as mandated by the United Nations, had stalled.

“We are not without other alternatives,” he said. “In fact, we are actively pursuing two other alternatives which provide us a complete capacity to do the destruction and to meet the schedule.”

Mr. Kerry praised the process now underway as “a remarkable event.”

“The chemical weapons of one country are being corralled and moved and contained and placed under the supervision of an international organization which is committed to removing those weapons from Syria by the end of the year,” he said. “And I believe we are on target currently to achieve that.”

Administration officials said on Tuesday that the proposals represented an effective solution to the question of how the weapons would be destroyed once they were removed from Syria.

“These are among the options we are considering, as we have unique capabilities that can be applied to the disposition” of Syrian chemical weapons, said Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council.

Another senior official said the option of destroying the munitions at sea was “logical.” “There’s convincing evidence that these options would render the chemicals neutral at sea,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the final means of destroying the chemicals have not been decided.

But the official said the United States had not given up on finding a country that would accept the 1,000 tons of precursors and other chemicals in Syria’s arsenal, where the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons would oversee the chemicals’ destruction.

The important step now, the official said, is to secure the chemicals — now stored mostly in one-ton and two-ton containers — and transport them safely to a Syrian port for loading onto one or more ships.

“The key now is to get it onto a ship and get it out of the country,” the administration official said, noting that the weapons could be kept there for days or weeks until a decision is reached to either take them to a country for destruction or to neutralize them at sea.

By destroying the weapons in international waters, the effort would not require approval by any particular country, but environmental activists might voice opposition.

American officials remain concerned that the Syrian chemical weapons will be vulnerable to attack and possible seizure as they are transported from their storage sites to a port over roads that are battlegrounds today.

Security for the shipments is being provided entirely by Syrian military units loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, who has surprised American officials with how speedily he has complied with an agreement brokered by Russia to identify and turn over his chemical weapons stockpiles.

Syria has agreed to a deadline of Dec. 31 for destroying the most critical material, and Feb. 5 for most of the rest.

The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which announced the plan for removing the materials late on Friday, is expected to train Syrian forces to package, seal and safeguard the containers for transportation in truck convoys to the port from 23 declared weapons sites.
480 2013-11-20 Accenture, a consulting firm, estimates that one million people will enroll in private exchanges this year, but that number could grow to 40 million by 2018.

So far, the exchanges seem to appeal to companies that have a range of employees at varying pay levels — like retail and restaurant companies, which have hourly workers as well as salaried employees — because employers can offer more options in plan design, said Paul Ginsburg, president of the nonprofit Center for Studying Health System Change, which conducts health care research.

Walgreens and Sears participate in the exchange run by Aon Hewitt, a benefits consultant that started the Corporate Health Exchange in 2012 for its own employees and added outside companies for this year. For next year, the exchange has 18 companies with 330,000 employees participating. Including spouses and children, the total covered is about 600,000 people, said Ken Sperling, the company’s national exchange strategy leader. Major insurers like Aetna and UnitedHealthcare are participating.

Other firms offering private exchanges include Towers Watson, Mercer and Buck Consultants. And some insurance companies are expected to start offering their own exchanges.

Details vary, but typically participating employers determine an amount to contribute per employee toward health coverage. That varies by employer. Then, the worker goes onto the exchange to find a plan.

Some experts worry that the new model could make it easier for companies to limit their contributions to their workers’ coverage. But Mr. Sperling said that wasn’t happening. Every company participating is paying the same or more than it did in the previous year. “Nobody is using it as an excuse to cut their contributions.”

Michael Polzin, a Walgreens spokesman, said using the exchange would help the company predict costs and offer more choices to its employees. For this year, workers had a choice of four plans — two from two insurers. But on the exchange, he said, workers will have a choice of five insurers, offering up to five plans each. “It comes down to being able to give them more options to better meet their needs,” he said.

Dean Carter, chief human resources officer at Sears Holdings, said the company offered the same level of premium subsidy regardless of the plan employees choose, so those selecting one with richer benefits might have to pay more out of pocket, he said. The exchange uses the same “metallic” rankings as the public government exchange to help employees compare plans from different insurers — platinum plans generally have higher premiums, but lower deductibles; bronze plans have lower premiums and higher deductibles.

Employees see on their paycheck stub what the premium is and what portion Sears is paying. “You know the total cost,” he said.

The result, he said, is that employees seem to be paying close attention to the details of their health plan, including not only its premiums but other out-of-pocket costs, as well as doctor networks.

He said he noticed the change at the company’s annual benefit fair held during open enrollment. In years past, when Sears used a single carrier, employees would come to get key chains and other promotional trinkets from the insurance company. But this year, workers asked insurance company representatives very detailed questions.

“Is my doctor on your plan? How can I get my doctor on your plan? Why is your plan more expensive?” Mr. Carter said. Insurance carriers are used to hearing such questions from benefits executives, he said, but not necessarily directly from workers.

Sears did notice that the first year it moved to the exchange, there was a shift in workers moving to high-deductible health plans — in fact, the number tripled, Mr. Carter said. That made him concerned that employees were looking only at premiums, since most such plans have lower monthly costs, and not thinking about how much they might have to pay out of pocket for care in total.

However, he said, Sears also saw a tripling in the number of people choosing optional tax-advantaged health-savings accounts, which are offered in tandem with high-deductible plans to help cover out-of-pocket costs. That, he said, indicated that employees understood the total cost structure of the option they were choosing.

Mr. Ginsburg said it was unclear whether the new private exchanges would result in the savings companies were hoping for, given the current changes in health insurance industry. For instance, some companies are considering whether they may save money by switching to a “self-insured” model — meaning that the company pays employee health claims itself, rather than being “fully insured” and paying premiums to an insurance company, which pays the claims — in part because self-insured plans are exempt from an insurer tax required by the Affordable Care Act. Yet, some employers moving into private exchanges are switching to the fully insured plans.

Mr. Polzin said taking all factors into consideration, Walgreens decided that joining the exchange and switching to a fully insured health plan was the best option. The model, he said, “will give us more certainty of health care costs from year to year and will align the insurers with us to control costs.”
481 2013-11-20 If you expect to be among those who are required to buy insurance but are contemplating going without, you will probably want to consider what sort of costs and risks that decision may entail. A simple comparison — to insure or not to insure — makes it clear that paying the penalty may be less expensive than buying a policy for many young, middle-class people who manage to avoid serious illness or injury.

In the 2014 tax year, individuals pay whichever is more: $95 or 1 percent of the portion of their modified adjusted gross income that exceeds the federal income tax filing threshold of $10,150. So in 2014, an uninsured person with an income of $50,000 would pay a penalty of about $400. Someone earning $100,000 would pay about $900. The fine rises each year until it hits $695 per adult or 2.5 percent of income in 2016, according to CCH, a tax and accounting service.

If a young man — 28 to 30 years old — bought a typical silver plan on an exchange, he would pay roughly $2,800 in annual premiums, on average, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation’s subsidy calculator. But premiums vary: In New York City, for instance, he would pay more than $4,600 in premiums. (Younger people tend to pay more in New York State because premiums are not adjusted for age; in other states, older people can pay as much as three times as much as younger people.)

Still, premiums are only part of the equation. Silver plans generally cover 70 percent of a typical population’s medical costs. There are also deductibles and co-payments and coinsurance to pay. But if you buy a plan on any of the exchanges, annual out-of-pocket costs cannot exceed $6,350 for individuals and $12,700 for a family of two or more in 2014, according to Healthcare.gov, unless you use out-of-network providers.

Insurance may become a more attractive option once you begin to factor in the cost of treating ailments as ordinary as a back injury, which is one of the top five reasons for an outpatient visit, even for someone from the ages of 25 to 34, according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. These people might have herniated discs or cervical spine disorders, among other problems.

Consider a young uninsured man living in New York City who earns $50,000, which means his income is slightly too high for subsidized coverage. If he received treatment for his back, he would, on average, be billed about $4,890 in 2014, according to an analysis conducted by Milliman, a consulting and actuarial firm, using data from the latest Medical Expenditure Panel Survey. That includes the cost of treating his back, as well as other typical medical and prescription expenses during the year. Add in the $400 penalty, and his total outlay for the year reaches about $5,290.

But if he bought the silver plan with the cheapest premiums on the New York health insurance exchange, his overall costs would be slightly less, or $5,133, according to Milliman’s analysis. That includes about $4,311 in annual premiums and $821 in out-of-pocket costs. (Again, a young person may pay even lower premiums in other places).

A catastrophic plan, which has high deductibles and low premiums, purchased on the New York exchange would cost the young man with a compromised back $4,940, still less than remaining uninsured (about $2,200 in annual premiums and nearly $2,740 in out-of-pocket costs). Catastrophic plans, which are available to people under 30 or those suffering a hardship, generally require that you shoulder all of your medical costs until you meet the hefty annual deductible.

But there are instances where the uninsured young person — even one with a medical ailment — could potentially pay less. Milliman estimates that a young person with asthma would incur medical charges of $2,200 a year, or less than half the cost of buying the cheapest silver plan in New York.

Of course, landing in the hospital even for just a few days — about $11,600 a night for a medical or surgical stay, Milliman estimates — could push any person, young or old, to the financial brink, though a consumer could potentially negotiate those rates down.

Running this sort of cost-benefit analysis is by no means exhaustive and is meant only to provide an unscientific glimpse into what it might cost one person with or without insurance. Even the cheapest plans will cover certain essential services, including free preventive care, which could save people money over the long run. “People with insurance are less likely to postpone needed services,” said Dan Bailey, a consulting health care actuary and fellow of the Society of Actuaries.

In fact, some experts said that young people didn’t skip coverage because they believed they were invincible. Instead, they’re likely to buy insurance when they can find an affordable option — or, at least, find someone like their parents to pay their way. Three million more young adults have gained insurance under the law’s provision that allows young adults to stay on their parents’ policies until their 26th birthday, said Sara R. Collins, vice president of the health care coverage and access program at the Commonwealth Fund.

Many people may qualify for federal subsidies that will pay for a large portion or all of the monthly cost of some health care plans on the exchanges.

Other uninsured people will avoid the penalty because they qualify for an exception: For instance, you are not required to buy insurance if the cost exceeds 8 percent of your income.

“A large share of young adults currently uninsured will have incomes so low that they will not be subject to the penalty,” Ms. Collins said. She was referring to the exemption for people with incomes below the filing threshold (in 2013, that’s $10,000 for individuals and $20,000 for couples). They would be eligible for Medicaid.

There is still some question over how the government will enforce the penalty, which the Supreme Court determined is a tax. The Internal Revenue Service is not allowed to resort to its usual tactics, such as using levies or liens, to collect the tax from people who do not pay it, nor can it criminally prosecute them. The I.R.S. can withhold money from people who are owed a refund, but it is not clear what happens when people aren’t owed anything.

There are still millions of people who are expected to pay the penalty and take their chances. “Getting struck by lightning is an insignificant risk,” said Stuart D. Rachlin, a principal and consulting actuary at Milliman, who calculated that the average American under the age of 65 had a 10 percent chance of incurring more than $30,000 in medical charges, including drugs, in a year. “To me, a 10 percent risk is a meaningful possibility.”
482 2013-11-20 The Gotham Organization, a developer, has installed an ambitious 10,000-square-foot market at the ground level of a blocklong residential project on the West Side that houses a collection of food counters, open kitchens and retail space. Think an industrial version of the Plaza Food Hall. “We’re in between the theater district and Hudson River Park, so we think there has to be traffic,” said Christopher Jaskiewicz, the chief operating officer of Gotham. Seamus Mullen’s El Colmado serves tapas with beer and wine, Little Chef offers Caroline Fidanza’s soups and sandwiches, and Court Street Grocers makes sandwiches. The Cannibal is where you will find charcuterie, and Genuine Roadside has diner food. Blue Bottle Coffee and Ivan Ramen Slurp Shop have also set up there, along with Brooklyn Kitchen, which sells produce, groceries and kitchenware. (Opens Wednesday): 600 11th Avenue (44th Street), 212-582-7940, gothamwestmarket.com.

BUTTER MIDTOWN Alex Guarnaschelli is the chef and a partner at this spacious theater district branch of the downtown Butter. The menu is eclectic, with a raw bar, Welsh rarebit, chicken liver mousse with schmaltz, and homemade cavatappi with lamb. There is a garden. (Opens Wednesday): Cassa Hotel, 70 West 45th Street, 212-253-2828, butterrestaurant.com.

MISSION CANTINA A bright sliver of a space with an open kitchen dishes up Danny Bowien’s interpretation of Mexican food. Expect dishes like scallop and beef heart ceviche, mole-rubbed chicken wings and assorted tacos. Rotisserie chicken, the dish of the moment around town, is for two here, well brined, stuffed with sticky rice and chorizo, and showered with mint. (Wednesday): 172 Orchard Street (Stanton Street), 212-254-2233, missioncantinanyc.com.

NYY STEAK The original, in Yankee Stadium, now has this sprawling Midtown branch, with over 16,000 square feet on three floors in a former bank. It is a partnership between Yankee Global Enterprises and Hard Rock International. Along with the requisite slabs of aged beef, the restaurant will offer lobster mac and cheese, pork chops and sesame-crusted tuna. (Monday): 7 West 51st Street, 646-977-8325, nyysteak.com.

100 MONTADITOS This Spanish chain serving inexpensive tapa-size baked sandwiches will open a branch in New York. (Friday): 176 Bleecker Street (Macdougal Street), 646-719-1713, 100montaditos.com.
483 2013-11-20 In her editorial capacity, Ms. Zolotow was known as a midwife of books of immense emotional honesty: Ms. Kerr’s “Night Kites,” for instance, was among the first novels for young adults to deal with AIDS. In editing writers for younger children, Ms. Zolotow was also a skilled matchmaker, pairing them with many of the illustrators whose work adorned her own books.

Ms. Zolotow concern for children’s deepest feelings, she often said, was rooted in her own uneasy childhood.

Charlotte Gertrude Shapiro was born in Norfolk, Va., on June 26, 1915. Her mother, Ella, was a suffragist and active member of Hadassah. Her father, Louis, was a lawyer and not terribly successful businessman, and the Shapiros moved often, fetching up in Detroit; Brookline, Mass.; and New York City.

Growing up, Charlotte was awkward, sickly and shy; because of her family’s frequent moves, she was often the new girl in class. She wore a back brace for scoliosis, and that, combined with the eyeglasses and orthodontic braces she also wore, only compounded her self-consciousness. She found solace in books, and determined early to be a writer.

In the 1930s, she studied at the University of Wisconsin, where she took classes in art, writing and child psychology, exquisitely apt preparation for her future calling. She began her publishing career in New York, in the adult trade-book division of Harper & Brothers, as the publisher was called long ago.

By the late ’30s, her work had come to the attention of Ursula Nordstrom, who ran Harper’s children’s division and offered Ms. Zolotow a job there. A venerable, imposing figure, Ms. Nordstrom was widely considered the finest children’s book editor of the era.

Ms. Zolotow soon developed a reputation as an astute handicapper of talent. In 1967, she happened to see a television adaptation of Paul Zindel’s then little-known 1964 drama, “The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,” about a disturbed mother and her two teenage daughters.

Captivated by the teleplay, which starred Eileen Heckart, Ms. Zolotow discerned in Mr. Zindel the profound understanding of adolescents that can elude even good writers. She invited him to start work on a book for young adults, something he had never done.

The result was Mr. Zindel’s widely praised young-adult novel “The Pigman” (1968), about two teenagers who ensnare an elderly man in a confidence game but end up befriending him. (Ms. Zolotow turned out to be a more astute handicapper than even she had realized: “The Effect of Gamma Rays,” produced belatedly Off Broadway in 1970 with Sada Thompson as the mother, won the Pulitzer Prize for drama the next year.)

In the mid-’70s, on Ms. Nordstrom’s retirement from Harper & Row, Ms. Zolotow succeeded her as the head of its children’s division, Harper Junior Books; she also held the titles of vice president and associate publisher at the company. She was named publisher emerita at HarperCollins in 1991.

Her other books as an author include a series of picture books on emotions, among them “The Hating Book” (1969), illustrated by Ben Shecter; and a series about the natural world, including “The Seashore Book” (1992), illustrated by Wendell Minor.

Ms. Zolotow’s marriage to Maurice Zolotow, a writer of show-business biographies, ended in divorce. Survivors include her daughter, Ms. Dragonwagon (nee Ellen Zolotow); a son, Stephen, a professional poker player who has won the World Series of Poker twice; a grandchild; and two great-grandchildren.

Writing in The Horn Book, a journal of children’s literature, in 1985, Ms. Zolotow offered a brief for honesty in books for children about even the most difficult subjects.

“We are all the same,” she wrote, “except that adults have found ways to buffer themselves against the full-blown intensity of a child’s emotions.”

She added, “We are not different from the children we were — only more experienced, better able to disguise our feelings from others, if not ourselves.”
484 2013-11-20 Dennis A. Cropper, executive director of Rockbridge Area Community Services, said Gus Deeds was evaluated at Bath Community Hospital, according to The Richmond Times-Dispatch. Mr. Cropper issued a statement late Tuesday declining to elaborate, citing the family’s wish for privacy.

In the wake of the Virginia Tech shootings in 2007 by a mentally ill gunman, the state made it easier to get involuntary commitment orders.

Gus Deeds, whose given name was Austin, was alive when the police arrived at the house he shared with his father and stepmother, Ms. Geller said. He died soon after from his wounds.

Despite his injuries, Creigh Deeds was able to walk down the driveway from his home in the community of Millboro to a state highway, the authorities said. A cousin who was driving by took him to his house. The authorities responded to a 911 call at 7:25 a.m.

The stabbing sent shock waves through Virginia political circles. The governor-elect, Terry McAuliffe, said in a statement, “Dorothy and I are praying for Senator Creigh Deeds and his family in the wake of this awful tragedy.”

Senator Mark Warner posted a Twitter message saying: “Stunning news from Bath County. I am praying for Creigh Deeds and his family at this very, very difficult time.”

Mr. Deeds won the 2009 Democratic primary for governor, defeating Mr. McAuliffe, who in his second try was elected governor this month over Attorney General Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II.

Mr. Deeds was trounced four years ago in the general election by Bob McDonnell, the departing governor, who won in a 17-point landslide.

Gus Deeds was one of four children of Mr. Deeds and his former wife, Pam, whose marriage ended a few months after the 2009 general election. Mr. Deeds remarried in 2012. The couple shared a home with Gus, a former student of the College of William & Mary. His Facebook page said he liked mountain climbing, instrument making and computer games. Under political views, he wrote, “Too busy with love to care.”

As a state senator, Mr. Deeds has represented the 25th District in rural western Virginia since 2001. Before that, he served nine years in the Virginia House of Delegates.

In an interview last summer, he reflected on his upset 2009 primary victory over two better-known Democrats: Mr. McAuliffe and Brian Moran, the leader of the Democratic caucus in the House of Delegates. “I won the primary, much to the surprise of a lot of people,” he said. He lamented that he had never been a very good fund-raiser and was unable to reconstitute the coalition that had elected President Obama in Virginia in 2008.

“Our first bit of polling indicated there was no argument we could make that would allow us to duplicate the turnout of 2008,” Mr. Deeds recalled. “The only thing we could do was go very negative against Bob McDonnell. We started to do that, but that’s not who I am.”
485 2013-11-20 In the early 1960s, a small but vocal subset of the Dallas power structure turned the political climate toxic, inciting a right-wing hysteria that led to attacks on visiting public figures. In the years and months before Kennedy was assassinated, Lyndon B. Johnson; his wife, Lady Bird; and Adlai E. Stevenson, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, were jostled and spat upon in Dallas by angry mobs. In sermons, rallies, newspapers and radio broadcasts, the city’s richest oil baron, a Republican congressman, a Baptist pastor and others, including the local John Birch Society, filled Dallas with an angry McCarthyesque paranoia.

The immediate reaction of many in Dallas to the news that Kennedy had been shot was not only shock but also a sickening sense of recognition. Moments after hearing about the shooting, the wife of the Methodist bishop told Tom J. Simmons, an editor at The Dallas Morning News, “You might have known it would be Dallas.”

For months, a city that had long been proud of its image of wealth and success has been exploring this ugly past, a past it once sought to play down and even ignore. A letter co-signed by Mr. Rawlings inviting the public to a recent symposium bluntly asked, “Were we somehow to blame?” The Dallas Morning News — whose publisher in the 1960s, Ted Dealey, used to refer to the N.A.A.C.P. as the National Association for the Agitation of the Colored People — has not spared Mr. Dealey from its 50th-anniversary coverage. Last month, it called Mr. Dealey’s face-to-face ridiculing of Kennedy, which came in 1961 at a White House luncheon, a “rude display.”

Time has given Dallas enough distance; the majority of residents were either not born or were living elsewhere 50 years ago, and the white-hot figures have either died or moved away. But more important, Dallas has been comfortable publicly grappling with its past in part because what it was then is so different from what it is now.

In 1963, Dallas was the 14th-largest city in the country, with a majority-white population of nearly 700,000, a provincial place whose mostly white, mostly male establishment set the agenda. In 2013, Dallas is the nation’s ninth-largest city, with a majority-minority population of 1.2 million. It is home to the first black district attorney in Texas and the largest urban arts district in the country. Most of the suburbs in the Dallas-Fort Worth region are solidly Republican and bastions of Tea Party conservatives, but Dallas itself leans Democratic. Though President Obama lost Texas in the 2012 election by nearly 1.3 million votes, he handily won Dallas County.

“Dallas is like our country; we are a work in progress,” said Ron Kirk, who served as the city’s first black mayor from 1995 to 2002. “When you look back and reflect on some of the rhetoric that filled our city streets, you do realize that that can target us all, and the actions of a few have the ability to reflect back on all of us.”

The extremism in Dallas in 1963 still thrives in Texas today, though less so in Dallas itself. Back then, commentators on the radio program sponsored by the oil baron H. L. Hunt said that under Kennedy, firearms would be outlawed so people would not “have the weapons with which to rise up against their oppressors.”

This past February, in West Texas, the sheriff in Midland County, Gary Painter, said at a John Birch Society luncheon that he would refuse to confiscate people’s guns from their homes if ordered by the Obama administration and referred to the president’s State of the Union address as propaganda.

Other Texas politicians in recent years have embraced or suggested support for increasingly radical views, including Texas secession, Mr. Obama’s impeachment and claims that the sovereignty of the United States will be handed over to the United Nations. And, of course, it is not just in Texas.

“I recently met a retired autoworker in Detroit who told me that I could change my book title to ‘America 2013,’ and the story would be the same,” said Bill Minutaglio, a former Dallas reporter whose new book, “Dallas 1963,” written with Steven L. Davis, examines the far-right fringe in the city. He said “modern demonizing politics in America” in some ways took shape in Dallas in the 1960s. He added, “It is as if the lessons in Dallas have not been learned 50 years later.”

Lee Harvey Oswald was a Marxist and not a product of right-wing Dallas. But because the anti-Kennedy tenor came not so much from radical outcasts but from parts of mainstream Dallas, some say the anger seemed to come with the city’s informal blessing.

“It was, I think, a city that was tolerant of hate and hate language,” said John A. Hill, 71, who in 1963 was student-body president of Southern Methodist University in Dallas. “There were people who spoke out against that, but in general city leaders were indifferent to that toxic atmosphere.”

In the 1970s, there was a strong push to tear down the shuttered Texas School Book Depository. A handful of leaders, including Wes Wise, then the mayor, succeeded in preserving the red brick building, which the county bought in 1977. The top two floors were later turned into a museum. Now, more than 320,000 people each year stand next to Oswald’s sniper’s perch on the sixth floor and peer out the windows at Dealey Plaza below.

“When you think about an effort to tear down the building in the ’70s, you can really get a sense of how far Dallas has come in accepting and internalizing this deep tragedy,” said Stephen Fagin, associate curator of the Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza, which opened in 1989. “This is the journey Dallas has taken, from assassination to commemoration, moving from memory to history.”

Now its first five floors are occupied by county offices. One who often has county business there is Sheriff Valdez.

After becoming sheriff in 2005, she struggled in her first three or four years to change the culture of the department, some members of which were hostile to the notion of a Latina lesbian sheriff. “It depends on who you asked,” she said, when asked of the initial reaction. “If you asked some of the good old boys, I can’t repeat the phrases that were said.”

But the department has changed tremendously since 2005, she said. Just as Dallas has changed since 1963. “That was 50 years ago,” Sheriff Valdez said. “My goodness. I hope we’ve changed some.”
486 2013-11-20 Some patients, many of whom suffered severe pain and injury from metallic debris generated by the device, spent years trying to convince doctors that there was a problem while Johnson & Johnson was denying one.

The now-recalled device, known as the Articular Surface Replacement, or A.S.R., ranks as one of the most-flawed medical implants sold in recent decades. The DePuy Orthopaedics division of Johnson & Johnson estimated in an internal document in 2011 that the device would fail within five years in 40 percent of the patients who received it.

Traditional artificial hips, which are made of metal and plastic, typically last 15 years or more before requiring replacement. DePuy recalled its device in mid-2010 amid rising failure rates.

The A.S.R. was sold in two versions, one for use in traditional hip replacement and the other for an alternative procedure known as hip resurfacing. Beginning in 2003, it was implanted in about 93,000 patients, about one-third of them in the United States.

The A.S.R., which had a metal ball and a metal cup, sheds metallic debris as it wears, generating particles that have damaged tissue in some patients or caused crippling injuries.

The precise value of the settlement was not known because it would vary based on the number of plaintiffs who qualified for it.

DePuy faces about 12,000 legal claims in the United States related to A.S.R.’s. Lawyers estimate that about 8,000 of those claims involve patients who underwent operations to have an A.S.R. removed and replaced.

The remaining plaintiffs, about 4,000 patients, would not receive any compensation, though there is a provision to add $250,000 to the deal for each patient who undergoes a replacement procedure before the plan is completed. The lawyers believe that Johnson & Johnson will probably have to make a subsequent settlement with additional patients as the device fails in them.

Thus far, only two A.S.R. lawsuits have gone to trial: In March, a Los Angeles jury ordered DePuy to pay $8 million in damages to a Montana man after finding that the A.S.R. was defectively designed. In August, a Chicago jury sided with DePuy and rejected claims that it had inappropriately marketed the implant.

How the payout figures were arrived at was unclear. Three representative cases were scheduled to go to trial in coming months, and their conclusions were supposed to provide a guideline for the amounts DePuy would pay out.

Under the plan announced on Tuesday, the payment by Johnson & Johnson would be divided into two pots. The deal would create a $2 billion pool to cover basic awards and a separate $475 million pool to cover additional payments to compensate those patients who sustained more significant injuries related to the device or its removal and replacement.

The average basic award of $250,000 would be affected by a variety of factors. Under the plan, plaintiffs who smoke, are overweight or are older would see their payments reduced.

In addition, patients who had the device longer would also see reductions. For example, the average payment to a patient who had the device for five to six years would fall to $225,000, and it would be reduced to $200,000 for a patient who had it six to seven years.

For patients who qualify for the special pool, their payouts would increase based on the severity of their injuries. Lawyers do not know the number of patients who would qualify for the pool, but they estimate that the figure might be about 10 percent of claimants.

Some of the patients included in the pool would be those who got A.S.R.’s for both hips or who had a hip so badly damaged by the device that a procedure to replace it was not completely successful.

Johnson & Johnson’s decision to pay separately all medical costs related to a device replacement is unusual, lawyers said. Typically, such costs are part of a settlement award and a claimant is then liable for paying back an insurer or Medicare for their medical costs.

If the deal is approved, the biggest single payment will probably go to the committee of plaintiffs’ lawyers involved in negotiating the plan. Under the plan, they could receive a 6 percent fee, or about $150 million.

“Thousands of A.S.R. patients have been through a very difficult and painful experience,” a committee statement said.
487 2013-11-20 Shares of the electronics retailer Best Buy plunged after it said extended store hours and price-cutting could squeeze its fourth-quarter profit. Campbell Soup fell sharply after reporting that its profit slumped as sales of soups and V8 drinks fell. The two stocks were the biggest decliners in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Even with the slight decline, the S.&P. 500 is still up 25.4 percent so far in 2013 and has risen for six weeks straight, the longest winning streak since February. The extended run-up has prompted a number of market watchers to call for caution.

”We’ve had a phenomenal run, particularly in the last few weeks,” said Alec Young, global equity strategist with S&P Capital IQ. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we would pull back from here.”

The Dow Jones industrial average edged down 8.99 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to close at 15,967.03, its first decline in five trading sessions. The S.&P. index lost 3.66 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,787.87, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 17.51 points, or 0.4 percent, to 3,931.55.

The Dow briefly rose above 16,000 for a second day, while the S.&P. 500 crossed 1,800 on Monday, but both indexes backed away from those milestones at the close.
488 2013-11-20 By comparison, the Nissan Leaf — the best-selling all-electric car on the market — has not had any reported fires.

A federal defect investigation can take months to complete, and could include crash tests of the vehicle well beyond the ordinary government testing done on cars before introduction.

Tesla said it would increase the ground clearance of the Model S, and it also pledged to extend its current vehicle warranty to cover fire damage.

But those changes are not expected to divert the focus of the investigation, or minimize the potential for the safety agency to order structural changes and a vehicle recall.

“Adjustments or modifications of the vehicle will not affect the inquiry,” said Karl Brauer, an analyst with the auto research firm Kelley Blue Book. “That is out of Tesla’s hands now, and the range of potential outcomes is very wide.”

As a start-up company in the keenly competitive global auto industry, Tesla has, until now, enjoyed remarkable early success with its Model S luxury sedan.

Mr. Musk’s track record as a Silicon Valley entrepreneur gave the company credibility that helped it secure a $465 million loan from the Department of Energy in 2010.

Glowing reviews of the Model S, which is priced at $70,000 and higher, fueled investor interest in a public stock offering that allowed Tesla to pay back its government loans early.

The company has since become a darling of Wall Street because of steadily growing sales of the Model S and Tesla’s promise to bring less expensive models to market in the future. Tesla stock, which has slid about 35 percent from its high, closed at $126.09 on Tuesday.

But the safety agency inquiry has raised questions about what was perceived to be one of Tesla’s greatest strengths — its technological superiority.

Mr. Musk has not retreated from his position that the Model S is safer from fires than vehicles with gasoline engines.

And in a blog posting on the company website on Monday, Mr. Musk went so far as to assert that Tesla asked federal regulators to conduct the safety investigation to allay any fears about electric cars. “There is a larger issue at stake,” Mr. Musk wrote. “If a false perception about the safety of electric cars is allowed to linger, it will delay the advent of sustainable transport and increase the risk of global climate change, with potentially disastrous consequences worldwide.”

The agency flatly denied on Tuesday that the inquiry was opened because of a Tesla request.

The swift rebuttal of Mr. Musk underscores how Tesla’s relentless promotional campaign is wearing thin on regulators charged with making the nation’s vehicles and roadways safe.

The agency, in fact, had originally cleared the Model S of possible defects after the first vehicle fire, which occurred Oct. 1, when the car struck a metal object on a highway in Kent, Wash., outside of Seattle.

A high-speed crash in Mexico on Oct. 18 also resulted in a fire, but that incident was beyond the scope of American regulators. A third fire occurred on Nov. 6 on a highway in Smyrna, Tenn., near Nashville, after a Model S ran over a tow hitch in the roadway.

That accident prompted regulators to revisit their earlier pronouncement of the car’s safety.

“The agency has opened a formal investigation to determine if a safety defect exists in certain Model S vehicles,” the agency said in a statement on Tuesday.

Automakers generally cooperate with federal investigations of their vehicles, and participate in developing safety solutions. Even when a company disputes the agency’s findings — as Chrysler did recently with an investigation of gas tanks on its Jeep sport utility vehicles — it usually agrees to make changes to the vehicle rather than risk a long, public battle that can damage its reputation.

Industry analysts said the Model S inquiry would center on the exposure of its battery pack, a long, flat slab that runs almost the entire length of the underside of the vehicle.

Other all-electric cars have smaller battery packs that are not as vulnerable to damage by metal objects in the road. The battery in BMW’s new i3 model, for example, is protected by a thick metal floor, according to the carmaker. BMW also said the electrolytes that store energy in its batteries are suspended in a gel that is less likely to leak than liquid electrolytes could in a collision.

BMW said it performed “extensive development” tests on the i3 battery system before introducing the car this year.

Tesla is a much smaller company than BMW or Nissan, and may not have had the same financial resources for engineering tests.

Mr. Brauer, the Kelley Blue Book analyst, said the N.H.T.S.A. investigation would most likely include puncture-testing the battery, and then monitoring chemical reactions that may occur after the battery is damaged.

If the design is deemed structurally unsound, the agency could recommend that Tesla add a protective covering to the cars, which would be expensive and could compromise its performance.

Whatever the outcome, the inquiry promises to be a lengthy process that could hurt sales of the Model S in the interim.

“For a while this company appeared infallible,” Mr. Brauer said. “Now the most important thing is that they cooperate with the regulators and do what it takes to regain their safety reputation.’
489 2013-11-20 The first is the lack of easy access to low-cost information about creditworthiness. Such information often resides in too many places; Ireland and the Netherlands, for example, have no credit registry run by a central bank that would allow other banks to check their own exposure against a small firm’s outstanding aggregate debt. Other regulations actually prevent the easy sharing of information to those that need it most. In Portugal, restrictions on accessing historical information about potential new clients hamper the ability of banks and investors to judge risk.

The second impediment consists of tax, legal and regulatory disincentives that hinder SMEs from achieving greater scale and financial health. That, in turn, limits their creditworthiness, because smaller firms are more susceptible to economic swings than larger ones. In Spain, for example, auditing regulations unintentionally stifle growth, notably through a requirement to have an external audit when a firm reaches annual revenues of €6 million.

The third and fourth impediments prevent banks and alternative sources of financing from fully serving demand, especially once European growth accelerates. Banks now can shoulder less credit risk than before the crisis, and they’re in the midst of significant deleveraging. Even so, better credit guarantees and broader use of credit insurance could spur more lending.

Beyond banks, some countries lack the funding sources that firms should be able to tap at different stages of maturity, whether they are high-potential startups or firms that need to restructure. Britain and Italy have comparable populations and economic output, but British venture capital and private equity firms provide 20 times more funding than their Italian counterparts. Italy and other countries where small firms play a more prominent role, like Portugal, Greece and Spain, also suffer from weak supporting ecosystems of legal, accounting and regulatory participants.

Many initiatives throughout Europe have begun to help reduce these impediments. We found, however, that a best practice in one country was not necessarily well-known elsewhere. For instance, Standard Business Reporting, or SBR, a common, simple, digital language for business-to-government reporting, has worked well in the Netherlands since 2008. It allows a Dutch firm to submit its financial accounts to tax authorities, business registers and banks as an input to credit applications. If adopted elsewhere, SBR could significantly reduce information costs.

France offers another example via the impressive central credit registry run by the Banque de France, which also provides credit ratings on nearly 280,000 firms, most of them small and medium enterprises. Similar information in other countries could do a lot to lower the cost and improve the availability of information on creditworthiness.

We found equally promising initiatives in Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain involving credit guarantees, tax incentives for equity investments and bankruptcy restructuring.

So how can each country address these impediments? Most of the effort should be led at the national level. The solutions will be complex and require coordination across different groups. We recommend the establishment of technocratic, nonpartisan national task forces with participants from small business, the public sector, banks and providers of alternative financing, so that each task force can craft solutions tailored to its national environment.

This process won’t be easy, but we believe it can succeed. Most of the potential solutions have already shown promise in one country or another. During our interviews, we heard enthusiasm for learning about what works abroad and how it can be adapted at home.

Europe needs small and medium-sized businesses that are globally competitive, highly productive and able to seize the benefits of the single market. Focused national task forces and better sharing of innovative processes will get Europe on the path to stronger job creation and economic growth.

Jeffrey Anderson is senior director for European Affairs at the Institute of International Finance in Washington. John Ott is a senior partner at Bain & Co. in London.
490 2013-11-21 Early in his presidency, John F. Kennedy feared that in the face of a conflict he might not be in full control of the warmongering operatives in his government. The nuclear threat was palpable, and, as Cory Taylor explains in his well-researched documentary “JFK: A President Betrayed,” Kennedy had learned his lesson with the Bay of Pigs invasion. (According to the film, narrated by Morgan Freeman, he blamed himself for not asking the C.I.A. the right questions.)

The military leadership and some senior advisers thought it would make the United States look weak to reach out to our enemies. Kennedy, however, said, “never fear to negotiate.” This information is well known. What Mr. Taylor’s documentary skillfully examines is how Kennedy subverted these leaders, using emissaries to approach Nikita Khrushchev and Fidel Castro, and how he tried to change a staid approach to foreign policy.

Historical footage of Kennedy’s speeches and other events are interspersed with interviews with historians and writers (Evan Thomas, Peter Kornbluh, Gareth Porter); former Kennedy aides (Dan Fenn and Tazewell T. Shepard Jr., who has since died); Khrushchev’s son Sergei; and Kennedy and Khrushchev’s interpreters from their Vienna summit. A brief section reviews Kennedy’s much-debated policy on Vietnam. Here we see paperwork showing that, at the time of his death, he wanted the United States advisers out.

While the film’s subtitle screams conspiracy, the documentary only mildly suggests that the assassination of the president was an inside job. Fifty years later, this is one of many additions to the Kennedy catalog. Although it’s more suited for the small screen, it is a worthy entry nonetheless.
491 2013-11-21 Company executives admitted that their fixation on personal computers blinded it to the reality that computing intelligence is traveling to ever-smaller things....
492 2013-11-21 An easygoing, sometimes tough-going meander through the world of ideas, the animated documentary “Is the Man Who Is Tall Happy?” finds the French director Michel Gondry playing wide-eyed student to none other than Noam Chomsky. They’re a charmingly unpredictable, appealing match. Mr. Gondry, best known for films like “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” and “The Green Hornet,” has occasionally dipped into documentary, with titles like the expansive “Dave Chappelle’s Block Party” (in which the comic hosts a rocking Brooklyn block party) and the considerably more hermetic “The Thorn in the Heart” (about Mr. Gondry’s aunt and her son).

Noam Chomsky is, well, Noam Chomsky: the linguist, philosopher and spectacularly prolific author — he has more than 100 books to his name — who’s often better known for his leftist politics. Born on Dec. 7, 1928, Mr. Chomsky belongs to that rare American species, the public intellectual, and his website, www.chomsky.info, testifies to the breadth and depth of his impact in a section called “Writings on Chomsky.” Here, you can find more than 100 articles that chart his life, interests and controversies in terse, headline form: from “Chomsky’s Revolution in Linguistics” (1972) to “The Pariah” (1985); “Conscience of a Nation” (2001); “Does Noam Chomsky Hate America?” (2003); and “After Multiple Denials, CIA Admits to Snooping on Noam Chomsky” (2013).

Mr. Gondry was introduced to Mr. Chomsky by watching several documentaries, including “Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and the Media” (1993). Eventually, the two men met and talked, and talked some more, a dialogue that led to “Is the Man Who Is Tall Happy?” Mr. Gondry decided to animate their conversations to reveal — in a Chomsky-ian move — the filmmaking process that ordinarily remains hidden for the viewer’s pleasure (and manipulation). Using old-fashioned, hand-drawn animation; a bright, pulsing palette; and live interviews shot with a 16-millimeter film camera (a Bolex — hurray!), Mr. Gondry lays bare his own process as well as his intellectual anxieties as he gently questions and sometimes prods the admirably patient Mr. Chomsky.

Among their topics is the sentence that gives the movie its title and that Mr. Chomsky has used, by moving one word, to argue that the linguistic information children receive is insufficient to explain how they acquire the grammar of language. “It seems plain,” Mr. Chomsky has written, “that language acquisition is based on the child’s discovery of what, from a formal point of view, is a deep and abstract theory — a generative grammar of his language — many of the concepts and principles of which are only remotely related to experience by long and intricate chains of unconscious quasi-inferential steps.”

When Mr. Chomsky diagrams the title sentence with a marker to reveal its grammatical structure, Mr. Gondry makes those words come richly, cogently, to life.

Blissfully unconventional as a documentary and as an intellectual endeavor, “Is the Man Who Is Tall Happy?” won’t tell you everything you’ve always wanted to know about Mr. Chomsky, but its modesty is one of its strengths, along with Mr. Gondry’s entrancing, vibrant illustrations. Both go a long way toward smoothing over some rough patches. Mr. Chomsky speaks in a low, generally unmodulated voice that can border on the soporific, especially when he drifts into abstraction.

One of the pleasures of the movie, though, is that Mr. Gondry remains acutely tuned into these passages, which he addresses with a startling openness and a lack of directorial ego. This is a movie that celebrates the life of a great mind and makes a case for the mind that knows less but keeps on asking.
493 2013-11-21 Thursday’s highlights from around the web include the inside story of the only private lawyer to have argued before the secret foreign intelligence court. Plus, why do companies always seem to leave out a founder from the creation story (and sto...
494 2013-11-21 The fashion retailer priced its stock sale at $20 a share, a dollar above its expected range. At that price, investors valued the clothing store chain at $726 million....
495 2013-11-21 Gray flannel, a fabric usually reserved for men — in a banker’s suit or a hunter’s henley — has been reimagined for the everyday woman. When combined with leather, it can transform an ordinary baseball cap into a chic topper for any outfit, a basic tablet case into a handsome clutch or a simple duffel into a prim carryall. A basic flannel skirt gets dressed up when paired with punklike jewelry in gray tones. Other gray materials can offer similar impact to flannel as well. Pony hair, as seen on these elegant Chanel loafers, is a feminine alternative that is well suited for ladies who lunch. The ombré effect on this neoprene knit sweater from Proenza Schouler offers a contemporary riff on the idea of gray flannel that looks as at home on the streets as it does surf-side.
496 2013-11-21 A jury said that Samsung Electronics would have to pay Apple nearly $290 million in damages for violating patents, putting an end to one chapter in the long-running patent saga between the two tech companies.
497 2013-11-21 A second set of members of President Obama’s 2012 advertising and data team have formed a firm to work for political clients, businesses and nonprofit organizations....
498 2013-11-21 A rough approximation of the number of filibusters mounted.

Seventy-six presidential nominees have moved through committees and are waiting for confirmation in the Senate. Filibusters have contributed to a backlog of nominees, leaving high-level positions vacant for extended periods of time. Republicans have recently filibustered three nominees to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Soon after the rule change on Thursday, which allows nominees to advance to a confirmation vote by a simple majority of senators rather than the 60-vote super- majority, Democrats voted to move forward on one of the nominees.
499 2013-11-21 A short trailer for this year’s Movies Issue, with videos going online on Monday, Nov. 25....
500 2013-11-21 Inflation tumbles. A buyer’s guide for alternative lending. Brad Feld and Jim Collins talk start-up communities....
501 2013-11-21 The move, known as “ring fencing,” is designed to protect the Zurich bank’s retail customers and shield the overall bank from another financial crisis....
502 2013-11-21 Detroit defenseman Danny DeKeyser is expected to be out for at least three to four weeks with a separated left shoulder. He was hurt early in Tuesday night’s 2-0 loss to the Nashville Predators when he was checked into the boards by Predators forward Patric Hornqvist. DeKeyser ranks among the rookie leaders in assists, with seven.
503 2013-11-21 Women who use birth control pills for several years or longer may want to consider having their eyes checked more regularly as they get older, as a new study suggests the pills may double their lifetime risk of developing glaucoma....
504 2013-11-21 In an alarming 5-to-4 ruling, the Supreme Court turned away an emergency application to block a new Texas law that is impeding access to safe and legal abortion care in the state. The ruling leaves in place an order by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit that allowed the law go into effect while it considers an appeal.

The Texas law requires doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital. A federal district judge, Lee Yeakel, ruled last month that this provision serves no medical purpose and improperly infringes on women’s reproductive rights. The requirement forces a third of Texas’ abortion doctors to stop offering the procedure. Judge Yeakel issued an injunction blocking the provision, which a three-judge panel of the appellate court promptly lifted.

The justices should have blocked the law as the appeal proceeds. The court’s 1992 decision in Planned Parenthood v. Casey forbids state regulations that have “the purpose or effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus” — a principle this provision clearly violates.

Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito Jr. (Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. and Justice Anthony Kennedy did not join in the majority opinion but presumably voted to allow the law to go into effect), wrote that the plaintiffs had not met the “heavy” procedural burden of showing that the appeals court ruling was “a clear violation of accepted legal standards.” But as Justice Stephen Breyer rightly noted in his dissent, “The longer a given facility remains closed, the less likely it is ever to reopen even if the admitting privileges requirement is ultimately held unconstitutional.”

The Supreme Court’s procedural decision will affect thousands of women who would have sought abortions at the clinics no longer offering that service. The justices should follow their own precedent and strike down the admitting privileges rule if and when they are asked to directly consider its constitutionality.
505 2013-11-21 “China’s New Agenda” (editorial, Nov. 17) highlighted several planned policy shifts by China, including important developments concerning human rights. As the daughter of a Chinese political prisoner, I welcome China’s commitment to begin reforming its abysmal rights record with much trepidation, as its continued refusal to permit fundamental freedoms of expression and dissent call into question the stability of any progress.

My father, Wang Bingzhang, was the founder of China’s overseas democracy movement. A medical doctor by education, he instead devoted his life to what he believed were basic freedoms long overdue to the Chinese people.

In 2002, my father was abducted from Vietnam, stolen away by boat to China and arrested by the Chinese police. He was subjected to a sham trial, where no evidence or witnesses were presented, and sentenced to life in prison. He has been held in solitary confinement ever since.

As your editorial pointed out, China recently committed to dialing down capital punishment, but is the torture of indefinite solitary confinement much better? The plight of activists like my father highlights the need to press further. Among all the promised reforms, nothing indicates that what happened to my father cannot and will not happen again to someone else.
506 2013-11-21 Recently I was removed with my service dog from a US Airways flight, as mentioned in your article, though I was neither named nor asked to comment. The article cites the airline’s contention that I was abusive. It does not note that my fellow passengers were appalled by how I was treated and protested vehemently.

Being booted from that flight was a nightmare, but it brought out the best in people and provided an opportunity to dispel stereotypes of blind people as unable to participate in life fully.

For those who are blind or otherwise disabled, access to the right tools restores infinite possibilities. My guide dog is one such resource.

If my experience builds understanding, empathy and support for the blind and visually impaired, it will have been worth it.

The writer is founder of the not-for-profit My Blind Spot.

Enough is enough! No, I’m not talking about a problem with letting dogs on airplanes; I’m talking about these overwrought complaints from people.

I fly constantly and rarely see an animal on a plane — maybe one animal every seven or eight flights. And I recently read complaints about the horrible smell of people’s feet when they take their shoes off on planes. I’ve frequently been next to people who removed their shoes, and have done it myself, and I’ve never smelled anyone’s feet. And if I did, I would simply ask the offending person to put an article of clothing over his or her feet to mask the smell.
507 2013-11-21 The weather was mild on the subway system’s perfect day — clear skies to coax New Yorkers outdoors, paired with a breeze that discouraged long walks.

There were probably few vacations planned, with summer a recent memory and the year-end holidays looming.

It was, perhaps most important, a Thursday.

And so, on Oct. 24, 5,985,311 subway rides were taken in New York City, the most in recorded history, according to an internal memo prepared by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority last week. (The authority began keeping daily records in 1985.)

The feat was consistent with a pair of little-publicized trends: Ridership tends to peak on Thursdays, transit officials said, and the last two Octobers are responsible for the five busiest subway days on record — three Thursdays and two Fridays.

Before the new high, the record was 5,938,726, set on Oct. 11, 2012.

“October is a month where you have school in session for a majority of the days,” said Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the authority, adding that Columbus Day was the only major holiday. “It’s also a month when a vast majority of the working public is at work.”
508 2013-11-21 As Johan Kobborg, a former principal with the Royal Ballet, said, major companies “have slowly become more or less the same in regards to the work, the style.”

“You have this handful of choreographers who may belong to a company but work everywhere,” he added. “It’s now much easier for dancers to fit in.”

Benjamin Millepied, who will become the director of the Paris Opera Ballet next September, said that while he was happy for his dancers to build their own brands, the internationalization of repertory and stars could dilute ballet’s impact.

Some stars have asked to join the Paris Opera, he noted. “But I don’t want to do that,” he said. “Then you are like an opera company: You buy your dancers, you buy your productions. That’s very hard on your own dancers, who have worked so hard. A ballet company has to be a team, to come from a vision, or it doesn’t have integrity.”

Kevin McKenzie, the artistic director of American Ballet Theater, said that the shifts in the dance world reflect “the sort of globalization that’s going on all over society.” In a telephone interview, he noted that people in all walks of life are less likely to stay in one place, or even in one career.

In interviews, dancers said they moved around to experience different styles, try new choreography and build international reputations.

“We see more options,” said Ms. Cojocaru, who recently decamped from the Royal Ballet to the English National Ballet, and also holds a contract with the Hamburg Ballet. “Instead of waiting for something to happen in the place where I am, I can go to where it is happening. If companies don’t find a way to challenge their principals, we will find those challenges for ourselves.”

But, as Ms. Cojocaru acknowledged in a telephone interview, there are also pressing financial reasons for these career decisions. Ballet careers are relatively short and require years of training that pose the risk of injury, yet the world’s top dancers earn far less money than their counterparts elsewhere in show business. Belonging to two companies or making numerous guest appearances increases earning power.

Mr. Kobborg said, “If you can be dancing the same works for twice the amount, that’s going to influence you.” Dancers today understand better how they profit a company in terms of press and profile, and that, he said, “comes at a price.”

The big American companies do not have year-round seasons and do not pay annual salaries. Their top dancers earn good, but by no means astronomical, amounts: On its 2011 return, Ballet Theater listed three dancers as making more than $190,000 each in total compensation. Mr. McKenzie said that all dancers are paid by the week, not per performance, and that the company did not pay its international stars — who include Ms. Osipova and Polina Semionova, who is a principal at both Ballet Theater and Ballet — any more than its highest-paid principals. “I don’t, and won’t,” he said. “That’s just a policy.”

At the Paris Opera, an étoile, the top rank, earns, on average, around $125,000 a year. That salary isn’t particularly high compared to those of actors or opera singers. (The pays a top fee of $17,000 per performance; European opera houses can pay even more.)

“Dancers will be paid as opera singers? What are you taking about?” said Sergei Danilian, a ballet agent in New York, adding that the relatively small fees contribute to a general reluctance among people in the dance world to talk about money.

However, top-level dancers, thanks to social media and advertising contracts, are increasingly able to capitalize on their own brands. Ms. Semionova recently appeared on billboards alongside the tennis star in a Uniqlo advertisement; Mr. Millepied has appeared in advertisements for Dior and Saint Laurent; Yuan Yuan Tan, a principal dancer at San Francisco Ballet, is a brand ambassador for Van Cleef & Arpels and Rolex.

“Why can’t a ballerina be as public as a tennis figure?” asked Sara Mearns, a principal dancer with — a tight-knit company that still grows its own talent, rather than relying on outside guest artists. But some City Ballet dancers are also taking on higher profile roles outside the company. Ms. Mearns, who until recently had a behind-the-scenes blog for The , is active on social media and has a publicist.

Globe hopping is not easy on dancers. They need to train every day to maintain their technique and often prefer to work with a single coach over long periods on a role. Mr. Hallberg, who joined the Bolshoi as a principal in 2011 while keeping the same status at Ballet Theater, said that his first year was very difficult.

“My time was spread very thin, two weeks here, three weeks there,” he said. “My performances and health suffered. My suffered.” He added: “I learned the hard way. You really have to be very critical about what you can and can’t do because you are not invincible.”

Ms. Osipova said that “for now” she is committed to being a full-time Royal Ballet member. But she said that freedom of a peripatetic career outweighs the disadvantages. Mr. Vasiliev, her on- and offstage partner, added, “I don’t miss the security of a company.”
509 2013-11-21 Michael Cappelletti of Alexandria, Va., died on Nov. 14, at 71. In national championships, he won the 1967 Master Mixed Teams and the 2013 Leventritt Silver Ribbon Pairs and had seven seconds. He amassed 24,317.23 master points, placing him 49th on the lifetime list.

Cappelletti won one bronze world championship medal, in the 1974 Mixed Teams.

He served on the American Contract Bridge League Board of Governors and the National Appeals Committee. He was a former president of the Mid-Atlantic Bridge Conference and the Washington Bridge League. He is survived by his wife, Susan Green, and four children.

He devised the eponymous defense against a one-no-trump opening. A two-club overcall shows any long suit, two diamonds announces a major two-suiter, and two of major indicates that suit and either minor.

Away from the bridge table, Cappelletti was a top-class poker player, being recognized especially as an expert in the version called Omaha. He was a lawyer who worked first for the Justice Department and then the public defender’s office in Washington.

At the bridge table, Cappelletti particularly enjoyed deceptive plays, finding one in the diagramed deal.

Even though South’s one no-trump showed 16 to 18 points, he should have added one point for his five-card suit and opened one diamond, planning to rebid with a jump in no-trump.
510 2013-11-21 The comptroller and Trillium Asset Management, an independent investment adviser with over $1.3 billion in assets under management, are pushing for similar disclosure from AT&T and Verizon. They say their investments in AT&T and Verizon are at stake because a lack of trust could make customers look for other service providers.

Trillium, which describes itself as a leader in shareholder advocacy, filed its resolution with Verizon Communications this month. “Transparency is essential if individuals and businesses are to make informed decisions regarding their data,” Trillium wrote in its proposal.

Some analysts and American tech executives are also worried that the spying revelations will hurt profits. Many analysts have predicted the government’s actions would especially hurt companies with major business cloud computing services, which have been a particular target of the spying efforts. Cisco recently attributed a decline in sales in China partly to hostility toward American companies.

In the last several months, AT&T and Verizon have come under scrutiny for their cooperation with government surveillance programs. A court order revealed that the Obama administration secretly collected records for calls made between the United States and abroad, as well as calls within the United States. This month, it was revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency paid AT&T $10 million a year for access to its enormous database of phone records, including Americans’ international phone calls.

Historically, there are stronger laws protecting phone information than Internet traffic, said Harold Feld, senior vice president for Public Knowledge, a nonprofit group that focuses on information policy. That is why government requests for phone information is limited to so-called metadata like the name of a caller, the time the call was made and the recipient of the call, as opposed to tapping the phones, he said.

Compared with tech companies, the American carriers have had a closer working relationship with the government. They provide communications services to the American government. And unlike Internet companies like Google and Yahoo, which have global operations, the carriers have less at stake overseas, where foreign customers might be angry about the revelations of American surveillance.

The carriers also work with regulators to obtain spectrum licenses to operate their networks, so it benefits them to get along, Mr. Feld said. “From an economic perspective they have less incentive to fight” pressure from the government, he said. “The carriers have wanted to stay on the good side.”

Bob Varettoni, a Verizon spokesman, confirmed receiving Trillium’s proposal, but declined to comment on the topic of government requests. “We’ve received the proposal and we’re currently evaluating it,” he said.

Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman, said, “As standard practice we look carefully at all shareholder proposals but at this point in the process we do not expect to comment on them.”

It may be difficult for the shareholders to convince AT&T and Verizon, the two biggest American carriers, that they will lose customers because of a lack of trust. In general, very few customers leave those networks. At AT&T, for example, churn, the rate at which subscribers leave, was 1.07 percent in the third quarter, compared with 1.08 percent in the same quarter a year ago. Many customers are subscribed to family plans or corporate accounts, making it tricky to switch devices to a different carrier.

But Trillium believes an enormous amount of money is at stake. It cited the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, which estimates that controversy around surveillance programs could cost the information technology industry at least $21 billion in business over the next three years if foreign customers lose trust in American companies.

Both resolutions may be voted on at shareholder meetings in the spring.

Mr. DiNapoli said privacy was a relatively new issue for AT&T and eventually may become a factor for customers when they choose a provider. “I certainly think there’s a heightened sensitivity that could redirect and reinform consumer behavior,” he said.
511 2013-11-21 Breaking several days of silence, Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio offered a glimpse on Wednesday into his efforts to form a new administration, acknowledging that he had met with three leading contenders for New York City’s next police commissioner.

But Mr. de Blasio, who has scarcely been seen in public since Election Day, said little else, declining to say when he would make appointments or to identify candidates for any other position on his leadership team.

“Have faith,” he said with a broad smile, when a reporter asked if he could reassure the public that his transition was moving smoothly. “We feel great about the number and quality of people coming forward.”

Speaking at a news conference in Lower Manhattan, Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, gave no indication of when he would select a successor to Raymond W. Kelly, the current police commissioner, whom he has said he will not retain. But he volunteered warm words for William J. Bratton, a former commissioner in New York, Los Angeles and Boston, saying the two spoke on Tuesday and found “a great deal of agreement on core issues.”

Pressed by reporters, Mr. de Blasio acknowledged he had also interviewed two high-ranking members of the Police Department for the job: Philip Banks III, the top chief, and Rafael Pineiro, the first deputy commissioner. All three men are widely viewed as possible choices for the position, but the mayor-elect did not say whether other applicants would be considered.
512 2013-11-21 The United States Ski Team issued no timetable for Vonn’s return to training or competition, nor did it make available Dr. William Sterett, the team orthopedist who rebuilt Vonn’s knee in February and examined her Tuesday.

Orthopedists specializing in knee surgery and sports injuries who were contacted Wednesday about Vonn’s injury said there was a wide spectrum of outcomes for her in the next two to three months.

“It all depends on the stability of her knee and what other symptoms she has, like bruising or swelling,” said Dr. Bert Mandelbaum, an orthopedic surgeon at Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif., and a team physician for various athletic teams and Pepperdine University. “Perhaps they’ve purposely said little. They may be waiting to make a better evaluation themselves.”

Dr. James Gladstone, orthopedic surgeon and the co-chief of sports medicine at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, would also not give a definitive prognosis for Vonn’s recovery, but he said in the best case, Vonn would be back on skis in two to four weeks.

“That would be the mildest sprain,” said Gladstone, a former college ski racer. “In that time period, she could be skiing again, but she may not be ready to race in the World Cup.”

The worst case would be a more serious tear that could require another reconstructive operation.

“But I suspect if it was a high-grade partial tear, there wouldn’t be any optimism in the statement at all,” Gladstone said.

Dr. Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone Medical Center, said that one of the principal factors in Vonn’s recovery would be how quickly the pain and swelling is controlled and how much strength Vonn retains in the muscles enveloping the knee during her layoff.

“So there is a lot we don’t know yet,” Gonzalez-Lomas said. Each of the doctors said that, given the nature and risks of Vonn’s sport, she had been testing her rebuilt knee to the limit.

“There are tremendous forces put on the knees in ski racing, and when they fall, as she did, it only gets worse,” Mendelbaum said .

Vonn, a four-time overall World Cup champion, was determined to prepare for the 2014 Winter Olympics by racing during nearly the entire World Cup season. But Tuesday’s crash, which occurred at Colorado’s Copper Mountain, would appear to be a setback to that goal.

A downhill, super-G and giant slalom are scheduled for Colorado’s Beaver Creek Resort from Nov. 29 through Dec. 1. The next weekend, Vonn was no doubt looking forward to competing at Lake Louise Ski Resort in Canada, where two downhills and a super-G will be held Dec. 6-8. Last year, Vonn won all three races there.

As for the Sochi Olympics, although Vonn would like to compete in as many World Cup races as possible beforehand, during an interview this summer, she said she could race in the Olympics even if she had only a few weeks to prepare.

“Honestly, I don’t need that much time,” Vonn said. “It wouldn’t be ideal, but I could get ready in a very short period of time.”

The 29-year-old Vonn has a history of skiing in the Olympics with injuries. She had a horrific training spill and was hospitalized just before the start of the 2006 Turin Olympics in Italy, and two days later finished eighth in the downhill. In 2010, she arrived for the Vancouver Olympics with a shin injury, then became the first American woman to win the downhill and also won a bronze medal in the super-G.
513 2013-11-21 Earlier Wednesday at the White House, Mr. Obama bestowed the Presidential Medal of Freedom — conceived by Kennedy a half-century ago as the nation’s highest civilian honor — on Mr. Clinton and 15 other luminaries from the worlds of sports, politics, journalism and academia.

Under the twinkling chandeliers of the East Room, Mr. Obama paid tribute to Mr. Clinton for his achievements as governor of Arkansas, as the 42nd president, and as the founder of the Clinton Foundation, which Mr. Obama said had saved millions of lives.

“Lifting up families like his own became the story of Bill Clinton’s life,” the president said, as Mrs. Clinton sat in the front row of the audience. “He wanted to make sure he made life better and easier for so many people across the country.”

Mr. Obama’s remarks were a graceful acknowledgment of Mr. Clinton’s record, but they came with a sly wink at the complexities of a relationship between the president and his opinionated predecessor.

“I’m grateful, Bill, as well, for the advice you’ve offered me, on and off the golf course,” Mr. Obama said, alluding, perhaps, to a recent report that the president chafed at his chatty golf companion and told his aides he liked Mr. Clinton only “in doses.”

As Mr. Obama struggles through one of the bleaker stretches of his presidency, Mr. Clinton has again taken on the role of critic, urging the president to fix the health care law to honor his pledge that if people like their health insurance, they should be allowed to keep it.

He has also criticized Mr. Obama’s Syria policy, saying that any president would be a “total fool” to avoid taking action to stem a brutal civil war because of public resistance to foreign engagement.

The White House insists that it welcomes Mr. Clinton’s advice on health care, though some political analysts have speculated that he is distancing himself and his wife from an increasingly unpopular health care law before Mrs. Clinton runs for president in 2016.

Mr. Obama alluded to Mrs. Clinton only indirectly, thanking Mr. Clinton for having patience “during the endless travels of my secretary of state.”

In the East Room, the president also saluted two members of the Kennedy clan: Ethel Kennedy, the widow of Robert F. Kennedy, and Jack Schlossberg, the grandson of John F. Kennedy and son of Caroline Kennedy.

Among those on an unusually star-studded list of 16 recipients for the Presidential Medal of Freedom were Oprah Winfrey, the television entrepreneur; Dean Smith, the Hall of Fame college basketball coach; the late Bayard Rustin, the civil rights campaigner; the late Sally Ride, an astronaut who was the first American woman in space; Benjamin C. Bradlee, the Watergate-era editor of The Washington Post; the late Daniel K. Inouye, the senator from Hawaii; Loretta Lynn, the country music singer; and Gloria Steinem, the feminist writer.

After praising Mr. Bradlee for his transformation of The Post into a leading newspaper and his role in nurturing a generation of investigative journalists after the Watergate scandal, the president could not resist a reference to the editor’s bespoke bold-striped shirts.

“He can pull off those shirts, and I can’t,” Mr. Obama said to chuckles. “He always looks so cool in them.”

In his tribute to Ms. Winfrey, Mr. Obama recounted that when she was a young girl, she was advised to change her name to Susie. It was advice that the president said he too had gotten as a young man — though not, he hastened to add, to change Barack to Susie.

“People can relate to Susie,” Mr. Obama said of the rationale given to Ms. Winfrey. “It turns out people can relate to Oprah, too.”
514 2013-11-21 Over the years, ThoughtWorks prided itself on developing a culture based on collaboration. But some parties in the sales equation appeared to be operating at cross purposes. “We made the decision to take the individual incentive out of the picture,” Mr. Gorsline said, “and instead focus on the customers and their pain.”

Throughout 2011, the company worked on a strategy. During that time, Mr. Gorsline and his team brought the entire sales force together to discuss the new direction, explain the rationale and provide a forum for discussion. “It was all very transparent,” he said. Next, they met with individual sales representatives to establish a new compensation plan. A start date of January 2012 was set.

According to Mr. Gorsline, the straight-salary structure took into consideration high performers, offering them compensation close to what they had earned with commissions. Still, all of the representatives took pay cuts — although they did gain something: a steady paycheck. “We operate in a cyclical industry,” he said. “This provided them with a sense of security whether it was a good year or a bad one.”

Still, about 10 percent of the representatives quit. “They clearly didn’t like the approach,” Mr. Gorsline said. “But in the grand scheme, that was O.K. for us. We were then able to use this as a filter during recruiting. We ended up with better candidates, aligned with our overall mission.”

More important, Mr. Gorsline said, the company’s annual growth increased between 18 and 22 percent in each of the last two years. “We still demand revenue generation,” he said. “The only thing that changed is the way they are compensated.”

This is not an entirely new phenomenon. In 1991, Terry Ortynsky, the founder and owner of the Royal Auto Group, a car dealer in Saskatchewan, Canada, with annual revenue of 75 million Canadian dollars, stopped paying commissions and ended all incentive targets for his sales team — something almost unheard-of in car sales.

Confronted with chronic high turnover in sales, Mr. Ortynsky concluded that “there was a conflict between doing what was right for the customer and an individual who wanted to earn a higher salary.” Because the real goal is to build relationships with customers, Mr. Ortynsky said, “it’s a team effort, and you can’t really divvy up commissions in that situation.”

That is a sentiment New York Label & Box Works has espoused for the last 135 years. The Islandia, N.Y., company, which produces about $20 million a year manufacturing specialty packaging, has categorically refused to pay commissions. “There are so many reasons,” said the company’s chief executive, Steven Haedrich, including overselling to clients to satisfy earning targets, and a corrosive work atmosphere.

Those concerns led Fog Creek Software to drop commissions in the spring of 2011. Founded in 2000, the company, which is based in New York City and develops project-management tools, had created a system to assign, monitor and manage its sales staff — including calculating and paying commissions. But as Rich Armstrong, Fog Creek’s general manager, recalled, “We underestimated how hard it was to set up a system that rewarded the exact thing we wanted to reward.”

Fog Creek executives found themselves spending time devising internal systems to track sales assignments. Issues arose over sales representatives maximizing their own numbers rather than concentrating on the good of the company. Then there was the churn rate. Between 2008 and 2011, Fog Creek burned through its four-person sales team every year.

When the decision was made two years ago to end the practice, there was concern that top sales employees would flee and that the company would have little leverage to lure talented newcomers. Nonetheless, starting in 2011, Fog Creek’s sales representatives began receiving a straight salary — with representatives given an average pay increase of 15 percent.

They were also put on the company bonus plan, which at the end of each year divides a portion of the profits among employees, with bigger shares going to those who have been at Fog Creek the longest. “It was an incentive we were comfortable with,” Mr. Armstrong said, one tied to the long view.

To the company’s surprise, many of those who gave up commissions supported the decision. “The chief thing that the sales reps wanted was to be included with the main work of the company,” Mr. Armstrong said. At a company founded by software developers and for software developers, he said, “anyone who is not specifically writing code can feel cut off from the action. This was as much a cultural change as anything.”

But that approach is not for everyone. When RJMetrics, a software company that helps Web retailers track their sales metrics, opened in Philadelphia in 2008, it decided not to pay sales commissions. “I was worried it would poison the culture,” said Jake Stein, one of the founders. This year, however, the company had a change of heart.

Five years ago, it was still figuring out its priorities and focus. “Putting compensation on how much someone brought in the door was not a priority at the time,” Mr. Stein said. Today, with 34 employees and annual sales of more than $2 million, the founders want the ability to offer incentives for tactical things, including the ability to bring customers on board with long-term agreements.

To attract the best sales team, RJMetrics has concluded, it must pay commissions. “We have a great culture and we can win on those things,” Mr. Stein said. “But we wouldn’t want to have a big question mark and have someone think twice about working for us because somewhere else there is a better offer.”

RJMetrics plans to put the new model into effect next year.
515 2013-11-21 Insurance commissioners from a handful of states, including North Carolina and Kansas, sent the following email to their counterparts in other states late Tuesday regarding the meeting between insurance commissioners and President Obama today to discuss the Affordable Care Act.

This message is in response to President Jim Donelon’s communication regarding the meeting with President Barack Obama on Wednesday, November 20, 2013. We wanted to advise all of you that after thoroughly deliberating on this matter over the last few days we will not be participating in the meeting on Wednesday afternoon with President Obama. We made this difficult decision not to attend due to the fact that we were either not invited to do so, or were invited but have declined, but in all cases we have serious reservations about both the process and the policy issues surrounding such an important meeting.

Further, this meeting has not been discussed in any meaningful way with the entire membership of the NAIC nor have we worked to build consensus among the members on what our positions will be in the meeting. As we all know, the NAIC is made up of a group of extremely knowledgeable insurance regulators with very diverse views on the Affordable Care Act. While we greatly appreciate the opportunity to meet with President Obama, briefing the membership and working to build consensus on a meeting of this importance needs to occur prior to sitting down with him.

We hope that you all have a happy Thanksgiving with your families and we look forward to seeing you in a few weeks in Washington, D.C.
516 2013-11-21 Joseph P. Franklin, a white supremacist who killed at least eight people in a shooting spree from 1977 to 1980 and confessed to being the sniper who wounded the Hustler magazine publisher Larry Flynt and the lawyer and civil rights activist Vernon E. Jordan Jr., was executed on Wednesday, the Missouri Department of Public Safety said.

His death, by lethal injection, came after his scheduled execution had been delayed twice by last-minute stays because of concerns about the state’s new drug protocol and Mr. Franklin’s mental competency. He was injected at 6:07 a.m. and declared dead 10 minutes later, officials said.

Mr. Franklin, 63, was convicted of nine murders but considered a suspect in a dozen more. He received the death sentence in 1997 for the murder of Gerald Gordon, one of three people hit by long-range rifle fire on Oct. 8, 1977, outside a suburban St. Louis synagogue. Mr. Franklin confessed to the crime 17 years later from a prison cell, where he was serving four life sentences in connection with six other killings, all described as hate crimes.

He told investigators that he had picked the synagogue at random, intending to kill only Jews.

Mr. Franklin was one of a dozen death row inmates who have challenged the constitutionality of Missouri’s method of lethal injection. The state changed its drug formula protocols in October after several pharmaceutical companies in the United States and Europe began refusing to provide drugs used in executions.

The state turned to an unnamed compounding pharmacy for help in producing a new solution. The practice is controversial because drugs mixed in compounding pharmacies are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and critics say their use could cause needless suffering and botched executions.

Federal prosecutors had charged Mr. Franklin in the attempted murder of Mr. Jordan in 1980 but failed to win a conviction. In a 1996 interview with a TV reporter, Mr. Franklin admitted to having shot him.
517 2013-11-21 Mr. Obama also said that the Iranians had engaged in human-wave assaults during the Iran-Iraq war, which he presented as a sign of Tehran’s fanaticism. In making that point, Mr. Obama was challenging the assertion by some prominent lawmakers that increasing economic sanctions would lead to more substantial Iranian concessions.

The talks here are a continuation of an attempt two weeks ago to clinch an interim deal that would constrain Iran’s nuclear program so negotiators would have time to pursue a more comprehensive agreement.

The last round fell short when Iranian officials indicated that they needed to consult with the authorities in Tehran after they were presented with a text by the P5 plus 1, so named because they include the permanent members of the United States Security Council — the United States, Russia, France, Britain and China — and Germany. Experts from the two sides have been in touch since then.

Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, began the talks on Wednesday by meeting diplomats from the P5 plus 1 and then Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister. The United States and its negotiating partners also held a plenary meeting with Mr. Zarif.

“There is a sense of strong commitment on both sides but important differences need to be narrowed down,” a Western diplomat told reporters here. “The deal has to be sustainable, spelled out in detail.”

Under the emerging agreement, Iran would continue to enrich uranium to the level of 3.5 percent. But steps would be taken to render its stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium less usable for military purposes. Iran would need to accept constraints on its effort to build a reactor that can produce plutonium and would need to accept verification measures. Another aim of an initial agreement is to identify the “parameters” for a more comprehensive, follow-up agreement. A senior Obama administration official said they would not be very detailed but would “set a direction” for the later agreement.

Mr. Obama was not the only leader who has been trying to shape the debate at home as a preliminary agreement appears near. In a speech to a paramilitary group, Iran’s supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, insisted that there were limits to the concessions that Iran would make and underscored the nation’s “nuclear rights,” an apparent reference to Iran’s plans to continue enriching uranium to the level of 3.5 percent. The speech appeared to be aimed both at placating hard-liners while showing his support for the Iranian officials meeting with international negotiators in Geneva.

But Ayatollah Khamenei’s denunciation of Israel as “the rabid dog of the region” was an indication that the apparent progress toward a limited nuclear accord had not led to a diminution of regional tensions.

President François Hollande of France called on Iran to take steps to show that its nuclear efforts were peaceful instead of making “unacceptable” declarations. “Iran must offer answers and not a certain number of provocative statements,” he said.

In Moscow, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel met with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and continued his calls for an agreement that would end Iran’s uranium enrichment activities, among other steps.

“We believe that you can get a better deal, a better accord,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “And it demands persistence and consistency.”
518 2013-11-21 NEW DELHI — In the end, Indians realized that they loved him even more than they had thought. On Saturday, when the great Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar, at the age of 40, bid farewell to cricket after an extraordinary career that spanned 24 years, men and women wept without shame as their children wondered why. Mr. Tendulkar’s passing from active play to history had the sweet melancholy of mortality’s reminders. He reminded a generation that they were young once, and now they were not.

Over the past two decades, Indians had an intense relationship with him. They adored him, abused him, doubted his genius, accused him of being selfish and over the past two years nudged him to retire. And when he finally did they discovered that they had never really stopped loving him. Mr. Tendulkar, like many luminaries, is more famous than the awards that have been showered on him. On Saturday, when the Indian government conferred on him its highest civilian honor, the Bharat Ratna, it was as if he were the honor and the Bharat Ratna the recipient.

His retirement was one of the most significant events in India in recent years, but as the great day loomed, journalists found planning the final tribute nightmarish. So much has already been written that even articles with headlines like “10 Things You Didn’t Know About Sachin” could not deliver a single grain of information that was not known to a regular cricket fan.

Mr. Tendulkar began playing international cricket at a time when a team of Indians, not just in sports but in any activity, did not display a uniformity of talent, temperament, class or even nourishment. The disparities came about because Indians then were products not of systems but of individual fortunes. By the time he retired, the distinctions among players, at least in sports, had become subtler, as if everyone were produced in a single factory with only slightly different specifications.

Mr. Tendulkar’s appeal is in no small measure a consequence of his quiet dignity, which is more representative of South India than North. Though in a way he belongs to neither, as he is from Mumbai, which North Indians think is in the South and South Indians think is in the North. He was incapable of chest-thumping, bravado or vacant posturing. Public perception was so important to him that he chose his words carefully and was wary of being misunderstood. Once, after an interview, he called past midnight to ask the deletion of a comment about an insignificant cricket team because he had described it as “minor.”

He knew that Indians expected him to maintain exceptional moral standards even though Indian society ensures that no person with such standards can survive.
519 2013-11-21 According to a study released in October by Bain & Company, Indonesia and other Southeast Asian nations, including Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand, are the new engines of luxury growth within the Asia region. Southeast Asia had 11 percent growth in the personal luxury goods market in the 2012-2013 period, compared with 6 percent globally, the study said.

International brands are planning a more direct presence in Malaysia and Indonesia, the study said. This explains the recent cavalcade of visitors to Jakarta, which accounts for around 90 percent of Indonesia’s luxury good sales, Mrs. Hartono said.

“For a mature market like Singapore, the growth figures would be limited,” she said, estimating that luxury goods growth in Indonesia could be 40 percent to 60 percent annually, given its small base.

Yet Singapore remains the regional leader, thanks to huge demand from mainland Chinese tourists, as well as affluent visitors from Indonesia, who frequently make the short plane ride for weekend shopping, or even reside full time in the city state.

“In terms of sales of luxury in the region, the bulk even for Southeast Asia in terms of growth is very much influenced by Chinese travelers,” said Erwan Rambourg, head of consumer and retail equity research for HSBC in Hong Kong “They are hugely important to Singapore’s luxury sector. You’ve had a change in the retail landscape in Singapore due to the opening of luxury casinos.”

A report released by HSBC in March about the growing influence of mainland Chinese shoppers on Asia’s luxury markets referred to Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and Indonesia as “Asian tiger cubs,” as opposed to “tigers” like Singapore or Hong Kong. The report said these four countries “may one day grow to become tigers, but there are clear limitations to these luxury markets linked to infrastructure, import issues, regulation, lack of a sufficient target market or a combination.”

Analysts say Indonesia’s luxury goods segment is being hampered by rental space that is expensive by local standards and investment laws requiring foreign brands to have a local business partner.

“Labor costs are also higher,” said Harry Su, head of research at Bahana Securities in Jakarta. “In Indonesia, its operating costs are 40 percent for salaries and 40 percent for rentals, and it’s getting more expensive.”

Singapore has its own issues, in particular that it has quickly gone from not having enough luxury retail space to being at overcapacity, Mr. Rambourg said.

“There aren’t enough Singaporeans to justify having so many stores,” he said.

Despite its strong growth, Indonesia is still experiencing luxury retail space constraints. There are only five “upscale” shopping malls in Jakarta where luxury goods are sold, and mall owners are trying to add additional spots for high-end boutiques within the existing space.

“If you get space in mall, you feel like you’ve hit the jackpot,” Mrs. Hartono said.

Southeast Asia’s luxury goods sector is also facing other problems of late, including from the region’s economic slowdown. A World Bank report released in October said growth in larger Southeast Asian middle-income countries, including Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, was softening because of lower investment and global commodity prices and lower than expected export growth. The only exception is the Philippines, where growth accelerated in 2013.

Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia at BBVA Research in Hong Kong, says luxury goods are sensitive to economic downturns, as was the case during the 2008-2009 global financial crisis.

“Even luxury consumers can feel less confident,” he said.

Indonesia was acutely affected when its currency, the rupiah, fell nearly 20 percent against the U.S. dollar from July to September. Millie Stephanie, chief executive of the Mobiliari Group, which publishes the high-end magazine Indonesia Tatler, said consumers of luxury items like fine watches were hesitant to buy because in Indonesia, prices are quoted in Singaporean dollars but buyers actually pay in rupiah.

“You have to take that risk,” whether the exchange rate is going to be better or not, she said, “depending on the week.”

Regardless of the challenges, analysts said Southeast Asia’s luxury goods sector had bounced back from the global crisis and would withstand the latest economic hiccups in the region. In fact, there is already talk about the next hot luxury market after Indonesia: Thailand.

“The elite in Thailand are already buying luxury, but that elite very limited,” Mr. Rambourg said. “But for mainland Chinese, Thailand is a hot new tourism destination. That will help expand the luxury market.”
520 2013-11-21 Is a pair of headphones worth $1,250? Shure thinks so.

The company, a manufacturer of consumer and professional audio electronics, recently introduced its SE846 Sound-Isolating Earphones with that eye-popping price tag. But once you get past the sticker shock, the SE846 in-ear headphones do have a lot to offer.

The company has long been known for its engineering expertise. And the new headphones show off the company’s latest technology with a transparent shell, exposing micro drivers and a low-pass filter, which Shure says provides “true subwoofer performance.”

The headphones offer tailored listening with three interchangeable nozzles — “balanced,” “bright” and “warm” — that focus on different aspects of music. The bright and warm nozzles emphasize the high and low frequencies, but I was happy with the balanced nozzle, which comes preinstalled.

The ergonomic design provides a comfortable fit, although it takes a few tries to get a proper alignment. I had to stand in front of a mirror each time to make sure I was doing it right. Several foam tips for the earbuds are included to ensure a tight seal and block outside noise. Other accessories include two Kevlar-reinforced cables (also transparent) and a hard-shell carrying case to keep it all tidy.

All that engineering really pays off; the sound is stellar, with clear vocals and a strong bass. My ears buzzed with excitement, hearing new nuances in my favorite songs, even though I was listening to compressed digital music stored on my iPhone and laptop — an experience, I imagine, that is akin to watching standard-definition programs on a high-definition TV.

As much as I loved hearing new layers in my music, I found the SE846 experience unnecessarily complicated. Fitting the headphones in my ears took too long, and afterward, I was too distracted about keeping them there. Putting my glasses on or wrapping a scarf around my neck without disturbing the headphones took diligence, and I certainly wasn’t taking them off to answer the phone. I like my headphones to be fun and easy, and I got tired of fussing with the SE846.
521 2013-11-21 Turkey (or Chicken) Soup With Lemon and Rice
522 2013-11-22 PRICE--Barry. Beautiful boy, away from us 38 years. You're always in our hearts. Love & Kisses, Mommy, Daddy, Jodi & Blair...
523 2013-11-22 NEMIROVSKY--Shlomit, long time resident of Forest Hills, NY and more recently of Palo Alto, CA, passed away on November 17, 2013 at the age of 84. Shlomit was born in Botosani, Romania, the fifth of six children of Zeev and Pnina Frenkel. At an ea...
524 2013-11-22 “Innocent persons were incarcerated,” she said. “Guilty persons have been released to further endanger the public, millions and millions of public dollars are being expended to deal with the chaos Ms. Dookhan created, and the integrity of the criminal justice system has been shaken to the core.”

The case against Ms. Dookhan took a long time to come together.

An audit of her work in 2010 found that she was processing cases at an unusually fast clip. But auditors found nothing wrong. In June 2011, however, Ms. Dookhan was caught forging a colleague’s initials and was suspended. Still, though she had been removed from her lab duties, she continued to testify as an expert witness. She was not placed on administrative leave until February 2012.

In August 2012, she admitted she had mishandled samples. As a police report described it: “She became sad and a slight tear came to her eye and she stated, ‘I screwed up big time. I messed up. I messed up bad. It’s my fault. I don’t want the lab to get in trouble.’ ”

She was first charged that fall with skirting proper lab procedures, prompting district attorneys around the state to set up war rooms to go through their cases and decide how to handle those in which she had been involved.

“It’s created essentially a whole new county’s worth of cases that have to be handled with the existing resources of our office,” said Jake Wark, a spokesman for the Suffolk County district attorney, Daniel F. Conley.

In September, defendants started to be released, and in December, Ms. Dookhan was indicted by a grand jury on 27 charges, including evidence tampering and obstruction of justice.

David Meier, a Boston defense lawyer hired by Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, to determine the scope of the scandal, said the cases of as many as 40,323 people might have been tainted during Ms. Dookhan’s nine-year tenure.

More than 300 people have been released. One of the most recent was Jamell Spurill, who had been jailed on drug charges. He was quickly rearrested for possession of a stolen gun. When he was picked up, prosecutors say, he told the police: “I just got out thanks to Annie Dookhan. I love that lady.”

Perhaps the most notorious case involved a man named Donta Hood, who was serving time last fall for dealing cocaine. When he turned out to have been a Dookhan defendant, he was set free. A few months after his release, he shot a man during a drug dispute, and now Mr. Hood, 23, is back behind bars, this time on charges of first-degree murder. He has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial.

At least 50 Dookhan defendants who were released have been rearrested. At least two were murdered when they were let out. Thousands of other cases are in limbo.

When she was indicted, Ms. Dookhan pleaded not guilty. In negotiations with prosecutors, her lawyers learned last month that if she changed her plea to guilty, Justice Ball would sentence her to between three and five years in prison — less than the five to seven sought by prosecutors.

In arguing for a longer sentence, Attorney General Martha Coakley wrote to the court: “The total costs to rectify Dookhan’s actions have climbed into the millions with no end in sight, and the financial aspect does not even address the loss of liberty of affected individuals, the significant deleterious effect on the safety of the public or the breakdown of public trust in the system.”

But Justice Ball, in a decision last month, wrote that Ms. Dookhan “presents as a tragic and broken person who has been undone by her own ambition.”

While Ms. Dookhan heads to prison, the state is still reeling from the fallout of her actions. The Hinton State Laboratory in Jamaica Plain where she worked has been shut. Several people, including the state’s public health commissioner, have lost their jobs. The state inspector general is still conducting his investigation into the scandal.

The state legislature has set aside $30 million for local prosecutors to reinvestigate cases and see if they can charge the suspects based on other evidence.

“That’s just the tip of the iceberg,” said Martin W. Healy, chief legal counsel for the Massachusetts Bar Association. “The total costs could reach $100 million over the years,” he said. “No one comprehended that this would snowball the way it has.”
525 2013-11-22 Kareem Serageldin, who led a group at Credit Suisse that traded in mortgage-backed securities, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for inflating the value of bonds during the housing crisis....
526 2013-11-22 In a statement, the departing director, Coral Andrews, alluded to some of the problems the Hawaii exchange has faced but did not explain why she was stepping away....
527 2013-11-22 Read about our fourth annual Hack Day....
528 2013-11-22 The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.
529 2013-11-22 A regulator said that Deloitte & Touche, for the second consecutive year, had failed to correct deficiencies in its audit procedures to its satisfaction....
530 2013-11-22 Streamlined leather goods by Vianel, previously only available online, are in stock at select Barneys New York locations by Monday....
531 2013-11-22 At least 30 journalists are now missing in Syria and believed to have been kidnapped. Fifty-two journalists have been killed since the start of the Syrian conflict in March 2011, and 24 more have been kidnapped but released....
532 2013-11-22 A team of researchers at the National University of Singapore are trying to build a digital lollipop that can simulate taste....
533 2013-11-22 Jobless claims fall. Finding less expensive alternatives to Square. Paying for tuition with Bitcoin....
534 2013-11-22 Every day from now until Christmas, the editors of T are sharing their personal gift suggestions. Today’s pick: everyday shears that look nice on display....
535 2013-11-22 Metropolitan Diary: A set of small coincidences kept placing two New Yorkers together one day, from downtown to uptown....
536 2013-11-22 The jury’s decision puts to an end one chapter in the two companies’ long-running legal battle, though it will not significantly affect either company’s pocketbook....
537 2013-11-22 Kia will recall nearly 80,000 Sedona minivans from the 2006-12 model years because of a problem that could cause steering failure, the automaker informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Toyota and Porsche will also conduct smaller recalls, according to reports the two companies filed with the agency.

In the report Kia posted on the agency’s website, the automaker said the front control arms could rust and possibly break, causing the driver to lose control of the vehicle.

Kia said it was not aware of any crashes or injuries related to the problem, but several owners who filed complaints with N.H.T.S.A. said they lost control of their vehicles when a control arm failed.

“Vehicle quickly became unsteerable,” one owner wrote in a complaint filed on Nov. 20. “If this sudden failure had occurred moments earlier with my kids on the way to school and on the highway this could have been a much worse result.”

The recall covers vehicles originally sold or currently registered in Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, Wisconsin and the District of Columbia.
538 2013-11-22 A gaping emotional sinkhole opens under the stylish boots of Becca, a struggling actress portrayed by a well-known one, Sarah Jessica Parker, in the new play “The Commons of Pensacola” by Amanda Peet — another actress, of course, here making a creditable debut as a playwright with this Manhattan Theater Club production.

Becca has come to comfort her mother, Judith, played by Blythe Danner, now exiled to a modest retirement home on the Gulf Coast of Florida. Judith, we soon learn, is the disgraced wife of a financier jailed for losing millions of his clients’ money while living high. (Think of you-know-who.) The sins of the father have spread their toxic influence throughout the family, but by the conclusion of Ms. Peet’s absorbing drama, which opened on Thursday night at City Center, Becca has become the victim taking the most collateral damage — at least within the family. She’s lost some faith in her boyfriend as well as her mother’s honesty and, more crucial, her own emotional equilibrium.

“The Commons of Pensacola,” sensitively directed by Lynne Meadow, provides a welcome opportunity to watch two theater veterans of different generations share the stage, both in excellent form. Ms. Danner has spent much of her career onstage, although she has made intermittent film and television appearances and is known to many now as la mère Paltrow. Ms. Parker is known to virtually everyone as Carrie Bradshaw of “Sex and the City.” But she’s been a Broadway baby since she was a mere tyke and has regularly returned to theater work throughout her career; her 12-year absence from the stage during the spike-heeled reign of Carrie marked one of her longer absences. (She last appeared in 2001 in David Lindsay-Abaire’s “Wonder of the World,” on this very stage.)

Ms. Peet has given both actors some rich material to chew on in this briskly paced 80-minute drama. Becca, who at 43 is clinging by her fingertips to an acting career, arrives for Thanksgiving aiming to be the pepper upper, calmer of troubled waters and possible rehabilitator of her mother’s public image. She’s got her new boyfriend, the television producer Gabe (Michael Stahl-David), in tow, and she agrees to keep mum about the presence of her niece, Lizzy (Zoe Levin), who’s joining the family for a stealth visit.

Lizzy’s mother broke off relations with Judith when the scandal erupted, for reasons that will eventually be clarified. Despite this brutal blow, Ms. Danner’s Judith seems to be meeting the challenges of her public shaming with equanimity. Her sardonic references to the humble new digs she’s moved into may leave little puddles of disdain all over the carpeting, and her health is definitely precarious: She needs her maid, Lorena (the fine actor and, go figure, playwright Nilaja Sun, of “No Child ...”), to remind her which pills to take when.
539 2013-11-22 The countries are driven by compelling domestic constraints as well as a desire not to be seen by other nations as superpolluting superpowers that scuttled an international deal. China suffers from choking pollution produced by its hundreds of coal-fired power plants, and it has invested billions of dollars in alternative energy sources to power its growing cities. The Obama administration, facing court orders and pressure from environmental and public health groups, is writing rules to clean up existing coal-burning power plants and essentially ban the construction of new ones.

The cooperative spirit has been on display this year in an agreement by President Obama and President Xi Jinping to work together to phase down the use of hydrofluorocarbons, a family of potent greenhouse gases widely used in propellants and refrigeration. In April, Secretary of State John Kerry announced the formation of a United States-China climate change working group.

“The United States and China are absolutely essential” to this process, Christiana Figueres, the executive secretary of the United Nations climate convention, said in an interview.

She continued, “No agreement will move forward without their participation.”

There remain formidable impediments to reaching a deal in 2015 in Paris, where negotiators will try to fashion a new agreement to replace the moribund Kyoto Protocol. Among them, of course, are the very commitments that countries are willing to make to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, when they fear that doing so could slow economic growth. Also at issue are questions of so-called climate justice, that is, who should pay for the climate-related damages and how much should be diverted from rich countries to poor ones to protect against the inevitable losses from rising seas and violent storms. These are the fraught subjects under discussion here this week among the 195 members of the United Nations climate treaty meeting to map a path to a new accord.

But it is the confluence of those two issues — emissions reductions and financing for climate adaptation — that has so far frustrated the United States and other developed nations in dealing with China.

Despite China’s being the world’s second-largest economy and the largest greenhouse gas polluter, it is treated under the rules of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as though it were the relatively poor developing country it was when the treaty was created. China has until now allied itself with the poorest African countries and most vulnerable island states in demanding a set of rules and obligations separate from those that apply to the United States, Japan, Australia, Canada and European nations.

The United States argues that those categories — annexes, in the treaty’s terms — are outmoded in a world in which developing nations will soon surpass the developed world in emissions, and China will soon be the largest emitter in cumulative historical terms.

“They do a lot,” Todd D. Stern, the United States climate envoy, said here this week, describing actions by China to slow its pollution. “I’m not criticizing China. The question is what they’re prepared to agree to.”

But, he added, the Chinese “can’t say both that the annexes are operational in terms of who does what and that they are immutable from 1992.”

As a practical matter, those distinctions make it less likely that the United States Senate, wary about the economic impact of an agreement, would ratify any eventual treaty that does not treat the largest polluters equally.

Xie Zhenhua, China’s chief climate negotiator, acknowledged at a news conference in Warsaw this week that China was now the world’s largest source of carbon emissions, a result of the country’s rapid industrialization.

But he said China was slowing the rate of growth of its emissions and would not wait until its people had reached the living standard of wealthier countries before taking more substantial measures to cut pollution.

He reaffirmed the principle of separate responsibilities for rich and poor countries, but he also signaled that China would work toward a treaty that provided benefits to all parties, rather than punishes one group of nations to reward others.

“We hope that in the climate negotiations there won’t be some countries win while some countries lose,” Mr. Xie said. “We want everyone to win. If in these negotiations some countries win and some lose, then the outcome will be a failure. ”

Robert N. Stavins, the director of the Harvard Project on Climate Agreements, said that a more cooperative approach by China would be a major lift to prospects for a new treaty, especially if it helped persuade other emerging economies like Brazil, India and South Africa to join.

“If the 20th century was the American century, a lot of people expect the 21st century to be the Chinese century,” Mr. Stavins said. “And if it’s your century, you don’t obstruct, you lead.”
540 2013-11-22 The hunts are conducted something like a country fox hunt, but in an urban setting. Members say it allows their dogs — mostly breeds known for chasing small game and vermin — to indulge in basic instinctual drives by killing a dozen or two dozen rats each time they are let loose.

“We don’t make a huge difference in the rat population, but the dogs have a lot of fun,” said Richard Reynolds, a main organizer of the group, which, in an effort to form the acronym RATS, he semiseriously calls the Ryders Alley Trencher-fed Society (Ryders Alley was once a rat-infested lane downtown, and trencher-fed refers to the keeping of hounds to hunt). The group, which includes some members who travel from the suburbs, has been meeting for 15 years, mostly in downtown Manhattan in areas where trash is abundant.

“We love garbage — if there’s food around, there are rats,” said Mr. Reynolds, a dog breeder from Tenafly, N.J.

Just before the recent alley hunt, the group had met in City Hall Park, with the energetic little dogs straining their leashes toward the bushes and assuming pointing positions. A local resident who was walking his 12-year-old Jack Russell terrier, Chloe, stopped to chat, and was incredulous when told what the group was doing: using their dogs to find, catch and kill rats in the streets.

“You guys can do that?” asked Chloe’s owner, Andrew Luan, 42. “I mean, you won’t get tickets, the city’s O.K. with that?”

In fact, it would appear that the rat hunters are not violating any laws or health codes, and the plight of rats, at least those living on and below New York’s streets, does not generate the same level of passion as the plight of, say, the city’s carriage horses.

“The city loves us,” claimed Mr. Reynolds, casting his group as a free extermination force. He was wearing a tweed cap and gripping a spike-tipped walking stick, for poking garbage bags and for protection from the rodents.

Soon the hunting group entered the alley — Theater Alley, a deserted narrow lane just off Park Row — and they invited Mr. Luan to come. He accepted.

“Looks like we got a new member,” said Jimmy Hoffman, 37, who held Mighty, his 3-year-old Patterdale terrier, on a leash.

“Hopefully you’ll get some food tonight, huh Mighty?” said Mr. Hoffman, of Bellerose, Queens.

In the alley, Ernie’s owner said she was a veterinarian from Manhattan on her third hunt who asked that her name not be published because “it wouldn’t go over well with some of my clients.”

“Once he got a taste for it, he has not stopped looking” for rats, she said, adding the hunt “provides mental stimulation” for the dogs.

“They are using their brain,” she said. “It’s in their nature, it’s what they want to do, but in the city, it’s hard for them to do it.”

Hunting rats does pose risks, since they are known to carry diseases, including leptospirosis, a bacterial disease that often affects animals, but the veterinarian said it was not the season for it.

Mr. Reynolds said there had been a few lacerations to the dogs from rat bites and other mishaps, but nothing serious. Still, he said, he carries “a traveling field hospital” in his truck, just in case, and a staple gun in his pocket, to mend wounds.

The group sometimes gets tips from homeless people or police officers, Mr. Reynolds said. In fact, he said, some officers have gone from initially being suspicious of what they were doing to suggesting rat locations and wishing them luck.

In Theater Alley, he said, he had a homeless tipster who repaired old computers discarded by the J&R electronics store nearby and used the store’s Wi-Fi to go online.

“I used to bring him a turkey sandwich and a six-pack and he’d email me reports on the rats here,” Mr. Reynolds said.

Still, not everyone supports the rat hunts. Brian Shapiro, the New York State director for the Humane Society of the United States, said there were numerous cases of dogs biting rats and ingesting poison consumed by the rat.

This type of activity exposes dogs to the “likelihood of eventual toxic exposure,” he said, adding, “The more times the owners send them out, they are repeatedly exposing them to that risk — it’s not good guardianship for a dog.”

“They don’t choose to go into the alley — they are sent in,” he said of the dogs, and added, “This is not an effective means of pest control because they are not getting any significant number of rats.”

As for the rats, he said, “You want to address them in a manner that causes the least amount of suffering.”

A spokeswoman for the New York City Police Department said there was no information available on the legality of using dogs to hunt rats in the city.

Mr. Reynolds said he hated animal cruelty, but he argued that no harm had ever come to any of the dogs, and added that rat poison causes a slow, painful death, compared with a quick death in a dog’s jaws.

Mr. Hoffman, a veterinary technician, said he was not insensitive to the plight of the rat; in fact, he treats pet rats in his work as a veterinary technician in Queens.

“I got no prejudices, but hunting is hunting,” he said.

Another stop during a recent hunt was an outdoor plaza at the Seward Park Extension on Allen Street. A resident standing outside, Dolly Laureano, greeted the group and said that her mother had posted a note about the plaza on the hunting group’s Facebook page.

Next to the plaza, the group put a small dog inside a Dumpster behind the Seventh Precinct station house, at Delancey and Ridge Streets, and the rats came shooting out a single hole at the bottom, with the dogs in hot pursuit.

One darted under a parked Lexus and was cornered by Paco, a feisty dog belonging to Bill Reyna, from Wayne, N.J. Finally, the rat streaked out, and Paco chomped down on it and left it at the base of a No Parking sign. Mr. Reyna photographed the encounter and showed it to Mr. Hoffman.

“Whoa, that’s mid-shake,” Mr. Hoffman exclaimed. “That’s got to get framed on the wall.”
541 2013-11-22 The pilot of a Boeing 747 mistakenly landed at a small Kansas airport instead of McConnell Air Force Base eight miles away. The jet, carrying cargo and a two-person crew, found itself at the smaller Col. James Jabara Airport northeast of Wichita. The plane was operated by Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, a New York cargo hauler. Once on the ground, the pilot sounded confused in his exchanges with air traffic control, confusing “east” and “west,” according to audio provided by LiveATC.net. Hours later, the jet took off again and within minutes landed at its destination. Jabara’s 6,100-foot runway is toward the low end of what Boeing recommends for the 747.
542 2013-11-22 A Mississippi man charged with sending poison-laced letters to President Obama and other officials has been charged with trying for a second time to frame the man first arrested in the case. The suspect, J. Everett Dutschke, has been jailed since April on charges of sending ricin-tainted letters to Mr. Obama, Senator Roger Wicker and Judge Sadie Holland of Lee County Justice Court. The new indictment says Mr. Dutschke, while in jail, tried to recruit someone to make more ricin and send it to Mr. Wicker, a Republican of Mississippi. The indictment filed in Federal District Court in Oxford says he was again trying to frame Paul Kevin Curtis, an Elvis impersonator. Mr. Curtis was arrested on charges of sending the letters in April, but the charges were dropped when the inquiry shifted to Mr. Dutschke.
543 2013-11-22 The judge in the Aurora theater shootings case has indefinitely postponed the trial of the suspect, James E. Holmes, so lawyers can argue whether he should undergo another psychiatric evaluation. District Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. set hearings on the issue for next month. Mr. Holmes pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity to killing 12 people and wounding 70 in July 2012. Prosecutors want him to undergo further evaluation of his sanity. The findings of his first mental health evaluation have not been publicly disclosed.
544 2013-11-22 Suncor Energy, Canada’s top petroleum producer, announced on Thursday that it would expand its oil production in 2014 by 10 percent in another sign that the Obama administration’s delay in approving the Keystone XL pipeline extension is not holding back growth in the western Canadian oil sands fields.

“We’re set for a strong year of continued production,” Suncor’s chief executive, Steven W. Williams, said. The company announced a capital spending program of $7.45 billion for 2014, $477 million more than it had forecast earlier this year.

Suncor, which is based in Calgary, produces oil and gas around Canada, and has operations in North Africa and the North Sea. But its oil sands operations are the main driver for the company. In the most recent quarter, its oil sands output rose 16 percent from the year before for a record of 396,000 barrels a day, nearly 20 percent of the country’s total oil sands production.

The company said it expected its oil sands production to increase again next year to 430,000 barrels a day.

Reports of increased production are coming even as Canadian oil executives are privately questioning whether the Obama administration will ever approve the Keystone XL pipeline, which it has been considering for more than two years.
545 2013-11-22 Apple said in a statement that the case “has been about innovation and the hard work that goes into inventing products that people love.” It added, “While it’s impossible to put a price tag on those values, we are grateful to the jury for showing Samsung that copying has a cost.”

Lauren Restuccia, a Samsung spokeswoman, said, “We are disappointed by today’s decision.” She added, “While we move forward with our post-trial motions and appeals, we will continue to innovate with groundbreaking technologies and great products that are loved by our many customers all around the world.”

Apple argued in the most recent trial that it deserved $379.8 million because it missed out on large amounts of profit after Samsung’s smartphones entered the market. Samsung contended that Apple should get much less, $52 million.

Legal experts said Samsung was most likely trying to minimize the damages to safeguard itself in future fights. The final award could influence another jury to make similar damage calculations.

This time, the process for calculating the amount Samsung owed was simpler than in the previous trial. The jurors had to fill out a one-page form assessing the damages for each infringed patent, unlike last time, when jurors filled out a complex 20-page form.

Still, the new jury appeared to have some trouble crunching the numbers, taking parts of three days to reach a conclusion. On Wednesday afternoon, the judge called a meeting to answer questions from the jury about how to decide whether Apple was entitled to lost profit, and if so, how to calculate it.

Apple’s lawyer, Harold J. McElhinny, showed an internal Samsung document to highlight that employees had acknowledged that the battle in the mobile industry was a “two-horse race” between Apple and Samsung. Therefore, he said, many sales made to Samsung most likely could have gone to Apple.

Samsung, however, said that it should pay a much smaller amount in the form of royalties for each device it sold that carried the infringing features. Its lawyer, Bill Price, said that Apple was not entitled to lost profits because people had bought Samsung phones for reasons unrelated to the features covered by patents, like the fact that some Samsung phones had bigger screens and that Samsung’s phones and tablets were generally cheaper than Apple’s.

Also on Wednesday, Samsung tried to delay the entire trial. The company argued that a patent involved in the trial, which covered touch-screen mechanics, might be deemed invalid by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In light of that, reaching a verdict now would be wasteful, Samsung said.

But Apple said in a response late Wednesday that Samsung’s motion to delay the trial had “crossed the bounds of reason.”

Apple and Samsung continue to fight in courts around the world. In the United States, the tide has shifted in Apple’s favor. Both companies persuaded the United States International Trade Commission that the other had violated patents, resulting in bans on each other’s products. The Obama administration ultimately vetoed the ban on Apple products, while upholding the ban on Samsung products.

The two companies are scheduled for another trial in March 2014. That trial will involve a different set of Apple patents and some newer products, including Samsung’s popular Galaxy S III — a smartphone that at one point surpassed the iPhone in sales. Judge Koh is expected to also oversee that case.
546 2013-11-22 LOS ANGELES — The Web streaming battles continue: Amazon, a competitor to Netflix, announced an exclusive deal Thursday morning to add releases from one of Hollywood’s most attention-grabbing independent film companies to its Prime service.

Movies from that film company, A24, will become available on Amazon Prime “shortly” after their arrival on Blu-ray and DVD, Amazon said in a statement. A24, a film distribution, financing and production company based in New York, is only a year old, but has already found a cluster of provocative titles, including Harmony Korine’s “Spring Breakers,” starring James Franco as a cheesy Florida drug dealer.

Other A24 movies include “The Bling Ring,” directed by Sofia Coppola, and “The Spectacular Now,” starring Shailene Woodley and Miles Teller. Coming releases include “Enemy,” starring Jake Gyllenhaal, and “Under the Skin,” featuring Scarlett Johansson in a story about an alien seductress in Scotland.

While small, the deal continues Amazon’s slow-but-steady accumulation of television shows and movies to rival that of Netflix, much to the satisfaction of media companies, whose executives love to see the competition. Amazon has spent hundreds of millions of dollars to have the exclusive web rights to shows like “Downton Abbey,” from PBS.
547 2013-11-22 Q. How can I block my children from watching age-inappropriate movies on my Netflix account on the Wii game console?

A. Netflix includes a set of parental controls you can turn on for your account. Once you adjust the settings on the web, the devices using the account — including the Nintendo Wii console — will restrict the available video content based on the age level you choose.

To set up your preferred parental controls, log into your Netflix account on the web. Click on your name in the top-right corner and select Your Account from the menu. On the Your Account page, in the Your Profile area, click the “Parental control setting” link.

On the next screen, you can limit the Netflix viewing options at three levels based on the standard maturity ratings used by the movie and television industry. These levels include Little Kids (material suitable for all ages), Older Kids (includes G- and PG-rated videos) and Teens (shows and movies with PG-13 and TV-14 ratings). Once you adjust the settings, it may take eight hours or so for the changes to kick in. Restarting the Netflix app on your devices may help sync the new settings more quickly.

Netflix also works with other consoles like Microsoft’s recent Xbox line, the Sony PlayStation 3 and later, Apple’s iOS devices, a variety of TV set-top boxes, as well as some “Smart TV’s” and some Blu-ray players — so any of these hooked into the same Netflix account would also be affected. However, you can create separate user profiles within the main account and set parental controls on the one you have assigned to the children. You can also set up a specific profile that limits the viewing area to the children’s section of the Netflix library.

Q. I signed up for a bunch of Flickr photo groups years ago, but I’ve lost interest in a few of them, even though they show up on my Flickr home page. How do I quit the groups I don’t care about anymore?
548 2013-11-22 For example, the Social Democrats want a national minimum wage, at €8.50, or about $11.45, a level that some economists estimate could cost hundreds of thousands of jobs in the low-skilled labor sector, which is the most vulnerable.

And they insist on scaling back policies that enhance labor-market flexibility, which have been key to the recent success of Germany’s export industry.

Meanwhile, both parties want more pension payouts: If the government comes through, the conservatives will get a pension increase for mothers, while Social Democrats want a boost for “mini pensions,” and possibly even an earlier retirement age, at just 63, down from the current 65.

Such expansive spending will load even more unpaid bills onto the younger generation, which, in a dramatically aging society, will probably never retrieve the money in its old age that it is now forced to pay into the state pension system. And spending is only one part of the negotiations’ anticompetitive agenda: It is also unclear whether the new government would seriously tackle Germany’s rising energy prices, which are already driving some companies out of the country.

In a recent report, the Council of Economic Experts sharply criticized these plans, fearing that Germany might reverse the competitiveness gains that resulted from the hard-won reforms under Ms. Merkel’s predecessor, Gerhard Schröder, a Social Democrat of the Clinton and Blair mold. “The German government,” the council wrote, “should not give the impression that it expects — or even demands — painful adjustment processes from other countries, but shies away from unpopular measures for Germany.”

There are many ways to explain the populist turn away from the recipes that resulted in the breathtaking decline of unemployment over the last decade.

One is the feeling that Germany is in good shape and that it is ordinary citizens’ turn to get some benefits after years of bailing out the fat cats in finance. Now that voters have pushed the free-market Liberal Democratic Party out of the Bundestag, the German Parliament is left with four parties that are either socialist or social democratic: the radical Left party, the leftist Greens, the Social Democrats and the conservative Christian Democrats, whom Ms. Merkel has taken so far to the left that their economic and welfare policies today, in American terms, would put them to the left of Bill Clinton.

That is the irony of today’s Germany: It is a country that rides the waves of the global free market better than many other countries of the developed world, but its Parliament is full of parties that believe that state activism is the right answer to real (and imagined) problems of German society.

To be fair, during the coalition negotiations Ms. Merkel demanded that the financial feasibility of all proposals be tested before clinching a final deal.

But Ms. Merkel cannot undo a basic fact of these talks: Whenever the two major opposing parties of German politics are forced into a coalition, you will never get a coherent government program. And the usual way to paper over ideological differences in European politics is to grant every side its respective pet projects — and let others pay the bill, preferably the younger, smaller and often less vocal generation.

In recent years many people in and outside of Germany have come to believe that fiscal populism is an illness unique to southern Europe. In reality, all postmodern Western societies have a tendency to overconsume now and let the following generations foot the bill. It’s just that this populist impulse is better constrained in some countries than in others. The coalition talks in Berlin give ample proof that Germany is in no way immune to the sort of structural overspending and overregulation that is known to diminish national competitiveness.

By reducing Germany’s trade surplus, the measures agreed to under the coalition negotiations might appease the critics in Brussels and Washington. But it is hardly in Europe’s interest to weaken its biggest economy in the face of fierce competition from beyond the borders of the old Continent. All of Europe will lose if Germany becomes another calcified France and returns to being the “sick man of Europe” it was just 10 years ago.

Clemens Wergin is the foreign editor of the German newspaper group Die Welt and the author of the blog Flatworld.
549 2013-11-22 The improvement in Germany, with the index rising to a 10-month high of 54.3 from 53.2 in October, was led by service providers, though manufacturers also reported that business was better. Services tend to be driven by domestic demand, a possible sign that Germany is becoming less dependent on exports for growth.

But the unexpectedly strong performance of Germany had a downside, because it highlighted the growing gap between competitive countries concentrated in Northern Europe and a group of sclerotic countries exemplified by Italy and now, it seems, France.

Germany’s growing wealth during the misery that prevails in much of the euro zone is likely to intensify calls for it to invest more of its enormous trade surplus at home, to stimulate German demand for imports from the rest of the euro zone.

Germany, however, argues that it imports as much from euro zone countries as it exports to them, and that its huge trade surplus comes from exports to countries outside Europe.

France’s poor performance will add to pressure on President François Hollande to confront the country’s structural weaknesses, like labor regulations that are widely seen as an impediment to hiring and firing.

“Make no mistake about it, France has been knee-deep in a crisis for the past few years, and one which has been exacerbated by President Hollande’s tax-driven fiscal consolidation program and his extremely weak leadership,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in a note to clients. “Indeed, the ever bleaker economic data in France is now the most conspicuous example of the severity and protracted nature of the downturn in the euro zone.”

The euro zone emerged from recession in the second quarter of this year, but growth has since been barely perceptible. On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast that the euro zone economy would expand a modest 1 percent next year, slightly less than the organization’s economists forecast six months earlier.

This month, the European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of a quarter of 1 percent in response to slow growth and a rate of inflation that some economists consider perilously close to deflation, a ruinous downward spiral in prices.

In a speech in Berlin on Thursday, Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, defended Germany against criticism that its economic success came at the expense of other euro zone countries.

“The answer to the problems of the euro area is not to weaken its stronger economies,” Mr. Draghi said. “Rather, it is to strengthen its weaker economies.”

But Mr. Draghi also appeared to side with those who say Germany should focus less on cutting debt and put more emphasis on repairing aging bridges, roads and schools. German investment is lower than it was in 2007, Mr. Draghi said.

“Generating higher investment is ultimately the job of the private sector,” Mr. Draghi said. “But public authorities have to create the conditions that facilitate and encourage this process.”
550 2013-11-22 PESHAWAR, Pakistan — Missiles believed to have been fired by an American drone struck an Islamic seminary in northern Pakistan on Thursday, in a rare strike outside the country’s volatile tribal regions.

The attack, in the Hangu district of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, killed six people and wounded five, including several members of the Haqqani militant network, according to a senior Pakistani security official.

The attack came as Pakistani officials and politicians from across the political spectrum have intensified criticism of the American drone attacks, particularly after a strike on Nov. 1 killed Hakimullah Mehsud, the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, and disrupted the government’s plan to open peace negotiations with the militants.

The drone fired missiles into the seminary, near the border with Afghanistan, around 4:30 a.m. on Thursday, Iftikhar Ahmad, a local police officer, said in a telephone interview. Local officials said that drones had been flying over the area since Monday.

“The bodies have been mutilated and burned beyond recognition,” he said. “We are investigating the matter.”
551 2013-11-23 Perversity in Sweden....
552 2013-11-23 Federal regulators approved a new drug from Johnson & Johnson for use in treating chronic hepatitis C infections. The Food and Drug Administration said it had approved the drug, a protease inhibitor that blocks a protein needed by the virus to replicate. The drug, named Olysio, is designed to eliminate hepatitis C, the most common form of the liver-destroying virus. It is a daily pill taken in combination with the long-established drug cocktail used to treat the most common form of the virus. The decision comes less than a month after an advisory panel voted unanimously in favor of approving the treatment. Olysio is the third approved protease inhibitor for treatment of hepatitis C, the agency said.
553 2013-11-23 Afterward, they rush back to campus for classes — bio-microelectromechanical systems, principles of quantitative political research — at one of the country’s most challenging universities. It is all part of a day’s work for players who consciously joined a long, strong losing tradition and so far have not been able to do anything to change it. The immediate rewards are few.

The campus newspaper, The Columbia Spectator, was so sick of the football team’s losses that this week it called for , the university’s president, to fire the athletic director, M. Dianne Murphy. But getting rid of Murphy would not be a quick fix, if any fix at all. The players Columbia wants to recruit come from the same pool of athletes who consider places like , and , where you don’t need a long bus ride to get to practice.

But Columbia is, as they say, giving it the old college try. It built a $50 million athletic facility near the stadium. It hired Bollinger, who came from the , where he certainly learned the karmic and fund-raising value of winning sports programs. It brought in Murphy, who built a foundation for national championship contenders at the . And every year, new players arrive, thinking that they — like thousands of players before them — will be the ones to turn things around.

But really, though, should turning the program around be the priority? There’s a good reason students bother playing for an athletic program that has such a history of losing, and why the university continues to generously fund a team mostly known for its failures.

I should know. I was a member of the rowing team at Columbia for three years, certainly not for the joy of working out on the dirty Harlem River before sunrise, and certainly not to be a part of a winning program, which women’s crew was not at the time.

Nick Melka, a political science major and a defensive lineman on this year’s football team, can explain it. Melka’s teams have lost 31 of their 39 games, but he said they continue to be obsessed with winning. Turning in his powder blue uniform has not once crossed his mind.

“I wouldn’t quit on any of my teammates because we’re all struggling together; none of us are quitters,” he said, adding that there was value in losing. “If we give our word to a company or a job, we’re going to follow through.”

Melka interned for a financial services firm last summer and hopes to land a job there after graduation. That is the upside of being a Columbia football player: While the football may be terrible, the job prospects are fantastic. The network of former players gives students personal access to chief executives, lawyers, doctors, Wall Street traders.

“If we were as good on the field as we are off it, we’d be undefeated every year,” said Marcellus Wiley, who had two winning seasons at Columbia before an All-Pro career in the “We just need to close that gap.”

At Columbia, there is always hope for the good old days, even if they have been few and far between. Bill Campbell, a captain of the Lions in the 1960s, was a member of the only Columbia team to win the title, in 1961. He went on to coach the team from 1974 to 1979, thinking — like all those before him and after — that he would be the savior of the program. That this would be the year. He left after posting a winning percentage of .231.

Campbell ventured off into the technology world instead, eventually becoming the chief executive of and the executive vice president of Apple. He is now on the board of directors of each company, and a mentor to dozens of executives — some of whom probably won a lot more football games than he did in college. According to Fortune magazine, he is worth more than $200 million.

“He may have failed as a football coach, but he succeeded in life, and that’s O.K.,” Wiley said. “Success in life is supposed to be the whole point, right?”

Campbell says he is now doing everything he can to return Columbia to the success he enjoyed as a player. And unlike others, he does not buy the idea that losing builds character.

“There’s not one good thing about losing,” he said. “There are no lessons to be learned.”

Campbell may be the perfect example of Columbia’s athletic philosophy. He left his coaching job at Columbia because he didn’t win games. A big-time football university would have been happy to be rid of him, but Columbia has brought him back.

He is in his eighth year as chairman of the university’s board of trustees, which basically runs the place.
554 2013-11-23 A Transportation Security Administration officer killed by a gunman at Los Angeles International Airport on Nov. 1 was shot 12 times, with bullets grazing his heart and piercing his bladder and intestines, according to an autopsy released Friday. The officer, Gerardo I. Hernandez, had more than 40 bullet fragments in his body, the Los Angeles County coroner’s office said. Paul Ciancia, 23, has been charged with murder in the attack. Two other T.S.A. employees and an airline passenger were wounded before airport police officers shot Mr. Ciancia.
555 2013-11-23 His passion for opera ignited so late that he said it caught him by surprise. At the University of Texas, he had planned to major in broadcast journalism, but he shifted to music because he said it held greater appeal.

Tucker, who did not play an instrument, considered his voice his best route into the music school, and that led him to opera. Each hourlong voice lesson left Tucker “mentally and physically drained,” he said, and its rigors “felt like a weight room.”

“When you have a connection to a piece of music, you put all your effort into how you want it to sound,” he said. “We’d sing bars of music over and over again.”

The investment gained him admission to the school, but, much the way a kicker has a precarious employment status, Tucker consistently needed to bring his “A” game. At the end of each semester, Tucker had to appear before a voice jury and deliver what he called a make-or-break performance.

With continued voice lessons, Tucker could carve out a postfootball opera career, said Nikita Storojev, an associate professor at the university’s Butler School of Music and his instructor for two semesters.

Were that to happen, Tucker would stand out like a goal post. Examples abound of American professional athletes’ musical avocations, slanting toward hip-hop in recent times. Prominent exceptions include the former linebacker Dhani Jones, a known classical music lover and a guest conductor for the Philadelphia Pops, and Keith Miller, a former Colorado and Arena Football League fullback who played in the Fiesta and Cotton Bowls and now makes his living as a bass-baritone with the Metropolitan Opera.

Storojev, a former soloist for Moscow’s Bolshoi Opera, noted that one of his colleagues there, the tenor Zurab Sotkilava, was an accomplished Georgian soccer player, and that the Spanish singer Julio Iglesias was once a member of Real Madrid Castilla.

Hvorostovsky, currently performing in “Rigoletto” at the Metropolitan Opera, said singing is like a positive contagion that the practitioner wants to develop. “I’m not surprised that this young boy,” he said of Tucker, “wants to keep it up despite his hard training as a football player, which I appreciate very much.”

Since the soft-drink commercial’s release, Tucker said, the Baltimore Symphony and the Peabody Conservatory have asked him to make his stage debut. Tucker is open to the idea.

“I’d like to test the waters,” he said. “I’ve dipped in a toe and would like to dive in.”

For now, opera serves as a helpful adjunct to work, much like the pregame gauging of wind and turf conditions.

As disciplines, singing and kicking have things in common, notably demanding “a high level of attention to detail and the poise that comes from training rigorously,” Tucker said.

“In a sense, I do feel that these two worlds have collided in a perfect storm for me,” he said. “A single piece of music, a single aria from an opera, can be so dynamic and have so much depth to it that maybe a lot of today’s music lacks. There’s a level of emotion that I feel when I listen to a performance or a piece.”

Before games, though, he avoids listening to music, preferring less noise before the fans’ roar pervades.

Tucker has converted 20 of 22 field-goal attempts this season, matching last year’s rate of 90.9 percent, which was second best for a rookie in N.F.L. history. He also set a Ravens single-season record with four field goals of at least 50 yards in 2012.

“Justin is a young man who’s got a lot of talent, and that talent is spread out in a number of outlets: One is football,” said Jerry Rosburg, the Ravens’ assistant head coach and special-teams coordinator. “What’s most important to me is that he’s a very good kicker, and he’s performed for us at a very high level.”

In last year’s Super Bowl, Tucker ran for 8 yards, and nearly a first down, on a fake field goal. It was the sort of improvised choreography that might occur at times onstage, too, although Tucker has not yet even attended an opera.

Tucker’s most recent success took a great deal of planning and precision, too. He hired the Ravens’ team photographer to record his surprise rooftop proposal to his college sweetheart, Amanda Bass. A party planner had filled the area with lit candles, and two of Tucker’s friends sang the Train ballad “Marry Me.”

The only element missing might have been an N.F.L. referee who, echoing Bass’s response, would have his arms stretching upward, parallel as goal posts, responding affirmatively.
556 2013-11-23 Israel and Saudi Arabia have expressed concern that if Iran produced only oxide powder from the 20 percent enriched uranium, and not fuel rods or plates, the oxide could be reconverted into 20 percent enriched uranium. But the Western officials say that such a reversal is difficult, and that Iran does not now seem to have the ability.

The concern around the 20 percent purity level is that Iran could, if it chose, quickly turn that into bomb-grade material, which means it could more quickly “break out” to create a nuclear weapon before the West could detect it or react to stop it.

Western officials said Iran was also being asked to halt construction, for six months, on the Arak heavy-water reactor. The reactor, when finished and fueled, could produce plutonium, another route to a nuclear weapon.

Iran would also agree not to install any more of its faster, second-generation centrifuges, the machines used to enrich uranium, and would not operate the 1,000 or so of these centrifuges already installed but not yet in use. Iran would also agree to more intrusive inspections, to ensure the deal is kept.

If Iran agrees, the combination of concessions would give breathing space for a longer negotiation on a more permanent agreement. The deal also is intended to convince Iran that if the West detects evidence of an effort at a nuclear breakout, the Western nations would have time to take decisive preventive action — potentially military action.

In return, Iran would receive what the Western officials said was about $3.6 billion in oil income, which has been frozen abroad, released in portions over six months. Iran would also get relief on sanctions currently on auto parts and kits for reassembly, on gold and precious metals, on commercial aircraft parts and repairs and on petrochemicals.

Sanctions on oil sales and financial transactions would remain in force. The officials estimated that the sanction relief over the six months would represent between one-fifth and one-sixth of what Iran is already losing because of existing sanctions.

Iran is estimated to be losing $25 billion to $30 billion every six months, depending on the price of oil, from the oil sanctions alone.

The deal also envisages establishing a so-called green channel for Iran to buy monitored humanitarian goods and medicines through selected banks, which have been afraid to handle any Iranian transactions for fear of violating existing sanctions.
557 2013-11-23 Drug traffickers and street gangs act unimpeded as the National Police look the other way, or even run their own criminal rackets. Dozens of human rights activists, journalists, lawyers, and peasant and labor leaders have been killed. The country is believed to have the highest peacetime murder rate in the world.

The combustible mix of drugs, gangs, arms and impunity has created a “very violent element” that will “kill anybody for any reason,” said Leticia Salomón, a security expert at the National Autonomous University of Honduras. “They don’t care anymore.”

Washington is watching closely, because greater instability could add to the flow of migrants trying to reach the United States and open space to drug traffickers, who have turned Honduras into a way station for South American cocaine flights.

In a Nov. 13 letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia and a dozen other senators wrote that the “difficult and dangerous climate” in Honduras raises “serious concerns over the Honduran government’s ability to conduct free and fair elections.”

Against this backdrop, the question is whether politicians will respect the results after what most expect will be a very close race for president and a fractured vote for Congress.

The ousted former president, Manuel Zelaya, known to everyone as Mel, is back. He leads a new left-wing party, Libre, that could seize the presidency from the two parties that have swapped political power and its spoils for decades. His wife, Xiomara Castro, is the party’s candidate, because the Constitution prevents him from running again.

“Trust me,” Ms. Castro said at a noisy closing rally in the market town of Siguatepeque last week. “You trusted Mel, and he never let you down.”

After Mr. Zelaya won the presidency in 2005 as a candidate of the Liberal Party, he broke with the political establishment and tacked left toward Venezuela, embracing its interventionist economic policies.

Now the former presidential couple is running on a promise to rewrite the Constitution to give a greater share of the country’s wealth and power to its dispossessed citizens. “We will break the chains that tie us,” Ms. Castro declared in Siguatepeque.

“Xiomara owes the people,” said Alex Isidro Turcios, 46, who owns a small hardware store. “The other candidates all have debts to the oligarchy, the power groups, the elite bourgeoisie, not to the people.”

Opponents describe the couple as a stalking horse for Latin America’s left. “Somebody who is desperate and who does not have support at home has to appeal to foreigners,” said Mauricio Villeda, the presidential candidate for the Liberal Party.

But even some in the conservative establishment acknowledge that it is time for change. “I see what’s happening here as a flowering of democracy,” said Adolfo Facussé, the head of one of the country’s main business associations and an outspoken supporter of the coup.

There have been no polls for a month, but the front-runners are Ms. Castro and Juan Orlando Hernández, the former president of the Congress.

Mr. Hernández, the candidate of the governing National Party, has focused on law and order. At the center of his campaign is the military police, a new force approved by Congress to patrol the streets and fight crime.

But many analysts worry about the growing role of the military in a country that endured years of military dictatorship. The coup “showed that the armed forces were capable of ‘maintaining order,’ ” said Leo Valladares Lanza, a former human rights commissioner and law professor. “Now they have much more control over the political process.”

There are eight presidential candidates, but political analysts believe that only Mr. Villeda, who has a rare reputation for probity and is the son of a popular president, and Salvador Nasralla, a television host campaigning on an anticorruption platform, have enough support to pull off an upset.

Mr. Hernández is widely seen as having accumulated enormous power in Congress, crushing all opposition. When the Supreme Court threw out several new laws he had pushed through, Congress simply replaced four justices late last year.

In his last campaign appearance on Monday, Mr. Hernández led a couple of hundred supporters in a candlelight vigil for a peaceful vote. It was a none-too-subtle reminder that the rival Libre emerged from the protests against the coup.

“If there is political unrest after the election, what will be the role of the military police?” asked Carlos Hernández, the president of the Association for a More Just Society, which works on justice, labor and security issues. (He is not related to the candidate.)

Violence has marred the campaign. A study by the national university released Thursday found that 17 members of Libre — among them candidates, activists and relatives — had been killed since May 2012 and that the party had faced threats and armed attacks. Sixteen people from the two traditional parties have also been killed.

“Almost all the violence has gone unpunished,” said the report’s author, Blas Enrique Barahona.

Politics may be behind the killing of Mr. Aguilar, the fruit seller, who was a Libre activist in his neighborhood of Santa Cecilia. His daughter Gladys was a Liberal supporter.

Campaign financing is opaque, leading many to assume that candidates have taken money from traffickers. “There is drug money in the majority of the big parties,” said Osman Aguilar, a Liberal Party congressman who is a security specialist.

American collaboration with Honduras on fighting drug trafficking has been uneven under the government of President Porfirio Lobo, who cannot seek re-election.

Washington has suspended some security programs over human rights violations, and it has not supported the new military police. “In democracies, police are used to enforce the law and the military is used to protect the borders,” Ambassador Lisa J. Kubiske told a Honduran television station in August.

The United States government also ended financing for a unit set up to purge the Honduran National Police, because it got no results.

“Removing the dirty police officers should not be difficult; everybody knows who they are,” said Mr. Hernández the security expert. “But they are associated with politicians — they know things about politics.”
558 2013-11-23 Pictures From the Week in Business
559 2013-11-23 But inside the Capitol, where Republican leaders in the House say an immigration overhaul is not on the agenda this year, the surly partisan mood contrasts sharply with the idealism from another era in Mr. Medina’s tent.

“I don’t think anybody in Congress is going to pay any attention to that,” said Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, who is a blunt-spoken opponent of legalization for those who entered the country illegally. “There are plenty of Americans who are un- or underemployed. Those hungry Americans are going to look at these open-border left liberals going hungry and they will have less sympathy, not more.”

The Senate passed a broad immigration bill in June, but the issue has fallen to the wayside in the House as lawmakers feud over health care and the budget. While Mr. Boehner insisted Thursday that immigration is “absolutely not” dead in the House, he gave no indication that he planned votes anytime soon.

“When all the traditional activities have been attempted, Eliseo believes sometimes an individual act of moral conscience can refocus the discussion at a different level,” said Andrew L. Stern, a former president of Mr. Medina’s union.

It has worked for Mr. Medina in the past. In 1974, he fasted for 14 days to press a supermarket chain in Cleveland to stop stocking produce picked by nonunion laborers, in a campaign the United Farm Workers eventually won.

And in 2006, Mr. Medina held another fast to support striking janitors at the University of Miami who were organized by the service workers’ union, which he joined in 1986. He suspended that fast after 11 days when the janitors won their contract.

“I’ve seen in my lifetime that change is possible,” Mr. Medina said. As he did in those episodes, he turned to fasting this time after other tactics failed to advance his goals.

Over the past two decades, Mr. Medina, who rose to become the second-highest official in the union, has campaigned on behalf of immigrant workers, within organized labor and in Congress.

In the 1990s, he was at the center of hard-fought debates with labor chiefs who viewed unauthorized immigrants as strikebreakers and competitors for American jobs.

Mr. Medina became an early champion of a strategy of organizing immigrants regardless of their status. His union’s membership swelled.

“Eliseo is one of the reasons why the catechism now in the labor movement is: We wish all workers would be like immigrants and join unions,” said Janice R. Fine, a professor of labor studies at Rutgers.

In no small part because of Mr. Medina, the main federations of the labor movement, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win, are now broadly united behind the effort for a comprehensive overhaul with a path to citizenship for immigrants in the United States illegally.

Mr. Medina expanded his reach to immigrant advocacy groups, helping them lobby Congress and organize growing protests in the country. He also devised an effort to naturalize and turn out Latino voters. His voter drives in states like Nevada and Colorado contributed significantly to President Obama’s re-election victory in 2012.

In August, Mr. Medina was arrested in an immigration demonstration on Capitol Hill. The next month, he resigned as secretary-treasurer of the service workers’ union, saying he wanted to devote his full time to winning immigration legislation.

But none of that has worked to get a House vote. Mr. Medina and other advocates argue that a bill similar to the Senate’s could pass the House, but mainly with votes from Democrats. Mr. Boehner says any legislation must have a Republican majority.

Mr. Medina is not fasting entirely alone. Since the first day he has been joined by Cristian Avila, a 23-year-old student from Phoenix, and Dae Joong Yoon, 43, executive director of Nakasec,   a Korean-American group in Los Angeles. Other union leaders and volunteers have fasted with him for a few days. Mr. Medina has been joined by two daughters, a niece and a granddaughter with shorter fasts.

The Rev. Jesse Jackson stopped by the tent this week, put on a brown sweatshirt and promised to fast for three days. About 3,000 people have reported on Mr. Medina’s website that they are fasting.

Late Tuesday night, the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, arrived from California with 30 other evangelical pastors. He also looked gaunt, since he has been fasting since Nov. 4.

He takes broth once a day, but he has also kept up a full work schedule.

With Mr. Medina, a Catholic, they all went to their knees, praying for Mr. Boehner to allow a vote.

“We all have parents, relatives, friends who are impacted by this system,” Mr. Medina said. “It’s personal to us. Waiting and waiting is not an option.”

On Friday, Mr. Medina’s voice had faded to a whisper and a nurse was monitoring his vital signs.

House lawmakers were leaving town for the Thanksgiving break.
560 2013-11-23 A judge ordered the owners of The Philadelphia Inquirer to reinstate the top editor who was fired last month as the newspaper’s management feuded.

The judge, Patricia A. McInerney of the Court of Common Pleas, ruled Friday afternoon that the editor, William K. Marimow, could return to his job, from which he was abruptly dismissed on Oct. 7 by the publisher, Robert J. Hall.

Mr. Marimow returned to his office at 5 p.m. on Friday, though some owners said they would appeal the court’s decision.

Judge McInerney wrote in the five-page ruling that some of The Inquirer’s management committee members, who had been left out of the firing decision, had been deprived of their rights to determine Mr. Marimow’s fate because hiring and firing an editor was considered part of the management committee’s “business and operational duties.” She also wrote that one owner, Lewis Katz, “suffered irreparable harm as a result of said deprivation.”

Richard Sprague, lawyer for Mr. Katz and another owner, H. F. Lenfest, said, “Judge McInerney’s ruling today is a very important victory for journalistic independence and integrity.” He added, “We are hopeful that the reporters and staff of a truly great newspaper can move beyond distraction and focus on the work they love to do on behalf of the people of Philadelphia and beyond.”

In 2012, Mr. Marimow, a former investigative journalist and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, was rehired as The Inquirer’s top editor shortly after the newspaper was bought by a group of local investors, who also acquired The Daily News and the website Philly.com. The return of Mr. Marimow, who was the top editor from 2006 to 2010, was viewed as an effort by the new owners to reassure staff members after costs were slashed and management was shaken up.
561 2013-11-23 A federal appeals panel on Friday denied a request by lawyers for New York that it overturn a judge’s sweeping ruling on the Police Department’s stop-and-frisk practices, all but ending the Bloomberg administration’s ability to legally challenge the ruling.

In August, the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, found constitutional violations in the practices and imposed remedies, including the appointment of a monitor. Last month, the appeals panel blocked those orders and removed her from the case, saying that by appearing to steer the litigation to her courtroom in 2007 and giving press interviews this past spring while the case was pending, she had compromised “the appearance of impartiality surrounding this litigation.”

In a more recent opinion, the panel, of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, said it had not found any misconduct or ethical violation by the judge. But it continued the stay on her ruling while the city appealed it.

The city had sought to have Judge Scheindlin’s ruling vacated, citing questions about her impartiality. But on Friday the appeals court declined the request, effectively saying the appeal process should run its course. The appeals court added that the city could renew its request later as part of the full appeal.

The city’s request appeared to be strategic. While Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg disagrees with Judge Scheindlin’s ruling, Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio does not, and has promised to withdraw the appeal when he takes office in January. Ending the appeal would mean that Judge Scheindlin’s order would probably go into effect.
562 2013-11-23 That would more or less maintain an even balance when judges sit, as they typically do, on three-judge panels. But the semiretired judges generally do not sit when the full court reviews a panel decision, meaning that the court’s Democratic appointees will have an edge.

But will they use it? In remarks in April, Judge David S. Tatel, appointed to the court by President Bill Clinton, compared his voting record to that of Judge David B. Sentelle, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan.

“As it turns out, in the 19 years we’ve served together, we have disagreed less than 3 percent of the time,” Judge Tatel said.

“Many of the cases on which Judge Sentelle and I have agreed are precisely the kind you would expect to divide us — and that would divide us if we were, heaven forbid, members of Congress: cases about greenhouse gases and global warming, military detention in Guantánamo and Afghanistan, constitutional claims to lifesaving drugs, the environmental consequences of nuclear waste, net neutrality, criminal law, tobacco and civil rights.”

That list is telling in two ways. It tends to confirm findings by political scientists that ideological voting is less common on federal appeals courts than on the Supreme Court. And it illustrates the breadth and importance of the District of Columbia Circuit’s docket.

It may also undercut the Republican critique that the court is underworked. As a matter of raw numbers, there is some support for the charge. But it fails to take account of the court’s distinctive docket.

“Comparing the number of cases it hears to other courts just doesn’t work,” said Eric M. Fraser, an author, with three colleagues, of a new study of the court’s work to be published in the Cornell Journal of Law and Public Policy. Mr. Fraser is a former law clerk to Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg, who was appointed to the District of Columbia Circuit by Reagan.

On the one hand, the study found, “a typical federal appellate judge may expect to participate in nearly three times the number of merits cases per year than a judge on the D.C. Circuit” — 168 versus 495 in a recent year, by one measure.

On the other hand, Mr. Fraser said, “the types of cases and the types of opinions the court issues are very different.”

Tracey E. George, an expert on the federal appeals courts who teaches law and political science at Vanderbilt University, said assessing judicial productivity was hard.

“It’s obviously not as simple as counting cases,” she said. “If it were all about a court’s cases, the U.S. Supreme Court has no work at all.” The Supreme Court issues perhaps 75 signed decisions in argued cases each term, or about eight per justice.

The District of Columbia Circuit hears fewer routine matters than other federal appeals courts and more technical ones, Mr. Fraser’s study found. In particular, it hears many fewer criminal and commercial cases.

More than half of its cases are administrative matters or suits against the federal government, compared with 20 percent nationwide, the study found. Many of those cases are sprawling and esoteric.

This is partly because Congress authorized the District of Columbia Circuit to hear cases in more than 130 different laws. Some laws require direct appeals to the appeals court from regulatory determinations without a stop at a trial court.

And it gives its cases more careful attention, hearing arguments more often and issuing a higher proportion of published decisions.

The court’s decisions fare well in the Supreme Court, which on average affirms them more often than those of other courts.

The court is also a farm team for the Supreme Court. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg all served on it, and Justice Elena Kagan’s nomination to it by President Bill Clinton stalled in the Senate.

As a senator in 2005, Mr. Obama said all of this meant that nominations to the court warranted exceptional scrutiny.

“This is a special court,” he said, explaining why he was opposed to the nomination of Judge Janice Rogers Brown. “It has jurisdiction that other appeals courts do not have. The judges on this court are entrusted with the power to make decisions affecting the health of the environment, the amount of money we allow in politics, the right of workers to bargain for fair wages and find freedom from discrimination, and the Social Security that our seniors will receive.”

Mr. Wheeler, of the Brookings Institution, said a “nonpartisan sober assessment” of the workloads of the federal appeals courts would be warranted and welcome. But, he added, “I’m not entirely sure what the right metrics are.”
563 2013-11-23 BERLIN — Prime Minister Antonis Samaras of Greece, meeting on Friday with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, said that his country was poised to return to economic stability and was “on track” to repay its international creditors.

Standing beside Ms. Merkel after talks in Berlin on Friday, Mr. Samaras cited a primary budget surplus — a surplus that excludes debt payments — that his government has projected for 2013 as an indicator that the Greek economy was on the mend after six straight years of recession. He also pointed to a plunge in Greece’s 10-year government bond yields, to 8 percent from 25 percent in August.

“We are on track, we don’t ask for anything else,” Mr. Samaras said. “We are doing our part of the deal and believe that everyone else should be doing their part.”

Mr. Samara’s comments referred to a decision taken last November by the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, when they agreed that Greece would be eligible for a fresh look at its needs as soon as it was able to finance current government spending, improve the economy and fulfill other promises to its international lenders — the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission.

The government in Athens on Thursday outlined a budget for 2014 that predicted a return to economic growth, though there are myriad obstacles to such a milestone. The government blueprint also predicted a primary surplus of 812 million euros, or nearly $1.1 billion, this year and €2.95 billion for 2014. That was an upward revision from previous forecasts of €344 million and €2.8 billion.
564 2013-11-23 LONDON — Police detectives investigating the case of three women who claim to have been held against their will for 30 years said Friday that the victims had been brainwashed and imprisoned by “invisible handcuffs” in an unremarkable house in South London.

A police commander leading the investigation also revealed that a couple in their 60s, arrested Thursday on suspicion of holding the three women, had also been detained in the 1970s, but he refused to elaborate. The two suspects, both 67 and unidentified under police protocol, were released on bail late on Thursday after surrendering their passports.

“What we have uncovered so far is a complicated and disturbing picture of emotional control over many years,” Commander Steve Rodhouse of the Metropolitan Police said at a news conference. “Brainwashing would be a simple term, but I think that belittles the years of emotional abuse these victims have had to endure.”

Commander Rodhouse said the case was different from others involving domestic servitude because it was “not as brutally obvious as women being physically restrained inside an address and not being allowed to leave.”

A Malaysian woman, 69, an Irishwoman, 57, and a British woman, 30, were freed from the house in the Lambeth district last month after one of the women contacted a charity that helps victims of forced marriage, the police said Thursday. They said the youngest woman had apparently been held captive her entire life.
565 2013-11-23 And yet the announcement was further evidence of the investor pressure on oil companies to control heavy capital demands as undersea exploration moves into deeper and riskier waters.

“For all the companies, capital spending has gone straight up” but profitability has not improved, said Fadel Gheit, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. He predicted that costly recent projects would be in trouble if oil prices fell to $70 or $80 a barrel. Brent crude, the North Sea blend, currently sells for about $110 a barrel.

On Nov. 14, Mr. Gheit wrote that the company’s stock was up 10 percent for the year, outperforming the 6 percent average improvement of its peers. On Friday, Chevron’s stock was little changed at $123.50 in New York.

Chevron’s capital spending was up 27 percent for the first nine months of 2013 compared with a year earlier, to $28.9 billion, as the company developed projects in Australia and the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. “It is not an issue about limited capital,” Ms. Olson said. “For Chevron, every project has to generate a minimum economic return. As Rosebank is currently being modeled, it does not.”

Chevron earns among the highest profits per barrel in the industry because its output is skewed toward oil, as opposed to natural gas, whose price has been falling.

Even as questions continue about the future viability of the offshore industry north of Scotland, in some respects the British industry is thriving. Overall investment this year, about 13.5 billion pounds, or $21.9 billion, is at an historically high level. But the spending masks “serious underlying problems,” according to a recent study for the government by Sir Ian Wood, the founder of Wood Group, an oil services company based in Aberdeen, Scotland.

Mr. Wood noted that production had declined 38 percent over the last three years on the British continental shelf and that a fall in exploration spending had meant that fewer than 50 million barrels were found in 2012, a very low amount.

Chevron has struggled with the development of Rosebank ever since it discovered the field in 2004, about 3,600 feet below the surface of the Atlantic Ocean west of the Shetland Islands. Beyond the sheer depth of the ocean at Rosebank, installations there would need to be designed to withstand severe weather that can include 100-foot waves.

What is more, the oil deposits lie under a layer of basalt, making them difficult to find using seismic technology. Chevron and its partners have already spent hundreds of millions of pounds on drilling, design work and efforts to understand the field, Stuart Klein, the project manager, said in an interview last summer.

Chevron had also obtained favorable tax allowances from the British government that made Rosebank more financially viable, Mr. Klein said at the time.

One drawback is that the estimated recoverable amount of oil and gas for Rosebank is 240 million barrels. While that is a lot of petroleum, it is relatively small for the billions of dollars in further investments that would be required to produce it.

In a possible sign of cost concerns, earlier this year Statoil, Norway’s state-controlled oil company, sold its 30 percent stake in Rosebank to OMV, the Austrian company, as part of a $2.65 billion package of North Sea assets.

OMV now owns 50 percent of Rosebank but is open to selling its stake down to 30 percent. Johannes Vetter, an OMV spokesman, said that Chevron’s announcement did not surprise OMV, adding: “We still believe it is an exciting project. It just needs time to study.”
566 2013-11-23 One reason for that may be that in most Swiss companies, the pay disparity is lower already. Salaries are close to the European Union average, and few companies pay starvation wages. But a handful of large corporations buck the trend: Among the big banks, the ratio between the best and worst paid has been around 1:500 for years; for Novartis in 2009, it was 1:752; at Credit Suisse the same year, the differential was as high as 1:1,812. Even companies that were heavily in the red continued to pay extravagant boardroom bonuses and salaries.

It was not always this way. Until the mid-19th century, Switzerland was poor. My great-grandmother, who grew up in an Alpine valley, often went hungry; occasionally, she was even forced to eat grass to fill her belly. Switzerland’s elevation to the ranks of the most prosperous nations was largely because of its manufacturing industry: watches, textiles and mechanical engineering.

It was only after World War II that Switzerland became an important player in the financial sector. Despite our reputation abroad, that is probably why banks don’t really figure in our sense of who we are; we just let them get on with it. Their revenues contributed substantially to our welfare, but we were never in love with them.

What is inescapable in Swiss daily life and culture is agriculture — even though only 4 percent of Swiss still work in it and farming represents just 0.7 percent of our gross domestic product. Our national heroes are not scientists or artists or captains of industry, but fictional characters: an ornery farmer by the name of Wilhelm Tell, a goat-girl called Heidi. Our national sport is “schwingen” wrestling, a farmers’ sport; the first prize at big events is a steer.

The Swiss are a well-traveled lot internationally, but at home they often live their entire lifetimes in one village or valley. There is social cohesion, but little internal mobility. To this day, the local Parliaments of Switzerland’s 26 cantons, or districts, vote by a show of hands; across the country, legal contracts are settled by a handshake.

Above all, Switzerland is egalitarian. The notion of being conceited about your wealth or talents is abhorred; expecting special treatment is scorned.

For a long time, even the rich in Switzerland bowed to this modesty. They kept to themselves and spent their money discreetly. Sponsorship of the arts was often anonymous; bankers didn’t think twice about pro bono public service. Those times are gone.

In his 2004 autobiography, the eminent banker Hans J. Baer deplored what he saw as the self-enrichment mentality of the new executive class. He described their insistence on high salaries as “a call to class warfare from above.”

Opponents of the 1:12 referendum like to talk about the politics of envy but find it hard to justify top salaries. No one among the big earners has cared to join the debate. Instead, representatives of medium-size companies have chipped in, such as Carl Elsener of Victorinox, the makers of the cult Swiss Army penknife. The initiative would not affect him — his company already has a wage ratio of 1:6 — but he opposes it on the grounds that it would involve more regulation and additional costs. Even if the measure passed, he’s skeptical that it could be enforced: “The small minority that likes to overdo things is perfectly able to get around the 1:12 initiative.” If the polling is correct, many voters appear to agree with him.

It’s not that Mr. Elsener is a fan of “rip-off” salaries, but he favors a policy of voluntary restraint — in effect, the old Swiss way of moral pressure. That may seem naïve nowadays, but at least in Mr. Vasella’s case, it seemed to work. He renounced his $78 million deal and, declaring himself upset by so much personal criticism, retired to quiet seclusion. In the United States.

Peter Stamm is the author, mostly recently, of the story collection “We’re Flying.” This essay was translated by Michael Hofmann from the German.
567 2013-11-24 NEMIROVSKY--Shlomit, long time resident of Forest Hills, NY and more recently of Palo Alto, CA, passed away on November 17, 2013 at the age of 84. Shlomit was born in Botosani, Romania, the fifth of six children of Zeev and Pnina Frenkel. At an ea...
568 2013-11-24 McCONNELL--Rev. John, S.J.,on November 22, 2013. Loving brother of Vincent, Patrick and the late James and Bernard McConnell. Reposing at the Murray-Weigel Hall Chapel, 515 East Fordham Rd., Bronx, NY on Monday, 3-5pm and 7-9pm. Funeral Mass in th...
569 2013-11-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
570 2013-11-24 Charl Schwartzel shot a three-under 69 Saturday to take a one-shot lead into the final round of the South African Open, the season-opening event on the European Tour.

Schwartzel moved to 15-under 201, with Morten Orum Madsen (69) and Marco Crespi (70) tied for second at Glendower Golf Club in Johannesburg.

South Africa’s Hennie Otto moved into fourth with a 65, another stroke behind on 13 under.

Schwartzel has won one European Tour title since clinching the Masters in 2011 and has never won his home open.

■ Jason Day shot a five-under 66 to take a one-stroke lead into the final round of the World Cup at Royal Melbourne in Australia.

Day had a three-round total of nine-under 204 playing in his first event since finding out eight relatives, including his grandmother, had died in Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines on Nov. 9.

The second-round leader, Thomas Bjorn of Denmark, shot 71 and was in second place, and the American Matt Kuchar had a 68 and was in third. Adam Scott, the reigning Masters champion, was tied for eighth after a 68.
571 2013-11-24 Emil Rolf Stalis and Raymond Weathers Stephens III were married Saturday by the Rev. Zachary Polk Drennen, an Episcopal priest, at the Dacor Bacon House in Washington.

The couple work at the United States Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya. Mr. Stalis is the refugee specialist with the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration of the State Department, and Mr. Stephens is the cultural affairs officer.

Mr. Stalis, 54, graduated from Hofstra University and received an M.B.A. from American University and a master’s degree in international affairs from Tufts.

He is a son of Astrid Aija Erika Stalis of Port Washington, N.Y., and the late Harijs Stalis.

Mr. Stephens, 57, graduated magna cum laude from the University of Georgia and received a master’s degree in general administration from the University of Maryland.

He is the son of Mr. Stephens Jr. of Metairie, La., and the late Julia Ellen Askew Stephens. He is the stepson of Loretto Babst Stephens.
572 2013-11-24 “There aren’t many of us doing this therapy,” said Shelby Harris, the director of the behavioral sleep medicine program at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, who also has a private practice in Tarrytown, N.Y. “I feel like we all know each other.”

According to preliminary results, one of the four studies has found that when CBT-I cures insomnia — it does so 40 percent to 50 percent of the time, previous work suggests — it powerfully complements the effect of antidepressant drugs.

“There’s been a huge recognition that insomnia cuts across a wide variety of medical disorders, and there’s a need to address it,” said Michael T. Smith, a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and president of the Society of Behavioral Sleep Medicine.

The therapy is easy to teach, said Colleen Carney, director of the sleep and depression lab at Ryerson University in Toronto, whose presentation at a conference of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies in Nashville on Saturday raised hopes for depression treatment. “In the study we did, I trained students to administer the therapy,” she said in an interview, “and the patients in the study got just four sessions.”

CBT-I is not a single technique but a collection of complementary ideas. Some date to the 1970s, others are more recent. One is called stimulus control, which involves breaking the association between being in bed and activities like watching television or eating. Another is sleep restriction: setting a regular “sleep window” and working to stick to it. The therapist typically has patients track their efforts on a standardized form called a sleep diary. Patients record bedtimes and when they wake up each day, as well as their perceptions about quality of sleep and number of awakenings. To this the therapist might add common-sense advice like reducing caffeine and alcohol intake, and making sure the bedroom is dark and quiet.

Those three elements — stimulus control, restriction and common sense — can do the trick for many patients. For those who need more, the therapist applies cognitive therapy — a means of challenging self-defeating assumptions. Patients fill out a standard questionnaire that asks how strongly they agree with statements like: “Without an adequate night’s sleep, I can hardly function the next day”; “I believe insomnia is the result of a chemical imbalance”; and “Medication is probably the only solution to sleeplessness.” In sessions, people learn to challenge those beliefs, using evidence from their own experiences.

“If someone has the belief that if they don’t sleep, they’ll somehow fail the next day, I’ll ask, ‘What does failure mean? You’ll be slower at work, not get everything done, not make dinner?’ ” Dr. Harris said. “Then we’ll look at the 300 nights they didn’t sleep well over the past few years and find out they managed; it might not have been as pleasant as they liked, but they did not fail. That’s how we challenge those kinds of thoughts.”

Dr. Aaron T. Beck, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania who is recognized as the father of cognitive therapy for mental disorders, said the techniques were just as applicable to sleep problems. “In fact, I have used it myself when I occasionally have insomnia,” he said by email.

In short-term studies of a month or two, CBT-I has been about as effective as prescription sleeping pills. But it appears to have more staying power. “There’s no data to show that if you take a sleeping pill — and then stop taking it — that you’ll still be good six months later,” said Jack Edinger, a professor at National Jewish Health in Denver and an author, with Dr. Carney, of “Overcoming Insomnia: A Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy Approach.”

“It might happen, but those certainly aren’t the people who come through my door,” he said.

Dr. Edinger and others say that those who respond well to CBT-I usually do so quickly — in an average of four sessions, and rarely more than eight. “You’re not going to break the bank doing this stuff; it’s not a marriage,” he said. “You do it for a fixed amount of time, and then you’re done. Once you’ve got the skills, they don’t go away.”
573 2013-11-24 With uncertainty about all their infielders, the Yankees acted Saturday to solidify their catching position, agreeing in principle with Brian McCann on a five-year deal worth more than $82.5 million.

As of Saturday afternoon the Yankees and McCann were at that dollar figure, but the Yankees were expected to increase their offer to $85 million to seal the deal, which will not be completed until McCann passes a physical. The deal also includes an option for a sixth year that could bring it to $100 million, according to a person involved in the negotiations. The Braves had made a $14.1 million qualifying offer to McCann, and by signing him the Yankees will have to surrender a compensatory pick in next year’s draft to Atlanta.

A left-handed hitter with pull power, McCann should be a perfect fit for Yankee Stadium, with its short right-field fence. He is also considered a team leader with excellent credentials for handling and sticking up for his pitchers.

McCann becomes the only certainty for the Yankees on the diamond: Alex Rodriguez is appealing a 211-game suspension; the 39-year-old Derek Jeter (ankle) and Mark Teixeira (wrist) are coming off serious injuries that cut short their seasons; and Robinson Cano is testing the free-agent market.

McCann, who turns 30 in February, has played his entire career with the Atlanta Braves and compiled a .277 batting average with a .350 on-base percentage. In nine seasons, he has hit at least 20 home runs seven times, including last season, when he missed the first month after off-season shoulder surgery. He has caught 8,8201/3 innings over 1,046 games.
574 2013-11-24 But a tug of war between courts in two states remains possible, because the San Diego judge has not yet ceded jurisdiction.

It is an unusual celebrity custody case, not centered on extravagant financial demands or questions about paternity. Both sides say they hope for “co-parenting,” but relations have been poisoned by what Ms. McKenna says is a steamroller campaign by Mr. Miller to push her to the margins and by what Mr. Miller calls the mother’s uncooperative behavior based on a quest for revenge.

They cannot even agree on what to call the boy. When he was born in New York on Feb. 23, Ms. McKenna pointedly gave the newborn Mr. Miller’s given names, registering him as Samuel Bode Miller-McKenna. She calls him Sam. Mr. Miller won permission from the California court to add Nathaniel as a middle name, in honor of his recently deceased brother, and he calls the boy Nate.

Women’s rights advocates called the early decisions, questioning Ms. McKenna’s behavior, a threat to the autonomy of pregnant women and applauded the appeals court reversal.

“Especially with current political pressures to recognize separate legal rights for fetuses, there will be increasing calls on the courts to fault a pregnant woman for moving, to restrain women from living their lives because they’re pregnant,” said Sarah E. Burns, the head of the Reproductive Justice Clinic at the New York University law school.

Ms. Burns was an author, along with several women’s rights groups, of a “friend of the court” brief in Ms. McKenna’s successful New York appeal, which was argued on a pro bono basis by the firm Amed Marzano & Sediva.

Mr. Miller is currently training for the Sochi Winter Olympics. In October 2012, he married Morgan Beck, a beach volleyball star and model he started dating around the time Ms. McKenna became pregnant. They often travel together to tournaments and promotional events, posting pictures of Nate on social media.

The marriage provided new grist for conflict. Ms. McKenna has accused Ms. Miller, who announced that she had a miscarriage in January, of seeking to replace her as a mother. Ms. Miller, in a blog post on Nov. 16 that was soon taken down, contrasted their “loving and balanced family” with Ms. McKenna’s heavy reliance on child care.

Ms. McKenna joined the Marines at 17 and four years later became a firefighter at Camp Pendleton, the Marine base near San Diego.

She met Mr. Miller in April 2012 through Kelleher International, with each expressing interest in finding a spouse, Ms. McKenna said in an interview last week at her university-owned apartment.

They dated for about a month and a half, she said, sometimes cooking dinner on the yacht where Mr. Miller lived at the time.

Ms. McKenna said she asked Mr. Miller to be an involved father, but he initially pushed her away. She released a text message from June in which Mr. Miller, explaining why he would not accompany her to an ultrasound, said, “U made this choice against my wish.”

Mr. Miller declined to be interviewed, but in court documents he charged that while he wanted to do his duty, Ms. McKenna set out to humiliate him with online announcements that she was pregnant by him and comments to the news media, and later kept her whereabouts secret.

Ms. McKenna said that when she realized that she could not continue with her stressful firefighting job, she began considering colleges. On Oct. 9, 2012, she texted to Mr. Miller: “Just a heads up, I met with an advisor from Columbia today and we will probably be moving there in the fall.”

Ms. McKenna says she wanted a new start and that Columbia offered the best support for a new parent, admitting her through a program the university describes as for “talented women and men who follow an untraditional path to higher education.”

By last fall, Mr. Miller was taking action to secure a major role in his future son’s life, filing a declaration of his paternity and interest in custody in San Diego.

Once the boy was born, Ms. McKenna filed in New York for temporary custody. But on May 30, a Family Court referee refused, rebuking Ms. McKenna for “unjustifiable conduct” and “forum shopping” and making the unusual decision to leave the case in California even though the baby was born and lived in New York.

While Ms. McKenna “did not ‘abduct’ the child,” the court said, “her appropriation of the child while in utero was irresponsible, reprehensible.”

The Family Court in San Diego proceeded to grant primary custody to Mr. Miller. On Sept. 4, as Ms. McKenna described it, choking up, Mr. Miller and his wife came to her apartment, “took the baby out of my arms, dropped it in a car seat and drove away.”

Ms. McKenna has seen him for a total of 10 days since the handover, said her lawyer, Naved Amed, and is scheduled to have him over Thanksgiving weekend.

This month, in its scathing reversal of the May decision, the appeals panel in New York rejected the suggestion that “the mother needed to somehow arrange her relocation with the father with whom she had only a brief romantic relationship.”

Ms. McKenna and Mr. Miller have been ordered to appear in New York Family Court on Monday, where Judge Adetokunbo O. Fasanya will revisit the question of temporary custody and visiting rights.
575 2013-11-24 Mr. Obama’s advisers set out to pass the law in 2009 fully aware that fears among middle-class voters sank President Bill Clinton’s health initiative 16 years earlier. So they designed the legislation to minimize the number of people likely to be hurt.

Instead of a sweeping change to a government-run “single-payer” system favored by Democratic liberals, members of the administration sought to preserve the existing system of employer-provided health insurance while covering the uninsured through the expansion of Medicaid and changes to the individual insurance market.

They also added benefits available to any family, such as the ability of children up to age 26 to remain on their parents’ health plans.

But throughout the process, they knew that some level of redistributing wealth — creating losers as well as winners — was inescapable.

They were nonetheless acutely aware of how explosive the word could be. When Mr. Obama ran for president in 2008, Republicans tried to wound him by accusing him of waging “class warfare” to achieve wealth redistribution. That fall, the Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain, derided Mr. Obama as the “redistributor in chief” as he seized on Mr. Obama’s comments to an Ohio man later known as “Joe the Plumber” that he wanted to “spread the wealth around.”

Mr. Obama survived that episode and other instances when Republicans deployed old recordings of him using the word “redistribution” as evidence that he was a closet socialist. But Mr. Obama had learned a lesson.

After he took office, he cast his goal of rolling back President George W. Bush’s tax cuts for higher earners not as economic redistribution, but as the restoration of top-end rates from the Clinton years.

The Affordable Care Act was a similar semantic sidestep. The law targeted high earners, too, by raising their Medicare taxes enough to reduce their after-tax incomes by nearly 2 percent, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. That revenue helped finance coverage for those currently without insurance, who tend to have lower incomes and who in many cases will receive government subsidies to make their premiums cheaper.

And yet for those nervous about potential changes, the president promised stability. “If you like your current insurance, you will keep your current insurance,” Mr. Obama said the day he signed the legislation in March 2010, a promise he made repeatedly as the Oct. 1 opening day of the online health insurance marketplaces approached.

Hiding in plain sight behind that pledge — visible to health policy experts but not the general public — was the redistribution required to extend health coverage to those who had been either locked out or priced out of the market.

Now some of that redistribution has come clearly into view.

The law, for example, banned rate discrimination against women, which insurance companies called “gender rating” to account for their higher health costs. But that raised the relative burden borne by men. The law also limited how much more insurers can charge older Americans, who use more health care over all. But that raised the relative burden on younger people.

And the law required insurers to offer coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions, which eased costs for less healthy people but raised prices for others who had been charged lower rates because of their good health.

“The A.C.A. is very much about redistribution, whether or not its advocates acknowledge that this is the case,” wrote Reihan Salam on the website of the conservative National Review.

Having obscured much of that vulnerability before, Mr. Obama has responded to recent political heat by apologizing — and expanding the scope of his discredited “you can keep it” promise.

Mr. Gruber of M.I.T. called redistribution a convenient tool for Republican opponents who would fight the law anyway.

In the end, America’s political culture may have made it unrealistic to expect a smooth public reception for the law, no matter how cleverly the White House modulated Mr. Obama’s language or shaped his policy to minimize the number of losers.

“The reality is, any big thing you take on, any big change, is hard to accomplish,” said David Axelrod, the president’s longtime strategist. In America, he said, “we’ve created a sense that everyone can expect to win — nobody has to sacrifice.”

At the same time, Mr. Axelrod argued that widening income inequality has, to some Americans at least, changed the meaning of redistribution. “The whole redistribution argument has shifted in the country because there’s a sense that a lot of redistribution has been to the top and not the bottom,” Mr. Axelrod said.

Still, the word is hardly a favorite of the president these days. The last time Mr. Obama used it in public, according to Federal News Service transcripts, was 18 months ago during his re-election campaign in Elyria, Ohio.

“Understand this is not a redistribution argument,” the president told his audience then. “This is not about taking from rich people to give to poor people. This is about us together making investments in our country so everybody’s got a fair shot.”
576 2013-11-24 And when it’s time to hire employees, he says he will most likely avoid the extra work of administering a company health insurance plan and instead encourage employees to shop the new health care exchanges on their own and bump up their salaries to cover the cost.

Research published in the journal Health Affairs showed that small businesses with 10 to 24 employees have paid 10 percent more than large ones for the same health care coverage, and that companies with fewer than 10 employees have paid 18 percent more until now. Small businesses’ plans were also more vulnerable to rate increases; as a result, they often provided less coverage, if they offered it at all, resulting in a competitive disadvantage in hiring.

Constantia Petrou, owner of Konnectology, a website that provides information on health care specialists, expects the new law to broaden her hiring options. When she started her company seven years ago in Burlingame, Calif., she realized that she couldn’t afford to offer a group plan.

“In terms of hiring, the health care expenses contribute a huge, huge component to your cost of operation,” Ms. Petrou says. So instead of bringing on full-time employees, she relied on contract workers.

She is looking forward to getting price information online from the Small Business Health Options Program, or SHOP, an exchange that was created by the new law. (Currently, business owners can obtain estimated SHOP prices online, but specific ones are only available by mail after filling out and mailing in a PDF downloaded from Healthcare.gov. Some states, including California, have their own SHOP exchanges, and their procedures vary.)

Ms. Petrou says the law could enable her to hire full-time employees, depending on the new costs of coverage. If so, she will either pay for a portion of the individual plans that her employees shop for on the exchange, or she may take advantage of tax credits and offer a small group plan. “We now have options to explore,” she says.

Some experts say this type of flexibility may have a big impact on the economy over all.

“Assuming we get the website working, it’s going to be the biggest step we’ve had in a long time in the U.S. in terms of changing the structure of the economy,” says Craig Garthwaite, assistant professor of management and strategy at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. Mr. Garthwaite is a co-author of one of two recent studies that conclude that the Affordable Care Act could spur entrepreneurship by easing job lock — where people stay in a job mainly for the health insurance.

The act was aimed at people like Jeannie Armstrong, who in 2009 was planning to quit her job within a couple of years to start a private clinic for adolescents with substance-abuse problems. But then her 18-year-old son learned that he had diabetes. Fearing that he would be unable to find individual health insurance, she has stayed in her job so her son could keep receiving coverage under her employer’s health plan.

“We’re talking pre-existing condition, we’re talking no money, we’re talking health care costs out of the roof,” Ms. Armstrong says of her son’s situation.

But in January, her son will be eligible for individual health insurance. That will free Ms. Armstrong to quit her job as a social worker in the juvenile court system of Fairfax County, Va., and to pursue her entrepreneurial dreams. Now, instead of opening a for-profit clinic, Ms. Armstrong has decided to go the social-entrepreneurship route. In September, she founded the nonprofit Center to End Adolescent Substance Abuse Encounters.

Over the next year, she plans to stay in her job while her son finishes school; in her free time, she will assemble a board of directors and write the organization’s bylaws. By next fall, she plans to be running the nonprofit full time.

“I’m not hamstrung by having to stay in this job,” she says.

Ms. Armstrong sees the new law as an opportunity to start something new. But Kevin Kuhlman, manager of legislative affairs for the National Federation of Independent Business, says that while job lock is a real concern for entrepreneurs, he remains skeptical that the new law will be able to solve the problem.

The federation unsuccessfully challenged the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that most people obtain health insurance or pay a tax penalty,  in a case that went all the way to the Supreme Court last year. The plaintiffs were uninsured and didn’t believe that the government could require them to buy insurance.

Certainly, many established small-business owners are not clamoring for information on new health coverage. Barry Sloane, chairman and chief executive of Newtek Business Services, based in New York, says a majority of his customers

haven’t bothered to visit the exchanges.

“The negative publicity that’s come out about the site not functioning has kept people from thinking they can go to it and get a result,” Mr. Sloane says.

Some small businesses aren’t shopping the exchanges because they don’t yet need to, he says. Businesses with fewer than 50 people will not be required to offer health insurance; those with 50 or more employees will have to do so, but not until 2015.

Small-business owners are “very confused and they’re very concerned,” Mr. Sloane says. And those feelings are only intensifying amid news reports that just a tiny number of Americans have enrolled in the exchange plans and amid questions about the government’s ability to keep enrollees’ personal information secure. “The negative stigma around the Affordable Care Act is building steam,” he says.

A new crop of Internet companies, meanwhile, is convinced that Americans will need help navigating the new health care landscape. Benefitter, for example, based in San Francisco, provides business owners and individuals with information on the new law’s requirements.

The Young Entrepreneur Council, based in New York, is focusing on small-business owners and solo entrepreneurs with a website, StartupInsurance.com, that it founded in September. It offers health insurance plans from six carriers.

“Whether the government is in there or not, whether corporations are in there or not, this is a big void,” Scott Gerber, the council’s founder, says of health care insurance for the small-business market.

Jack Hooper is among those who see the law as a business opportunity. A former intelligence analyst for the federal government, he enrolled at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 2012 and hoped to start a company after graduation. His wife, Brittany, was to provide financial support and health care benefits through her job while he got the business going, but when she became pregnant with twins, those plans collapsed.

As he began investigating his own health care options, he realized that the Affordable Care Act could provide more than just access to coverage for his family.

“What’s been a very stagnant industry, health insurance, is being shaken up and people are starting to re-evaluate their plans,” Mr. Hooper says. He anticipates that premiums will remain expensive, pushing many Americans to high-deductible plans, and that these people will need help in managing care-related expenses.

Last spring, he started a service called Command Health, which he describes as “a Mint.com or TurboTax for high-deductible health insurance plans.”

Based on his previous experience working for the federal government, he says, he is not surprised by the problems that have emerged in the Healthcare.gov site. Entrepreneurs like him will end up providing the ultimate solutions to the problems that have emerged from the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Hooper says.

Mr. Jeyakumar of Skillbridge says of the law’s rocky start: “Being a tech entrepreneur myself, I appreciate that technology is often not perfect in the first release, and a lot of great products from Facebook to eBay were buggy when they first came out.”

He adds: “I think the concept is good, and as with anything, it’s a wait-and-see on execution. If it works, great, and if not, we will fall back on existing alternatives.”
577 2013-11-24 Psychiatrists have long thought that depression causes insomnia, but new research suggests that insomnia can actually precede and contribute to causing depression. The causal link works in both directions. Two small studies have shown that a small amount of cognitive behavioral therapy to treat insomnia, when added to a standard antidepressant pill to treat depression, can make a huge difference in curing both insomnia and depression in many patients. If the results hold up in other studies already underway at major medical centers, this could be the most dramatic advance in treating depression in decades.

A study of 66 patients by a team at Ryerson University in Toronto found that the cognitive therapy for insomnia, a brief and less intense form of talk therapy than many psychiatric patients are accustomed to, worked surprisingly well. Some 87 percent of the patients whose insomnia was resolved in four treatment sessions also had their depression symptoms disappear, almost twice the rate of those whose insomnia was not cured. The new results were reported by Benedict Carey in The Times last Tuesday.

The brief course of sleep therapy teaches patients to establish a regular wake-up time; get out of bed during waking periods; avoid reading, watching TV or other activities in bed; and eliminate daytime napping, among other tactics. It is distinct from standard sleep advice, like avoiding coffee and strenuous exercise too close to bedtime.

The Toronto study is consistent with a 2008 study of 30 patients at Stanford University, all of whom suffered from insomnia and depression and were taking an antidepressant pill. Some 60 percent of those given seven sessions of behavioral therapy for insomnia in addition to the pill recovered fully from their depression, compared with only 33 percent in a control group that got the standard advice for treating sleeplessness.

Other studies involving roughly 70 patients each are being conducted at Stanford, Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh, all financed by the National Institute of Mental Health. Those results are expected to be published next year.

How these results, if confirmed, will affect clinical practice is uncertain. Most psychiatrists have very little training in dealing with insomnia. As the head of the study at Duke told Mr. Carey, psychiatrists have largely ignored the body’s complex circadian cycles.
578 2013-11-24 MY father’s name is William Paul Coates. I, like my six brothers and sisters, have always addressed him as Dad. Strangers often call him Mr. Coates. His friends call him Paul. If a stranger or one of my father’s friends called him Dad, my father might have a conversation. When I was a child, relatives of my paternal grandmother would call my father Billy. Were I to ever call my father Billy, we would probably have a different conversation.

I have never called my father Billy. I understand, like most people, that words take on meaning within a context. It might be true that you refer to your spouse as Baby. But were I to take this as license to do the same, you would most likely protest. Right names depend on right relationships, a fact so basic to human speech that without it, human language might well collapse. But as with so much of what we take as human, we seem to be in need of an African-American exception.

Three weeks ago the guard Richie Incognito, who is white, was reported to have addressed his fellow Dolphin as a “half-nigger.” About a week later, after being ejected from a game, the forward Matt Barnes, who is black, tweeted that he was “done standing up for these niggas” after being ejected for defending his teammate. This came after the wide receiver Riley Cooper, who is white, angrily called a black security guard a “nigger” in July.

What followed was a fairly regular ritual debate over who gets to say “nigger” and who does not. On his popular show “Pardon the Interruption,” Tony Kornheiser called on the commissioners of the , the and to ban their players from publicly using the word. The host Skip Bayless went further, calling “nigger” “the most despicable word in the English language — verbal evil” and wishing that it could “die the death it deserves.”

Mr. Bayless and Mr. Kornheiser are white, but many African-Americans have reached the same conclusion. On Thursday, the Fritz Pollard Alliance Foundation, a group promoting diversity in coaching and in the front offices of the N.F.L., called on players to stop using “the worst and most derogatory word ever spoken in our country” in the locker rooms. In 2007 the organized a “funeral” in for the word “nigger.” “Good riddance. Die, n-word,” said , then the mayor. “We don’t want to see you around here no more.”

But “nigger” endures — in our most popular music, in our most provocative films and on the lips of more black people (like me) than would like to admit it. Black critics, not unjustly, note the specific trauma that accompanies the word. For some the mere mention of “nigger“ conjures up memories of lynchings and bombings. But there’s more here — a deep fear of what our use of the word “nigger” communicates to white people. “If you call yourself the n-word,” said the Rev. , “you can’t get mad when someone treats you like that.”
579 2013-11-24 Boeing has told airlines there is a risk of engine-icing problems on its new 747-8 and 787 Dreamliner planes with engines made by General Electric and urged 15 carriers to avoid flying them near high-level thunderstorms.

The warning led Japan Airlines to withdraw 787 Dreamliners from two international routes. Other affected airlines include Lufthansa, United Airlines and Cathay Pacific Airways.

Referring to the action by Japan Airlines, a Boeing spokesman said, “Boeing and JAL share a commitment to the safety of passengers and crews on board our airplanes. We respect JAL’s decision to suspend some 787 service on specific routes.”

The move came after six incidents from April to November involving five 747-8s and one 787 in which aircraft powered by GE’s GEnx engines suffered temporary loss of thrust while flying at high altitude.

The problem was caused by a buildup of ice crystals, starting just behind the front fan and then running through the engine, a GE spokesman said. All the aircraft landed safely at their destinations, he said.

Boeing on Friday issued a notice prohibiting the affected aircraft from flying at high attitude within 50 nautical miles of thunderstorms that may contain ice crystals.
580 2013-11-24 The Chinese announcement followed months of increasing tension over the uninhabited islands as China appeared to be taking moves to establish its claim to them, including more frequent ship patrols in the area. Those patrols have led to cat-and-mouse games between Chinese and Japanese ships near the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.

But trying to control the airspace over the islands could prove particularly problematic. Japan considers that airspace its own and has scrambled fighter jets in the past to try to ensure that Chinese aircraft did not enter. As the potential for a miscalculation that leads to conflict has increased, the United States has become worried that as an ally of Japan, it could be dragged into any conflict with China.

Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States was “deeply concerned” about China’s announcement. “Escalatory action will only increase tensions in the region and create risks of an incident,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement. He urged China “to exercise caution and restraint.”

The Japanese Foreign Ministry said the government had lodged a “serious protest” with China. An official there, speaking on the condition of anonymity as is ministry practice, said the head of Asian affairs had called the Chinese Embassy in Tokyo on Saturday to warn that the move could escalate tensions and was “extremely dangerous as it could trigger unpredictable events.”

Colonel Yang said that the declaration of the air zone was not aimed at any particular country, and that it would not impede the freedom of commercial flight over the East China Sea. But his words left little doubt that the move could be used against the Japanese government and military aircraft.

The longstanding dispute between Beijing and Tokyo over the islands flared last year, before Xi Jinping assumed leadership of the Chinese Communist Party in November. The spark was a decision by the Japanese government to buy some of the islands from a Japanese citizen. Japan said the move was to keep the islands out of the hands of a nationalist politician who might increase tensions, but China saw the purchase as Japan’s effort to strengthen its hold on the islands.

The new Chinese rules left unclear how frequently and thoroughly China intends to enforce them. But Chinese state-run news media widely reported the announcement, which could kindle public expectations that the government will take steps to back up its words.

Military experts have said that even if Japan and China seek to avoid outright confrontation over the islands, there is the risk that an unplanned episode could spiral into a wider military conflict.
581 2013-11-24 Mike Rice’s empathy for his players appears to remain truncated, perhaps blinded by what he perceives as the needs of a basketball program. A study conducted on the styles of various coaches found that John Wooden rarely told players that they did something wrong. If he needed to be critical, it was couched in a phrase like “it would be better if you did it this way.” Civility is required in every walk of life, including sports. Rice still doesn’t appear to have learned that. It really would be better if he did it that way. RICHARD MARTIN, Mahomet, Ill., posted on nytimes.com

At some point I expect that an unauthorized video of Navy SEAL training will emerge, and the public will be appalled at its harshness. Congressional hearings will ensue with a “You need to be nice” theme, and we’ll end up with a bunch of powder puffs for our most elite military unit. These are top athletes, and their training needs to be tough. If it upsets the gentle sensibilities of some people, they can always choose to not watch or play the sport. BARON YOUNG, Dallas, posted on nytimes.com

The training the military uses doesn’t approach the random screaming and profanity in Rice’s videos. From my experience in the military, screamers are the least effective: they lose control, teach little but fear and outrage, or shutdown and withdrawal — all useless in difficult, high-stress environments. And yes, screamers routinely lose good candidates by ruining their motivation. Stop screaming, Mike. CHRISTOPHER C. MCFARLAND, Toms River, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

Paul Gregory writes that Lee Harvey Oswald’s “wife and mother and two young daughters were hiding out at the Executive Inn, a commuter hotel near the airport, where they were taken and then abandoned by a team of Life magazine staff members.” The truth is slightly different. As Los Angeles bureau chief for Life at the time, I flew to Dallas with another correspondent, Tommy Thompson, and two photographers the afternoon of the assassination. Tommy and the photographer Allan Grant found the Oswald family before any other journalists did. We got them their own suite under a different name, asked them not to answer the phone or open the door but to please help themselves to anything room service had to offer. Lee’s brother, Robert, was with them, and at his request, I gave him $40 to buy diapers and baby food for the two infant daughters. Grant also provided Lee’s mother with money at a time when the family was most vulnerable. We treated them as courteously and generously as that woebegone family deserved. RICHARD B. STOLLEY, Senior Editorial Adviser, Time Inc.

This article paints a clear portrait of Oswald and what may have driven him to such a desperate — and yes, detestable — act that broke a nation’s heart and changed our history. One commenter said, “It is not necessary to understand or explore the life of a despised and reviled assassin.” But if we choose to characterize Lee Harvey Oswald as a mere cardboard cutout, the epitome of evil, and we put him outside the human family, we fool ourselves. We ignore the opportunity to learn something that might help us prevent another Oswald, embittered and enraged by loss and failure, from committing such an act. ELIZABETH MICHAUD, Stow, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

WHERE HAVE ALL THE SOPRANOS GONE?

The human voice is such a special thing. As a professional violinist, I appreciated this look at a culture that is so different from the one I’ve been exposed to with adult singers. I will listen to these sounds with a sharpened perception of what is going on, and for new and subtle things to hear in their voices. DAVID W. ABEL, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com
582 2013-11-24 New Britain, a Polish-American stronghold for many decades, hosts a handful of Polish restaurants with medieval-sounding names: Cracovia, Belvedere, Fatherland, Staropolska. It was at the last of these that I whiled away several pleasurable evenings recently, enjoying the robust delights of Central European cooking “Tu Jadamy Jak U Mamy” — the way your mother used to do it.

Staropolska Restaurant, currently celebrating its 20th anniversary, is a friendly place with a touch of sass. On one visit our waitress was steering us through a roster of Polish beers — a friend and I pondering aloud whether we were up for alcohol content of almost 9 percent — when Margaret Malinowski, who owns the restaurant together with her husband, Bogdan, happened by. “Don’t be sissies!” she teased, laughing. Obediently we ordered shots of Zubrowka, a vodka flavored with a tincture of bison grass from the Bialowieza Forest. Manly enough?

Polish food, with its recurring combinations of pork, beef, potatoes and cabbage, is not exactly light, but at Staropolska just about everything is homemade — Mr. Malinowski does the cooking, using family recipes — and wonderfully fresh. Soups include three kinds of borscht. A creamy white borscht was chock-full of potatoes, shards of kielbasa, onions, celery and herbs, and gave off a tang of horseradish and the rye starter in the soup. Red borscht was the pure, sweet essence of beet, with three miniature meat dumplings floating on a sea of vivid purple. And a Ukrainian variety contained copious shreds of beet, chunks of potato, corn, peas and the tiniest hint of cream.

Some of the best offerings are the daily specials, like pyzy, surprisingly light potato dumplings, perfectly round and springy in texture, stuffed with ground pork and veal, seasoned with paprika and covered in a mix of onions and bacon along with sliced green onions. Beef rolls, thin pounded cuts of Angus top round wrapped around bacon, onions and bits of pickle, then baked, were tender, moist and flavorful. I especially liked the mammoth veal-and-pork meatballs, covered in a thickened mushroom sauce and sprinkled with chopped scallions.

Portions are enormous. Order the “salad with chicken,” and you get mixed greens topped with a colossal mound of chicken salad, loaded with fresh dill. Potato pancakes look like continents on a map. A bone-in breaded pork chop spanned my plate from coast to coast, leaving space for a comically small ration of carrots and green beans. Almost as big was a Wiener schnitzel, perfectly breaded, golden-fried and topped for good measure with a fried egg. Our stack of take-home containers towered high.
583 2013-11-25 BISSELL--Elliston Perot III. Pete passed away peacefully on the evening of November 19, 2013 in Chatham, New Jersey. Pete was well known and loved by many and lived a rich and rewarding life. The son of Elliston Perot Bissell, Jr. and Ann Packard ...
584 2013-11-25 Don Gagliardo and Zhouquin “C.C.” Burnikel mark up your puzzle for you....
585 2013-11-25 The dispute around director compensation is the latest front in the war of influence between activist hedge funds and corporate boards....
586 2013-11-25 Apple over the weekend confirmed its acquisition of PrimeSense, a 3-D sensor company that could help Apple unlock new applications for devices in the living room and beyond....
587 2013-11-25 The Off Off Broadway theater will break ground on its new $18.5 million home on Dec. 5....
588 2013-11-25 It’s a noisy world for investors. Whether it is the debate about when the Federal Reserve will taper its bond purchasing or what it means if the Dow pushes past the 16,000 mark, it’s easy to get caught up in the noise and think our best bet is to react to the news as it comes. Who needs a plan? Just follow the ticker tape at the bottom of the TV screen.

That strategy doesn’t fill me with a lot of confidence. However, we’re often drawn to the noise because nothing else has taken its place. For instance, there’s one conversation that should happen, but it often gets buried by the noise: portfolio design.

Yes, the concept is not new, but a well-designed portfolio can be the difference between good investment outcomes and disappointment. Yet, it’s one of those things we don’t talk about, and part of the issue may be that we don’t understand the process. So what questions do we need to ask to build a portfolio that cuts through the noise?

■ What should the split be among stocks, bonds and cash?

This is the single most important decision we can make. How much of our portfolio we put in stocks drives the level of risk we are exposed to and our potential returns. This process is often called asset allocation. Even though this question is the most important part of the investing process, a simple set of questions can help determine goals and the level of risk we’re comfortable with.

■ How much can we save?

■ How much do we need?

■ When will we need it?

■ What rate of return do we need to make all this work?
589 2013-11-25 A new study measuring levels of heat-trapping methane across the United States reveals the need for better government monitoring....
590 2013-11-25 Eric Noll, who oversaw Nasdaq’s trading operations in the United States, was seen as one of the leading candidates to succeed Robert Greifeld as chief executive....
591 2013-11-25 Kenneth Farber and Maggie Wells joined Centro in new posts. Mr. Farber becomes regional sales director, based in Atlanta; he had been president at the Ranger Media Group, Dunwoody, Ga. Ms. Wells becomes vice president for publisher development at the Centro Brand Exchange unit, based in New York; she had been vice president for marketing at Digilant.

Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, received the top creative honor, the Gold Bell for Creative Excellence, at the 60th service award dinner held by the Advertising Council. The award was presented for a pro bono effort that the agency created, aimed at young adults, for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ financial literacy campaign.

Kenny Mitchell joined Nascar, Daytona Beach, Fla., as managing director of brand and consumer marketing, a post that was created as part of a reorganization in the marketing area. He had been vice president and general manager at the Dew Tour, part of the Alli Sports division of the NBC Sports Group, which is a unit of the NBCUniversal arm of the Comcast Corporation.

Mother New York, part of Mother, is losing three senior staff members, who are leaving to open an agency in early 2014 in Austin, Tex. The departing employees are Rob Baird, creative director; Seth Gaffney, co-head of strategy; and Krystle Loyland, an account director who had previously been director of new business. The posts are expected to be filled from within.

Debrianna Obara joined Rauxa, Costa Mesa, Calif., in a new post, senior vice president for media. She had most recently been group vice president for media at the Seattle office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, was named Network of the Year for 2013 by the London International Awards as 126 awards were presented to offices in countries including Brazil, Britain, China, Colombia, France, Germany, Guatemala, India, Tunisia, the United States and Vietnam.

Adam Pincus joined GroupM Entertainment North America, New York — part of the GroupM division of WPP — in a new post, executive vice president for programming and production. He had most recently been a managing partner at MediaCom, New York, and director of the agency’s branded entertainment unit, MediaCom Beyond Advertising. MediaCom is also part of GroupM.

Public Relations Society of America, New York, announced a new diversity initiative meant to encourage more ethnically diverse young men and women to get jobs in the industry. The initiative will include a student guide and a mentoring program.

Chris Reif, digital creative director at the Philadelphia office of Allen & Gerritsen, was promoted to senior vice president of creative and innovation, an expanded role for Mr. Reif, who was a co-founder of the office in 2007.

Brad Roseberry joined Publicis Dallas in a new post, chief creative officer. He had most recently been executive creative director at TBWA/Chiat/Day New York, part of the TBWA/Chiat/Day division of TBWA Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group. Publicis Dallas is part of the Publicis in the USA unit of Publicis Worldwide, which is owned by the Publicis Groupe.

I. Todd Russell joined Maier Advertising, Farmington, Conn., in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been president at Signature Brand Factory, Milldale, Conn.

James Russell joined Virgen Inc., Las Vegas, in a new post, creative director; Merrell Virgen, the agency’s president, had previously also served as creative director. Mr. Russell had been art director at Greenbaum Marketing and Communications, Henderson, Nev.

John Schwaner joined the Goodman Group, Chaska, Minn., in a new post, vice president for sales and marketing. He had most recently been senior director of national sales and marketing at Brookdale Senior Living.

Jennifer Scott, global managing director for strategy and planning at Ogilvy Public Relations, was named managing director for the New York office, serving as the New York office head. She assumes those duties from Kate Cronin, who had been dividing her time between that post and the post of global managing director for the agency’s health care practice; Ms. Cronin will now return full time to her health care practice duties. Ogilvy Public Relations is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide division of WPP.

TBWA/Chiat/Day New York made three senior creative appointments. Erik Holmdahl and Beth Ryan joined as creative directors; they had worked at Mother New York, part of Mother. And Melatan Riden joined in a new post, design director; she had worked on fashion marketing and branding at Lipman, New York, part of Revolate Holdings, which filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in September.
592 2013-11-25 Every day from now until Christmas, the editors of T are sharing their personal gift suggestions. Today’s pick: a package of grooming products for men....
593 2013-11-25 Senator John Cornyn said the deal with Iran was an attempt to distract attention from the Affordable Care Act....
594 2013-11-25 Can you decipher this gold bar puzzle?...
595 2013-11-25 PrimeSense’s innovations contributed to the early development of Kinect, Microsoft’s motion-sensing camera, and Apple has demonstrated interest in the technology....
596 2013-11-25 Distressed companies will be able to coast for a while on their existing funding. But eventually all that debt will come due, and then we’ll find out what happens....
597 2013-11-25 In the aftermath of President Kennedy’s death, The New York Herald published excerpts from his last speech, never delivered....
598 2013-11-25 Its parent company, Fiat, will have more time to negotiate the purchase of a 41.5 percent stake held by a union health care trust....
599 2013-11-25 Paul Downs has spent the past few weeks immersed in the new world of health insurance. His conclusion: The new system is a mess — but a vast improvement over the previous mess....
600 2013-11-25 American officials have ordered thousands of air purifiers for their employees as a way to blunt the hazards and the fears that come with Chinese smog....
601 2013-11-25 ■ Terminix International, Memphis, part of ServiceMaster, named two agencies to handle its creative account: Havas Worldwide Chicago — part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, a unit of Havas — and Hawkeye Dallas, part of Hawkeye. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment was previously handled by Publicis Dallas, part of the Publicis in the USA unit of Publicis Worldwide, which is owned by the Publicis Groupe. Havas Worldwide Chicago will handle television and print work and Hawkeye Dallas will handle digital and direct marketing work.

■ Steven Wolfe Pereira joined the San Francisco office of Datalogix as chief marketing officer, a new post. He was executive vice president at MediaVest, New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, as well as managing director of MediaVest Multicultural, also known as MediaVest 42°.

■ Brian Ellner joined Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., as executive vice president and group head for public affairs in the agency’s New York office, reporting to Ron Guirguis, managing director for the Edelman New York corporate and public affairs practice. Mr. Ellner succeeds David Vermillion, now managing director at Teneo Strategy. Mr. Ellner most recently consulted in areas like government affairs and communications — examples include New Yorkers for Marriage Equality and The Four 2012 — and also served as vice chairman for education holdings at MacAndrews & Forbes, New York, reporting to Bob Kerrey, the former senator from Nebraska.

■ Biggs/Gilmore Communications, Kalamazoo, Mich., a digital agency with more than 140 employees, agreed to be acquired by VML, part of the Y&R division of the Young & Rubicam Group, which is owned by WPP. Financial terms were not disclosed. The Biggs/Gilmore headquarters in Kalamazoo and an office in Chicago will become the Kalamazoo and Chicago offices of VML, which has its headquarters in Kansas City, Mo., and offices in cities that include Atlanta, Boston, New York and Seattle.

■ E/OU, São Paulo, Brazil, was acquired by MRM, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Financial terms were not disclosed. E/OU will be renamed E/OU MRM.
602 2013-11-25 But over the years, Mr. Lewis drew more attention for his philanthropic efforts. He gave away almost half of his $1 billion fortune to various causes, including the Center for American Progress and the American Civil Liberties Union, and he famously ended his large donations to the Guggenheim Museum after clashing with its director.

In recent years, he had focused on efforts to legalize marijuana, a campaign he said he supported after using the drug to manage the pain when he had part of a leg amputated in 1998.

Peter Benjamin Lewis was born in Cleveland on Nov. 11, 1933, the son of Joseph Lewis, who co-founded the Progressive Mutual Insurance Company with Jack Green, and the former Helen Rosenfeld. He attended Princeton University and then joined his father’s company. He became chief executive in 1965 and retired in 2000.

Some called him eccentric, a label Mr. Lewis did not dispute. Tall and athletic, he favored black Stetson hats and once attended a company board meeting on Halloween dressed as the Lone Ranger. He also called his 255-foot yacht the Lone Ranger.

Others criticized him as a demanding manager. In 1990, after several top officers left the company, Mr. Lewis delighted in telling The New York Times that he had “fired more Harvard Business School graduates than most other insurance companies have hired.”

Controversy often followed Mr. Lewis in his role as a philanthropist. He gave generously to many organizations, but threatened to withdraw his support when he did not approve of management decisions.

For years, Mr. Lewis was the biggest individual patron of the Guggenheim Museum in New York, donating almost $77 million over 11 years. But in 2005, he resigned as chairman of the museum’s board and withdrew his financial support because he wanted the museum to focus on New York rather than expanding abroad.

Before that, he staged a yearlong boycott of cultural and charitable organizations in Cleveland, where Progressive is based, after a dispute with the board of Case Western Reserve University. Mr. Lewis had agreed to pay for a Frank Gehry-designed building on campus, but he was frustrated when the costs of the project ballooned and he wanted the board to resign.

“I really get a smile that people think they have a right to even suggest how I give my money away,” he said during his boycott. “I have no mandate to give a dime to anybody.”

The building, notable for its flowing sheets of steel and glass, ended up being built with $36.9 million in donations from Mr. Lewis and bears his name.

Mr. Lewis had been a fan of Mr. Gehry’s work for years, and the men collaborated in the 1980s on a dream home for Mr. Lewis in suburban Cleveland, but their plans went comically awry. They could not agree on what the home should look like, and after 11 years of discussions, with the proposed budget reaching $82 million, Mr. Lewis called off the project.

There were no hard feelings between the two, who still worked together on the university building. In 1997, Mr. Gehry compared his years of working for Mr. Lewis to a MacArthur grant “genius award,” saying that during that time he had honed many of the ideas that have since found life in other buildings, including the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.

Over the years, Mr. Lewis donated more than $220 million to Princeton University, his alma mater, and he served on its board until last June.

Mr. Lewis contributed millions of dollars to Democratic campaigns, but he grew frustrated after John Kerry lost his presidential bid in 2004. He had given more than $20 million to Democratic-oriented groups that year.

After that, he turned his attention to financing groups that would set up a permanent infrastructure for Democrats, including the Center for American Progress and Media Matters for America.

Mr. Lewis’s first marriage, to the former Toby Devan, ended in divorce in 1981.

Survivors include his wife, Janet Rosel Lewis; three children from his first marriage, Ivy, Jonathan and Adam Lewis; a brother, Daniel; and five grandchildren.

In 2012, Mr. Lewis signed the Giving Pledge, a campaign organized by Bill Gates and Warren E. Buffett to get the world’s richest people to dedicate the majority of their wealth to philanthropy.

In a letter to the group, Mr. Lewis said: “Seeing results flow from my gifts is my greatest pleasure as a philanthropist — whether exonerating a jailed innocent or completing a Frank Gehry building. I want to enjoy my philanthropy.”
603 2013-11-25 The Supreme Court will decide whether to hear an Obama administration appeal of a lower court’s ruling that a company could restrict contraception insurance coverage....
604 2013-11-25 Mr. Obama has wanted to bring in Iran from the cold since he was a presidential candidate, declaring in 2007 that he would pursue “aggressive personal diplomacy” with Iranian leaders, and ruling out the concept of leadership change, which was popular at the time.

But the president has sought to avoid being consumed by the Middle East, in part so he could shift America’s gaze to . He has tended to view Iran through two narrower prisms: his goal of curbing the spread of and his desire to avoid entangling the United States in another war in the region.

On Friday, Mr. Obama huddled in the Oval Office with Secretary of State over the fine points of a proposal to the Iranians. He was intent on making sure that Iran halted all testing at a heavy-water reactor, a senior administration official said, and in tying any reference to Iran’s enrichment of uranium only to a final agreement.

Still, pursuing a broader diplomatic opening, Mr. Nasr said, could alter other American calculations in the region — from , where the Iranian-backed group is fighting alongside President ’s government, to , where the Iranians could be helpful in brokering a postwar settlement with the .

The prospect of such a long-term strategic realignment is precisely what has so alarmed American allies like , the Persian Gulf emirates and , whose leader, Prime Minister , on Sunday condemned the deal as a “historic mistake.”

It is also what has stirred opposition from lawmakers, including those of Mr. Obama’s party, who complain that the deal eases pressure on Iran without extracting enough concessions.

“It was strong sanctions, not the goodness of the hearts of the Iranian leaders, that brought Iran to the table,” Senator , Democrat of New York, said Sunday.

Mr. Schumer said he would support a push in the Senate to pass additional sanctions against Iran after Congress returns from the Thanksgiving break. A day earlier, Mr. Obama had warned that new sanctions would “derail this promising first step, alienate us from our allies and risk unraveling the coalition that enabled our sanctions to be enforced in the first place.”

On Sunday, administration officials called lawmakers to defend the deal and head off the legislation, while Mr. Obama called Mr. Netanyahu to hear his concerns before the next round of talks.

To some extent, Mr. Obama finds himself in a predicament similar to that of his policy toward Syria, where allies like Saudi Arabia favor more robust support of the rebels fighting Mr. Assad. Some experts predicted that the tensions over Iran would only deepen because the administration would be determined to prevent the deal from unraveling.

“The administration is now a little bit hostage to Iran’s behavior going forward,” said , a foreign policy official in the Reagan and administrations. “Iran’s bad behavior — whether it’s the in Syria or the ayatollah’s vicious speeches about Israel — it’s going to be linked to the deal.”

The bitterness in Israel may hurt another of Mr. Obama’s priorities: a peace accord between the Israelis and Palestinians. Administration officials said they believed Mr. Netanyahu would be able to separate his anger about the Iran deal from any decision about whether to make concessions to the . But outside experts have their doubts.

“The Palestinian issue is the big casualty of this deal,” said Bruce O. Riedel, a former administration official who is now a senior fellow at the . “Now that they have an Iran deal, over the strong objections of Israel, it’s going to be very hard to persuade Netanyahu to do something on the Palestinian front.”

For Mr. Obama, resolving the threat of might be worth taking that chance. He has risked angering European allies, particularly , by authorizing secret negotiations between the United States and Iran conducted in parallel to the multilateral talks involving Britain, , France, and .

Those talks, reported earlier by The Associated Press, fleshed out many of the principles that wound up in the interim agreement in . Mr. Obama was briefed on their progress by Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser to Vice President , who conducted the talks with the deputy secretary of state, William J. Burns.

Over the course of the negotiations, aides say, Mr. Obama became well-versed in the minutiae of Iran’s nuclear program. At a presentation last week with lawmakers, he ticked off the elements of sanctions relief that the West was prepared to offer Iran.

In a phone call Saturday afternoon with Mr. Kerry, who was then in Geneva, Mr. Obama went over the final wording, focusing on the preamble, which refers to a “mutually defined enrichment program” with Iran — essentially the provision that will allow Iran to enrich uranium, a privilege it does not currently have from the .

As Mr. Obama looks ahead, however, it is not the fine details but the big picture that is likely to dominate his attention. Among the decisions he faces is whether to treat Iran’s nuclear program as a discrete problem to be solved, freeing him up to focus more on Asia, or as the opening act in a more ambitious engagement with Iran that might give it a role in Syria, Afghanistan and other trouble spots.

Aides say that he is open to that, but that it will depend on factors that are out of America’s control, like moderates’ gaining ground in Iran. And given the extreme sensitivities the interim deal has aroused in the Middle East and on Capitol Hill, the White House is being careful to cast the coming negotiations narrowly.

“First and foremost, this has been a multifaceted, multiyear process to address a serious security concern,” said , the former national security adviser to Mr. Obama, who coordinated Iran policy before leaving the White House in July.
605 2013-11-25 As Mr. Bloomberg prepares to leave office and resume a more direct role in the company he founded, he rejoins an operation whose core business, after two decades of heady growth, has slowed, and whose news division has more than doubled since he left. Interviews with current and former employees show that the business and news operations exist in uneasy tension, and occasionally collide.

Bloomberg suddenly faces newsroom layoffs, a shift in emphasis back to financial news and skepticism from the business side that investigative journalism might not be worth the potential problems it could create for terminal sales.

Mr. Winkler and other senior editors denied that the article from China was killed, saying it was still active but not ready for publication. The episode, however, brought more unwanted attention after embarrassing revelations this spring that some reporters had used a function on the terminals to monitor some customer activity, angering some of Bloomberg’s biggest clients.

Against this backdrop, some top executives have begun to question the role of the company’s news operation. Executives on the business side insist that short bursts of market-moving news, not prize-winning investigative journalism, are what Bloomberg’s paying customers want. Editors are increasingly asked to send only brief, bullet-point news reports to terminals — easily digestible facts for traders and hedge fund managers.

“To the bankers that run the place, you have a redheaded stepchild that is a rounding error in the scheme of things that is managing to create a lot of trouble,” one news employee said.

This person, like the more than two dozen current and former business and news executives interviewed for this article, agreed to discuss the company’s operations but insisted on anonymity, citing strict nondisclosure agreements.

In an interview last week, Mr. Doctoroff said the backlash this spring over reporters’ monitoring of clients “did prompt self-reflection,” and one senior executive said the mayor’s return would be a “reset” moment for the company.

Last Monday, Bloomberg began to lay off roughly 40 people, about 2 percent of its news staff. Coverage of culture and sports would be scaled back, and the investigative unit had losses as well. The signal accompanying the announcement was clear: “We must have the courage to say no to certain areas of coverage in order to have enough firepower in areas we want to own,” Mr. Winkler wrote to the staff.

Bloomberg said it would add around 100 newsroom positions next year, many in a division called First Word, which produces a Twitter-like burst of short-form news of market-moving importance. (A spokesman said that even with the recent cuts, the number of employees at Bloomberg News by the end of 2013 would be up from last year.)

Mr. Doctoroff said the terminals’ users are a “very narrow audience” for news articles. (One of the most popular articles on Friday was “Day J.F.K. Died We Traded Through Tears as N.Y.S.E. Shut.”) But, he added, the company’s journalism serves a vital role in bringing credibility to Bloomberg, and added value to the terminals, which make up about 85 percent of the company’s revenue.

“Our audience wants to change the world, and they want to invest better in the world,” said Laurie Hays, a senior executive editor at Bloomberg News. “These long stories inform them in their decision-making.”

Indeed, Bloomberg, which has 2,400 journalists in 150 bureaus in 73 countries, has won a coveted George Polk Award for four consecutive years.

But much of its good journalism ends up in a vortex on the terminal, which provides an endless stream of financial headlines, a popular chat service and data-crunching functions. News is a popular function, but by one executive’s estimate, only about 25 to 30 percent of the company’s 315,000 terminal subscribers read articles.

In 1990, Mr. Bloomberg hired Mr. Winkler away from The Wall Street Journal to create a different kind of newsroom, one that would work seamlessly with the business side. “Most news organizations never connect reporters and commerce. At Bloomberg, they’re as close to seamless as it can get,” Mr. Bloomberg said in his 1997 autobiography, “Bloomberg by Bloomberg,” written with Mr. Winkler’s help.

The two units coexisted harmoniously enough in the early years when the news service was too small to anger clients or attract much scrutiny. But conflicts inevitably arose. In 2002, the company officially apologized to the government of Singapore and erased from its system a column that had accused the country’s leaders of nepotism. Mr. Winkler came under fire for a memo he wrote to employees in which he explained that the decision was influenced in part by concerns that customers in Singapore “might lose the Bloomberg service if we refused to accept the government’s judgment.”

The episode blew over and Mr. Winkler made clear his mission to build a first-rate news organization that would someday win a Pulitzer Prize, even if it meant irritating customers or risking terminal sales. In a recent training session with new employees, a reporter asked Mr. Winkler what he considered a great story. “Call me Ishmael,” Mr. Winkler replied.

But as Mr. Winkler tried to pursue his “Moby Dick,” Thomas F. Secunda, who founded the company with Mr. Bloomberg in 1982 and oversees financial products and services, signaled that Bloomberg’s foremost mission was to deliver market-moving news and headlines to subscribers.

“We shouldn’t be doing any news other than what makes money for our readers,” Mr. Secunda has frequently said, according to one longtime employee. He once put it more bluntly: “You dance with the woman who brought you to the party.” (A spokesman said Mr. Secunda thought market-moving news was the most important but not the only journalism the company should be producing.)

Journalists make up about 15 percent of the company’s 15,580 employees and, according to Burton-Taylor International Consulting, bring in just 4 percent of the company’s total revenue.

Nowhere have the potential conflicts inherent in the Bloomberg model been starker than in China. Bloomberg does not break out revenue per country, but Burton-Taylor, which tracks the financial information business, estimates the company made only $70 million in China last year. Over all, financial data industry revenue in China has increased about 45 percent each year since 2008, compared with 5 percent growth globally in the same period.

This summer, in the wake of revelations about reporters monitoring customers, Mr. Doctoroff held a series of informal lunches with senior staff members to discuss the implications. At one lunch in July, according to a former senior executive in attendance, Mr. Doctoroff offered a hypothetical dilemma: If Bloomberg were about to run an important article about China and knew for certain it would draw a retaliatory hacking attack, should the article still run? Many senior news people said reflexively that it should, but others were not so sure.

“If you have a $9 billion company that is about to be crippled by a news division that loses $100 million a year, shouldn’t you take a breath and think about the implications of what you are doing?” the former senior executive said.

Communist Party leaders in China, the world’s second-largest economy, expend great efforts in trying to control foreign news media, and Bloomberg is no exception. Many Western news organizations have confronted censorship problems in China. (The Times had its website blocked in China after publishing an investigative article last year about Chinese wealth.)

The tough choices facing Bloomberg in China came to light in early 2011 when it reported on an online movement in China to stage peaceful “Jasmine Revolution”-style protests modeled after the uprisings in the Middle East. Angry Chinese officials told top editors in Hong Kong that Bloomberg’s information distribution license permitted it to publish only financial news in China, not political news, according to employees with knowledge of the discussions.

Editors ordered the article in question deleted from the website, even though the site is global and not China-specific, these employees said. Word spread among Bloomberg journalists in China. “A lot of people were angry they would just cave in like that without much discussion,” one employee said, adding that the editors “didn’t want to get Bloomberg kicked out” of China. A Bloomberg spokesman declined to comment on this matter.

After the outcry, editors reposted the article to the Bloomberg website, but as of Sunday, it could not be found using the site’s search engine. (It shows up in a Google search.)

Managers also created a function called Code 204, which can be appended to some articles to keep them off terminals in mainland China.

The next year, Bloomberg decided to publish a report about the fortunes amassed by family members of Xi Jinping, then the incoming party chief. The article was a major installment in its “Revolution to Riches” series, which won a Polk Award for foreign reporting (along with David Barboza of The Times). But Bloomberg paid a price: The purchase of terminals in China all but ceased, the Bloomberg News site was blocked and no residency visas were subsequently granted to its reporters.

“It’s looking increasingly like as a media company, you have a choice in China: You either do news or you do business, but it’s hard to do both,” said James L. McGregor, a former chief of Dow Jones & Company in China.

Early this year, top editors in New York approved reporting for an investigative project examining Wang Jianlin, China’s wealthiest man, and his financial ties to the families of party leaders.

But last month, after senior editors in New York expressed concerns about the article, Mr. Winkler told reporters and editors in Hong Kong that it would not be published because Bloomberg needed to maintain journalistic access to China, and insisted officials there would not tolerate coverage on the assets of the country’s leaders, according to employees, whose accounts were reported in The Times and The Financial Times.

Mr. Winkler declined to comment on internal discussions. He and other senior editors have said the article was put on the back burner only because it was not ready for publication.

Mr. Doctoroff, in the phone interview, said he asked Clark Hoyt, the independent senior editor and a former public editor at The Times, to review the tycoon article. “Clark’s view was consistent” with Mr. Winkler’s and other editors,” Mr. Doctoroff said, which was “that the story just was not, didn’t hang together.”

But the employees cited by The Times and The Financial Times said the article had been reviewed by a lawyer in early October and was nearing publication, and no editor had raised major objections. Emails sent in September to the reporters by top editors in New York said the article was “terrific,” “a real revelation” and “almost there.”

For many years it seemed as if Bloomberg had cracked the code on the troubled journalism business. As advertisers retrenched from traditional news outlets and newspapers nationwide faced extensive layoffs, Bloomberg, fueled by the sales of terminal subscriptions, went on a hiring spree, adding 600 news employees over the last five years. Top journalists were lured from competitors, and the journalism awards kept coming.

Bloomberg is, according to industry analysts, still wildly successful compared with its biggest competitor, Thomson Reuters, which recently said it planned to cut 3,000 jobs, but growth that once seemed unstoppable has slowed, the result of a broader retrenchment of the financial industry.

The total number of terminal subscriptions increased by 23,000 in 2010 and 14,000 in 2011, but only by 1,000 in 2012 and 3,000 so far this year, according to several employees’ estimates.

Still, the company said overall revenue was on track to rise to $8.3 billion, up from $7.9 billion in 2012 and $3 billion in 2001, when Mr. Bloomberg was still at the company. (A spokesman said the company’s nonterminal “enterprise” business, which builds technical systems for financial clients, has been growing 16 percent a year and will bring in an estimated $1 billion in 2013.)

“We’d love it to be better, but we can only deal with the market we find,” Mr. Doctoroff said. “The reality is that many of our large customers are still dealing with the aftereffects of the financial crisis.”

Another executive rejected the implication that the company faced financial problems. “Saying that we are in trouble is a little like saying Saudi Arabia is in trouble because the price of crude went down two bucks a barrel,” he said.

Signs of a slowdown are apparent, however. The company has delayed its so-called Plan B bonus plan. In the Washington headquarters, a screen in the main hallway had long been dedicated to showing a real-time count of terminal sales. As sales slowed, the screen went dark without notice, and was later turned to Bloomberg Television, according to several employees.

Though Mr. Bloomberg stepped away from the company while in office, his spirit has loomed large over the Manhattan skyscraper that bears his name.

Exotic fish tanks line the sleek white corridors and elevators stop only on certain floors, forcing employees to use the stairs. Last year, as Mr. Bloomberg fought for public health laws in New York City, his company cut down on junk food offered to employees and added free snacks like organic peanut butter and naturally flavored aguas frescas in biodegradable cups that read “First. Bloomberg.”

People close to Mr. Bloomberg said he would most likely write a column for Bloomberg View, the company’s opinion publication. He will also probably spend more time in London and work on his philanthropy and his favored causes like gun control.

His return comes after a series of broader organizational changes and high-level appointments at Bloomberg News — once controlled unequivocally by its bow-tied editor, Mr. Winkler. In an effort to streamline the newsroom, four senior editors now report directly to Mr. Winkler, down from 21. Mr. Doctoroff said that Mr. Bloomberg had not been “unaware” of the changes at his company, just unable to participate in the daily decision-making.
606 2013-11-25 “We spend a lot of time with Google optimizing keywords for search, and a lot of time with Instagram and Pinterest talking about what brands should be doing with imagery, but not a lot of time on sound,” Mr. Johnston said in an interview last week. “That can be everything from the music you have playing in a TV spot to the sound of the actual product. It’s the sonic territory that the brand would like to own.”

Mindshare, part of the GroupM division of WPP, handles an estimated $31 billion worth of media planning and buying each year for clients like Unilever, Nike, HSBC and Jaguar Land Rover.

Miles Lewis, a vice president for advertising sales at Shazam, cited a campaign for the Jaguar F-Type as an example of how the app can also be used to extend an advertiser’s pitch beyond TV. When viewers “Shazammed” a 30-second commercial showing the exterior of the car whizzing by, they were then taken to a three-and-a-half-minute tour of the interior, by mobile device.

Even when successful, however, the second-screen effect has sometimes proved porous. When Microsoft used Alex Clare’s song “Too Close” in a commercial last year, the track became a hit when curious viewers used Shazam to identify it. But when they did, they saw nothing about Microsoft.

The Mindshare deal is meant to avoid that by pairing audio and marketer so that neither is forgotten. An ad can be tied to the song when it is tagged, for example, and brands could also “buy” a song in the way they bid for search terms on Google, so that when someone uses Shazam to identify a song even outside the context of an ad, the advertiser is still able to attach itself to that track.

“Audio is an area that has been missed,” Mr. Lewis said. “If a number of brands use music in their TV adverts, and they forget to close the door and link the music to their marketing dollars, there’s a missed opportunity.”

Part of the promise of deals like the one between Shazam and Mindshare is how they could expand the idea of audio as a conduit for marketing. Aside from broadcast programming and songs in commercials, these could include a short jingle or even sound effects like a pet food brand using a barking dog or a brewer linking itself to a freshly opened beer.

“Obviously music syncs have become uber-important over the last decade,” said Josh Rabinowitz, the director of music at another WPP agency, Grey New York. “But now the overall sound of a brand — music, mnemonics, sound design and sonic signatures — should become just as vital to the brand’s messaging via the second screen.”

In another example of audio branding, Harman International Industries, through Aha, its streaming audio app, is teaming with Placecast, a company that offers a technology called geofencing, that allows retailers to send messages to users in a defined geographic area. Harman and Placecast are testing together an in-car advertising program that offers drivers and passengers promotional offers in real time through the car radio and touch screen, based on the location of the car.

The initial advertiser taking part in the four-week test, which began on Thursday, is the Quiznos sandwich chain. “Radio is great to drive top-of-mind awareness,” said Susan Lintonsmith, chief marketing officer at Quiznos. The hope, she said, is that adding the location-based elements “takes this to the next level” and produces “radio on steroids.”

Here is an example of how the test will work: As drivers listening to Aha approach a Quiznos store that has been geofenced as part of the test, they hear a commercial for Quiznos promoting offers like coupons; the offers are also dynamically displayed on the car’s touch screen. Touching a thumbs-up icon on the screen will send a coupon by email that can be redeemed at the store.

“Audio is a great way to embed a brand message,” said Alistair Goodman, chief executive of Placecast. “And when you tailor an offer to a place nearby, it’s seen as a value service, not as advertising.”
607 2013-11-25 I welcome a new report’s finding that cognitive behavioral therapy is improving the outcome for depressed people with significant insomnia (“Sleep Therapy Seen as an Aid for Depression,” front page, Nov. 19).

It reminds us that changes in attitude and perspective, and a therapeutic relationship, can right biological imbalances — like disordered sleep — and significantly enhance the lives of troubled people. The study also puts the therapeutic role of antidepressant medication in perspective: the depressed participants who received behavioral therapy did equally well whether or not they were taking the drugs.

I hope that these results will encourage the National Institute of Mental Health, researchers, clinicians and all of us to expand our horizons.

There are a number of other nonpharmacological therapies — including meditation, physical exercise, dietary change and nutritional supplementation, acupuncture and group support — that show promise for improving clinical depression and enhancing brain function.

It is time to undertake authoritative studies of integrative approaches that combine these therapies, perhaps as well as behavioral therapy, in the treatment of both depression and insomnia.
608 2013-11-25 The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs promptly rejected Mr. Kishida’s objections. “The Japanese side’s irresponsible comments about China’s demarcation of an East China Sea air defense identification zone are totally wrong,” a spokesman for the ministry, Qin Gang, said in comments published on its website on Sunday.

In a statement on Saturday, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel warned that the American government viewed the Chinese move “as a destabilizing attempt to alter the status quo in the region.” He also reaffirmed that the United States would stand by its security treaty obligations to aid Japan if it were attacked.

For now, the United States and Japan appear to be trying to determine how serious China is about policing its newly declared zone, or whether the declaration is a political gesture to try to appease nationalist sentiments. However, it is equally unclear how Japan would respond if China tries to enforce it. Mr. Kishida did not say whether Japan would take any countermeasures, like increasing patrols in the airspace over the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.

Mr. Qin dismissed criticisms from Secretary of State John Kerry and Mr. Hagel, and said the Chinese Foreign Ministry had complained to the American ambassador to Beijing, Gary Locke, about their remarks.

“The United States really should not take sides on the question of sovereignty over the Diaoyu islands,” Mr. Qin said.

In a sign of the heightened tensions, Japan’s Defense Ministry said on Saturday that it had scrambled two F-15 fighter jets to intercept a pair of Chinese surveillance planes approaching the islands. It said the Chinese planes turned back without incident.

A spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of National Defense accused Japan of using its defense zone to harass Chinese military planes.

“This is seriously impeding freedom of flight, and could very easily trigger a safety accident or unexpected incident,” said the spokesman, Col. Yang Yujun.

By setting up a competing air defense zone, China may be trying to show that its claim to the islands is as convincing as Japan’s, Japanese officials said. They said China appeared to have a similar objective last Thursday, when Chinese coast guard officers boarded a Chinese fishing boat near the islands.

When hailed by a Japanese coast guard vessel, the Chinese coast guard crew said it was monitoring fishing in Chinese waters, Japan’s coast guard said.
609 2013-11-25 Parliament voted not to recommend the measure, as did the Federal Council, the seven-member panel that governs the country. The council said it sympathized with the sentiments behind the initiative but feared it would drive away business and be difficult to enforce.

“The people don’t want the state intervening in salaries,” Valentin Vogt, president of the Swiss Employers Association, told Swiss television on Sunday.

Although the referendum was defeated, voter dismay at the behavior of some Swiss corporations and executives is widespread. Proponents of the initiative complained that companies like the Swiss banking giant UBS, which received a government bailout because of the financial crisis, continued to pay executives huge bonuses even when they performed poorly.

Supporters of the 1:12 initiative conceded defeat Sunday but said they had succeeded in raising public awareness about the issue.

“In the future, C.E.O.'s and boards of directors are going to have to think very carefully about how they justify multimillion-franc compensation,” said the Swiss Social Democratic Party, which had supported the initiative.

In March, Swiss voters approved by a wide margin an initiative that broadened shareholders’ power to limit executive pay. Popular support for the measure was perhaps surprising in a generally conservative country that has one of the highest standards of living in the world and unemployment of just above 3 percent. While Switzerland is not a member of the European Union or the euro zone, it has close ties to both. Still, its economy has been resilient despite the crisis surrounding it.

Switzerland also has a long history of social equality, and many citizens were offended by cases like that of Daniel Vasella, the former chief executive of the pharmaceutical company Novartis, who this year demanded a $78 million severance package in return for a promise not to share his know-how with any competitors. In the face of a public outcry, Mr. Vasella withdrew the demand and has since retired.

The image of Swiss business also suffered after the suicide in August of the chief financial officer of Zurich Insurance, Pierre Wauthier, who left a suicide note complaining of intense pressure to perform from the company’s chairman, Josef Ackermann. The Swiss authorities later determined that Mr. Ackermann, the former chief executive of Deutsche Bank, had not done anything inappropriate, but the episode fed perceptions that business leaders were pursuing profit at any cost.

The 1:12 initiative was proposed by the youth wing of the Social Democratic Party and supported by the Green Party. As recently as October, the measure appeared to have a chance of passing, but support flagged during the last month in the face of determined opposition by business groups.

The Schweizerischer Gewerbeverband, a business group that led opposition to the measure, financed an advertising campaign that argued that approval would amount to the government’s dictating salaries. The group also argued that the measure would hurt tax receipts and lead to more bureaucracy.

A poll conducted at the beginning of November on behalf of Swiss public television by Gfs.bern found that only 36 percent of those questioned were likely to vote for the measure, down from 44 percent a month earlier. The same poll found that 54 percent of voters surveyed in November were likely to vote against the measure, up from 44 percent a month earlier, when opponents and supporters were evenly divided. The rest were undecided.

While a majority of those surveyed were in favor of limiting executive pay, according to the poll, many did not think caps should be imposed by the government.

Mr. Kübler of the University of Zurich said he doubted that there would be further referendums on executive pay, but he predicted there would continue to be public pressure on corporations that were perceived to be acting irresponsibly. There is also a continuing debate in Parliament about how to put into effect the measure approved in March that expands shareholder powers.

Supporters of pay limits said they would now turn their attention to a campaign to establish a national minimum wage of 4,000 francs, or $4,400, a month. Like Germany, Switzerland has no official minimum wage, although many workers are covered by union agreements.

“I don’t think the debate about what corporations do and shouldn’t do is off the agenda,” Mr. Kübler said.
610 2013-11-25 Dropouts tend to find jobs in the military or police. Reflecting the school dropout rate, only 30 percent of university students are male; fewer still graduate.

Meanwhile, unemployment rates among emiratis stand at about 12 percent, according to a report by the independent research group the International Council on Security and Devlopment and a separate study by the National Commercial Bank in Saudi Arabia. A study by the consulting firm Deloitte concluded that while jobs are available, students are not graduating with the skills needed.

“While the U.A.E. has built a strong perception as an educational hub, there remain some important work force supply and demand gaps in a number of industries including energy and healthcare,” said Emmanuel Durou, a consulting director at Deloitte Middle East. The hope is that vocational studies may help to fill those gaps.

“For those who have dropped out of school, one has to ask why,” Naji Almahdi, director of NIVE, said by telephone. “Our current education system does not yield itself to the individual, which is why vocational study is important: it gives students more choices and therefore, greater chances of success.”

Other vocational studies institutions have opened in the last two years. The Abu Dhabi Center for Technical and Vocational Education and Training was established in 2010 by the Abu Dhabi Executive Council and will have opened nine schools by the end of this year. Four are now fully operational.

Still, “vocational and technical education certainly doesn’t have its fair share of the education market in the U.A.E. yet,” said Leila Hoteit, an education consultant at Booz & Company in the United Arab Emirates.

In countries like Finland, 50 percent of the children who go into secondary schooling choose some form of vocational or technical option, she noted.

Emiratis historically were traders and merchants, with a tradition of the practical skills that go with seafaring.

“Many of these emirati boys are very tactile and interested in carpentry — there’s a strong history of woodwork and crafts in the Gulf and we’ve lost a lot of these skilled trades,” said Natasha Ridge, executive director of the Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi Foundation for Policy Research.

“Vocational studies would be a great platform for them to revive this tradition and perhaps learn to set up their own businesses in fields they are interested in, spurring entrepreneurship.”

The trend toward vocational training has spread across the emirates and across grade levels, with two technical high schools opening in the emirate of Ajman in August. The Institute of Applied Technology at the Ajman Technical Complex has already admitted 250 eighth-grade students at two campuses — one for boys and one for girls — bringing the total number of technical high schools in the emirates to nine. Most vocational and technical courses, however, are at post-secondary level.

In fact, the Higher Colleges of Technology, founded in the emirates 25 years ago, now educate about 20,000 students on 17 campuses, making them, taken together, the largest higher education institution in the emirates. But a move in recent years to raise admission standards resulted in a sharp drop in new entries, to just over 4,200 last year from about 8,000 in 2010, according to a report this year by the Oxford Consulting Group. For this year, the number of admissions rose slightly, to 5,479.

“There is a stigma attached to vocational study, people think of it as the alternative option if you don’t get the right marks to get into university,” said Mr. Almahdi of NIVE. “But we’ve got to clarify that it’s one of the main courses on the menu — this diversity of options is what will strengthen our economy.”

To that end, the National Qualifications Authority was established in 2010 as a federal body to set guidelines for national academic standards across all levels of education in the emirates.

The Higher Colleges of Technology, meanwhile, have been updating their course offerings to make them more attractive. “We are introducing new programs, such as an applied diploma in retail, to give students more options,” said Sam Shaw, a deputy vice chancellor.

Ms. Ridge said, “I don’t think young emiratis are fully clear on what vocational study means yet and they certainly won’t go for it if it is touted as an alternative option where the less academically inclined students are encouraged to go.” Still, she said, “this latest push has been ramping up for the last five years and it does change the educational landscape in the U.A.E. — and it’s just the start.”
611 2013-11-26 The Chinese president suggests that Confucius’ thinking deserves attention, but only through the prism of Communist Party views....
612 2013-11-26 Wall Street investors, private equity firms and hedge funds are buying up what would appear to be risky subprime loans from ever-smaller companies....
613 2013-11-26 Weatherford International, accused of wide-ranging business violations overseas, struck a $250 million settlement....
614 2013-11-26 Business development companies are publicly traded and return big dividends, making them attractive to small investors. But they also come with high risk....
615 2013-11-26 The Obama administration urged Iranian officials to help secure the release of a private investigator and former F.B.I. agent, Robert A. Levinson, who went missing in 2007....
616 2013-11-26 The play will open at the Neil Simon Theater, more typically a home for big-budget musicals....
617 2013-11-26 The acquisition of Diversified Global Asset Management is the latest push by the Carlyle Group into areas beyond its core leveraged-buyout business....
618 2013-11-26 Janusz Kaminski explains his process in making the 11 films as part of the magazine’s Movies issue....
619 2013-11-26 The children of more than a million inmates are left to cope as best they can....
620 2013-11-26 Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers finalized a two-year contract extension Monday that all but ensures Bryant will end his career with the team.

“We’ve said all along that our priority and hope was to have Kobe finish his career as a Laker,” General Manager Mitch Kupchak said in a statement, “and this should ensure that that happens.”

Bryant will remain the league’s highest-paid player the next three seasons. His salary will be $23.5 million next season and $25 million during the 2015-16 season, according to multiple news reports.

Bryant and point guard Steve Nash are now the only Lakers signed to above-minimum contracts next season. The Lakers and Bryant always seemed intent on working out an extension, and his signing allows the organization to train its focus on the 2014 free-agent class, which could include LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony.

Writing Monday afternoon within the comments section of a photograph he posted to his Instagram account, Bryant rebutted doubts that the deal would constrict the Lakers and reiterated the team’s intentions for next summer: “The offer presented to me by the lakers ensures the ability to bring in max talent,” he wrote.
621 2013-11-26 Labor union leaders and top Democrats in the state said they were not aware of the plan, though Mr. Unz said he would welcome their help.

President Obama has called for raising the federal minimum wage to $9 from $7.25, but has received little support from Congress.

“At the very least, this is a way to capture the attention of people and have a debate,” Mr. Unz said.

Mr. Unz has spent nearly $1 million on previous ballot measures and said he was prepared to spend some of his own fortune on this initiative as well. He added, though, that he expected the cost to be “minimal” because he anticipates widespread support.

But businesses would almost certainly spend to defeat the measure.

Earlier this year, Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, signed legislation to increase the minimum wage to $10 an hour in 2016. The California Chamber of Commerce labeled the bill a “job killer” and said that such a large increase would raise the unemployment rate and put the state’s precarious economic recovery at risk. A spokeswoman for the group declined to comment on Mr. Unz’s proposal on Monday.

Mr. Unz brushes aside such criticism, saying the size of California’s economy — which, at roughly $1.9 trillion, is bigger than most countries’ — would prevent any large-scale movement of jobs to other states. Instead, he argues, it presents the best test case for the kind of national minimum wage increase he has advocated for years.

National polls suggest raising the minimum wage is popular, and Mr. Unz said he believed such a measure would pass easily in California, where an estimated 1.6 million residents earn less than $10 an hour. But it could cost millions to gather the nearly 750,000 signatures needed to get it on the ballot.

Mr. Unz entered politics in 1994 as a challenger to Gov. Pete Wilson for the Republican nomination, at one point accusing Mr. Wilson of being a closet Democrat. After his ballot measure against bilingual education passed in 1998 — he argued that such education kept students from learning English effectively and forced children to stay with other speakers of their native language — Mr. Unz backed similar successful measures in Arizona and Massachusetts. He became publisher of The American Conservative in 2007, writing opinion articles on the minimum wage, immigration and urban crime.

He left that post this year amid what he said were “ideological and administrative” differences. Officials at the magazine declined to comment.

Mr. Unz wrote in the magazine last year that manufacturing “sweatshops” that rely on immigrant workers, including those in the country illegally, were among the few industries that would be devastated by a higher minimum wage. “There’s a legitimate argument to be made that those kinds of businesses have no place in our economy,” he said, “and getting rid of them would eliminate the low-rung jobs that bring in new poor immigrants.”

Mr. Unz also argues that increasing the minimum wage would help eliminate what he calls an education bubble: More people are taking on huge debt to attend college, even though they may not be able to find a high-paying job afterward. If the floor of low-wage jobs is raised, he says, more people will find such jobs attractive.

While unions have backed similar voter initiatives in San Jose and Long Beach, Calif., labor officials are now focused on permanently tying the minimum wage to the rate of inflation, and said the measure Mr. Unz is proposing could be a distraction. Steve Smith, a spokesman for the California Labor Federation, was hardly enthusiastic when informed of Mr. Unz’s plans.

“He has not shown a great deal of support for workers’ issues in the past and was nowhere to be seen in the legislative debate here, so it’s not really clear what the motivation is here,” Mr. Smith said. “But he is saying some things that are the same as what we’ve been saying all along.”
622 2013-11-26 At the same time, the business of professional basketball is an unforgiving one, a reality reinforced by the news that the Chicago Bulls’ Derrick Rose had season-ending surgery Monday to repair a torn medial meniscus in his right knee. Rose’s misfortune seemed to have a chilling effect on the league, which had embraced his return after he missed all last season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee.

“You hate to see that happen to anyone,” Lillard said, “but Derrick especially. We all know how hard he’s worked.”

For Lillard, who was on the bench last Friday when Rose was injured in a game here against the Blazers, it was difficult to process. And perhaps, Lillard said, he was better off not processing it at all. What good would it do?

“I can’t focus on it,” he said. “I can’t let myself. If an injury is going to happen, it’s going to happen.”

But while the potential for catastrophe is always there, Lillard has taken steps to protect himself. After leading the league in minutes played last season, he took several weeks off at the start of the summer. He filled his time by doing promotional work for Adidas, one of his sponsors. It was a foreign feeling for him to step away from the game for so long — “I started panicking,” he said — but he considered it necessary.

Once Lillard returned to the gym, he honed his 3-point shot and his pull-up jumper, which required minimal wear and tear. Entering Monday, 44 percent of his shot attempts were 3-pointers, and he was sinking 39.4 percent of them, an improvement from 36.8 percent last season. Only 36 percent of his field-goal attempts were coming at the rim. Lillard is not opposed to mixing it up in the lane, but he must balance the risks with the rewards.

At Weber State, Lillard modeled his game after Rose’s — the midair acrobatics, the way he absorbed blows from 7-foot demigods, the stop-and-pop jumpers. Rose, though only two years his senior, was everything Lillard aspired to be when the Blazers selected him with the sixth pick in the 2012 N.B.A. draft.

“I looked up to him,” Lillard said. “I know I’m not the athlete that he is, but I think I’m similar to him in a lot of ways. He was an example to me.”

Yet in significant ways, Rose was in a class by himself. At his best, he was all relentless aggression, his game predicated on navigating through traffic and getting to the hoop. Even this season, as Rose searched for his form, 46 percent of his shot attempts were coming at the rim. It required a lot of contact, and perhaps no guard — not even someone as gifted as Rose — can withstand that much punishment.

The twist is that Rose’s latest injury came on a seemingly harmless cut. There was no contact involved. Some around the league speculated that Rose was operating with so much force that it put undue stress on his ligaments and joints. As Mike Woodson, the coach of the Knicks, put it, “He plays very aggressive.”

Still, Rose is not the only high-profile guard who has dealt with a significant injury in recent months. The Boston Celtics’ Rajon Rondo has yet to play this season after tearing up his right knee last January, and Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder tore the lateral meniscus in his right knee last April.

“Sometimes you get through a season where guys just seem to waltz right through it with no injuries, and sometimes there’s injuries all over the place,” said Woodson, who added that sometimes there was no way to predict any of it: “Guys are just unlucky.” The Lakers’ Steve Nash fractured his left leg last season after colliding with Lillard, and Nash has continued to experience nerve root irritation, his career slowed by one freak accident. No one could have prevented it. Not Nash. Not Lillard, though he has expressed remorse.

And as Rose recovers from another surgery, Lillard has come to terms with basketball’s cruel calculus.

“If nothing else,” he said, “it makes you value the game more.”
623 2013-11-26 Without Rose, Chicago, at least for now, remains a tough-minded playoff contender in a relatively weak Eastern Conference. Last season, the Bulls put on a scrappy, determined performance as they knocked out the Nets in the first round of the playoffs and harassed Miami in the second round, even though Rose was unavailable to play and other players were sick or injured. At this point, the Bulls might have to try the same thing again next spring, with essentially the same group of players. But without Rose, it is hard to see them doing any better than last season.

“It’s devastating,” the TNT analyst Steve Kerr said Monday in assessing the impact of Rose’s injury on the Bulls. “Everything really was lined up for them this year, and I think most people felt like they could make a great push. Big picture, it throws everything out the window. They may have to totally reshuffle the deck.”

Indeed, Chicago’s nucleus could very well have played its last game together. The All-Star forward Luol Deng will be a free agent next summer. The team could wipe out Carlos Boozer’s hefty contract under the amnesty clause.

The financial future of the team is heavily invested in Rose, too. The Bulls paid him more than $16 million last year and owe him about $17.6 million this season, less reimbursement from an insurance policy. And there are still three years and more than $60 million remaining on Rose’s contract after that.

This season was supposed to be Rose’s redemption tour. He spoke repeatedly about not just returning to the lineup, but becoming an even more dominant player. He said he was stronger and a better shooter.

Still, he started the regular season somewhat slowly, his timing not quite right, the rust not quite gone. Slowly, his quickness began to re-emerge. And then came Friday night.

Barring a setback, he should have little trouble returning to form; the difficulty, though, is knowing what that form will be. With so much time missed, with another injury always possible, questions about his confidence on the court may follow him for years.

“One A.C.L. or one meniscus injury is one thing,” Kerr said. “But some guys spend a lot of their careers fighting injuries. When you go three years where he’s always getting hurt, you can’t help but start to wonder if he’s an injury-prone guy.”

Kerr, though, was not all doom and gloom.

“On the bright side, he’s very young still,” Kerr said. “If your glass is half full, he’s going to come back at 26 with the meniscus healed and the A.C.L. at full strength.”

But that’s little solace to shellshocked Bulls fans. Rose graduated from Simeon Career Academy on Chicago’s South Side in 2007. During pregame introductions at United Center, he is introduced not from his college, Memphis, but from Chicago.

That is where Rose will now spend much of this season, doing the long grind of rehabilitation work for the second year in a row.
624 2013-11-26 “They have kept alive the idea of ‘enemies of the nation’ and the war on terror — the only glue keeping the bits and pieces together,” said Rabab el-Mahdi, a political science professor at the American University of Cairo, speaking of the interim government. “For any ruling alliance to be stable, it cannot depend on force or coercion. They lack any kind of ideological shield, except being against the Brotherhood.”

“They are not delivering,” Ms. Mahdi added, “and they will keep facing the dissent.”

Some of the criticism of the government seems to be a result of competing agendas within state institutions, rather than from spontaneous outrage. Analysts say that calls for an even harsher crackdown on the Islamists, for example, could emanate from security agencies that the government, like its predecessors, has made no attempt to reform.

To solidify its legitimacy, the government has started an aggressive campaign to promote a referendum on a draft constitution, the first milestone in a so-called road map that the military has promised will restore democracy to Egypt. Officials hope a decisive approval of the constitution would undercut the Muslim Brotherhood’s claim that it alone commands popular support, after prevailing in successive elections over the last three years.

The vote is scheduled for January. The outcome has the potential to change the nature of the conflict between the state and the Brotherhood, according to Michael Wahid Hanna, a scholar at the Century Foundation in New York who studies Egypt.

“Does it pass by more than the Morsi constitution?” he asked, referring to the 2012 Constitution that was approved by 63 percent of voters, despite vigorous opposition of the drafting process and the charter from non-Islamists.

If the referendum were to be approved by a wide margin, the Brotherhood, which has resisted the idea of negotiation on the military’s terms, could be “well and truly isolated, and they might have to reconsider,” Mr. Hanna said.

These days, though, the state’s conflict with the Brotherhood is just one of its many struggles. In an unnerving episode for the government, leftists and other activists who were in the forefront of the 2011 revolt against former President Hosni Mubarak demonstrated last week against both the Brotherhood and the military in Tahrir Square in Cairo. The activists tore down the base of a planned memorial to protesters who were killed during the revolt, and two demonstrators were killed in clashes with the police.

Even some commentators who had enthusiastically backed the military’s ouster of Mr. Morsi have bluntly criticized the government recently.

“We were silent and put our tongues in our mouths,” Mamdouh Hamza, a strident critic of the Islamists, said during a television interview. “We didn’t want to serve the interests of the Brothers.”

Mr. Hamza, criticizing the government’s response after a train crash that killed 27 people, accused the cabinet of being “against the goals of the revolution.”

Another commentator, Khaled Abu Bakr, questioned the credentials of the interim prime minister, Hazem el-Beblawi, saying he “belonged in a university” rather than at the head of the cabinet. “My satisfaction with the 30th of June doesn’t mean my satisfaction with everything that followed,” he added, referring to the date of protests against Mr. Morsi before the military takeover. “Don’t bring me a cabinet chairman like that in a phase like this.”

The new law regulating protest demonstrations has set off the loudest complaints. The final draft calls for jail time or heavy fines for exactly the kind of public demonstrations that brought down Mr. Mubarak and propelled the current government to power.

Protesters are required to notify the authorities three days before any demonstration, and they are forbidden to gather at places of worship. Organizers across the political spectrum have customarily used Friday Prayer at mosques as starting points for marches. The law also permits security agencies to prohibit public gatherings, demonstrations or meetings — including political campaign events — if they are deemed a threat to public order. Citizens have the right to appeal to a court.

In a radio interview on Monday, Mr. Beblawi said the law merely regulated protests. Asked about those who failed to seek permission — like Mr. Morsi’s supporters, who do not recognize the government — Mr. Beblawi compared them to “a man who kills or another who deals drugs.”

“If arrested, they will be put to trial and punished,” he said.

Karim Medhat Ennarah, a researcher at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, called the law “unrealistic,” for seeking to regulate the near-daily marches that occur across the country, by Islamists or workers or anyone else with a complaint.

“The current political institutions are not able to assimilate the newly politicized groups, and that hasn’t changed in three years,” he said. “The only response is to try and control them.”
625 2013-11-26 “The board takes very seriously any allegation that campaigns have benefited from spending by an outside group where spending is coordinated,” noted Eric Friedman, a spokesman for the board. “It gives a big advantage.”

As Crain’s New York noted in a spate of fine reporting, the Advance Group helped the city’s teachers’ union spend vast sums on Council races, even as the Advance Group ran individual Council campaigns. Advance used the same office and same press officer for both efforts, though in a halfhearted nod to the potential conflict, it changed its name for the teachers’ union work, to Strategic Consultants.

“We took pains to have firewalls internal to the firm,” said Mr. Levenson, who acknowledged that he faced an investigation. “I can say unequivocally, independent expenditures were done independently and not coordinated.”

Mr. Levenson’s work this cycle had an engorged manic quality. His political roots extend deep into liberal causes, but he seemed intent this year on representing anyone with a checkbook: clients backed by the and candidates vigorously attacking that board.

Mr. Levenson’s firm also represented City Action Coalition, an anti-same-sex-marriage group financed by a hedge funder from Princeton, N.J., and led by an evangelical minister who says Nazi tolerance of gays led to the Holocaust.

Could this, I asked Mr. Levenson, suggest your internal compass is in need of repair? No, he says, it was a bad mistake. He had agreed only to mail City Action Coalition’s fliers. “It was in the heat of the moment,” he said. “I didn’t do my due diligence.”

Context, Mr. Levenson says, matters. In three elections, Mayor loosened about $300 million for his campaigns. By comparison, a few million dollars spent here or there this year is loose change.

Mr. Levenson underestimates his own handiwork. There is evidence that near-unregulated independent spending helped mortally wound Ms. Quinn, who was the front-runner last spring.

Her opponents knew this. Jay Eisenhofer, a backer of Mr. de Blasio, gave $50,000 to a group that ostensibly wanted to ban carriage horses. And John Wilhelm, Mr. de Blasio’s cousin, is a powerful figure in Unite Here, the hotel workers’ union. That union also gave $175,000 to the horse group.

Perhaps Mr. Eisenhofer and Mr. Wilhelm are horse lovers. What’s clear is that the so-called horse group ran ads attacking Ms. Quinn on many fronts.

Measuring the effect of campaign cash is not like charting the tides. Cause and effect is not scientific. Mr. de Blasio’s partisans argue that residents had tired of Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn.

Still, Mr. de Blasio has been heard to tell supporters that he watched with glee as protesters hooted at Ms. Quinn and repeated lines heard on negative commercials. In a campaign caldron, with candidates tightly bunched and scraping for money, well-funded groups set on your destruction can prove fatal. As Mr. Levenson noted time and again, context matters. And this context knocked Ms. Quinn out cold.
626 2013-11-26 One of the study’s principal authors, Scot M. Miller of Harvard University’s department of earth and planetary sciences, said its higher estimates underscore methane’s significant contribution to rising temperatures.

“These are pretty substantial numbers we’re dealing with, and an important part of greenhouse gas emissions,” he said on Monday. “Our study shows that there could be large greenhouse gas emissions in places in the country where we may not necessarily have accounted for them.”

Methane made up only about 9 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, the E.P.A. said; carbon dioxide is easily the most prevalent gas. But methane is much more potent. Even though it rapidly breaks down in the atmosphere, its contribution to global warming is 21 times greater than carbon dioxide’s over a 100-year period.

The E.P.A. and Europe’s Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research largely agree on how much methane is discharged annually in the United States. At the most basic level, both arrive at estimates by assigning an average discharge to each category of methane emission, such as landfills, and multiplying the average by the number of sources in each category.

The latest analysis differs from those estimates because it relies on actual measurement of methane concentrations. Nearly 5,000 air samples were collected from 10 huge communications towers spread across the country — some on mountaintops, others more than 1,000 feet high — and some 7,700 more from an aircraft monitoring program, both programs run by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Department of Energy.

The data did not directly identify the sources of methane discharges. But the researchers were able to infer those sources through a range of techniques. In areas associated with oil and gas production, for example, the amount of airborne methane could be correlated with measurements of propane, another gas that serves as a sort of marker for oil and gas activity.

The study concluded that livestock produced roughly twice as much methane during the reporting period as the European database estimated. Most striking, the analysis reported that oil and gas operations in a north-south swath of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas may have produced five times more methane — and, combining all sources of discharge, the three states may have been responsible for a quarter of all man-made methane discharges in the United States.

Mr. Miller cautioned that both estimates were subject to large margins of uncertainty; the methane from oil and gas activity could be as small as 2.3 times the European estimates, or as great as 7.5 times. The reason, he said, is that the potential for inaccuracy rises as the area being surveyed or the category of emissions grows smaller.

The same caveat applies to the few regions where the study found that methane discharges were smaller than European estimates: the Appalachian coal belt, southern Illinois and western Kentucky, and New York City, for example. Some of those spots were also in areas where monitoring of airborne methane was infrequent or absent.

That said, the study’s overall conclusion that methane emissions were 1.5 times E.P.A.’s latest estimates is statistically accurate to within about 5 percent, Mr. Miller said.
627 2013-11-26 Struggling to cover its costs, Washington National Cathedral has decided to charge admission for tourists beginning in 2014. Cathedral officials said Monday that they would begin charging $10 for adults and $6 for children, the elderly and members of the military in January. Admission will be free on Sundays, as well as on weekdays for those who visit to worship or pray. The Rev. Gary Hall, the cathedral’s dean, said the decision was made reluctantly. But he noted that cathedrals in Europe charge fees to help fund their upkeep. The church needs more money to avoid budget deficits and to complete repairs for $26 million in earthquake damage from 2011, he said. Construction of the church began in 1907 and was funded by donations collected by Episcopalians across the country. There is no steady revenue from the Episcopal Church for operations.
628 2013-11-26 The four works in Richard Nelson’s Apple Family plays are each set on a different date in recent American history, and take place around the dinner table at the home of Barbara Apple, a school teacher in Rhinebeck, N.Y. Below are scenes from each play, along with a description of the events commemorated in them. All four are being performed in repertory at the Public Theater through Dec. 15. Related Article »
629 2013-11-26 Seth M. Kleinman, an analyst at Citgroup in London, said that while the deal with Iran would not have an immediate, significant impact on Iranian output, it was the beginning of progress.

“It is a very significant steppingstone in terms of relieving sanctions,” Mr. Kleinman said.

Under the deal, the United States has agreed to give Iran $6 billion to $7 billion in sanctions relief, much of it in the form of oil revenue that has been frozen in foreign banks. With the oil embargo in place, Iran’s main buyers will continue to be those that, heavily reliant on imported energy, have been given waivers by the United States: China, India, South Korea and Japan.

Analysts said the main benefit of the accord with Iran may be the psychological impact on the market, which has long been propped up by fears of a supply disruption resulting from the standoff between Iran and the United States and its allies. If those fears are defused, the energy markets might begin to more fully reflect purer issues like supply and demand, as well as the global search for alternative energy sources.

“There was always the risk of military conflict at the end of the path of sanctions if they proved ineffective,” said Simon Wardell, an analyst at the market research firm IHS in London. “That was always one of the factors keeping prices elevated and that begins to deflate now.”

David L. Goldwyn, a former senior energy official at the United States State Department who now has a consulting firm, Goldwyn Global Strategies, agreed that the easing of fears would affect the markets, but added that any small gains in supply were likely to be offset by instability in places like Libya, Iraq, Nigeria or Sudan.

Iran’s oil and gas industry was curtailed in recent years by the sanctions, which is why the United States-led alliance had leverage in the nuclear negotiations. Oil sales were squeezed by a combination of American pressure on Iran’s customers and the Iranian oil industry’s inability to gain access to sufficient investment and equipment.

As a result, Iranian production has fallen to about 2.7 million barrels a day from around four million barrels five years ago. Iran is now fifth-largest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries; until last year, it was the second-largest.

Nawaf Obaid, a fellow at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh, conceded that a “correction” in the price of oil might be coming, but he said that the Saudi Arabian economy could cope with a price decline of as much as $20 to $25 a barrel.

In recent years, global oil prices have been relatively high in historical terms — Brent crude has stayed mostly above $100 since early 2011 — which prompted a surge in investment in a wide range of energy sources, whether oil and gas or renewables like solar and wind power. At the same time, either to reduce carbon emissions or to save money, many countries have been pushing for more energy-efficiency, by shifting from oil to natural gas or by moving away from energy-intensive heavy industries altogether.

Mr. Kleinman of Citgroup said that prices were surprisingly high this year because of large disruptions, but added that he thought the odds were against a repeat next year.

“If you look at the biggest components of those, they are Iran and Libya. Libya is producing close enough to zero that the risk is they will produce more oil rather than less.”

At the same time, the United States, aggressively developing oil and gas supplies from shale rock, has added oil and other liquids to the world supply on a level not far short of Iranian production. Those additional resources gave the world powers a supply cushion on top of the economic pressures on Iran that helped make the deal possible.

An oil glut in the United States is a major reason that the American benchmark crude, West Texas Intermediate, fell 75 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $94.09 a barrel on Monday. That is far below the international Brent crude standard, which was about $111 a barrel on Monday.

New supplies are also beginning to come from the deep waters off Brazil. And the Kashagan project in Kazakhstan, long delayed because of technical problems, is expected to start producing next year.

Iran, which in the past has produced more than one million barrels a day above its current level, could eventually be a source of additional output if the sanctions are lifted, as well as a much bigger player in world gas markets.

“Iran appears to be another Qatar in terms of gas reserves,” analysts at Citigroup wrote in a recent note. Iran shares the world’s largest gas field with Qatar but has made slow progress in developing it, while Qatar has become a leading gas exporter. Qatar exported 105 billion cubic meters, or 3.7 trillion cubic feet, of gas last year, in third place globally, after Russia and Norway.

The energy markets will probably focus not only on progress in the longer-term negotiations with Iran but also on whether other energy-producing countries have curtailed oil and gas production. In recent months, political turmoil and deteriorating security have curbed production in Libya and Nigeria, two major OPEC producers.

“News like the developments in Iran can contribute to an improving supply picture,” Richard Mallinson, an analyst at Energy Aspects, a London-based research firm, said Monday. “The question is whether the positive signs in terms of supply translate into real improvement.”
630 2013-11-26 Mr. McMillon’s new salary and compensation package were not revealed on Monday. His salary for the 2013 fiscal year was nearly $930,000, while his total compensation was slightly over $9.5 million, according to the company.

Mr. Duke’s salary was about $1.3 million, and his total compensation was roughly $20 million. After retiring, he will stay on as an adviser for a year.

“The opportunity to lead Walmart is a great privilege,” Mr. McMillon said in the company’s statement. “Our company has a rich history of delivering value to customers across the globe and, as their needs grow and change, we will be there to serve them.”

At the shareholders’ meeting in 2012, Mr. McMillon told a story of receiving a Post-it note about the price of trilene fishing line from Walmart’s founder, “Mr. Sam,” in 1991, on his first day on the company’s merchandising team. Kmart’s price, the note said, was just a bit lower than Walmart’s.

“This is from Sam Walton,” Mr. McMillon’s new boss said, he recounted. “Have you fixed it?”

At Walmart, a connection to “Mr. Sam” is currency.

Mr. McMillon’s main competitor for the job, industry experts said, was probably William S. Simon, the chief executive of Walmart U.S. Mr. Simon joined Walmart in 2006 from Brinker International, a company that owns restaurant franchises like Chili’s Grill and Bar.

“It looks like they took an insider over an outsider,” said Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst at Forrester.

“Bill Simon joined more recently, he had more of a restaurant background,” Ms. Mulpuru said. “Doug McMillon is more of a company lifer, so to speak. He’s been at the company a long, long time.”

In recent years, Ms. Mulpuru said, the international arm of Walmart has been a greater engine of growth than either the domestic division or Sam’s Club, and since 2009 Mr. McMillon has been running the international operation. In October, the company announced it would open up to 110 new facilities in China by 2016.

In recent years, Walmart’s international division has been touched by scandal, though Mr. McMillon has not been implicated. The Justice Department has been investigating whether Walmart violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in Mexico and other countries, since The New York Times reported last year that officials at Walmart de Mexico paid bribes to grease the wheels of expansion.

Brooke Buchanan, a Walmart spokeswoman, said the activities being investigated preceded Mr. McMillon’s leadership of Walmart International.

In its most recent quarterly earnings release, Walmart acknowledged that it faced headwinds going into the holiday season. With its core customers still encountering stagnant wages and persistent unemployment, the company trimmed its yearly earnings forecast.

In addition to those challenges, Mr. McMillon will take Walmart’s helm as the retailer faces challenges from organized labor. Unions and their allies are threatening to stage protests at 1,500 Walmart stores across the nation on Black Friday to demand that the company increase wages.

And last week, the general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board accused Walmart of illegally firing or otherwise retaliating against workers in 14 states for pushing for higher wages.

In recent weeks, Walmart has been busily promoting its holiday deals in one of the most fiercely competitive sales seasons in recent memory. Major retailers are already slashing prices and many have been chipping away at the lure of Black Friday deals by offering them even earlier, driven partly by the short window this year between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Nonetheless, the next few days will probably be among the busiest of the holiday season.

David Tovar, Walmart’s vice president for corporate communications, said the timing of the announcement about Mr. McMillon, just four days before Black Friday, was dictated by the schedule of company board meetings — the November meeting is closest to the company’s new fiscal year, which begins Feb. 1.

“This was solely his decision, a personal decision Mike made to retire at this point,” Mr. Tovar said of Mr. Duke.

“Other than playing a lot of golf, I don’t think he’s going to be working on anything at this point,” he said.

When Mr. Duke leaves the company, he will be entitled to more than $113 million in deferred compensation.
631 2013-11-26 As such DNA tests have been released in recent years, questions have been raised about whether they require F.D.A. approval and whether using them constitutes the practice of medicine, with a doctor needing to be involved. Ms. Wojcicki’s company has long held that consumers are entitled to the information in their own DNA, though it has also been talking to and meeting with the agency about how its tests could receive regulatory approval since 2009.

In its letter, the agency said, “Even after these many interactions with 23andMe, we still do not have any assurance that the firm has analytically or clinically validated the P.G.S. for its intended uses, which have expanded from the uses that the firm identified in its submissions.”

The F.D.A. also said it had not heard from the company since May. “Instead, we have become aware that you have initiated new marketing campaigns, including television commercials that, together with an increasing list of indications, show that you plan to expand the P.G.S.’s uses and consumer base without obtaining marketing authorization from F.D.A.”

The company responded Monday with a statement emphasizing its relationship with the agency.

“We recognize that we have not met the F.D.A.’s expectations regarding timeline and communication regarding our submission,” it said. “Our relationship with the F.D.A. is extremely important to us, and we are committed to fully engaging with them to address their concerns.”

The company now has 15 business days to respond to the F.D.A.

The F.D.A. letter said it considered the Personal Genome Service a medical device that required approval.

The letter noted that 23andMe applied last year for approval for some uses of the test. It said, however, the company did not provide the additional information requested by the agency, so the company’s applications had lapsed.

The agency seemed most concerned about a test for mutations that indicate a woman would have a very high risk of getting breast cancer. It said a false positive on such a test could lead to an unnecessary preventive mastectomy.

Scott R. Diehl, director of the center for pharmacogenomics at Rutgers, welcomed the F.D.A. action. He said tests for breast cancer risk and drug side effects required guidance from doctors and genetic counselors, and “really have no place” being offered directly to consumers.

But Misha Angrist, an assistant professor at the Institute for Genome Sciences and Policy at Duke, said that with DNA sequencing becoming cheaper and easier, the F.D.A. would ultimately fail in keeping people from having access to their own genetic information.

“Is the only pathway for me to get access to the contents of my cells via some guy in a white coat?” he said. “F.D.A. clearly thinks the answer is yes. I find that disappointing and shortsighted and naïve.”

Dr. Angrist said it was “borderline absurd” to think someone was going to get a mastectomy based on a $99 test, without follow-up.

Elizabeth A. Mansfield, director of personalized medicine in the F.D.A.’s medical device division, said the agency agreed that people had a right to their genetic information. The concern, she said, was that 23andMe was also providing interpretations of what that data meant medically.

The company, which is privately held and based in Mountain View, Calif., also offers information on ancestry. Part of the company’s business plan is to use genetic information amassed from the tests to perform biomedical research, like finding genetic causes of diseases.

Ms. Wojcicki recently said the company hoped to reach a million customers by early next year.

The F.D.A. sent letters to 23andMe and some of its competitors in 2010 saying that regulatory approval would be required for the tests. Afterward, some of the other companies stopped offering tests to consumers.

“This issue has to be fundamentally settled,” Dr. Mansfield of the F.D.A. said. “It can’t go on like this.”
632 2013-11-26 The stock market paused on Monday, ending with little change after a string of records in recent weeks.

Investors had little company-specific news to digest and trading was light ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday. Still, the market felt the impact of broader geopolitical news; oil prices and energy stocks fell after the United States and other world powers reached a deal on Sunday to limit Iran’s nuclear program.

The slow day represented a lull in the market’s strong run-up. Stocks have climbed this year as a combination of solid corporate earnings, a strengthening economy and easy-money policies from the Federal Reserve have drawn investors to stocks. Equities have also gained because they offer an attractive alternative to bonds, where interest rates remain close to record lows.

Despite light trade, Monday did feature a market milestone. The Nasdaq composite index rose as high as 4,007.09, a level it has not touched since Sept. 7, 2000, toward the end of the dot-com boom. The Nasdaq ended up 2.92 points, or less than 0.1 percent, at 3,994.57.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.77 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 16,072.54.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, however, fell 2.28 points, or 0.13 percent, to 1,802.48. On Friday, the S.&P. 500 closed above 1,800 for the first time.
633 2013-11-26 Four years of financial and economic crisis have shattered public confidence in the European Union, and Mr. Lamy, a moderate socialist, is a bogeyman to many on the left in France, where he is associated with “ultra-liberal” free-trade policies.

Euroskeptic parties are expected to make unprecedented gains in European Parliament elections next May, and Mr. Lamy’s federalist vision of Europe is at odds with the zeitgeist.

He says European Union member governments deliberately weakened the European Commission during the euro zone debt crisis by taking decision- making out of its hands but leaving it to enforce austerity policies made elsewhere. As a result, citizens are confused about who is responsible for what in Europe and “Brussels” takes the blame.

Noting that support for Europe has historically ebbed and flowed with the economic cycle and is at low tide, Mr. Lamy argues that the European Union needs a new narrative reconciling economic efficiency with social progress.

“When the cake is getting bigger, people are less reluctant to share it. When it stops growing, there’s a sense of crisis amplified by the fact that Europe was long sold to citizens as a protection against a menacing outside world,” Mr. Lamy said in an interview. “Now we have to reformulate the European project.”

The “never again” spirit that inspired the European Union’s founders to pool their coal and steel industries in a common market on the ruins of World War II no longer resonates with today’s Europeans, most of whom have never experienced armed conflict.

Instead, Europe needs a new rationale based on preserving a combination of high living standards, democracy and civil rights, environmental protection, social justice and work-life balance that still make it the envy of many beyond its borders.

“Europeans have to live up to what non-Europeans see as the European identity,” Mr. Lamy said.

“The ‘European way of life’ remains an attractive brand,” he added. “It’s a peculiar balance between individual freedom, the market, systems of solidarity and a certain economic dynamism.”

Dismantling the 17-nation euro zone, breaking up the European Union or re-erecting protectionist barriers would bring economic disaster and make it impossible to go on financing the generous benefits that distinguish the European social model, he said.

Failure to keep Europe’s economies competitive could also undermine the ability to fund the welfare state.

“There are no solutions that could resolve today’s global challenges better without European integration than with it,” Mr. Lamy said.

Mr. Lamy earned his spurs first at the French Finance Ministry and then at the European Commission.

A workaholic who ran marathons and eschewed the Brussels business lunch for a banana and a piece of whole-wheat bread at his desk, he made sure the European Commission machine delivered an unprecedented wave of single-market legislation on schedule. Wags dubbed him the “Dalai Lamy” because of his shaven head and ascetic lifestyle.

After returning to France in 1995 to help rescue Crédit Lyonnais, a stricken bank, he became European Union trade commissioner in 1999, helping start the Doha round of global negotiations, before heading the W.T.O. in Geneva for eight years.

Those jobs put him in the cockpit of globalization just as China, India, Brazil and other emerging economies were challenging the pre-eminence of Europe and the United States.

Mr. Lamy quoted an Asian statesman as telling him that the world looks to Europe to “civilize globalization” by spreading its rules-based system of governance that smoothes the rough edges of capitalism.

Without directly criticizing the outgoing president of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, he says the former Portuguese prime minister was installed by European Union leaders because they wanted to call the shots themselves.

“He was put there deliberately. He didn’t fall from the moon,” Mr. Lamy said. “The fact is that in this difficult period, member states took things back into their own hands in the institutional set-up.”

Mr. Barroso’s successor should revert to Mr. Delors’s method of building a consensus among member states and legislators on one or two major objectives for European reform, Mr. Lamy said.

This could involve creating a real single energy market, true liberalization of the internal market for services — which make up two-thirds of European output and employment — and the transition to a low-carbon economy.

“I don’t have that project and I have no mandate to draw it up,” Mr. Lamy said. “But we need that kind of project.”
634 2013-11-26 Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister and a leader of the current protests, led the takeover of the Finance Ministry, shouting instructions from atop a large truck.

“Everyone get in the building!” Mr. Suthep said as his supporters blew ear-piercing whistles. The protesters turned off the electricity in the building at his urging, “so that the police will not receive their daily allowance.”

Protesters could be seen in two of the ministry’s conference rooms in the afternoon, and by evening, they were starting to camp out in the courtyard. No riot police officers were visible in the compound.

Mr. Suthep said protesters had chosen to occupy the Finance Ministry because it is at the heart of the government. “From now on, this government can no longer transfer money,” he said. “Not a single coin will be used by the Thaksin regime anymore.”

Protesters also entered the grounds of the Foreign Ministry, but did not gain entry to the main building. There, too, the protesters planned to stay overnight in the courtyard, organizers said.

Mr. Suthep has not detailed specific goals for the protests, but he has said that dissolution of Parliament or resignation of a few government ministers will not satisfy him.

“We will not stop fighting until the Thaksin regime is entirely eradicated from Thailand,” he told the crowd on Sunday.

Mr. Thaksin, who has lived overseas since a conviction for abuse of power in 2008, maintains strong support in the populous northern and northeastern provinces of Thailand. Many analysts, including some of his opponents, say that his party, Pheu Thai, would probably win an election if one was called.

Mr. Thaksin’s opponents say that they are concerned that he has accumulated too much power in Thailand, and they are angry that he appears to be making policy decisions from abroad.

The current protests began several weeks ago, in what proved to be a successful effort to force the government to withdraw an amnesty bill that would have eased Mr. Thaksin’s return to Thailand. But to the chagrin of some business associations in the country, which fear economic fallout from the protests, the demonstrations have continued despite the amnesty bill’s defeat.

Independent analysts have criticized what they say appears to be an open-ended protest. “The protest leaders need to clarify their demands,” Yuttaporn Issarachai, the dean of political science at Sukhothai Thammathirat Open University, said Monday on Thai television.

Mr. Yuttaporn said he worried about the possibility of clashes between rival protesters. Thousands of government supporters have gathered at a stadium in Bangkok.

Mr. Thaksin, who was prime minister from 2001 until the military removed him from power in a coup d’état in 2006, cemented his support in the northern rural areas through policies such as universal health care and microloans to villagers.

Ms. Yingluck has continued to put populist policies in place in her two and a half years in power. Some of those programs have come at a great cost to the country’s finances. News agencies reported Monday that the government was having trouble finding enough buyers for 75 billion baht, or $2.3 billion, in bonds that it needs to sell to finance a program that pays farmers well above market price for rice.
635 2013-11-26 Mad Dog Vachon, a Canada-born wrestler whose long career and ferocious persona earned him a place in the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame, died Thursday at his home in Omaha. He was 84.

His death was confirmed by Yves Thériault, the director of a 2009 documentary about Vachon.

Vachon wrestled, originally as an amateur, for more than 40 years. A growling, gaptoothed tough guy in the ring, he once said he had done everything he could to make people hate him but had “failed miserably.”

He brought a degree of showmanship to professional wrestling that influenced the over-the-top antics of today. “He was the first wrestler to understand the power of television,” Thériault said. “He was the first wrestler to speak to the camera.”

Maurice Vachon, one of 13 children, was born on Sept. 14, 1929. His father was a police officer. His survivors include his wife, Kathie, and his brother Paul, who also became a pro wrestler, known as the Butcher. A sister, Vivian, who died in 1991, and a niece, Luna, who died in 2010, also wrestled.

Vachon represented Canada at the 1948 London Olympics and was a gold medalist at the 1950 British Empire Games in Auckland, New Zealand. He went on to wrestle throughout Canada and the Midwestern United States, most notably in the Minneapolis-based American Wrestling Association, of which he was a five-time world champion.

He earned his nickname in 1962 in Portland, Ore., when he appeared to go berserk as he waited for his opponent to arrive and tossed him out of the ring when he showed up, along with a referee and a police officer. (He insisted in a 1999 interview that none of his outburst had been scripted and that he had been fined and suspended as a result.)
636 2013-11-26 In 1953 he persuaded the Baton Rouge City Council to abolish a public transportation rule barring blacks from sitting in the first 10 rows of public buses. When bus drivers went on strike to protest the change, Mr. Jemison led an eight-day boycott, starting on June 20.

Blacks accounted for 80 percent of the city’s bus ridership, and they were tired of having to stand up while some or even all of the first 10 rows went empty, Mr. Jemison said. “We were not necessarily interested at that time in ending segregation,” he said in an interview in 1993. “We were after seats.”

The dispute ended in a compromise: Only the first two rows would be reserved for whites.

Dr. King, the young pastor of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, contacted Mr. Jemison in late 1955 for advice on managing a citywide bus boycott.

“Knowing that Jemison and his associates had set up an effective private car pool, I put in a long-distance telephone call to ask him for suggestions for a similar pool in Montgomery,” Dr. King wrote in a 1958 memoir, “Stride Toward Freedom.” Mr. Jemison’s tutorial was “invaluable” in winning that fight, Dr. King added.

The yearlong Montgomery bus boycott, set off by Ms. Parks’s refusal to give up her seat to a white person, was the beginning of the end of separate-but-equal accommodations in the South.

In a statement released on Tuesday, President Obama called Mr. Jemison a man of “visionary spirit and charisma” who helped “eradicate legal segregation and improve voting rights laws for disenfranchised Americans.”

The National Baptist Convention, with 26,000 member congregations and seven million congregants, had been a nonpolitical organization when Mr. Jemison was elected president in 1982 (his father, the Rev. David Jemison, had been president from 1940 to 1953). But Mr. Jemison quickly began staking out firm, liberal positions on race-related issues, accusing President Ronald Reagan of giving “respectability to racism,” supporting the presidential candidacies of the Rev. Jesse Jackson in 1984 and 1988 and, in 1991, opposing the Persian Gulf war, which he called “a fight over oil.”

When Desiree Washington, an 18-year-old Miss Black America contestant, accused Mr. Tyson of rape in 1991, Mr. Jemison described him as a victim of racial stereotyping, prompting other church leaders and women’s groups to criticize his support as insensitive to Ms. Washington. They also accused of him of being prejudiced by Mr. Tyson’s offer (never received) of $5 million toward the building of the convention’s $12 million headquarters in Nashville.

Mr. Tyson was convicted and served three years of a six-year prison sentence.

Mr. Jemison was later indicted, though never tried, on federal perjury charges in connection with an alleged attempt to bribe Ms. Washington to drop the charges. After stepping down as president of the Baptist convention in 1994, he told interviewers that he was especially proud of his role in building the group’s new headquarters, his signature achievement, because it fulfilled a dream of his father’s.

Theodore Judson Jemison was born on Aug. 1, 1918, in Selma, Ala., the youngest of the six children of Henrietta and David Jemison. His father was also the pastor of Selma’s Tabernacle Baptist Church. The younger Mr. Jemison attended segregated public schools and graduated from the historically black Alabama State University in Montgomery before earning a divinity degree at Virginia Union University in Richmond, Va.

He remained the pastor of the Mount Zion First Baptist Church in Baton Rouge for 54 years. He retired in 2003.

Besides his son, Mr. Jemison is survived by two daughters, Dianne Jemison Pollard and Betty Jane Wagner, and nine grandchildren. His wife, Celestine Catlett Jemison, died in 2006.

Anthea Butler, an associate professor of religion and African studies at the University of Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview that Mr. Jemison’s contributions to the civil rights cause were never widely known primarily as a result of a decision he made in 1961 as secretary of the Baptist convention.

That year, the group’s president, the Rev. Joseph H. Jackson, and Dr. King were bitterly divided over the organization’s role in the civil rights struggle; Mr. Jackson opposed involving the church in it, and Mr. Jemison sided with him.

His decision secured his place in the church hierarchy — he remained secretary for the next two decades — but forced him to reduce his role in the movement, though he said he disagreed with Mr. Jackson’s views and would eventually change the organization’s policies after succeeding Mr. Jackson in 1982.

“It’s felt that he had a sense of loyalty to the organization because of his father’s association with it,” Professor Butler said.
637 2013-11-27 A look back at how White House advisers have tried to fix the botched health care website....
638 2013-11-27 After 4.5 billion years in the farthest reaches of the solar system, Comet ISON may provide clues on how the bits of dust and ice came together to form planets....
639 2013-11-27 There were street protests in Egypt’s two largest cites on Wednesday, amid signs that attempts by the military-backed government to stifle dissent were fueling a backlash....
640 2013-11-27 The SHOP exchanges had been of most interest to a limited segment of the small-business market — those seeking tax credits....
641 2013-11-27 Credit: Bryan Meltz for The New York Times
642 2013-11-27 When a “Make Love” Gap ad featuring a Sikh man was defaced, a photographer shared the image online and the company reached out to pinpoint its location. The ad was later removed....
643 2013-11-27 A microdistillery in Washington invites its customers to help with its bottling....
644 2013-11-27 The Italian maker of luxury winter jackets plans to raise as much as $1.1 billion in its initial public offering on the Milan stock exchange....
645 2013-11-27 A left-leaning, locally focused small-business trade association is attempting to expose what it calls the “hypocrisy” of American Express....
646 2013-11-27 The $2.1 billion acquisition of Coram will not affect CVS Caremark’s financial results in 2014 but is expected to add 3 to 5 cents to adjusted earnings per share in 2015....
647 2013-11-27 Brick-and-mortar stores like Walmart and Target are using social networks, particularly Pinterest, to engage with shoppers and bring in holiday sales....
648 2013-11-27 The Guangzhou National Sex Culture Festival is a mating ritual between capitalism and hedonism, all observed by a prudish chaperone: China’s government.
649 2013-11-27 In an apparent effort to test Iranian good will after a landmark nuclear deal, the United States on Tuesday asked Iran for help in finding an American who has been missing there for more than six years. The White House called for Iran’s cooperation in locating Robert Levinson, a retired F.B.I. agent who disappeared during a business trip to an Iranian island in 2007. In November 2010, a video surfaced in which Mr. Levinson asked for help in winning his freedom but did not say who was holding him or where. The Iranian government has repeatedly said it knows nothing about Mr. Levinson’s disappearance or whereabouts.
650 2013-11-27 The Times would like to hear from readers about their holiday shopping plans....
651 2013-11-27 A Japanese auto parts company agreed to pay a $120 million fine and plead guilty to charges that it fixed prices, becoming the latest supplier charged in the Justice Department’s sweeping antitrust investigation of the auto parts business, the department said on Tuesday.

Toyo Tire and Rubber Company agreed to admit to its role in two conspiracies to fix the prices of anti-vibration rubber and drive shaft components sold in the United States and elsewhere. The Justice Department said Toyo had agreed to cooperate with the investigation and that the plea agreement was subject to court approval.

Toyo is the 22nd company to be charged in the inquiry, which the department says is its largest antitrust investigation, involving authorities from Asia to North America to Europe. All of the companies have pleaded guilty, or agreed to plead guilty, and will pay more than $1.8 billion in criminal fines.

Of the 26 executives charged, 20 have been sentenced to prison or have made plea agreements, according to the department.

“Today’s charge is the latest step in the antitrust division’s effort to hold automobile part suppliers accountable for their illegal and collusive conduct,” Renata B. Hesse, deputy assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, said in a statement.

All together, the investigation involves more than a dozen separate conspiracies to fix the prices of over 30 kinds of parts ultimately sold to Chrysler, Ford and General Motors, as well as the American subsidiaries of Honda, Mazda, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru and Toyota. The scheme affected more than 25 million cars bought in the United States, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said in a statement in September.
652 2013-11-27 Germany is leading the opposition. Policy makers in Berlin and Frankfurt see the Greek debt restructuring in 2012 as a one-off. And they regard any deviation from their core principle — that debilitating debt is to be reduced almost solely via the hard medicine of spending cuts and tax increases — as an escape from fiscal responsibility.

The I.M.F.’s debt plan has been endorsed by the body’s top leadership, including the first deputy managing director David Lipton, a widely respected former Treasury official. The initiative is seen by a number of outside sovereign-debt experts as the best of a range of admittedly tough choices in responding to future debt crises.

But the pushback against the proposal, which has caught I.M.F. officials off guard, has delayed a planned introduction early next year, with any blueprint now not expected to be presented to the fund’s executive board until June, at the earliest.

The fund declined to make any executives involved in the project available for comment.

At the root of the issue is the long-simmering dispute between Europe and the I.M.F. over who should pay the bill the next time a country in Europe needs a bailout: taxpayers and workers, or bankers and investors.

These tensions were on full display during the I.M.F. meetings in Washington this fall, when Jörg Asmussen, the powerful German representative on the European Central Bank’s executive committee, explained why Germany vetoed the fund’s idea that some of Greece’s debt, most of it now held by Europe, should be written down.

“The fund is talking about other people’s money,” Mr. Asmussen, cracking a thin smile, said at a German-sponsored policy forum.

In some ways, the clash is a function of whose money is at stake.

With Europe on the hook for around 340 billion euros ($460 billion) in loans to bailed-out countries in the euro area, compared to €79 billion for the I.M.F., it is not surprising that Mr. Asmussen and his sponsors in the German finance ministry have responded to the I.M.F.’s push for others to accept losses on existing debt by saying, in effect, you first.

That could never happen given that the I.M.F.’s status as a preferred creditor — meaning its loans get paid back before those of any other lender — is perhaps global finance’s most sacred writ.

The proposal recalls an earlier era when the fund was the dominant lender to flailing economies in Asia and Latin America, rather than the junior partner it is today in Europe. In that respect, the initiative is being seen by some I.M.F. watchers as a sly move by the fund to reposition itself as a leader and not a follower the next time there is a bailout in Europe.

“Countries at risk may simply reject even talking to the I.M.F., for fear of spooking investors,” said Douglas A. Rediker, a former investment banker and onetime member of the fund’s executive board now at the Peterson Institute in Washington. “In an effort to remain central, in Europe at least, the I.M.F. could find itself the odd man out.”

According to recent data from the European Central Bank, euro area countries have €6.4 trillion in government bonds outstanding, 70 percent of annual economic activity in the currency zone.

Given the strains within the euro zone, a fiscal crisis of some sort is considered highly likely, especially in countries with higher debt burdens like Italy or Spain. Under the fund’s proposal, the next time a country has trouble tapping debt markets, it would be given a brief period to resolve its problems. During this so-called standstill — and here is the rub — private sector creditors would be forced to hold on to their bonds (and take a loss), as opposed to just dumping them.

“What it comes down to is that next time around, the I.M.F. does not want to just repay private creditors,” said Jeromin Zettelmeyer, a sovereign debt expert and a lead author of a recent paper that supports the fund’s emerging position on the topic.

The proposal’s rough ride recalls an effort a decade ago, when Anne O. Krueger, then first deputy managing director of the I.M.F., staked her career on a similar, even more ambitious attempt to create a bankruptcy regime for debt-heavy countries, akin to what exists for corporations.

The Sovereign Debt Restructuring Mechanism, or S.D.R.M., as it came to be known, was shot down by the United States, bruising egos as well as reputations in the process, and raising questions about the fund’s clout on the global stage.

For months now, Mr. Lipton and his colleagues have insisted that their idea should not be viewed as Ms. Krueger’s S.D.R.M. proposal in sheep’s wool.

While it was expected that the global banking lobby and German officials would oppose a plan requiring them to accept debt losses as inevitable, the emerging opposition from the Obama administration has come as a bit of a surprise.

“It is important that efforts to increase the orderliness and predictability of the sovereign-debt restructuring process be undertaken on the basis of a consensual, market-based contractual framework,” Holly Shulman, a Treasury spokeswoman, said regarding the I.M.F. proposal.

Translation: We don’t like plans that mess around with the rights of bond investors. We didn’t like them 10 years ago, and we don’t like them now.

Amid the dense, carefully couched jargon of the fund’s initial paper on the topic, critics have latched on to one sentence in particular.

In making the case for the private sector to share the cost of a bailout at the outset of a rescue, the authors suggested that “a presumption could be established that some form of a creditor bail-in measure would be implemented as a condition for Fund lending.”

It was a bland bit of bureaucratese, but to many it crossed a red line.

“If you are talking about debt reduction at the beginning of a program, then it’s a problem for me,” said a senior government official in Europe, who was not authorized to speak publicly. “Middle-income countries in Europe must pay their creditors — it’s the normal thing to do.”

But to I.M.F. policy makers it is precisely this resistance to debt restructuring that has made Greece’s economic recovery so elusive and kept much of southern Europe mired in recession. And they want to be sure that next time, things are done differently.
653 2013-11-27 SEATAC, Wash. — After weeks of ballot counting, elections officials said on Tuesday that voters in this small city south of Seattle had in fact approved by 77 votes the highest municipal minimum wage in the nation, $15 an hour, more than twice the federal minimum.

But the battle is not over. A group opposing the measure said it would immediately ask for a hand recount, and a lawsuit by business groups is still going forward in state court.

Labor union officials who focused on SeaTac as a template for wage battles yet to come around the country said the results would be a thunderbolt and a call to action. The vote means thousands of airport workers here, the host city to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, could see substantial pay raises starting next year. It also sets the stage, union organizers said, for a battle to advance a $15 wage in Seattle, where the mayor-elect, Ed Murray, has pledged support for the idea.

Washington already has the highest state minimum in the nation, at $9.19, but stands to be surpassed by California, which recently approved a $10 minimum, phased in over two years. The federal minimum is $7.25.

“Voters said, enough is enough,” said David Rolf, the president of a Seattle chapter of the Service Employees International Union, at a news conference at the airport against a backdrop of clattering baggage carousels and travelers passing by with their wheeled bags. “We have seen a national change in the conversation about wages,” Mr. Rolf said.

The ballot measure, Proposition 1, exempts airlines and small businesses, including restaurants with fewer than 10 employees, but could raise pay for about 6,500 workers in the city, on and off airport property — and would give paid sick days to many of those workers for the first time.
654 2013-11-27 If you did not catch a plate of Chip Smith’s cooking for the five minutes it appeared at Le Midi in Greenwich Village last year, you now have another shot at his lusty caramelized onion tart, crisp sweetbreads, earthy terrines and roast chicken, on the Upper East Side. He and his wife, Tina Vaughn, have a new partner, Robert Margolis. “We love being on the Upper East Side,” Ms. Vaughn said. “I’m planning on 10 years here.” They cater to the sensibilities of the neighborhood, which is becoming the restaurant destination of the moment, with white tablecloths and a room that does not cancel conversation: 151 East 82nd Street, 212-772-8861, thesimonerestaurant.com.

FUNG TU Jonathan Wu, who worked at Per Se, brings creativity and innovation to Asian cooking at this restaurant on the edge of Chinatown. Thus you might sample a terrine made of fava bean purée stoked with chile oil, gnudi dumplings fashioned from bean curd, and a stir-fry of bean sprouts and squid served over rice. One of Mr. Wu’s partners, Wilson Tang, owns Nom Wah Tea Parlor. The fairly narrow room is lined with tables and small booths. The wine list offers some pleasant surprises: 22 Orchard Street (Canal Street), 212-219 8785, fungtu.com.

THE HEATH This restaurant serving English fare at the McKittrick Hotel was opened by Punchdrunk, the theater company that’s producing “Sleep No More,” the interactive version of “Macbeth.” Even Banquo’s ghost might be tempted by the chef R. L. King’s beef-and-ale pie or the spit-turned leg of lamb as he wanders the baronial dining room: 542 West 27th Street, 212-564-1662, theheathnyc.com.

LA BROCHETTE Opening a kosher restaurant is always easier if you take over a location where the previous tenant was also kosher. That’s what this new French-accented steakhouse has done, in the multistory space that was La Carne Grill: 340 Lexington Avenue (39th Street), 212-972-2200, labrochetteny.com.

PAULANER BRäUHAUS & RESTAURANT NYC The Munich-based brewery has opened a large American branch where beers are brewed according to the German beer purity law of 1516 that required they be made with only malted barley or wheat, hops and water (New York water passed muster). The restaurant serves sausages, Wiener schnitzel, apple strudel and other gemütlichkeit classics: 265-267 Bowery (Houston Street), 212-780-0300, paulaner-brauhaus.com.

POK POK NY This Thai restaurant has closed its location at 127 Columbia Street and reopened down the street in a larger space. The original restaurant will become Suan Pok Pok, to be used for private parties: 117 Columbia Street (Kane Street), Columbia Street Waterfront District, Brooklyn, 718-923-9322, pokpokpdx.com.

SNACK EOS Snack Taverna, a Greek spot in the West Village, has a new Hell’s Kitchen branch with some updated dishes. Consider lamb sliders with tzatziki and branzino wrapped in a fig leaf: 522 Ninth Avenue (39th Street), 646-964-4964, snackeos.com.
655 2013-11-27 On the morning of Dec. 7, 1944, he was slogging through the Apennines in northern Italy with his platoon when a German shell exploded beside him. Fragments broke his right foot, injured his right shoulder and shattered the shinbone of his left leg into more than 30 pieces.

As he recalled it long afterward, “My leg had been split open like a ripe watermelon.”

Brissie was evacuated to a hospital in Naples, where an Army surgeon, Dr. Wilbur K. Brubaker, told him he would probably have to amputate his leg, which had become infected.

Brissie explained that he hoped to pitch in the major leagues. Dr. Brubaker wired the shattered bone fragments together and put Brissie on the new “wonder drug” penicillin. His leg was saved, but over the next two years he underwent 23 operations.

Mack encouraged Brissie to hold on to his dream, and in the spring of 1947 he sent him to the Athletics’ minor league team in Savannah, Ga. Brissie wore a metal brace to protect his leg, but he was a sensation, winning 23 games and losing 5.

In September, Brissie made his major league debut for the Athletics, starting for them at Yankee Stadium. He was beaten, 5-3, but he had achieved an ambition that hardly seemed imaginable.

Brissie pitched a complete-game four-hitter to defeat the Boston Red Sox, 4-2, in a doubleheader at Fenway Park opening the 1948 season. But he endured a frightening moment when Ted Williams hit a line drive that caromed off his brace.

“I hit a ball back to the box, a real shot, whack, like a rifle clap,” Williams recalled in his memoir “My Turn at Bat” (1969), written with John Underwood. “Down he goes, and everybody rushes out there, and I go over from first base with this awful feeling I’ve really hurt him. Here’s this war hero, pitching a great game. He sees me in the crowd, looking down at him, my face like a haunt. He says, ‘For chrissakes, Williams, pull the damn ball.’ ”

Brissie had a 14-10 record in 1948. He was 16-11 in 1949, his best season, and pitched three innings in the All-Star Game at Ebbets Field.

“I knew I was a symbol to many veterans trying to overcome problems,” he once said. “I wasn’t going to let them down.”

Leland Victor Brissie was born June 5, 1924, in Anderson, S.C. He pitched for six full seasons in the major leagues. After three years with the Athletics, he was traded to the Cleveland Indians in April 1951 and appeared with them mostly in relief. He retired after the 1953 season with a 44-48 career record.

Some batters tried to take advantage of Brissie’s limited mobility coming off the mound by bunting, among them Yankees shortstop Phil Rizzuto.

But as Brissie put it: “Rizzuto was a great competitor. I always liked him.”

After retiring from the major leagues, Brissie, who lived in North Augusta, S.C., near the Georgia border, directed the American Legion baseball program and worked for a South Carolina state board that trained workers for newly created businesses in the state.

In addition to Diana Brissie, his second wife, he is survived by their daughter, Jennifer Brissie; a son, Rob, and a daughter, Vicki Bishop, from his marriage to his first wife, Dorothy, who died in the 1960s; his stepchildren, Charlotte Klein and Aaron Smith; and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

In an interview with The New York Times in 1985, Brissie said he had been hesitant to speak about his war wounds, but had begun to offer encouragement to the disabled.

“People with disabilities have told me, ‘Because of you I decided to try,’ ” he said. “That changes you.”

In his later years, walking with crutches, his left leg scarred and misshapen and still prone to infections, Brissie visited the Department of Veterans Affairs hospital in Augusta to speak with those wounded in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.

Hospitalized there since July, he watched a ceremony on the Internet in which a high school baseball field in Ware Shoals, S.C., where he once pitched textile league baseball, was named for him on Veterans Day.

Brissie kept a stainless steel watch he had picked up at an Army PX. It was frozen at 10:57:53 a.m., the moment he was hit by that German shell. It served as a reminder of bad luck, but ultimately of his good fortune.

“The thing that I got out of all this,” he told The Augusta Chronicle in 2001, “is even the things that look impossible aren’t.”
656 2013-11-27 WASHINGTON — Permits for future home construction rose to their highest point in nearly five and a half years in October and prices for single-family homes posted big gains in September, suggesting that the run-up in mortgage interest rates since May has not derailed the housing recovery.

The data, released on Tuesday, provided the latest signs of strength in the economy, despite headwinds from rising mortgage rates and last month’s partial government shutdown.

“The reports reinforce the notion that the housing sector is successfully digesting the summer mortgage rate pop,” said Michael R. Englund, chief economist at Action Economics.

Building permits jumped 6.2 percent last month to an annual rate of 1.03 million units, the highest since June 2008, the Commerce Department said. It was only the second time since mid-2008 that permits breached the one-million-unit mark.

Last month’s increase exceeded economists’ expectations for a 930,000-unit rate. Permits, which lead housing starts by at least a month, rose 5.2 percent in September and were up 13.9 percent from a year earlier in October.

A separate report showed that the Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller composite index of home prices in 20 metropolitan areas jumped 13.3 percent in September from a year earlier, the best gain since February 2006.
657 2013-11-27 Wall Street reached another market milestone on Tuesday when the Nasdaq composite index closed above the 4,000-point mark for the first time in 13 years.

The Nasdaq’s milestone comes after two other round-number moments last week, when the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed above 1,800 for the first time and the Dow Jones industrial average finished above 16,000.

On Tuesday, both the S.&P. and Dow gave up modest early gains in the last half-hour of trading and finished basically flat.

Homebuilder shares were among the top gainers in the stock market, rising after the Commerce Department reported that building permits rose in October to their highest point in nearly five and a half years. Those construction permits indicate that builders expect increased demand.

“It’s going to translate into job creation once those permits turn into actual construction,” said Quincy Krosby, market strategist with Prudential Financial.
658 2013-11-27 The movement does not aspire to political power and does not advocate hostile confrontation. It holds that reform is a multifaceted and gradual process that involves the transformation of society, the development of autonomous nongovernmental organizations, and the protection of basic human and civil rights.

The movement’s efforts began in 2010 with the signing of a citizens’ pledge of collective action. It successfully petitioned educational authorities to allow the children of rural migrants to take the national college entrance exam for university seats. Last year, the group campaigned for disclosure of government officials’ assets, and promoted dinner gatherings across a dozen cities to discuss civic affairs. Earlier this year, the movement collected signatures for an appeal to the National People’s Congress to ratify international human rights conventions.

The New Citizens’ Movement operates entirely within the bounds of China’s Constitution and laws, and the mainstream of society. The movement has no interest in seizing, much less overthrowing, the government, but rather in creating an environment in which power is constrained through constitutional government and civil society.

This middle road seeks to transcend the traditional alternatives of passive reform and tumultuous revolution, and to forgo petty antagonistic politics for a broad-minded politics that addresses the concerns of ordinary citizens. It draws on gradualist theories of political change, like Karl Popper’s concept of “piecemeal social engineering” and John Dewey’s model of democratic experimentation, rather than grand utopian project of overnight solutions.

Its goal is a society in which citizens can associate on the basis of their views, not their class position or their place in the political system. The Internet, and especially microblogging platforms, have raised the consciousness of millions of Chinese who, having met their material needs, are looking for the opportunity to shape their country’s future. Many of the participants in this “intermediate society” are professionals who spurn the ideological trappings of class struggle; they want change, but in an orderly and civilized way, from the ground up. Mr. Wang has described this movement as “constructive opposition.”

Yet this reasoned, moderate movement has drawn intolerance and hostility from Beijing. As the Third Plenum shows, the government only wants change on its own timetable, and in accordance with its needs. Ordinary citizens are sidelined. China’s leaders have declared that “special interests” are the greatest obstacle to reform, but an even greater problem is the party elite’s lust to maintain its power, and its terror of a public that wants to help determine its future.

The price of this resistance is steep. Mr. Wang recently celebrated his 52nd birthday behind bars. When Mr. Xu was arrested, more than four months ago, his wife was pregnant, and he will almost certainly not be able to see the birth of his child. Mr. Guo has been detained for the fourth time, and his wife and children have taken refuge in the United States. Even so, these activists remain unbowed; for all their moderation, they do not lack courage or tenaciousness, and no amount of brutality will make them give up their pursuit of a civilized society as both an end and a means.

Can the Chinese government afford complacency in the face of their quiet activism? How can the so-called reforms succeed if the government continues to defy the Chinese people’s growing demands for dignity and justice?

Xiao Shu, the pen name of Chen Min, is a former columnist for the Chinese newspaper Southern Weekly and the Chinese magazine Yanhuang Chunqiu, and a visiting scholar at National Chengchi University in Taiwan. This essay was translated by Stacy Mosher from the Chinese.
659 2013-11-27 When I saw my mother making her apple turnover, I knew company was coming. I also knew the dough scraps would be my treat. She’d roll them in sugar and cinnamon and bake them, and we’d enjoy the light, buttery morsels together with a cold glass of milk.

My mom’s specialty was that apple turnover. Mine, apple crostata. I love its organic shape, and the fact that it doesn’t require a dish or pie pan. Because the crostata is baked directly on a sheet pan, it retains its flakiness better than a pie. And for us, it’s all about that flakiness.

If you want to be more adventurous, drizzle each piece with bacon toffee. Serve with a bit of heavy cream or crème fraîche.
660 2013-11-27 When and merge at our family table this year, we will keep the turkey and lose the brisket — at least for that one night.

Luckily, Hanukkah lasts for another seven, which gives us plenty of time to get our brisket fix. This year I’m going rogue.

The feast is on Thanksgiving. There will be no large pot-roasted piece of meat served as a centerpiece later in the week. Instead, I’m going to cube up my brisket and stir it into the stockpot, simmering up a giant vat of brisket barley vegetable soup.

Making soup out of brisket has a major advantage over the usual braising: Because you are cooking the meat submerged in broth, it necessarily stays juicy. You don’t need to worry about it being tough or stringy or dry; it won’t be. As it simmers, the brisket cubes soften enough so you can cut them with your spoon. The chewiest thing in the soup will be the barley, but in a good way.

One thing to watch is the fat factor. Some slabs of brisket come more thoroughly trimmed than others, so you may have to do some knife work when you get it home. But fear not, if your broth ends up a little greasy. Just chill it and then spoon the fat off the top when it’s cold.
661 2013-11-27 Q. Can you roast the vegetables and the carcass at the same time in the same pan?

A. The carcass will take longer to brown than the vegetables, and you want to make sure they are really well browned. You could get the carcass three-quarters of the way browned and then add the vegetables — this is how we do it at the restaurant — but you just need to make sure the timing is right so everything gets browned enough but nothing gets burned. It seemed safer for a home cook recipe to do these two steps separately, but if you feel confident you know the magic moment, then go for it.

Q. I’d love some tips on how to make a flavorful turkey stock on Thanksgiving Day to use in gravy. Typically, I’ll take the turkey neck that comes with the bird and make a smaller batch of stock in a similar way, with the usual vegetable and aromatics, but just the neck doesn’t seem to add much depth of flavor. Should I buy things like extra turkey wings to add?

A. Do you sear the turkey neck? The searing really makes a difference. I bet you could get a rich broth just from the seared neck (chop it up into about five or six pieces and brown them well in a pot). The addition of wings is also a great idea and will definitely not hurt!

Q. Can you eat the vegetables that you strain out? They look delicious!

A. Yes, absolutely — I like your style! Sometimes by the time the stock is done, the vegetables are mushy, but they are definitely edible.

Q. Would you use the same technique, aromatics, white wine and dried chile for a chicken stock?

A. Yes, that would be great; just remember you are making a roasted stock, as opposed to a traditional light stock. Roasted stocks are also great for making braises. You can use a roasted chicken stock in meat stews or with duck instead of the usual veal stock.

Q. I make chicken or turkey stock from time to time. A couple of other ideas I like: I toss in tons of fresh parsley into the stock and get a nice gardeny aroma; I clean the stock by putting the pot of just-cooked stock next to the sink, which has a big bowl in it. I then siphon the stock into the bowl through a sieve. Siphoning from the bottom of the stockpot means you avoid all the fat, which is floating at the top. I get the absolute cleanest stock this way without having to chill the stock and skim the fat (which never works that well for me).

A. All great ideas. Glad to hear you are making stocks at home.

Q. I’d like to know what Suzanne thinks of an alternative method for stock that appears in the most recent Lucky Peach magazine. David Chang covers duck carcasses and kombu with water, covers the pot tightly with wrap and basically heats it up in a bain marie for two hours. The idea is to avoid losing any aromatics (a gain for the broth, perhaps, but a loss for homey atmosphere). He’s happy to live without the gelatin extraction and depth of flavor that comes with a longer simmer.

A. I like that method. When I make a braise, I cover the pot tightly and place it in a 300-degree oven for three hours, which is almost the same thing. Because the pot is tightly covered, the liquid cannot escape and is more intense and flavorful — you don’t lose anything. I do this when making a rich broth for pot-au-feu as well. For a stock, however, especially a roasted stock, I actually want some of the water to escape because I do want that gelatin and a more reduced final product. I think it all depends on what you want the result to be and what you are using it for.
662 2013-11-27 An all-American dessert for Thanksgiving....
663 2013-11-28 WEISS--Philis Babbit, 85, passed away peacefully on November 14, 2013 surrounded by her loving family and partner Stanley Gerla. Beloved mother of Michael, Larry and Peter, and mother-in-law of Carol, Juli and Gretha. Cherished Grammy of Drew, Bre...
664 2013-11-28 A tasty post-feast puzzle by Ned White....
665 2013-11-28 Orange, the French telecom company, will sell its Dominican unit for $1.4 billion to Altice, a Luxembourg cable and broadband provider that is expanding its presence in the Caribbean....
666 2013-11-28 The storm is still expected to bring heavy rain that could add to the damage caused by two previous cyclones over the past eight weeks....
667 2013-11-28 The Milwaukee Brewers slugger Ryan Braun said he had made amends with the specimen collector he blamed at a 2012 news conference for what he described as a “fatally flawed” drug-testing protocol. Braun said he had dinner this week at the home of the specimen collector, Dino Laurenzi Jr., and had apologized for his actions.
668 2013-11-28 While frustrated, Mr. Sant is also sympathetic. Newly arrived Eastern European migrants, including Roma, work under poor conditions for a pittance, he said, but in the process, they are depriving French like him who have made gathering wild mushrooms a thriving business. The quantity of mushrooms being trucked to Spain has become so large that French mushroom companies are suffering.

“From the mushrooms’ perspective, I don’t think they care if they are picked by a native or by someone who is not French and takes them to another country,” said Thomas Kuyper, a professor of fungal ecology and diversity at Wageningen University in the Netherlands.

The claim that mushrooms were being picked incorrectly, he said, was more about xenophobia and anger about losing business, noting that there were similar attitudes in the Netherlands toward pickers from Germany and Poland. “Are people worried for the mushrooms or about the foreigners?” he asked.

For the French, gathering mushrooms is no joking matter. Like jealous lovers, many keep secret the prize patches of woodland they forage from year to year, and even refuse to tell relatives where they pick. So, when people who are not French take the mushrooms, it seems to upset what some see as the natural order of things.

Jean Carle, president of Champi-Fruits des Bois, an association of landowners whose properties produce wild mushrooms, says “invaders” are stealing the precious cepes (porcini mushrooms) and “organized gangs” are ravaging the locally beloved lactaria deliciosa, known as milk caps. The extent to which the outsiders are breaking the law is unclear.

Picking mushrooms on private land constitutes trespassing; on public land, there are varying rules. In some areas, local government entities charge a fee if a person picks more than four pounds a day, but in other areas, there are no charges.

Romanian and Bulgarian citizens, who are allowed to come to France as members of the European Union, are required to have residency permits to work. Those doing the clandestine picking come into France from Spain, though they are Bulgarian or Romanian citizens, French officials said. “Everyone is allowed to take a walk in the woods, but they are gathering astronomical quantities,” Mr. Carle said.

Jean Louis Traversier of the French forest service estimates that more than 80 percent of this year’s harvest of 50 tons of mushrooms in just the southeastern Drôme and Ardèche regions were taken by Romanian and Bulgarian citizens to Spain. Locals tend to describe them all as Roma, but officials, including Mr. Traversier, say it is not possible to conclude that from their passports.

The Bulgarians and Romanians, including Roma, first came to pick for a Spanish company in 2004-5 to harvest milk cap mushrooms, which are prized in Spain for making tapas and flavoring oil, Mr. Traversier said. The influx of outsiders, he said, was an understandable result of Spain’s faltering economy, adding that he felt badly for the Roma laborers whom he believes are “picking to survive.”

Mr. Traversier said that while the Spanish company paid the regional government’s fee, the foreign pickers began to come back on their own to pick without paying, and their numbers multiplied. “This phenomenon has been developing since they opened up European borders,” he said.

This year, he said, about a thousand workers from Romania and Bulgaria came into the region by night in minivans or small trucks stacked high with empty boxes. He said they parked on narrow local roads and slipped into the forests or hiked to the high plateaus and camped for as long as three weeks, building makeshift campsites and rising in the damp, chilly mornings to hunt for wild mushrooms. They hid their haul in the woods, and trucks came by each evening to pick them up, he said.

Marie-Thérèse Bonnet said her sister, who owns property in the Haute-Loire region, was troubled by foreign mushroom pickers last year. She minced few words in describing her views.

“To be frank, they are Roma, and they camp in the forest and cut our trees to make shelters for themselves, trees that were two decades old,” Ms. Bonnet said. “They built seven huts — it takes four or five trees per hut. Afterwards we found old shoes, old pants, old cans.”

Some greenmarket purveyors refuse to sell “Roma mushrooms,” said Carine Bar, who sells 10 varieties of wild mushrooms at the expensive farmers’ market on Avenue du Président Wilson in Paris. She said she avoided buying from unknown purveyors she believed were Roma, even though they offered their mushrooms at a fraction of the regular price. Her fear is that if one of her customers fell ill, she would not be able to trace the mushroom’s provenance because the seller would have moved on, she said.

Advocates for the Roma say they are being unfairly singled out, noting that not all Romanian and Bulgarian citizens are Roma and that not all Roma are necessarily trespassers, transients or thieves.

“They are wrongfully accusing the Roma community,” said Francine Jacob, vice president of the French Union of Gypsy Associations. “Delinquency exists — that we cannot deny — but it’s not systematic.”
669 2013-11-28 The military-backed government that has ruled Egypt for the past five months is looking increasingly like the old dictatorship of Hosni Mubarak without Mr. Mubarak. In the name of crushing all resistance by the Muslim Brotherhood supporters of Mohamed Morsi, the democratically elected president ousted by the military in July, Egyptian authorities have now moved to ban most public protests and threaten those who take part in them with jail or heavy fines.

Egypt’s military strongman, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, owes his present power to such protests. Military leaders mostly stood aside in January 2011 when weeks of protest and sit-in vigils at Tahrir Square in Cairo forced Mr. Mubarak to resign. More recently, General Sisi approvingly cited even larger street protests against Mr. Morsi as his main justification for the July 3 military coup. And after that coup, he himself summoned millions of Egyptians into the streets to give advance approval to his violent crackdown on Morsi supporters.

But from now on, it seems, only public demonstrations that support General Sisi and his allies will be tolerated. A new law promulgated Sunday by the figurehead interim president, Adly Mansour, requires all gatherings of more than 10 people to seek advance government approval. It bans overnight sit-ins (like Tahrir Square) and protests at places of worship. Political groups across the spectrum have staged their protests following the end of Friday prayers. The new restrictions also give security forces the right to ban political campaign meetings, a provision that could be used to silence criticism of the Constitution scheduled to be voted on in January.

The Egyptian regime claims that the only opposition to its increasingly repressive rule comes from Muslim Brotherhood die-hards. That has never been the case. As The Times reported on Monday, opposition from the secular left, much of which welcomed Mr. Morsi’s downfall, is growing. On Tuesday, riot police beat and harassed a gathering of some of Egypt’s best-known human rights activists challenging the new ban on unauthorized demonstrations. With all forms of public dissent now subject to repression, the real level of opposition to the present government will be increasingly hard to judge.

Amid these alarming developments, Washington has struggled to find an effective policy response. The Obama administration was right to suspend the delivery of some American weapons systems to Egypt and to hold up some of this year’s planned military aid. Unfortunately, Secretary of State John Kerry then undercut that message against the growing repression by declaring in Cairo that the suspensions were “not a punishment” and that Egypt’s transition to democracy seems on track.

The administration has apparently made the calculation that it needs the support of General Sisi and the Egyptian military for its regional security strategy, just as it long believed that it needed Mr. Mubarak. Washington should not let itself get taken in by the Egyptian regime’s assurances that its repressive practices are necessary to bring democracy and or maintain stability. Egypt may well be doomed to repeat the mistakes of the Mubarak era, but American policy need not be.
670 2013-11-28 A slaughterhouse, a meatpacking facility and two companies that provided loans to the operations have agreed to settlements after accusations of inhumane treatment led to a huge recall that included beef sold to the National School Lunch Program. The parties settled the lawsuit for $155 million, but the Justice Department determined the defendants could only afford to pay a total of about $3.1 million because they were financially devastated by the recall. In 2008, the Humane Society of the United States released grainy video taken by an undercover investigator posing as an employee that showed crippled and sick cows being kicked, shocked and shoved with forklifts at the Chino-based Westland Meat Company and Hallmark Meat Packing Company. The video led to the record-breaking recall of 143 million pounds of beef. The so-called downer cows are not supposed to be slaughtered for human consumption because of the risk of disease. The lawsuit alleged that the businesses had run afoul of the federal False Claims Act because the man who provided the loans, Aaron Magidow, who has since died, had previous felony convictions, including one for lying to a federal inspector. His two companies, M&M Management and Cattlemen’s Choice, and his estate agreed to pay $2.45 million in the settlement.
671 2013-11-28 The political focus on the concept of “redistribution” is woefully overblown, bringing up images of taxing the rich and giving to the poor or vice versa. But practically every act of government is an act of redistribution. There are always winners and losers.

Spending on the military or on the environment includes “redistributing” money from those who oppose it to buy something favored by others. Even legislation not entailing the use of money is redistribution.

Restricting the rights of gun ownership or the rights of choice and privacy “taxes” the rights holders and “gives” to those who benefit from the restrictions, perhaps protecting other rights.

Let’s start focusing on what is a fair and wise use of all of our resources and rights, rather than on who’s redistributing what to whom.

The writer is a senior lecturer in economics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
672 2013-11-28 The police commander whose pepper spraying of several women sparked sharp criticism of the New York Police Department’s response to the Occupy Wall Street protests has been ordered to appear before investigators and account for his actions, a state judge has ruled.

The effect of the ruling is to reopen the disciplinary case against Deputy Inspector Anthony Bologna more than two years after the pepper-spraying episode. The matter had appeared closed after the district attorney’s office in Manhattan decided against criminal charges and the Police Department concluded its internal inquiry by docking Inspector Bologna 10 vacation days.

But in a decision issued Friday, Justice Joan B. Lobis of State Supreme Court ordered that Inspector Bologna submit to an interview by the Civilian Complaint Review Board, an independent city agency that investigates police misconduct.

Inspector Bologna appeared before the review board in August but declined to answer any questions. Police officers are typically required to submit to interviews by the civilian complaint board. But Inspector Bologna’s position was that an 18-month time limit for initiating disciplinary proceedings against civil servants had already passed.

Justice Lobis rejected that argument, and the decision represents a significant victory for the review board’s investigative powers. Justice Lobis ruled that the case falls under an exception for investigations involving possible crimes.
673 2013-11-28 WASHINGTON — The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, but continued weakness in business spending on capital goods suggested slower economic growth in the fourth quarter.

Initial claims for state jobless benefits fell 10,000 to a seasonally adjusted 316,000, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. The decline, for a second consecutive week, defied economists’ expectations for an increase in jobless claims to 330,000 and raised hopes for strong employment growth in November.

“We are at a level that, if sustained, would point to solid job gains ahead,” said Joel L. Naroff, president and chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors. “There is also a good chance that the October payroll gain may not have been an aberration.”

Employers added 204,000 jobs last month, far more than expected, fanning speculation that the Federal Reserve might start to wind down its economic stimulus sooner rather than later.

The improving labor market tone has helped to increase consumer sentiment. The University of Michigan’s final reading on its overall index on consumer sentiment increased to 75.1 for November, up from a final reading of 73.2 in October. A preliminary November reading of the index was 72.
674 2013-11-28 VILNIUS, Lithuania — The prime minister of Latvia unexpectedly resigned on Wednesday, saying he was accepting “political and moral responsibility” for a building collapse last week that killed at least 54 people.

There had been no public calls for the resignation of Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, who led his country’s recovery from the 2008 financial crisis through a bitterly painful austerity program that was held up as a model for other nations. The investigation of the building disaster had not pointed to any wrongdoing by the government, though there has been speculation about lax safety enforcement.

The resignation took Latvians and European leaders by surprise, not least for its timing. Latvia is scheduled to join the euro currency zone in just over a month, reaping the fruits of its disciplined thrift. And many eyes in Europe are turning to the Baltic region this week for a conference here in Lithuania that is meant to strengthen Europe’s ties with former Soviet republics. The success of the three Baltic States — Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, all of them now members of NATO and the European Union — has been offered as justification for the effort, called the Eastern Partnership program.

Mr. Dombrovskis, 42, became prime minister in March 2009, and was reconfirmed in the post twice, in November 2010 and in October 2011, a striking contrast with the leaders of some other financially battered European nations, like Greece and Spain, who were ousted by voters.

His departure leaves President Andris Berzins with the task of assembling a new government, which Mr. Dombrovskis said was needed to restore confidence. Party leaders are expected to meet next week to get the process started.

“Latvia needs to have a government that will be supported by the parliamentary majority and deal with the current situation in the nation,” he said at a news conference on Wednesday, according to local news reports. “I wish to thank Latvia’s society for support during the trying period when the country was battling the economic and financial crisis to return to the path of growth. I also apologize for all that we have failed to achieve.”
675 2013-11-28 In yet another setback for the rollout of the health care law, the Obama administration announced that the online exchange for small businesses would not be available until next November....
676 2013-11-28 ATHENS — A Greek magazine editor who caused a political storm a year ago when he published the names of more than 2,000 Greeks with Swiss bank accounts in a bid to shine a light on unpunished tax evasion was cleared of violating privacy laws on Wednesday.

Kostas Vaxevanis, the owner and editor of the investigative magazine Hot Doc, was acquitted of misdemeanor charges in an Athens court after the three presiding judges found him not guilty of violating the privacy of the people on the list, who include publishers, entrepreneurs, a government adviser and a former prosecutor. Mr. Vaxevanis was cleared of the charges last November, but a retrial was ordered after the public prosecutor’s office found the original ruling to be “legally mistaken.”

“Innocent,” Mr. Vaxevanis said in a post on Twitter immediately after the verdict was announced. “They tried to push us down but in doing so, they simply pointed to the truth.”

By publishing the so-called Lagarde list — a list of account holders given to Greek authorities in 2010 by Christine Lagarde, then the French finance minister — Mr. Vaxevanis drew attention to Greece’s failure to effectively crack down on widespread tax evasion. The case also fueled a debate over news media freedom and personal privacy laws. And it led to serious charges being brought against the government official who was originally given the list, George Papaconstantinou, who was finance minister when Greece signed its first multibillion-euro bailout with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which Ms. Lagarde now leads.

The implication that the authorities failed to collect sorely needed revenue also fueled the anger of austerity-weary Greeks struggling with higher taxes and lower salaries.

Defending himself in court on Wednesday, Mr. Vaxevanis called the Lagarde list affair “a huge cover-up” and said he published the names to “expose the corrupt system which is oppressing the country and is reflected in the list.” Mr. Vaxevanis said he did not regard a citizen’s relationship with a bank as “personal data,” and noted that his magazine had never claimed that the depositors on the list were guilty of tax evasion. Meanwhile, other Greek news organizations have published similar lists of people said to be under investigation for tax evasion and did not suffer any legal consequences, he said.
677 2013-11-28 ROUND 2: COMPATIBILITY The previous versions of Pages had a serious problem: Documents created on Pages for the Mac didn’t open easily on Pages for the iPad. Even worse, the two didn’t share anywhere near the same capabilities; they supported different headers, graphics, tables of contents and charts. A document created on the Mac looked different on the iPad, which also supported fewer fonts.

But the new version of Pages on a Mac is identical to Pages for the iPad or the iPhone. And the company now has a version of Pages that runs amazingly well in any modern web browser, even on a Windows PC. I opened it on the Surface Pro in Internet Explorer. Mom can start a letter on her Mac, edit it on her iPad and send it to Dad’s Windows XP PC for some final edits. (Dad is afraid of upgrading his system. But that’s a topic for another column.)

In fairness, Microsoft is no slouch in this area. The company has versions of Word for the Mac and the PC, though they look different. And a web-based version of Word, introduced recently as part of the company’s Office 365 software, is a good, pared-down likeness of the desktop counterparts. The company supports minimal editing of documents on iPhones or Android phones, but it does not have a full version of Word for iPads or Android devices. For now, the company reserves that for Microsoft’s own tablets, although it has announced that an iPad version is coming.

ROUND 3: SHARING O.K., let’s say it. The reason most people don’t switch from Word is that everyone else they know uses it. Sending a Pages document to a friend who doesn’t have the program installed has been an exercise in both futility and frustration that always leads to the same sentence: “I can’t open that document you sent me.”

The new version of Pages introduces an all-new sharing option, powered by the company’s iCloud service, that works remarkably well. Type in a person’s email address, click send, and that person receives a link to your document. When the link is clicked, the document opens in a web browser that looks like a fully functioning Pages application. (My mom didn’t even notice the difference.) The recipient doesn’t have to have Pages installed or have an iCloud account. It even makes Mac-PC sharing easy. The new version runs just fine in Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome or Safari on a Windows PC.

Apple has also copied a crucial feature from its competitors, adding real-time document editing to Pages. With a shared document open in the browser-based Pages, multiple people can make changes and collaborate at the same time. The edits appear magically in real time. Word and Google have had this feature for a while, and now Pages catches up in a way that is simpler and somewhat easier to understand.

The new version of iWork, which includes Pages, Numbers and Keynote, is free for anyone who buys a new Mac, iPad or iPhone. Others can buy the three programs for $9.95 each on the iPad and $19.95 each on the Mac. The updated features for Pages — the new appearance, sharing and compatibility — also apply to Numbers and Keynote. That makes them attractive options, especially considering that a subscription to Microsoft’s Office 365 Home Premium costs $99.99 a year, and you have to pay every year.

But the Apple programs are not for everyone.

Pages seems like a bad choice for anyone who works in an office environment dominated by colleagues with Microsoft Word on their computers. Even though co-workers could open the Pages documents, they most likely won’t want to, just because it’s not their default. And going back and forth between formats is still a pain in the neck.

The new version of Pages may also frustrate people with highly specific needs. In trying to make the different versions of Pages identical, the company decided to remove many editing and formatting tools that had been in its previous Mac software. There is no way to select noncontiguous text, which makes bulk formatting harder. Vertical rulers are no longer there to help place photos and charts precisely. There is no way to view facing pages at the same time.

Users of the former versions of Pages have complained loudly in online Apple forums. One thread on the Apple support website has 82 pages of complaints. In response, Apple has since said it would begin adding back some of the features it removed. Last week, the company started by putting back the ability to customize the toolbar and restoring slide transitions that had gone missing in Keynote, its presentation software. A support document the company published online says additional features will start reappearing within six months.

And as with any software, there are still frustrations: Creating a document in the web-based Pages, which is technically still labeled a “beta” service, leaves the user wondering just how to give the new document a name. And sending a copy of a document, instead of a link, is more difficult than it should be.

Still, for many people who own a Mac and an iPad, Pages can now legitimately serve as their only word-processing software. They may even find they like it better than Word.
678 2013-11-28 BEIJING — “But you see, when your only child dies, then you’re not a mother anymore. You’re not anything really. And that’s what I’m trying to get used to,” Mrs. Crawley tells Lady Edith in season four of the English period drama “Downton Abbey,” explaining the special agony of losing her son, Matthew.

China is full of Mrs. Crawleys. About 76,000 only children die annually from accidents or disease, according to the Chinese news media, citing 2010 government health statistics. More than a million “orphan parent” families have been created since the one-child policy was formally instituted in 1980 and the number of single-child families began to soar.

To use a phrase the aristocrats of “Downton Abbey” would have recognized, many Chinese couples were never allowed “an heir and a spare,” with terrifying consequences for some. Social security in China is primarily the responsibility of the family, not the state, and adult children are legally obliged to support their parents in old age. Losing one's only child can mean destitution, as well as grief.

But the policy is drawing down. This month, the government announced further changes, to allow couples in which one spouse is an only child to have two children (previously that was possible only for couples in which both spouses were only children). There are other exceptions, including for ethnic minorities and for rural couples whose first child is a girl.

As the policy unravels, long-suppressed emotions are rising to the surface. Some people are wondering: Did we take a hit for the state? Were we right to comply?
679 2013-11-28 The actress’s roles have captured the personal and family dramas of many people who came of age in the late ’60s and early ’70s....
680 2013-11-28 Mr. Sharif thinks General Sharif “is more pliable than Rashad and not as close to Kayani,” said a senior American defense official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Like the prime minister, General Sharif comes from the eastern city of Lahore, which is the heartland of military influence in Pakistan. He comes from a family that is “more interested in the profession and less in politics,” said Talat Masood, a retired lieutenant general and a respected defense analyst. “Sharif is soldierly and professionally very sound. And, because of his background, the prime minister seemed to have greater confidence in him.”

Accordingly, some Pakistani analysts saw the choice as evidence that Mr. Sharif was looking for someone slightly more biddable. But that kind of gamesmanship has come back to bite him before. During Mr. Sharif’s previous stint in power in the late 1990s, he passed over more senior generals to choose Gen. Pervez Musharraf as army chief — the man who would later depose and replace him in the 1999 coup.

In an institution where legacy and heritage are prized, General Sharif, a 57-year-old infantry officer, does hold many credentials looked for in the army commander post.

His brother, Shabbir Sharif, is a decorated war hero who died in Pakistan’s 1971 war against India, a connection that many Pakistani news outlets prominently noted in their profiles of General Sharif.

Until now, he was in charge of the army’s training program, carrying out changes ordered by General Kayani to improve the army’s counterinsurgency capabilities as it faces a growing threat from Islamist insurgents based in the tribal belt, particularly the Pakistani Taliban.

General Sharif inherits an army that, though it is still Pakistan’s most powerful institution, has seen its once unassailable authority somewhat eroded in recent years.

The continuing onslaught of attacks from the Pakistani Taliban in recent years has become such a clear challenge that the country’s leaders, including General Kayani, have recently sought to open peace talks with the group rather than calling for a new military offensive. And a series of diplomatic and intelligence crises involving the United States, as well as changes in society like a more assertive news media and judiciary, have brought questions about the military’s role that would have been unthinkable a generation ago.

The army is still revered by most Pakistanis, however. And under General Kayani, the military gained a new point of respect: Despite years of turmoil and conflict with the civilian government led by President Asif Ali Zardari, the generals chose to bide their time and allow a fully democratic transition rather than taking control themselves.

The question now is whether General Kayani’s changes to the military culture that have rendered the prospect of a military coup a secondary risk will continue under General Sharif. Given the prime minister’s seeming comfort with the choice, and the opinion of senior military analysts, most saw continued restraint to be the most likely result.

The American military withdrawal from Afghanistan next door as well as the continued and deeply unpopular C.I.A. drone strike campaign within Pakistani territory have kept apprehensions high among Pakistani officials. Despite often-strained relations, the Obama administration has continued to seek Pakistani military and intelligence cooperation on those issues, presenting a difficult balancing act for the country’s military leadership.
681 2013-11-29 David Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital reported a 4.7 percent gain in the month of November, while Daniel Loeb’s Third Point Partners fund was up 2.7 percent for the month....
682 2013-11-29 These evening sandals are more comfortable than heels, but still have plenty of festive flair....
683 2013-11-29 Breast-feeding exclusively for 4 to 6 months, and introducing solid foods while breast-feeding continues, may be a good way to reduce the risk for food allergies in children, a new study suggests....
684 2013-11-29 Pearson, the publisher of The Financial Times, put Mergermarket up for sale earlier this year, and private equity firm BC Partners emerged as the buyer....
685 2013-11-29 TOKYO — Japan’s economy is gaining momentum, data for October showed, with consumer prices excluding food and energy rising 0.3 percent from a year earlier. It was the biggest gain since 1998, but household spending remained tepid as incomes slipped from the same month a year before.

The various indicators released on Friday suggested that the very loose monetary policy and stimulus strategy of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe are helping end Japan’s long bout of deflation.

Industrial output rose 0.5 percent in October, the second monthly advance, driven by increases in the production of machinery used to make computer chips and other industrial products, plastics and cellphones.

The government reported that the core consumer price index, excluding food costs, rose 0.9 percent from the year before. Including both food and energy, prices rose 1.1 percent.

Japan’s jobless rate remained flat in October, though the number of jobs available rose slightly.

Further improvement is expected in November, aided by strength in housing construction and exports.

“Business conditions in the Japanese manufacturing economy improved for the ninth consecutive month and at a rapid pace in November, driven for the most part by an expansion of both foreign and domestic demand,” said Claudia Tillbrooke, an economist at Markit, who compiles its purchasing manager’s index for Japan. That index rose to 55.1 in November, from 54.2 in October. A reading above 50 suggests expansion.

The government and central bank have set a target for attaining a 2 percent inflation rate within two years. So far, economists say, most of the increase in prices has come from a weakening in the Japanese yen, which erodes consumer spending power and increases costs in yen terms for imports of fuel, food and industrial components.
686 2013-11-29 Should the federal minimum wage be raised or should it remain at the current $7.25 an hour?
687 2013-11-29 After Mr. Obama was elected, Senate Republicans escalated the practice, routinely delaying the confirmation of executive branch and judicial nominees and blocking up-or-down votes on four District of Columbia Circuit nominees. Now, a simple majority of senators will once again be able to confirm nominees to the executive branch and lower courts; filibusters of Supreme Court nominees remain permitted.

Edward Whelan, the president of the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center, said the change effectively reset the balance of power between presidents and opposition-party senators back to how things were before the Bush years — with other political constraints still in place.

“What is being ignored in the discussion of how much free rein the administration will have is that there are political costs to selecting wackos,” Mr. Whelan said. “So the question is, how much will this change really be worth? It may well not be as transformative as people claim.”

And Ms. Ruemmler said that Mr. Obama had been looking for “smart and thoughtful” judges who had the “potential to persuade” conservative colleagues, rather than outspoken liberals. She suggested that the strategic approach, with Justice Elena Kagan as a model, was unlikely to change much.

What remains unclear is whether the landmark rule change has established a new equilibrium, or whether more changes may follow. If there is additional fallout, specialists said, Mr. Obama’s power to swiftly appoint the judges of his choice — and the power of his successors of either party — may yet be expanded significantly.

In particular, the blue slip rule could come under additional scrutiny. Under the prerogative, both home-state senators must sign off on a blue slip allowing a confirmation hearing for a nominee. Facing that obstacle, presidents generally do not make nominations without such senators’ consent.

“The blue slip is still a very powerful tool,” Mr. Whelan said. “Indeed, we may get Republicans, realizing that they no longer have the minority power of the filibuster, becoming more aggressive in using the blue slip.”

Already, according to a recent study by Russell Wheeler of the Brookings Institution, vacancies without nominees are disproportionately likely to be in states like Texas that are represented by Republican senators. That suggests, he wrote, that they are “objecting to nominees floated by the administration, insisting on nominees unacceptable to the administration, or simply slow-walking the process.”

Any change to the blue slip rule would be up to the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. So far, however, he has enforced the rule broadly, even blocking a Kansas nominee to a federal appeals court because both Kansas senators changed their minds after clearing the nominee.

Sheldon Goldman, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said that if Republican senators used the blue slip rule to “gum up the works” and Mr. Leahy decided to allow confirmation hearings without their approval, Mr. Obama — and future presidents — would be freer to appoint more ideologically outspoken judges across the country.

After the vote to change the filibuster rule, Mr. Leahy reiterated his support for the blue slip rule. Still, he also said he could change his mind if it were abused — without defining “abuse.”

“I assume no one will abuse the blue slip process like some have abused the use of the filibuster to block judicial nominees on the floor of the Senate,” he said in a statement. “As long as the blue slip process is not being abused by home-state senators, then I will see no reason to change that tradition.”

The new Senate policy could also shape the career decisions of sitting judges. While the change did not affect the rules for Supreme Court nominations, it set a precedent that could be used to shut down any filibuster for such a nominee as well. Several observers suggested that the prospect might influence decisions by Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 80, and Stephen G. Breyer, 75, about whether to retire in 2014. Still, neither has publicly indicated any desire to time an exit strategically.

The Senate change also opened a political window to fill judgeships over which Republicans do not wield blue slip power with the support of just 51 Democratic senators — a window that will close in 2015 if Republicans retake a Senate majority in the midterm elections. That prospect could prompt additional Democratic-appointed appeals court judges who are, or soon will be, eligible for senior status to move up their semi-retirement. It allows judges to keep hearing cases at a reduced workload, while enabling the president to appoint a successor.

There are 16 such judges in seats from states with two Democratic senators, and four others on circuits that are not subject to senatorial blue slips — including two on the District of Columbia Circuit, according to data compiled by Mr. Wheeler.

“Some Democratic appointees may be more attracted to retiring in this window because they have more confidence that Obama will be able to appoint a young successor,” he said.
688 2013-11-29 On the other side, asking regulators not to gut the law is an equally unusual, if smaller, coalition. It includes Mr. Frank; Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group that has rarely, if ever, found itself in agreement with Mr. Frank on a regulatory issue.

The Dodd-Frank law told regulators to effectively set up three categories of mortgages. At the top were “qualified residential mortgages,” called Q.R.M. Those were to be the only mortgages that did not require skin in the game if they were pooled and sliced up into securities.

Under that were “qualified mortgages,” called Q.M. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was to establish standards for those, which it has done. Those rules, to take effect Jan. 10, were supposed to protect consumers, not the financial system. The bottom category was to include mortgages that met neither of those standards. They would require risk retention, as did the Q.M. mortgages.

The rules on qualified mortgages are meant to assure that consumers can afford them, and the requirements are rather low. Lenders must go to the trouble of verifying a borrower’s income, and the total monthly debt obligation must be no more than 43 percent of pretax income. There are no requirements for down payments, or limits on how much is lent relative to the value of the property.

Before the lending excesses that led to the crash, Ms. Bair said in an interview this week, banks generally refused to make loans on which repayments would be more than 35 percent of income, and often had lower limits. “There is,” she said, “a lot of room under Q.M. to make mortgages that should not be made.”

That brings us to Q.R.M. — the qualified residential mortgage. The six regulators that are supposed to agree on rules for that put out a proposal in 2011 that gave in to the banks on many issues, but not all. The banks reacted with anger, and the latest proposal is a virtual complete surrender. It essentially says that any mortgage that meets qualified mortgage standards will meet the higher ones as well.

“The result,” Mr. Frank wrote in a comment letter, “would be two categories, those that fall below standards and probably shouldn’t be made, and those that could be made and would not be subject to risk retention.”

“I am not surprised,” Mr. Frank added, that “the overwhelming majority of commenters who are interested in building, selling or promoting the sale of housing to lower-income people support effectively abolishing risk retention. I should note that if all of these people were correct in their collective judgment, we would not have had the crisis that we had.”

Three fellows of the American Enterprise Institute — Edward J. Pinto, Peter J. Wallison and Alex J. Pollock — agree. “With the demise of an independent Q.R.M.,” they wrote in a comment letter, “the credit quality objective of the Dodd-Frank law has been lost.”

Essentially, many of those who want to effectively abolish the Q.R.M. category fear that if lenders are forced to retain some risk, such loans will either not be made or will be prohibitively costly. They seem to take for granted that no bank will be willing to retain risk.

Thus the Virginia Housing Coalition, which supports affordable housing, warned in a comment letter that a 20 percent down payment requirement “would drastically limit access to mortgages and would put homeownership out of reach for low and moderate-income families, first-time home buyers, and disproportionally affect African-American and Latino families.”

That argument frustrates Mr. Frank. Speaking last week at a conference organized by the Clearing House, a group of large banks, he noted that until the 1980s risk retention was common for home mortgages. Banks made loans and kept them on their balance sheets, just as they did other types of loans. The securitization revolution changed that, and now the banks like the idea of collecting fees without risking their own capital.

To those who would defend the status quo, other reforms in the Dodd-Frank law mean there is no need for risk retention. The requirement that banks evaluate a customer’s ability to repay, along with new appraisal rules, “will help to discourage inaccurate or fraudulent appraisal practices,” wrote the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group. “Together, these restrictions will prevent the securitization of the type of predatory and unsustainable loans that inflated the housing bubble and led to the subsequent foreclosure crisis.”

A main reason it is not clear how this will turn out is that the Dodd-Frank law said many rules had to be jointly issued by numerous regulators, without providing any way to resolve differences.

The Q.M. definition was left up to one regulator, the consumer protection agency, whose director could decide. In the case of the Q.R.M. rule, however, unanimous approval of six regulators is required. They are the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the F.D.I.C.

They appear to be somewhat divided. While the primary proposal out for comments calls for no rules above the Q.M. standard, the regulators also asked for comment on requiring a down payment of as much as 30 percent to be able to avoid risk retention. The housing industry hates that idea. Ms. Bair thinks it is a good one.

Most of the regulators appear to have been convinced that there is too much risk that a nascent housing recovery would be threatened if banks had to be responsible for the lending decisions they made. The question is whether others will give in and agree.

The banks lost their fight to avoid “skin in the game” in Congress, but they may well win it in the regulatory agencies.
689 2013-11-29 Their strategy is simple, according to Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va., “They want to take over the world,” he said

Emirates has thrived by building routes to developing countries long neglected by traditional carriers and by providing an alternative to local airlines — connecting Europe and India, Africa and Russia, China and the Middle East. Instead of flying through traditional hubs like London or Frankfurt, these new routes run through Dubai, which the airline has turned into a global connecting hub thanks to the backing of the city’s ruling family.

The success of the Dubai model has ignited the envy of its neighbors, who have sought to copy it with their own global airlines. At the air show, Qatar’s flag carrier, Qatar Airways, said it would buy 50 Boeing 777X jets — a new aircraft that should be available by 2020. Etihad, based in neighboring Abu Dhabi and the smallest of the three, ordered 143 airplanes at the air show, including 30 Boeing 787s and 50 Airbus A350s.

Their ambitions have sent ripples of concerns among their competitors, more recently in the United States, where the biggest pilots’ union, the Air Line Pilots Association, called these airlines an “economic threat” to American carriers and their employees. The industry’s trade group, Airlines for America, said airlines in the United States cannot compete fairly against rivals that benefit from government subsidies.

“I can understand the frustration felt by the legacy carriers whose lunch is being eaten,” Mr. Aboulafia said, referring to Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and what will be a combined American Airlines and US Airways. “The best-case scenario for them is that all the growth goes through the Gulf and everyone else makes do with a stagnant market.”

But while some analysts say these worries might be overblown, carriers from the United States were unwilling to take any chances after seeing how disruptive Emirates has been for well-established airlines like Air France, Lufthansa or Air India.

“They’ve watched Asian and European airlines whistling past the graveyard, and now Emirates and the other Gulf carriers are getting uncomfortably close to home,” Mr. Aboulafia said.

Emirates operates about 3,200 flights a week to 135 cities and 76 countries. It started flying to 20 new destinations since the beginning of last year and plans to add service to Conakry, Guinea; Sialkot, Pakistan; and Kabul, Afghanistan, before the end of the year.

“Being the biggest airline in the world is not really the end goal,” Mr. Clark said in the speech last month. “Our aim has always been to connect travelers from around the world to Dubai, and other destinations with just a single stop via our hub.”

The airline is expanding its presence in North America where it has made significant inroads last year, opening new routes from Dubai to Dallas, Seattle and Washington. It has also increased the frequency of its flights to New York. It also serves Houston, Los Angeles and San Francisco.

It recently inaugurated a new flight between Kennedy International Airport in New York and Malpensa Airport in Milan, which allows passengers from the United States to fly to Europe on Emirates without having to fly through Dubai. The move is viewed with concern by American carriers, which consider it as a direct attack on their market, and it is being challenged in an Italian court by several airlines including Alitalia and Delta Air Lines.

Qatar Airways, which joined the Oneworld Alliance with American Airlines, started service to Chicago recently from Doha.

“The three have caused consternation,” according to a recent report by CAPA, an aviation consulting firm, referring to the big Gulf carriers. “No doubt that after this spate of orders, competitors are worried now that projected growth targets in abstract percentage terms have been translated into metal.”

All this is reviving recurring complaints by traditional airlines about what they view as unfair competition by state-owned rivals. United States airlines are drumming up political support to oppose plans to open up a customs and immigration pre-clearance facility in Abu Dhabi — similar to those that exist in Nassau, Bahamas, or at most airports in Canada — arguing that it would give an unfair advantage to Etihad, which is based there.

Rivals also object to what they view as an unfair trade advantage that benefits foreign airlines seeking financing guarantees or preferential loans to purchase Boeing planes. These favorable terms, meant to promote American exports, are not available to domestic airlines.

Still, few doubt that Emirates is a force to stay. It now has a total of 385 aircraft on order, including 101 A380s, at a total value of $166 billion. It currently flies 39 A380s and now accounts for well over half of all A380 orders — and has been instrumental in rescuing that aircraft program. By contrast, Air France, Lufthansa and British Airways fly a combined 22 A380s and do not plan to significantly increase their orders anytime soon.

But while the numbers are impressive, some analysts expressed skepticism about the capacity of the gulf carriers — and particularly Emirates — to sustain such growth rates.

“My jaw dropped,” Mike Boyd, an aviation consultant, said after he heard about Emirates’ order for the extra A380s. “The A380 is a wonderful piece of machinery, but there are not a lot of airports where it can land, and not many routes that can take that many seats. They will be searching for routes to make it work.”
690 2013-11-29 Ian Wardropper, the Frick’s director, pointed out that the Hills’ collecting is not unlike that of Henry Clay Frick, the museum’s founder, who also started out buying the contemporary artists of his day.

Mr. Hill’s references, however, are a bit more 20th century. “I remember listening to Andy talk about Piero della Francesca,” he said, referring to Warhol. “His knowledge of old masters was extensive.” He noted that some of today’s artists, including Christopher Wool, also embrace the old masters, adding, “That’s what makes it all really fun.”

Although neither of the Hills are trustees of the Frick, they have promised it a bronze. But when asked which one, everyone’s lips were sealed.

Olive oil caviar, pine cone mousse, asparagus beer and Parmesan snow are just a few concoctions created over 27 years by Ferran Adrià, the celebrated Spanish chef who ran El Bulli, that tiny restaurant on the Catalan coast, near Rosas, Spain, frequented by foodies from all over the world. It closed in 2011.

Fusing cooking with science — liquid nitrogen and alginates are common ingredients for Mr. Adrià — each of his thousands of dishes resembled edible still lifes, the sort of visual delights that would have been the envy of Surrealist masters like Magritte or Dalí.

“Since 1987, Ferran and his brother, Albert, used drawing as their lingua franca,” said Brett Littman, executive director of the Drawing Center in SoHo. “They were also religious archivists. Every scrap of paper that ever passed through anyone’s hand is in that archive.”

Such fastidiousness has been a bonanza for Mr. Littman, who spent about two years and countless trips to Mr. Adrià’s atelier and archive in Barcelona organizing a show called “Ferran Adrià: Notes on Creativity,” which runs Jan. 25 through Feb. 28.

On view will be everything from crayon drawings that chart the history of cooking to doodles, lists of ingredients, notebooks and documents recording menu developments. The exhibition will also include prototypes of utensils, menus and pictograms, some that illustrate the way he would first envision an idea on a plate before knowing what the actual dish would be.

“Instead of writing recipes like most chefs, Ferran begins by making drawings,” Mr. Littman said. He said he hopes the show will appeal to anyone in the arts interested in the creative process.

Also on view continuously will be a film called “1846” that illustrates every single dish Mr. Adrià made at El Bulli.

A trailer with a giant image of a dead shark floating in a tank of Formaldehyde — one of the British artist Damien Hirst’s best-known although still outrageous artworks — has been making the rounds of schools in Doha, Qatar, hoping to entice children to visit “Relics,” his blockbuster retrospective that opened at the Al Riwaq exhibition space last month.

It seems to be working. So far about 10 percent of the more than 30,000 visitors who have seen the exhibition are schoolchildren; a steady stream of students from universities around the gulf region have also come to see the show. Officials there estimate that attendance could reach 50,000 by the time “Relics” closes on Jan. 22.

Always up for a bit of fun, Mr. Hirst, together with the Qatar Museums Authority, the show’s organizer, has created a challenge for local artists: Submit a unique painting, sculpture or multimedia work based on Mr. Hirst’s exploration of life and death and win an all-expenses-paid trip to London, with a friend, to meet the artist, visit his studio in Gloucestershire, England, and help create one of his famed “spin” paintings. So far 150 artists have signed up for the challenge. (Contestants have through Dec. 28 to submit a photograph of their work online at damienhirstchallenge.qa.) A jury of arts professionals will select a winner on Jan. 13.

“It’s all about getting local creative audiences involved,” said Jean-Paul Engelen, director of public art and exhibitions for the Qatar Museums Authority, “and to have them think about their work and how it can be inspired by different thought processes.”

It’s not the first time Mr. Hirst has helped cook up a promotional competition. Last year, when the Gagosian Gallery showed his candy-colored dot paintings in 11 galleries around the world, anyone who could prove to have visited all the shows — two galleries in London; three in New York, one each in Paris, Rome, Hong Kong, Athens, Geneva and Beverly Hills, Calif. — would receive a Spot print personalized by the artist.

One hundred and twenty-eight people completed the challenge.
691 2013-11-29 Saying that the government wanted to avoid confrontation, Ms. Yingluck also repeated earlier offers of a dialogue with protesters. Akanat Promphan, a spokesman for the protest leaders, rejected Ms. Yingluck’s offer, calling it insincere.

Ms. Yingluck’s speech came after her government easily survived the no-confidence vote, winning 297 to 134.

Mr. Thaksin, who was prime minister from 2001 to 2006, when he was deposed by the military, remains popular in the heavily populated northeast but is despised by some who are resentful of his political dominance and who say he has used that power to further his business interests. He has also been accused of overshadowing the king, who commands strong loyalty after more than six decades on the throne, especially among older Thais.

The protests this week were the largest in the country since 2010, when demonstrations were dispersed by a bloody military crackdown.

With negative coverage in the news media and dwindling numbers of demonstrators, the protests appeared increasingly to be losing momentum. But with no signs of reconciliation, the future of the protests remained unpredictable, and civic leaders continued to warn of possible violence between opposing camps.

The opposition Democrat Party, which has been ambivalent about whether it will give its backing to the protests, seemed to endorse them more forcefully on Thursday.

Abhisit Vejjajiva, the leader of the party, told reporters at a news conference that the party shared the goal of overthrowing the government and that Ms. Yingluck had no legitimacy. He urged people to join the protests. “Come out,” he said. “More of you, come out.”

Business leaders, some of whom supported the initial rallies, have shown increased concern and impatience with the seizure of the Finance Ministry and the mobs of protesters crossing the capital with impunity.

In comments reported in Thai news media on Thursday, Banthoon Lamsam, the chief executive of Kasikornbank, one of the country’s largest banks, urged politicians in the country to “act like adults.”

“Act in a way that shows you love Thailand,” he said, adding that his message was intended “for both sides.”

“We must have rules where everybody can work together,” he said. “We cannot go on this way, rising up to burn the country.”
692 2013-11-30 A 10 percent increase in the minimum wage would reduce poverty by around 2 percent....
693 2013-11-30 China is experiencing a boom in luxury hotels, and not just in major cities like Shanghai and Beijing....
694 2013-11-30 “This is a grotesque taking of employees’ retirement security that seems both patently illegal and unfair,” said Daniel J. Montgomery, the president of the Illinois Federation of Teachers. “It’s a sharp jab in the eye — and the heart — of public employees. There’s a lot of anger out there.”

For years, the state has wrestled with an overwhelming pension problem. The system is underfunded by $100 billion, helping to make Illinois the state with the worst credit rating in the nation. That has meant, according to a recent report, that about 20 cents of every taxpayer dollar must be dedicated to pensions, money that could go to other state needs.

Still, answers have been hard to come by. Democratic leaders in the legislature have long disagreed about how to solve the problem without infuriating labor unions and how to navigate the Illinois Constitution, which prohibits pension benefits from being “diminished or impaired.”

Gov. Pat Quinn, a Democrat who is expected to have a difficult re-election challenge in 2014, has repeatedly put solving the pension crisis at the center of his agenda, and leaving the issue unaddressed would offer endless fodder for a strong cast of Republican candidates who want his job. Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago and a Democrat, has also vehemently urged lawmakers to change the state system, and, in so doing, to create a model for changes to the deeply underfinanced pension system in his own city, the state’s largest.

Still, in what was perhaps a sign of how politically delicate the issue is, the special session was called for Tuesday, a day after the filing deadline for any primary challenges. That means lawmakers will know which of them might be most vulnerable to an election fight if they approve the measure.

If some Democrats were worried that the proposed changes go too far in cutting benefits for unions, some Republicans were already suggesting that on the contrary, the plan does not go far enough or fully fund the pension system as quickly as they would like. But Christine Radogno, the state Senate’s Republican leader, said in an interview, “I really believe that it has become more of a political liability not to solve this than it is to solve it.”

Leaders on both sides of the aisle, she said, were busy counting votes and urging their rank-and-file members to support the plan.

“This does set the state on sound financial footing,” Ms. Radogno said. “It doesn’t erase the unfunded liability in one fell swoop, but it certainly puts us on a path to get it paid off in a minimum of 30 years.”

Among the provisions laid out Friday: most pension matters would no longer be part of collective bargaining; some workers could choose to switch to a defined contribution system, like a 401(k), rather than their pension; and workers would be asked to contribute 1 percent less of their salaries to retirement.

But union leaders, representing some of the thousands of state employees, teachers outside of Chicago and university workers whom the proposal would affect, said the changes to cost-of-living increases appear the most drastic. Current workers would be asked to skip some increases to their pensions — as many as five times over a decade for the youngest among them.

A new formula further limiting those increases would be devastating to many, the union leaders said. According to a coalition of unions, known as We Are One Illinois, the result would be a loss of thousands of dollars in pension payments, on average, to a retired teacher or nurse over the next five years.

“If we’re not successful in stopping this train, then our next step is litigation,” said Anders Lindall of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
695 2013-11-30 Mayor Michael Bloomberg has often defended New York City’s discredited stop-and-frisk program by arguing that it is necessary to cut crime. That claim was never credible; crime declined in cities that did not detain citizens millions of times over the course of the decade, as New York did, often without legitimate reason.

Similarly, crime is down in New York City, even though new stop-and-frisk data made public last week shows that the Police Department has greatly reduced the number of times officers have stopped and frisked people on the street.

Indeed, the evidence suggests that the department could have reached its public safety goals by using stop-and-frisk legally, when officers had legitimate suspicion of criminal activity, instead of in a way that undermined confidence in law enforcement and violated the Constitution.

New York City in 2012 had the lowest murder count in at least 50 years, and it is on pace to have even fewer murders this year. At the same time, the number of stops by police officers has dropped precipitously from more than 200,000 in the first quarter of 2012, the high-water mark of the program, to just over 21,000 in the third quarter of this year. If stops alone were holding back a hidden tsunami of crime, the city would have been overwhelmed by now.

A Federal District Court ruled in August that the tactics underlying the program violated the rights of black and Hispanic citizens, who were disproportionately singled out. Data presented at trial showed that only 6 percent of the stops resulted in arrests.

A new analysis by the state attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, of nearly 150,000 such arrests suggests that they netted few serious criminals. According to the report, only 1 in 50 arrests, or 0.1 percent of all stops, led to a conviction for a violent crime; similarly, just 1 in 50 arrests led to conviction for possession of a weapon. Nearly half of arrests resulted in no convictions because those arrested were never prosecuted; had their cases dismissed; or received an “adjournment in contemplation of dismissal,” which means that the charge is dismissed if the person stays out of trouble for six months or a year.

The collateral costs of an arrest, however, can be disastrous for the person arrested. It can mean losing public housing, student loans or job opportunities. Beyond that, the program wastes the time and resources of district attorneys who have to dispose of the resulting cases. According to the attorney general’s report, the stop-and-frisk era has also seen a dramatic increase in damage claims against the police.
696 2013-11-30 National Electric Vehicle Sweden, which bought the Swedish carmaker Saab last year, will restart production of the Saab 9-3 sedan on Monday at the Trollhattan factory in Sweden, a company spokesman said on Friday. The 9-3 sedan will be powered by a turbocharged gasoline engine and built in “small and humble numbers” for China and Sweden, the spokesman said. The move comes almost two years after Saab filed for bankruptcy at the end of 2011. Saab was previously owned by General Motors, which sold it to the Dutch sports car maker Spyker in 2010. National Electric Vehicle, which is controlled by Chinese investors, bought most of Saab’s assets. An electric 9-3 sedan is expected to be introduced in China next year.
697 2013-11-30 GENEVA — Despite Syria’s cooperation with stringent terms laid down by the United States and Russia for the destruction of its chemical weapons, a request from Syria to convert some of the facilities used in that program to other activities failed Friday to win the approval of the international chemical weapons watchdog.

Syria’s request, presented to the executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on Tuesday, called for converting facilities at 12 sites for use as storage points, but it found little support among the council’s 41 member nations, a European official following the discussions said.

Adopting language carefully drafted to avoid terms of rejection, council members meeting at the watchdog’s headquarters in The Hague on Friday decided that the request “was no longer pending,” the European official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity in line with diplomatic practice. “It’s a diplomatic way of saying no,” the official said.

The O.P.C.W. previously consented to conversion of facilities to peaceful use by other countries, but the agreement called the Chemical Weapons Convention calls for destruction as the norm except in exceptional circumstances and where nations make a compelling case. “Basically, they didn’t make a compelling case; they couldn’t persuade enough of us that it makes sense,” the diplomat said.

The issue did not appear to signal wider concerns with compliance by President Bashar al-Assad’s government, but it arose at a critical point in the carrying out of the agreement endorsed by the United Nations Security Council calling for the destruction of Syria’s sizable arsenal of chemical weapons and all related facilities by mid-2014.
698 2013-11-30 Gov. Jay Nixon wants lawmakers back at the Capitol next week in hopes of persuading Boeing to locate its new 777X jet plant in Missouri. Mr. Nixon on Friday called a special legislative session to begin Monday to consider incentives of up to $150 million annually that he said must be completed before a Dec. 10 deadline to submit proposals to Boeing. The company hopes to make a decision early next year. Officials in Alabama, California, South Carolina, Texas and Utah are among those who have discussed enticing the company. Boeing initially offered to build in Washington State but after union machinists rejected a contract, it started talks with other locations.
699 2013-11-30 But as the industry has matured in recent years, life settlements have also become a way for a company — or in many cases, a small-business owner — to extract value from an often-overlooked asset.

“I’d say 70 percent of the time people let these policies go,” said John P. Keenan, a partner at Signature Estate and Investment Advisors. “We’ll talk to the executive and say, ‘If this is something you want to carry, we can go back to the company and ask if they’ll release the policy,’ ” he said. “We tell them that as an executive you had a need for it and you probably got it cheaper than you could today.”

In Mr. Manfredi’s case the settlement worked out well. He agreed to split the policy into four smaller ones. In 2012, he said he sold three policies with a combined death benefit of about $10 million for $1.35 million. In April, he sold the remaining $10 million policy for $1.2 million.

“I was relieved not to have to pay the premiums,” he said.

W. Scott Page, president and chief executive of the Lifeline Program, which negotiated the purchase of Mr. Manfredi’s policies, said in general a policyholder would be paid 10 to 75 percent of the death benefit of a policy. His company will pay to convert a term policy to permanent insurance and make any future premium payments.

To calculate the payment, life settlement companies require anyone looking to sell his key-man policy (or any life insurance policy, for that matter) to submit to a health exam as if they were being underwritten for a new policy, he said.

The process is not as ghoulish as it may sound. Mr. Page is not betting on any one person’s life, but pooling at least 100 policies together and selling interests in that pool as he would any type of securitized debt. He said that helped smooth out the returns, since it balanced out the people who live longer than expected with those who die sooner.

“Normally people in their late 60s or early 70s, regardless of their impairments, we can pretty much project what their life expectancy is going to be,” Mr. Page said. “But when you have a healthy 40-year-old you’re not going to be able to project how long they’re going to live.”

For that reason, life settlements are not an option for younger executives. But there are other ways to monetize key-man policies short of dying. Mr. Keenan said he often talked to former business owners or executives about how these policies could fit into their investment plan. If the person has a net worth in excess of the estate tax exemption — now $10.5 million for a couple — the key-man policy could be used to pay the taxes.

The policies themselves can also be used as a deferred-compensation plan or a way to retain an executive for a certain number of years. Christopher O. Blunt, president of the insurance group at New York Life, said there were generally three ways to structure key-man insurance so it was seen as a benefit to the person being insured.

A company could set up what is called a 162 executive bonus plan, where the company pays the premium and the executive is the owner and the beneficiary of the policy. Or it could pay for what is called an endorsement split dollar policy, where the company retains the cash value but gives the employee life insurance to protect his or her family.

A third way is to use the policy as the basis for a supplemental employee retirement plan, where the policy would become a key-man policy if the executive died while working for the company. Otherwise, the employee would get access to the cash value after a certain number of years.

Mr. Blunt said these policies needed to be seen in their primary role first. “When you own a small business, it’s a highly valuable, but uncertain and illiquid asset,” he said. “Small-business owners say, ‘I have a business that is worth millions.’ It’s only worth millions in a nondistressed situation.”

For that small-business owner, these policies can also be seen as assets (even though they’re not on the balance sheet) in negotiating the sale of a company. “If I buy your company and along with it, I get the key-person coverage, that makes the company more valuable,” said Robert H. Garner, executive vice president of CBIZ Life Insurance Solutions. “If someone has had a health issue or is 10 years older, the price doesn’t go up.”

He added that those policies also showed the buyer who was important. “Part of, ‘What is the company worth?’ is what are the people worth,” he said.

But executives should be careful about drawing benefits directly from such policies. For one thing, there are limits to how much life insurance people can get, and a key-man policy reduces what they could buy themselves to benefit their families.

And there can be taxes on these policies that people need to understand, whether they are trying to sell a policy or they receive one as a benefit.

For Mr. Manfredi, whose hobby is gambling, having the cash now meant more than a big death benefit for his family down the road.

“If I go in the next 10 years, it’s not a great investment,” he said. “But I saw it as a good time to do it.”
700 2013-11-30 Mr. Balakrishnan — or Comrade Bala, as he was known — arrived in Britain from Singapore in the 1960s and ran a Maoist center on a street corner in the Brixton district of South London with his Tanzanian wife, Chanda. He was expelled from the leadership of a small Maoist group, the Communist Party of England (Marxist-Leninist), for “splittist activities.” He reportedly mocked the group as the Communist Party of Elizabeth (Most-Loyal) and went on to found the even smaller Workers’ Institute of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought, with about two dozen members who wore Mao lapel badges.

Mr. Balakrishnan had the charisma of a “guru,” said Steve Rayner, an Oxford professor who in 1979 wrote his Ph.D. thesis on leftist groups in Britain and studied the Workers’ Institute. “He clearly held a strong grip over the membership.”

Ms. Wahab, who had come to Britain with her Malaysian fiancé, was so smitten with Mr. Balakrishnan that she threw her engagement ring into the Thames, according to her sister Kamar Mautum, who was interviewed by The Daily Telegraph.

In 1978, after an attack on a police officer, the authorities raided the institute’s Mao Memorial Center and arrested 14 members, including Mr. Balakrishnan and his wife. The center subsequently closed, and the collective broke up, but a small group of people stayed with the couple, including Ms. Wahab and Ms. Herivel, investigators said.

So far, almost nothing is known about life inside half a dozen properties the group occupied over 30 years, all in southeast London. The police only this week started questioning the three women, who have been cared for by trauma experts in an unidentified location since October. But fragments of the experience of a fourth woman — another former collective member, who appears to be the mother of the youngest woman — offer a glimpse.

Sian Davies, an avid cricketer from rural Wales, moved into the collective while studying at the London School of Economics in the 1970s, according to her cousin Eleri Morgan. Ms. Davies died in 1997, seven months after falling out of the bathroom window on Dec. 24.

As soon as she joined Mr. Balakrishnan’s group, Ms. Davies cut off almost all contact with her family, said Ms. Morgan, a retired schoolteacher in London. The two grew up together, and Ms. Morgan often saw Ms. Davies after both moved to London in the mid-1970s.

“Almost from one day to the next, she vanished and her phone stopped working,” Ms. Morgan said in a telephone interview. The only time Ms. Davies visited her mother, one day in the late 1980s, she was accompanied by two group members. “They never left her alone with her mother,” Ms. Morgan said.

Ms. Davies’s mother, desperate to track down her only daughter, at one point hired a private investigator. But the group, which relocated frequently, appeared to always be one step ahead. Ms. Davies’s boyfriend, Martin, also a member of the group, had been “snatched” and taken home by a man his parents had hired, Ms. Morgan said.

Even when Ms. Davies was hospitalized for seven months for spinal injuries after her fall, the group did not inform her family, Ms. Morgan said. “My auntie only found out after Sian had died and police came to tell her,” she said.

Ms. Morgan went to the hospital to identify her cousin’s body and picked up a small bag of belongings. News reports say that Ms. Davies died with only five pounds to her name, having transferred an inheritance to the group.

At a hearing, when a judicial inquiry into Ms. Davies’s death ended with an “open verdict” unable to determine its circumstances, Ms. Morgan came face to face with Mr. Balakrishnan. “I thought, what a weedy little man,” she said. “He was short, toothless — he had no upper teeth — and wore thick glasses that came down on his nose. I couldn’t understand how anyone could follow this man.”

But academics who study group dynamics say the Brixton collective may have represented a classic case of sectarian behavior.

“This reminds me quite a lot of the cases we are working on,” said Amanda van Eck, a researcher at the London School of Economics who studies small religious groups. “Especially in very small underground groups, you can have very coercive environments. If there is no website, no P.O. box, no connection with the outside world for a very long time, you tend to get some very problematic interpersonal relations.”

The police have said the women had “controlled freedom.” They were seen shopping at a nearby supermarket, and the youngest wrote love letters to a neighbor, The Guardian reported, albeit saying that she felt “trapped like a fly in a spider’s web.”

Slavery, Ms. van Eck said, “is probably not a helpful term here.”

“In the end,” she said, “they walked out of the door.”
701 2013-11-30 As Mr. Darvas pointed out, the euro zone banking system is not functioning properly, credit remains tight, business investment is weak and government austerity still prevails.

Much of the dip in unemployment came from France, as companies there hired more young people on temporary contracts. Joblessness also fell in Portugal and Ireland, but remained high in Spain, where the rate rose to 26.7 percent from 26.6 percent.

The lowest rates were in Austria, with 4.8 percent, and Germany, with 5.2 percent. In Greece, which is several months behind in its reporting, the rate for August was 27.3 percent.

A downgrade of the Netherlands’ public debt by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s left only three countries in the euro zone with S.&P.’s highest AAA rating, Germany, Luxembourg and Finland.

“The downgrade reflects our opinion that the Netherlands’ growth prospects are now weaker than we had previously anticipated,” S.&P. said as it reduced the country to AA+ from AAA. Still, the new rating is stronger than that of France and well above those of countries like Spain or Ireland.

Market rates on 10-year Netherlands government bonds fell slightly to just above 2 percent, a sign that investors were hardly alarmed by the rating agency’s action.

Still, the downgrade is “a reminder, if one were needed, of the extent to which the creditworthiness and economic performance of the core of Europe’s single currency area has been undermined over the past two years,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in a note to clients.

S.&P. raised its rating on Cyprus to B-, from CCC+, and said the outlook for Spain’s rating was stable instead of negative, as before. There has been speculation that the European Central Bank could take further action to stimulate lending on Thursday when it holds its monthly meeting on monetary policy. The central bank could perhaps emulate the Bank of England by offering cheap loans to banks on condition that they lend the money on to businesses and individuals.

But most analysts do not expect a further decrease in interest rates so soon after the central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.25 percent earlier this month, a record low.

Low inflation was the result of falling energy prices, Eurostat said, while the cost of food rose an estimated 1.6 percent and services 1.5 percent. Prices of industrial goods rose just 0.3 percent.

Some economists, noting a pickup in prices for services, saw the rise in inflation as a sign that deflation fears were overblown.

“The data confirm our assessment that the fall of the inflation rate in October was an outlier and the euro zone is not heading for deflation,” Christoph Weil, an economist at Commerzbank, said in a note.

But others warned that deflation, once it starts, could plunge Europe back into crisis and revive doubts about the survival of the euro zone. Deflation can lead consumers to delay purchases in anticipation of ever lower prices, undercutting corporate profits and causing companies to stop investing in new plants and equipment.

Analysts at the advisory firm Oxford Economics calculate that if the euro zone suffered deflation, unemployment could rise to 16.5 percent by 2018. At the same time, Greece and other hard-hit countries in Europe would have even more trouble meeting their obligations, because economic output would shrink and tax receipts would dwindle.

“While there has been a lot of talk about deflation in the euro zone, we think that the implications of such a scenario have not been fully grasped,” Oxford Economics said in a report issued Friday. “Without decisive policy action, a euro zone breakup would be hard to avoid in this scenario.”