1 2013-06-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
2 2013-06-01 Looking back at those years provides an insight into an aggressive prosecutor who garnered many fans inside and outside of his office, but also critics who contended that his approach imperiled the civil rights of defendants, like the time he defended the government’s decision to have a high-profile terrorism suspect declared an enemy combatant.

“The F.B.I. director today,” said Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the former United States attorney in Chicago and a longtime friend of Mr. Comey’s, “has to be focused on keeping people safe from terrorists and cybercrime but also from bank robbers and fraudsters, and to do that within the rule of law. I think Jim gets that.”

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. Comey “served as prosecutor at a time when New York’s focus shifted from crime to terrorism, and the ability to oversee both will be just what he needs at the F.B.I.”

Mr. Comey, who is 52 and 6-foot-8, was born in Yonkers. His grandfather, William J. Comey, was a patrolman during the Prohibition era and worked his way up to lead the Police Department there. He graduated in 1982 from the College of William and Mary and obtained a law degree in 1985 from the University of Chicago.

While clerking for Judge John M. Walker Jr. in Manhattan, he decided to become a prosecutor after watching two assistant United States attorneys handle a stormy bail hearing for a reputed Genovese crime boss.

After a year in private practice, he joined the office of Rudolph W. Giuliani, then the United States attorney in Manhattan. A member of the hiring committee was a prosecutor named Louis J. Freeh, who later served as F.B.I. director in the Clinton administration.

Mr. Comey spent six years in the office. His most significant case involved a racketeering, murder and drug trafficking trial in 1993 of four members of the Gambino crime family crew, which he tried with Mr. Fitzgerald, then his colleague.

About 10 years later, as deputy attorney general, Mr. Comey appointed Mr. Fitzgerald as special counsel to investigate the leak that led to the prosecution of I. Lewis Libby Jr., a former top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney.

Mr. Comey left New York in 1993 for Richmond, Va., where he was in private practice and worked as a senior federal prosecutor. In 2002, he returned to Manhattan as United States attorney.

He had a tough act to follow: Mary Jo White had served in the post for almost a decade, but the return was smooth. “He wasn’t just some guy who came from D.C. or Virginia,” said Roberto Finzi, a former colleague. “He was one of us who was coming back. And people really felt that and appreciated that.”

In his nearly two years in that position, Mr. Comey’s office prosecuted such high-profile defendants as Martha Stewart, executives of Adelphia Communications and WorldCom, as well as Lynne F. Stewart, a lawyer who was charged with material support for terrorism.

He also aggressively defended the decision to declare Jose Padilla, an American citizen accused of trying to build a radioactive bomb, an enemy combatant.

When Mr. Comey was named deputy attorney general in late 2003, Christopher Dunn, associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, which had filed a brief in support of Mr. Padilla, said that “nothing about Mr. Comey’s tenure in New York suggests he will be a friend of the Constitution when he joins John Ashcroft in Washington.”

Mr. Dunn echoed those thoughts on Friday, extending them to cover most of Mr. Comey’s tenure from 2003 to 2005 as deputy attorney general. Mr. Comey’s confirmation hearing, he said, “will provide an important opportunity to assure that the F.B.I. fully understands its role in protecting civil liberties.”

But another critic’s view has evolved. Walter E. Dellinger III, the lawyer who in 2005 argued Martha Stewart’s appeal, said of Mr. Comey: “I believed then, and still believe, that his office’s decision” to prosecute Ms. Stewart was “a mistaken exercise of prosecutorial judgment.”

But Mr. Dellinger said he had since heard Mr. Comey speak about the tensions between national security and individual rights, and found him to be “very thoughtful on those issues,” to have a “fine sense of the complex balance one needs to make.”
3 2013-06-01 The Obama administration on Friday escalated efforts to isolate Iran economically, blacklisting Iranian companies in the petrochemical industry for the first time and punishing five businesses in four other countries for conspiring to evade American sanctions aimed at restricting Iranian oil sales and air transportation.

The new steps came a day after the administration issued sanctions against a top aide of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and more than 50 other Iranian officials for what it called their efforts to repress dissent and free speech in Iran, where presidential elections are scheduled in two weeks.

Under the increasingly strict sanctions on Iran, the United States freezes any American assets of blacklisted companies and individuals and bans them from doing business with any American companies or citizens. In addition, companies and individuals in other countries who help Iran evade sanctions can be cut off from the American financial system and face other restrictions.

“We are committed to intensifying the pressure against Iran, not only by adopting new sanctions, but also by actively enforcing our sanctions and preventing sanctions evasion,” David S. Cohen, the Treasury Department under secretary whose office oversees the sanctions effort, said in a statement. “Today’s actions take aim at revenues from Iran’s petrochemical sector, as well as deceptive schemes Iran has employed in an effort to evade sanctions on its oil sales and its airlines.”

The United States has never before aimed direct sanctions at Iran’s petrochemicals industry, which Treasury officials said had become an important source of revenue to the Iranian government as sales of oil — its most important export — have fallen sharply in the past few years because of the effects of other sanctions, including a European Union embargo.
4 2013-06-01 “If we raised prices first in this cutthroat market, we’d be finished,” said Shigeo Katagiri, who runs the Japan Machine Service, a company that sells canned drinks for 80 yen at about 300 vending machines across Tokyo.

It’s a dynamic that’s playing out in retail, consumer electronics and other industries — and one of Mr. Abe’s biggest obstacles in his efforts to fight deflation.

In theory, Mr. Abe’s economic plan makes sense. More money circulating in the economy should lead to higher prices, and help generate a positive cycle of more investment, profits, wages, spending and growth. It also weakens the yen, which helps exporters sell more goods overseas and raises the price of imports. The prices of Apple iPads, for example, have jumped.

While the early signs are encouraging, it remains to be seen whether such efforts are sustainable and his goals are achievable. Some economists doubt that he can really meet his target of 2 percent inflation in two years. It’s an unspectacular rate for most countries, but a tall order for Japan. So far, the rally in Japan’s stock market has not significantly rubbed off on wages or wealth in a country where just 15 percent of households hold shares, according to a recent Bank of Japan survey. And despite the rising economic sentiment, consumers remain thrifty; the government reported on Friday that consumer spending had cooled.

“Income is still rising only for just a limited number of people,” said Kenichi Hirayama, chief fund manager at Tokio Marine Asset Management.

In many ways, the evolution of vending machines represents the country’s promise and its problems.

In the 1960s, as Japan’s postwar economy boomed and income rose, Coca-Cola brought the first vending machines to the country, selling cans for about 50 yen. In 1973, the Japanese upstart Pokka developed the first vending machine to sell hot drinks.

After that, the price of a can jumped 10 yen each for three consecutive years, as surging oil prices caused inflation. By 1983, cans were selling for 100 yen, and by 1998, they went for 120 yen.

Then Japan’s economy burst, and the country fell into deflation and economic stagnation. Most drink companies did not lower prices, preferring instead to live with lower profits as consumers cut back on spending. But a flurry of third-party vending machine operators, like Mr. Katagiri’s Japan Machine Service, started to source soda on the cheap and sell cans for less than the manufacturer’s suggested price.

By the mid-2000s, even the discount drinks market had become saturated. The beverage market research and consulting company Inryou Souken estimates that about 30 percent of vending machines in Tokyo currently sell cans for less than 120 yen.

Today, some 3.8 million vending machines line Japan’s streets, or about 1 for every 33 people, according to the Japan Vending Machine Manufacturers Association. About two-thirds of the machines sell drinks, and are maintained by the drink makers, or third-party sellers. (The rest sell items as varied as bananas and stationery.)

With more than a dozen national drink makers and countless sellers, crippling rivalries and razor-thin profits have become the norm of doing business.

Consider the seven vending machines at the Ebina Service Area along Tomei Expressway, just outside Tokyo. On offer are 33 variations of hot or cold canned coffee, 40 variations of teas, as well as sodas, mineral and flavored waters, energy and vitamin drinks, fruit juices, cocoa and corn soup, all vying for the attention of the drivers who stream through the rest stop.

In such a crowded market, a price increase by any company would be an open invitation for an onslaught of rivals to wrestle away market share, industry insiders say. What’s worse, Japan’s drinks market has stagnated over the last decade and is expected to shrink as its population gets older, leaving drink makers fighting over a shrinking pie.

“There’s just too much competition. If you simply raised prices, your rivals would crush you straight away,” said Kazuhiro Miyashita, an industry expert at Inryou Souken.

In the current environment, drink makers are likely do everything they can to tighten their belts before they resort to raising prices, Mr. Hirayama said. That could include quietly switching to smaller cans to cut down on costs or cutting salaries.

Asahi Soft Drinks, whose top-selling drinks are the Wonda Morning Shot Coffee, Mitsuya Cider and Juroku-Cha green tea series, said it had no plans to raise prices. “We intend to make cuts elsewhere so we don’t have to pass on higher prices to our customers,” said Akemi Banno, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the company.

To bring supply and demand back into balance, analysts say the industry needs a shakeout, through mergers, takeovers, exits and perhaps even failures.

But that has been slow to happen. Mass layoffs of full-time workers are unheard-of, thanks to rigid labor laws. Mergers and takeovers are still relatively difficult. And shareholders do not pressure companies to exit businesses with razor-thin margins or even ones that lose money.

There are some signs of change. Drink makers Sapporo and Pokka merged last year, raising hopes for more market consolidation. The companies together, however, represent less than 3 percent of a still-fragmented soft drink market. Earlier merger talks between industry leaders Kirin and Suntory ended in failure. On Wednesday, Suntory Beverage and Food got approval from the Tokyo Stock Exchange to list, paving the way for an initial public offering to raise funds to expand overseas.

Some companies have had success in charging higher prices for drinks that claim to have medical benefits, tapping into a Japanese obsession with health. For example. Kao’s Healthya coffee contains special polyphenols that the company claims assist fat burning, and sells for 150 yen each.

“That’s one way to go,” said Mr. Miyashita, the drinks industry expert. “Only companies that can raise prices can thrive.”
5 2013-06-01 A state prison for mentally ill inmates is so poorly maintained that prisoners sell rats to one another as pets and defecate into plastic bags because toilets are broken, a federal lawsuit filed Thursday says. The East Mississippi Correctional Facility operates “in a perpetual state of crisis,” with inmates resorting to setting fires to receive medical attention, the class action suit filed by the A.C.L.U. and the Southern Poverty Law Center alleges. It claims that the prison, a privately run facility near Meridian, has ignored complaints for years from inmates who later went blind or lost body parts to amputation after not receiving proper medical care. A spokeswoman for the state Department of Corrections declined to comment.
6 2013-06-01 In “When Numbers Mislead” (column, May 26), Stephanie Coontz decries our tendency to compare ourselves to an average that does not accurately represent the population. Unfortunately, she did not mention some powerful tools that provide better perspectives on where each of us stands.

The first tool is the standard deviation, which tells how far one can get from the average and still be in the middle two-thirds of all people. Unfortunately, news reports hardly ever report the standard deviation.

A second useful tool is the median, defined as the middle value when all others are arranged in order. The median represents what most of us can expect; for income, the median is essentially unaffected by Oprah Winfrey’s riches.

Using these tools, Ms. Coontz can escape the tyranny of forever comparing herself to a statistic. In doing so, she would assuredly be more than one standard deviation above the average.

The writer is an associate professor of molecular biology and neuroscience at Princeton.
7 2013-06-01 “We have evidence, but the investigation stalls as soon as it crosses the border,” said the spokesman, adding that the authorities had lodged requests for help with specific cases in Germany, Britain and other destinations favored by austerity-weary Greeks seeking a rosier future.

Thousands of Greeks have sought to emigrate since the spring of 2010, when the government signed its first loan agreement with international creditors in exchange for an array of austerity measures that have slashed living standards. There are no government statistics confirming the size, or breakdown, of the exodus. But most appear to be heading for relatively prosperous northern European countries like Germany, as well as Australia, which has one of the largest Greek immigrant populations in the world.

German government statistics showed a 43 percent increase last year in Greek immigrants and a similarly large influx from other debt-ridden euro zone countries in southern Europe, like Spain and Portugal. Many Greek émigrés are qualified professionals, with an estimated 120,000 moving abroad over the past three years, according to a recent study by the University of Macedonia in Thessaloniki.

The move is much harder for unskilled workers, particularly those who do not speak the language of the country they move to. It is they who usually fall victim to rackets, according to the police and employment sector officials.

The chief of the association representing private job agencies in Greece, Athanassios Kottaras, said he received six or seven complaints every week (they were almost unheard-of just two years ago) from Greeks moving abroad for jobs that turn out to be nonexistent or exploitive. Mr. Kottaras has appeared several times on Greek television to raise awareness about the problem, which he attributes to hundreds of illegal job agencies.

The head of Greece’s state labor inspectorate, Michalis Kandarakis, said there were about 300 such illegal job agencies in Greece, compared with the 90 legal ones represented by Mr. Kottaras. But he said closing them down was difficult, as they often changed names, staff and premises to elude the authorities. “They even lodge charges of harassment or attempted blackmail against inspectors to slow down the process,” Mr. Kandarakis said.

The Greek Orthodox association in Melbourne, Australia, has published a warning on its Web site after receiving “numerous complaints” from Greeks “in regard to certain unscrupulous individuals that seek to take advantage of prospective migrants.” The site warns against professed migrant advisers who are “seeking exorbitant amounts of money for the purpose of issuing visas and finding employment.”

Official efforts to combat the swindles are often hampered by the victims’ reluctance to report their experiences to the authorities.

Vangelis Kouris left the Greek capital for Oslo last month after his bakery business collapsed and efforts to find work failed. But a job packing fish in a Norwegian factory, proposed to him by Greeks at a cafe near his neighborhood in Athens, did not exist. Neither did the factory. Mr. Kouris, 45, has since been sleeping at Oslo’s main railway station as he looks for work, anxious to raise some money for his wife back home, who has bowel cancer and cannot afford medical tests, he said.

But he has refused to alert the authorities in either country out of fear that he will be ordered back to Athens. “I had a bad experience,” Mr. Kouris said. “But I have to stay and try my luck here. There’s no work back home, nothing.”

Ioanna Zacharaki, a social worker based in the German city of Düsseldorf, reported an alarming influx of Greeks seeking work, adding that many claim to have been duped in job frauds. Working with other local Greek immigrants, she has organized concerts and other events to raise money to pay for return flights for those who want to leave and hotel accommodations for those who insist on staying. But she is reluctant to report suspicious cases to the police. “People are obviously making a commission in these exchanges, but what do you tell the authorities? You don’t want to get mixed up in anything,” she said.

The worst thing, according to Greeks in destination countries, is that those exploiting the hopeful emigrants are generally Greeks. “Swindling your compatriots when they’re down on their luck,” Ms. Zacharaki mused. “I never thought I’d see it happen.”
8 2013-06-01 Pictures From the Week in Business
9 2013-06-01 “We will learn very quickly whether or not they and others are acting in good faith” to negotiate a settlement, Mr. Kerry said in remarks that also criticized Hezbollah and Iran for intervening directly in the fighting on Mr. Assad’s behalf. “If they’re not, the world will know it.”

The prospects for a conference, originally intended to be held in June in Geneva, appear to have waned as Mr. Assad’s government has grown more assertive and members of the Syrian opposition have balked, saying they would attend only if Syrian forces ended the fierce fighting under way in Qusayr, a strategically important town near the Lebanese border.

Hezbollah, the powerful Shiite Lebanese militant organization that both the United States and Israel regard as a terrorist group, has sent hundreds of fighters into Syria to assist Mr. Assad’s forces, particularly in Qusayr. Hundreds of wounded civilians have been reported to be trapped in the town, which has been under intensifying assault by Syrian government troops and their Hezbollah allies.

On Friday, the interim leader of the Syrian Coalition, the main umbrella opposition group, said about 1,000 insurgent reinforcements had broken through military lines and joined their colleagues in Qusayr.

The interim leader, George Sabra, also announced at a meeting in Istanbul that the Syrian Coalition had agreed to expand by adding 43 members of the Free Syrian Army, the principal insurgent force, which had threatened to repudiate the group if it was not given a greater role.

The Syrian Coalition remains beset by internal squabbling, regarded by its Western and Arab backers as a major weakness in achieving a unified position aimed at ending the war. The United States and other Western countries have also been pressuring the group to be more inclusive and to distance itself from radical Sunni jihadi fighters who have been entering Syria to fight Mr. Assad’s forces.

Al Nusra Front, a Qaeda affiliate that is one of the most successful Syrian insurgent groups, was added on Friday to a global sanctions blacklist by the United Nations Security Council. The classification means the group is subject to an arms embargo and a freeze on its assets.

Mr. Kerry said that he had not lost hope that the divided opposition leaders would unite and send a representative to talks with Mr. Assad’s government.

“I’m not going to discuss consequences with respect to the opposition not coming, because I’m convinced the opposition is going to come,” he said. “And I understand their passionate anger and frustration with the massacre that has been taking place on the ground coming from Hezbollah that has crossed a border from Lebanon and entered into another country and from Iranian forces that are on the ground.”

The German foreign minister, Mr. Westerwelle, also criticized Russia’s delivery of weapons, saying Germany had also raised the issue with the government of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. “The delivery of weapons to the Assad regime is totally wrong,” he said.

Russia has been equally critical of arms sales to Mr. Assad’s armed opponents by countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Sergei A. Ryabkov, this week defended its sale as a legitimate contribution to Syria’s ability to defend itself against foreign military intervention, which appears to be Russia’s primary concern in the conflict.

Mr. Ryabkov also sharply criticized the European Union’s failure to renew an arms embargo that has until now prevented governments there from sending any weapons to Syria. Mr. Westerwelle emphasized that while that ban would expire effective June 1, none of the European governments had made a decision to provide any in order to give the negotiations in Geneva “a realistic chance.”

Despite Mr. Assad’s opaque remarks that suggested he had received some parts of the most advanced Russian weapons, Russia has not yet shipped any of the S-300 missiles, according to Israeli officials.

Israel, though, has publicly warned against the sale of the missiles, whose range would permit Syria to strike deeper inside Israel, and its officials have made it clear privately that they would take action to ensure they are not delivered and readied for use. Israel has already struck Syria at least three times this year, targeting what officials have described as missiles and other weapons shipments to Hezbollah, whose members are now openly fighting in Syria.

On May 14, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel flew to the Black Sea resort in Sochi, Russia, favored by Mr. Putin to raise concerns about the missiles but, the officials said, apparently failed to persuade him to cancel the sale. The State Department’s spokeswoman, Jennifer R. Psaki, said on Friday that the United States fully supported Israel’s right to defend itself.
10 2013-06-01 Prices fell after the announcement. By midday in New York, Brent crude was down $1.11 to $101.08 a barrel, and benchmark light sweet crude fell 84 cents to $92.77.

Despite today’s prices, OPEC is losing market share to countries outside the cartel, especially the United States and Canada.

The United States is still importing substantial amounts of oil from Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf nations that produce heavy and medium grades of crude that Gulf of Mexico refineries are designed to process. But the boom in United States oil shale fields that produce lighter grades are quickly replacing imports from Algeria, Nigeria and other African producers.

For American drivers, the increased drilling in the United States and sluggish demand in Europe that is putting pressure on global oil prices have brought a modest amount of relief. The price for an average gallon of regular gasoline in the United States on Friday was $3.61, a drop of 4 cents from a week ago, according to AAA. Drivers spent a penny more on average for a gallon of regular gas last year.

Saudi Arabia, by far the largest producer, has cut production by about 600,000 barrels a day from a year ago, to 9.3 million, according to IHS Cera. In the same period, Iranian production dropped by 400,000 barrels a day as American sanctions took a toll on the country’s industry.

For years, oil prices rose with equity prices, but recently oil has “fallen even as the S.& P. has made record highs,” wrote Seth M. Kleinman, an analyst at Citi, in a research note, referring to the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Mr. Kleinman also noted that there had been “significant liquidation” by speculators in the futures markets over the last three months.

From an OPEC perspective, the outlook for the next year is not rosy. Many analysts forecast that global demand will increase modestly this year and that most or all of the increase will be supplied by non-OPEC producers, led by the United States. If so, that would leave little room for OPEC output to grow and may force the organization to either make further cuts or allow global inventories to build.

“The second half of the year could see a further easing in fundamentals,” OPEC said Friday in a statement.

OPEC’s current quotas have been in place since 2011.
11 2013-06-02 Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors faces billions of dollars in withdrawals from investors by a Monday deadline....
12 2013-06-02 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
13 2013-06-02 Senator John McCain, back from a surprise trip to Syria, offered his bleakest assessment yet of the hostilities there, saying that President Bashar al-Assad, with growing outside backing, was beginning to tighten his grip on power....
14 2013-06-02 The Sony Pictures Entertainment movie cost $135 million to produce and roughly $100 million to market worldwide. It took in an estimated $27 million from Friday to Sunday....
15 2013-06-02 I mean really, really wonkish. You have been warned....
16 2013-06-02 Mikko Ilonen took a two-shot lead over Sweden’s Alexander Noren into the final round of the Nordea Masters in Stockholm as he seeks to end a six-year winless drought on the European Tour. Ilonen, a 33-year-old Finn, shot a seven-under 65 for an overall 18-under 198 on the Bro Hof Slott course. The last tour victory for the 114th-ranked Ilonen was at the same event in 2007.
17 2013-06-02 Emily Jane Oldshue and Elizabeth Butler Breese were married Monday. Associate Justice Rives Kistler of the Oregon Supreme Court officiated at Skamania Lodge in Stevenson, Wash. On June 8, Katrina M. Scott, an officiant of the Ethical Society of Boston, will lead a ceremony at the Union Club there.

The couple, both 29, met at Wellesley College, from which they graduated, and both attended Yale, from which Ms. Oldshue received a law degree and Ms. Breese received a Ph.D. in sociology.

Ms. Oldshue (left) is an associate at the Boston law firm Ropes & Gray. She is a daughter of Mary and Paul Oldshue of Portland, Ore. Ms. Oldshue’s father is an executive vice president and the manager for international banking at U.S. Bank; he works in Portland. Her mother is a director of HomeStreet Bank in Seattle.

Ms. Breese is the senior content and digital marketing strategist at Crimson Hexagon, a Boston company that provides software to analyze social-media data.

She is the daughter of Judith and David Breese of Walton, N.Y. Her father retired as the supervisor for operations in Delaware County and Otsego County for the New York State Office for People With Developmental Disabilities; he worked in Masonville, N.Y., and Oneonta, N.Y. Her mother is a speech and language pathologist.
18 2013-06-02 Marisa Anne Buchanan, a daughter of Marcia B. Buchanan and Edwin C. Buchanan of Chicago, was married Saturday to Aziz Eaton Isham, a son of Nima Farmanfarmaian Isham of Clyde Park, Mont., and Christopher E. Isham of Washington. Cardinal Edward Egan, who performed the wedding of the bride’s parents in 1970, led the ceremony at the Queen of All Saints Roman Catholic Church in Brooklyn.

Ms. Buchanan, 34, will keep her name. She is the senior producer, in Manhattan, for the unit of NBC News that produces special reports. She graduated from the University of Michigan.

The bride’s father is the chief financial officer of AnswerMine Group, a company in Evanston, Ill., that provides data analysis.

Mr. Isham, also 34, is a founder of Arcade Sunshine Media, a digital publisher in Brooklyn, and of reKiosk, an independent e-book and music distribution Web site. He graduated from Yale.

The groom’s mother owns a ranch in Clyde Park, where she breeds quarter horses and also designs jewelry. His father is the Washington bureau chief for CBS News. The groom is also a stepson of Jennifer Maguire Isham.
19 2013-06-02 Karen Ann Paczkowski and Christopher John Thissen were married Saturday in New Haven. The Rev. Robert L. Beloin, a Roman Catholic Priest, performed the ceremony in St. Thomas More Chapel at Yale.

The couple met at the university, from which the bride received a master’s in mechanical engineering. She also received a doctorate in geology and geophysics, the same subject in which the groom received a master’s and in which he is now a fifth-year doctoral student.

Ms. Paczkowski, 30, will keep her name. She graduated magna cum laude from Boston University. She is the daughter of MargaretAnn and Richard H. Paczkowski of Guilderland, N.Y. The bride’s father, now retired, was a manager in human resources in Schenectady, N.Y, for General Electric, where he worked in the turbine division. Her mother is a financial analyst for the New York State Department of Health in Albany.

Mr. Thissen, 27, graduated summa cum laude from Notre Dame. He is a son of Deborah R. Thissen and Steven J. Thissen of Glencoe, Minn. The groom’s mother is a day-care provider at the couple’s home. His father is a railroad engineer based in St. Cloud, Minn., for Northern Lines Railway.
20 2013-06-02 James P. Rubin, a former professor, diplomat and journalist who was once forced out as an editor of the Bloomberg News opinion section, has resigned as a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey just a year and a half after he was appointed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.

In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Rubin said he plans to move to London with his wife, Christiane Amanpour, CNN’s chief international correspondent, and their son to work on several projects, including a book about America’s use of military force abroad.

Mr. Rubin’s resignation was first reported by Politico on Friday. Anthony Hayes, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said that Mr. Rubin’s last day was Wednesday. Ms. Amanpour’s position with CNN will be unchanged with the move to London, and she will continue to host “Amanpour,” a daily current events program on CNN International, a spokeswoman for the network said.

The New York State Senate confirmed Mr. Rubin as a Port Authority commissioner less than a year ago. He served as chairman of the security committee and was also senior adviser at the Empire State Development Corporation, the agency that leads New York’s economic development efforts.

Mr. Rubin, who served under President Bill Clinton as the State Department’s chief spokesman, has changed roles frequently since marrying Ms. Amanpour in 1998 and subsequently leaving government. He was a professor of international relations at the London School of Economics from 2001 to 2004 and a news anchor and commentator for Sky News from 2005 to 2007. He also worked short stints as a host on PBS and a professor at Columbia University.

In December 2010, Mr. Rubin was appointed as an editor of Bloomberg View, a new opinion writing section that was intended as a kind of editorial conduit for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s own political views and philosophies. He left the following September after clashing with co-workers, some of whom disliked his editing and organizational style.

Speaking by telephone on Saturday, Mr. Rubin said he would be leaving for London in “a matter of days.” There, he will be a scholar in residence at the Rothermere American Institute at Oxford University, where he will work on his book. Mr. Rubin will also work as a contributing editor of the New Republic and “do something in the world of television,” he said.
21 2013-06-02 “He’s going to make those saves from the outside,” Sharp said. “It’s about getting to the inside. It’s about outworking their defensemen to get those second and third opportunities.”

Four minutes after Sharp’s goal, Duncan Keith took a pass from Bryan Bickell at the point and fired a shot at Quick. Marian Hossa, posted in front of the goal, held out his stick and deflected the puck past the screened Quick.

The Blackhawks had the lead, and what had been a subdued crowd came alive. Chicago killed a penalty midway through the third period, and Corey Crawford, who had 21 saves, made the lead hold up. The Blackhawks even flexed a little muscle with a big hit from Dave Bolland on Mike Richards in the final minutes that brought the home fans to their feet.

Before the series, the Blackhawks talked about the bounces that would be needed to beat Quick, who entered Game 1 leading the playoffs with a .948 save percentage and a 1.5 goals against average. Those breaks eventually went Chicago’s way Saturday, but only after the Kings were the recipients of the puck’s first critical hop late in the first period.

After a failed clearing attempt, Crawford tried to sweep the puck away from his crease, and Bolland also got a stick on it in an attempt to clear the zone. But the puck ricocheted off the stick of Justin Williams and skipped past Crawford into the net.

It was Williams’s third goal in two games; he scored both goals for the Kings in Game 7 against the San Jose Sharks in the second round. Saturday’s goal, though, did little to change the game’s flow, as the Blackhawks tested Quick from the opening face-off.

In the early part of the game, Quick was equal to Chicago’s many challenges. In the first period, he stuffed Patrick Kane during a four on four, as Kane skated alone through the goal mouth after a pass from Jonathan Toews in the corner. Kane measured a shot, but Quick turned it away with his stick hand.

Later in the first, Quick stopped a one-timer from Sharp and then a good chance on the rebound from Brandon Saad. In the second period, Quick gloved a laserlike wrist shot from Keith.

“Shift after shift, the waves of pressure, we didn’t have them at all it seemed,” Kings center Jarret Stoll said. “We didn’t have that consistent push we wanted to, so therefore we didn’t get a lot of scoring opportunities.”

Both teams entered the series battle-tested, having won two of the past three Stanley Cups. The Blackhawks won it in 2010 and had a league-high 77 points in this lockout-shortened regular season. The Kings are the defending champions and peaking again in the postseason. Each team also survived a seven-game series in the second round, the Kings taking out the Sharks, and the Blackhawks needing overtime to eliminate the Detroit Red Wings.

The Kings welcomed the return of Stoll, who missed the final six games of the series against the Sharks after a hit to the head from Raffi Torres in Game 1. But the Blackhawks left the arena knowing they were the team that imposed its style and speed on the Kings and on Quick, their seemingly invincible goaltender.

“Quick’s a good goalie,” Sharp said. “We try not to talk about him too much and go out there and control what we can control.”
22 2013-06-02 At 74, with his Kennedyesque mop of white hair and a Brooklyn accent, Mr. Donohue comes off as part street fighter, part showman and part head of state. He zips around town in a chauffeured Lincoln and flies around the globe in leased private jets. His salary, $4.9 million in 2011, makes him the second-highest-paid trade association chief in Washington, after the head of the Edison Electric Institute, according to CEO Update, a trade magazine.

“He’s got a little theater in him,” Billy Tauzin, the former Louisiana congressman and a onetime amateur actor, says of Mr. Donohue.

“He’s like the Energizer Bunny,” said John W. Bachmann, senior partner at Edward Jones and the past chairman and current treasurer of the chamber’s board, calling Mr. Donohue’s salary a “bargain.”

Yet, while increasing the group’s influence, Mr. Donohue has also plunged the business lobby into partisan politics. That move has infuriated many Democrats, made some local chambers uneasy and produced an embarrassing flop in the last Congressional elections. The chamber spent millions in an unsuccessful bid to wrest the Senate from Democrats; of 12 chamber-backed Republicans, nine lost.

“They got their clock cleaned,” said Mr. Tauzin, an outside adviser to Mr. Donohue. “It was a bold idea. Bold ideas either succeed boldly or fail dismally. In this case, I think Tom would tell you it was a dismal result.”

Not one to back down, Mr. Donohue has ordered his political team to “figure out what happened” and to try harder in 2014, said Scott Reed, his senior political adviser. But publicly, Mr. Donohue is changing the subject. He has always been a man of big ambitions, and his latest is to secure an immigration overhaul, long a priority for business. A deal he cut with Richard L. Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., on a new visa program for low-skilled workers helped produce a bill that passed the Senate Judiciary Committee in May.

Mr. Donohue rarely mentions President Obama by name, and in casual conversation allows that he had a better relationship with another Democrat, Bill Clinton. (“You get in a big fight with him one morning, and then two days later you’d be over there for a drink.”) He refers to Mr. Obama as “the president across the street” — a phrase that Mr. Reed says is “not a disrespectful thing,” but a reflection of Mr. Donohue’s position.

“That’s the institution speaking,” he said.

Immigration is one issue, at least, on which the chamber and the Obama administration might come together. Businesses of all stripes want the immigration system improved. High-tech companies like Facebook want access to skilled foreign workers. Large-scale farms want to hire Mexican and other migrants. Small businesses want a stronger electronic employment verification system, to shift the burden of making sure workers are legal to the government and away from employers.

It is now up to Mr. Donohue to deliver. And while he waves off talk of retirement — “If you see me in a box with flowers around it, I’m only thinking about retiring” — there is no question that an immigration bill could be a legacy item, a capstone to his long career.

WHILE big, wealthy companies help keep the chamber afloat — “We have to raise $5 million a week to run this place,” Mr. Donohue says — advocating for small business is perhaps more popular with the public. So one morning in April, Mr. Donohue could be found holding court at America’s Small Business Summit, the chamber’s annual gathering for small-business owners, who come to network and lobby their lawmakers on Capitol Hill.

Like all things Donohue-related, the meeting was a slick production, with hefty corporate support and Washington-insider speakers like Michael V. Hayden, former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Bob Woodward, the Washington Post journalist. In the exhibit hall, representatives of T-Mobile and FedEx handed out trinkets.

Mr. Donohue used his keynote address to exhort the audience to “defend and advance a free-enterprise system” whenever it “comes under attack” and to give politicians in Washington — the words “Republican” and “Democrat” never pass his lips — a piece of their minds.

“It’s about time,” he thundered, “that our leaders in Washington start making the tough decisions that we pay them to make!”

The talk was business-lobby boilerplate, if delivered with dramatic flair. Yet Mr. Donohue is a surprising missionary for the free-market message in at least one way: he has little experience working in for-profit businesses.

Born in Brooklyn, he grew up, largely, in Rockville Centre, N.Y., where his parents moved amid the post-World War II housing boom. His father was a factory manager for the American Can Company; his mother was frail and sickly from a childhood illness. As a boy, Mr. Donohue suffered rheumatic fever, and spent most of the second grade at home. Reading was a challenge; he says he is “a little dyslexic.”

He came by his free-market views as a teenager, through hard work, he said. He delivered meat for a butcher shop, mowed lawns, worked for a pharmacy and ferried bottles of liquor to Wall Street. He put himself through St. John’s University in Queens and later got an M.B.A. at Adelphi University while working for the Boy Scouts.

He went on to pursue a seemingly unrelated string of jobs, working for a disability-rights advocacy group, as a university fund-raiser and at the Postal Service. There, he tangled with unions and eventually rose to deputy assistant postmaster general — a job that took him to the capital, where he began his ascent as a Washington player.

In 1984, after a stint running membership and grass-roots operations for the chamber, Mr. Donohue landed his first big Washington lobbying job, as president and chief executive of the American Trucking Associations, which had been hobbled by a string of legislative defeats. Colleagues remember him as endlessly energetic, especially when it came to raising money.

“We called him the White Tornado,” said Lana Batts, a former association lobbyist. Ms. Batts recalled how they would fly into a city, round up local trucking executives for dinner, then hit them up for cash. “People would walk out of that room saying: ‘I intended not to give him any money. How did I end up giving him all that?’ ”

WHEN Mr. Donohue was hired at the chamber in 1997, it was in desperate need of a fix-it man. The organization was bleeding money and members, and losing political influence over its embrace of parts of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s health care bill. Other, more focused business lobbies, like the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Federation of Independent Business, were making incursions onto the chamber’s turf.

“The chamber, probably in a perfect world, which I’ve never been in, would have wanted to hire somebody of more stature, but they had serious challenges, and that’s why they hired me,” Mr. Donohue said. “My first objective here was to save the place as we knew it.”

He traveled the country, seeking to bolster membership and the budget, which has since quintupled, his aides say. And he vowed to make trouble for traditional adversaries like trial lawyers, environmentalists and union leaders.

Today, Mr. Donohue presides over a $250-million-a-year operation, where roughly 500 employees — a small army of lobbyists, legislative analysts, economists, lawyers and communications gurus — devote themselves to carrying out his vision for a more pro-business government.

Since Mr. Obama took office, Mr. Donohue’s army has mobilized against the president’s health care overhaul, his financial regulatory overhaul, his energy policy and his new consumer protection agency — though it did help to pass Mr. Obama’s financial stimulus package. Often, the chamber is more aggressive than the individual companies in its membership; pharmaceutical companies and insurers, for instance, took a more nuanced stand on the health bill.

“The Donohue chamber is in full-time attack mode,” said Robert Weissman, who runs the liberal advocacy group Public Citizen. “From their point of view they’ve been very aggressive in advancing the interests of their constituents. From our point of view, they have very aggressively expanded the corporate grip over policy making in Washington, D.C.”

The chamber’s foray into politics has perhaps been Mr. Donohue’s most aggressive strategy. Taking full advantage of the Citizens United decision by the Supreme Court, which freed corporations and labor unions to spend unlimited sums on political advertisements, the chamber — which filed an amicus brief in the case — plunged headlong into the 2012 Congressional races.

Records show that the chamber spent at least $35 million on the races. It backed two Democrats and 38 Republicans in House races, but no Democrats and 12 Republicans for the Senate, where some veterans found themselves on the other end of chamber attack ads.

“Tom Donohue is a partisan Republican who plays big-money, nasty politics,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who is still irked at a chamber ad showing him looking nefarious with a 5 o’clock shadow. To which Mr. Donohue, a registered Independent, retorted, “If I had a shot at getting rid of him tomorrow, I’d do it again!”

The chamber also tried unsuccessfully to oust Senator Claire McCaskill, a centrist Democrat from Missouri, despite the fact that Mr. Donohue awarded her a Spirit of Enterprise award in 2009 for her “support of pro-business issues.” Her seat seemed vulnerable; Republicans hoped they could take it and gain control of the Senate.

“Anybody in the phone book could have beaten Claire McCaskill!” Mr. Donohue declared in the interview, neglecting to mention that her opponent, Todd Akin — who made impolitic remarks about “legitimate rape” — did not.

Not long ago, Ms. McCaskill collared Mr. Donohue in a Capitol corridor to tweak him about his poor return on investment in the election. “He turned kind of red,” she recalled, “and said, ‘Don’t take it personal.’ “

Mr. Reed, Mr. Donohue’s senior political adviser, argues that, despite the losses, the chamber’s big spending during the election has jangled the nerves of Democrats who “want to know what they have to do to get right with the chamber.” And by engaging thousands of local chambers in campaigns, he said, Mr. Donohue has built the chamber into “a national brand.”

But at least one of those local chambers — in Kansas City, Mo., where Ms. McCaskill has support from prominent business leaders, including some Republicans — quit the national organization in protest over the attacks on her.

“What was disheartening,” said Jim Heeter, the local chamber president, “was that so much money was being spent in a very negative way.”

THE election results “reignited something” in Mr. Donohue, said Robert W. Goldfarb, a management consultant, who calls Mr. Donohue “my dearest friend.” The two men met 50 years ago when, fresh out of college, Mr. Donohue sought Mr. Goldfarb’s career advice. Mr. Goldfarb remembers the future chamber chief as someone lacking self-confidence, but burning with ambition.

“The overriding drive for Tom,” Mr. Goldfarb said, “is to be limitless, to fly.”

Privately, though, Mr. Donohue has conceded that he has limits; he has told his board that his close aides will tell him when to retire.

“Tom recognizes that there will be a time, and that he probably won’t recognize when that time comes,” Mr. Bachmann, the former board chairman, said. “So he’s got people that he absolutely trusts.”

For now, though, he is seizing what opportunities he can. Early this year, one presented itself: Senators Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, and Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, invited Mr. Donohue and Mr. Trumka of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to Capitol Hill. A group of four Democrats and four Republicans — the so-called Gang of Eight — were in negotiations on an immigration bill, and the senators wanted the union leader and the chamber involved.

Mr. Donohue, who worked to pass a bill in 2007, the last time it came up in Washington, jumped in with vigor, hoping to win a new temporary visa program that would ease the way for businesses to hire foreign workers. If any deal was to work, he would have to strike a compromise with labor, which wants protections for low-skilled foreign workers and assurances that companies will hire local residents first, while business wants flexibility to bring in foreigners to fill open jobs.

Over the last weekend in March, after a week when the Gang of Eight talks nearly fell apart, Mr. Schumer got Mr. Donohue and Mr. Trumka on the phone, and they signed off on an accord that let the bill go forward. (Neither the union leader nor the chamber chief would discuss the specifics of their talk.)

“Tom really rode herd, and was very, very personally involved,” Mr. Graham said, adding, “He found a way to get everybody to yes.”

With the bill soon to be debated on the Senate floor — amid grumbling from Silicon Valley that it does not go far enough — and the House working on its own measure, Mr. Donohue will be busy in the coming months.

He also has personal milestones ahead: his 50-year college reunion (he does not plan to attend), his 50th wedding anniversary (he and his wife, Liz, are planning a big party) and his 75th birthday (Aug. 12).

Wrapping up his speech at the Small Business Summit, he spoke of the immigration legislation, vowing, “We’re going to get that bill.” But he wasn’t quite finished; he wanted to say a few more words.

“Free enterprise isn’t perfect — none of us are,” he told his audience. “But it provides one thing that most other systems don’t, and that’s opportunity.” He added: “It allows you to take a responsible risk. Sometimes you take a risk and you fail. O.K. get up off the floor and do it again. The beauty of our system is that you can keep trying.”

It was the expected paean to the American system from Washington’s warrior for free enterprise. But it also seemed that Mr. Donohue might have been talking about himself.
23 2013-06-02 The Chinese government has insisted it is a victim of cyberattacks, not a perpetrator, and Chinese officials have vigorously denied the extensive evidence gathered by the Pentagon and private security experts that a unit of the People’s Liberation Army, Unit 61398 outside Shanghai, is behind many of the most sophisticated attacks on the United States.

On Saturday, after Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke of a “growing threat of cyberintrusions” at a conference in Singapore, in comments directed at China, a Chinese general gave a tart response saying she doubted the United States’ assurances that its growing military presence in Asia was not directed at China.

While cyberattacks will be a major subject of the talks in Rancho Mirage, at an estate that belonged to Walter Annenberg, the main effort will be to forge a rapport between Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi. American officials hope the estate, known as Sunnylands, which has played host to American presidents and foreign dignitaries dating to Richard M. Nixon, will put both men at ease.

American officials said they have been surprised by the pace at which Mr. Xi, a longtime party functionary who consolidated his grip on power in March, has installed new faces in the Chinese leadership and moved to take greater control over the military, something his predecessor, Hu Jintao, never mastered.

Another main issue at the meeting will be North Korea. American officials, emerging from talks with Mr. Xi and his team, believe that the new Chinese leader has less patience for North Korea and little of the sentimental attachment to its leaders that his predecessors had.

“What’s interesting here is the dog that isn’t barking,” the American official said. The Chinese, he noted, are not urging all sides to resume talks until the North Koreans agree that the objective is removing all nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula. “We’re not hearing the soothing mantra of restraint,” he said.

The Chinese have also taken public steps to confront North Korea, like ordering the Bank of China to stop dealing with North Korea’s largest foreign-exchange bank.

“They’re much more open to causing pain to North Korea,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, a top China adviser to Mr. Obama until 2011.

Still, during the latest round of the Korea crisis this spring, Kim Jong-un, the young and largely untested new North Korean leader, made it clear that he had no intention of ever giving up his small arsenal.

Cybersecurity issues loom large between the United States and China because they go to the heart of the economic relationship between the two countries, even more so now that previous sources of friction, like China’s foreign exchange policies, have eased in the last year.

Chinese academics and industrialists say that if China is to maintain its annual economic growth rate of 7 or 8 percent, it needs a steady inflow of new technology. That could make the Chinese reluctant to cut back on the systematic theft of intellectual property.

In return, the Chinese will press the Americans on their use of cyberweapons: while there is no evidence that they have been used against Chinese targets, the sophisticated cyberattacks on Iran’s nuclear program by the United States and Israel are often cited by the Chinese news media and military journals as evidence that Washington, too, uses cyberspace for strategic advantage.

The talks over computer hacking will start as part of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, an annual meeting of Chinese and American officials on a broad range of issues. But a new working group is being organized on the subject that will meet more frequently, officials say.

Where the talks will lead, however, is unclear: after considerable debate within the Obama administration, officials have concluded that online conflict does not lend itself to the kind of arms control treaties that the United States and the Soviet Union began negotiating 50 years ago. Today, cyberweapons are held by private individuals as well as states, and figuring out where an attack began can be maddeningly difficult.

Another problem, China experts said, is that neither the Americans nor the Chinese are well prepared for a candid discussion of cyberissues. The growth of hacking, and its use in both military and corporate espionage, is a new enough phenomenon that it is not clear how seriously Mr. Xi and other senior Chinese leaders view it.

Tung Chee-hwa, a former chief executive of Hong Kong who has close ties to China’s leaders, said recently that when he raises the American concerns about hacking with senior officials in Beijing, they express puzzlement.

And neither side, experts said, is ready to discuss military espionage, which means the conversation will necessarily focus on the theft of corporate secrets by China-based hackers. On that subject, they said, Mr. Obama needs to be unyielding.

“Obama has got to say, ‘You’ve got a major hacking operation under way in Beijing, you’ve got a major hacking operation under way in Shanghai. This is going to have repercussions if we don’t see changes very quickly,’ ” said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser in the Clinton administration who is now at the Brookings Institution.

China and the United States, experts say, could find common ground on the need to stop cyberattacks on critical national infrastructure, like the electrical grid, since it poses such a danger to both countries. “I personally think a bilateral ‘no sabotage’ pledge would be a very good idea,” Mr. Bader said.
24 2013-06-02 Indeed, over the past month, the average bond fund that invests in long-term government debt has lost more than 6.5 percent of its value, according to Morningstar, the investment research firm. The typical blue-chip stock fund, meanwhile, has gained about 4 percent.

But this is not to say that rising interest rates wouldn’t hurt the stock market at all.

For instance, if rates were to climb enough to threaten the rebound in housing, stocks might start to sing a different tune, market strategists say. But the average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is still at a historically low 3.81 percent, even though that rate is up since the end of April.

Similarly, climbing rates would threaten stocks if they signaled rising inflation, so that the Federal Reserve might have to curtail its efforts to stimulate the economy. But the most recent reading of the Consumer Price Index showed that prices were up only around 1.1 percent over the past 12 months. That’s down from the 1.6 percent pace of inflation at the start of the year.

So how much would rates have to climb before investors became seriously worried about stocks?

If history is any guide, the threshold is around 6 percent.

Doug Ramsey, chief investment officer at the Leuthold Group, has looked at stock valuations and bond yields going back to 1878. He has found that while there is a relationship between the two, big trouble for the stock market appears to kick in only when 10-year Treasuries are yielding 6 percent or higher.

Theories abound as to why 6 percent seems the magic number. James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, argues that 6 percent is important because it reflects the overall economy’s nominal long-term growth rate. “I can see why you’d get a negative reaction if the cost of capital for the market was above the inherent, sustainable growth rate of the economy,” he said.

Mr. Ramsey offers a slightly different explanation. He said that for rising bond yields to hurt the stock market, they would have to be viewed by investors as real competition to stocks. Perhaps at 6 percent, he said, bond yields are high enough that “they are truly thought of as potential replacements or substitutes for long-term stock returns.”

TO be sure, some market watchers say what really matters isn’t the current move in long-term market rates, but what happens with the short-term rate that the Fed controls.

Recently, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, hinted that the central bank might soon begin to taper its purchases of Treasury bonds as part of its efforts to stimulate the economy. He did not offer any clues, however, as to when the federal funds rate, now 0.25 percent, might be lifted.

John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer & Company, noted that whenever the Fed does raise short-term rates, “it could create a jostle in the stock market.” But Mr. Stoltzfus warned investors not to assume that Fed increases would immediately pull the plug on the bull market.

He notes that the last time the Fed started raising rates was in June 2004, when the funds rate was at 1 percent. The central bank proceeded to lift rates 17 times through the end of June 2006. During that stretch, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 11.3 percent, while the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks gained 22.5 percent. In the 12 months that followed — while the Fed held rates steady — stocks continued to post double-digit gains.

“What really counts here for investors is, are rising rates crimping the affordability of credit?” Mr. Stoltzfus said. With two-year Treasury notes yielding just 0.29 percent, he said, “I’d argue that we’re far from that point.”
25 2013-06-02 The other Grand Slam tournament nations — France, the United States and Britain — have similar, if less extensive, systems.

“They’ve got a bigger budget than we do,” Patrick McEnroe, head of player development at the United States Tennis Association, said of the Australians.

Video analysis is also being used more by private coaches, including Jan De Witt, the German coach whom Simon, a top-20 player, hired in April in part because of his relentless tactical focus.

“I chose Jan because I think he can make me very comfortable with my choices,” Simon, a Frenchman, said in an interview after his five-set victory over Sam Querrey in the third round. “I make a lot more choices on the court than most of my opponents in terms of tactics and strategy. I didn’t play the same in my first couple of rounds as I played against Sam, whereas Sam played much more the same style against everyone.

“He has the weapons he’s going to use — his serve, his forehand. Most players are very focused on what’s happening with themselves, on their side of the net. I’m much more focused on what’s happening on the other side of the net. So the tactics are very important to me, and Jan is very good with this, especially with the help of the video.”

Simon said De Witt’s video had been particularly useful before his match against third-ranked Andy Murray in the Round of 16 in Madrid in May. Murray had dominated Simon in the past, but Simon pushed him in Madrid, losing in a third-set tiebreaker.

“I had lost 10 times to Murray, and Jan wanted to show me in what patterns I had lost points, what I needed to avoid and how I should try to direct play, and it helped me enormously,” Simon said. “Doing a video is easy; all you have to do is film something and cut it into parts. But the hard part is to know how to use it intelligently. That’s what’s interesting, and that’s what the coach’s job should be. He should give only the essential to the player.”

Simon said statistics could be dangerous. “I’ll give you an example,” he said. “The data might tell us that if I go to net attacking a certain player’s backhand, I win 80 percent of the points. But if you play the match and go every time to the backhand, you are not going to win 80 percent of the points anymore because the player is going to know that it’s coming always to the same place.”

Coaches and tennis parents have been filming matches and practice sessions on a regular basis since the advent of the video camera. But one of the first tennis coaches at the elite level to make use of video to dissect opponents’ patterns was the Australian Darren Cahill when he was coaching Lleyton Hewitt and Andre Agassi in the early 2000s.

He received his inspiration from Australian rules football, which his father, John, played and coached at the professional level. Cahill said he bought a system called SportsCode from the Australian Football League.

“The A.F.L. clubs got it from the N.F.L. and basketball in America, and I used it for a lot of the Lleyton Hewitt matches when I was with him and then took it on through with Andre,” Cahill said. “I think it’s under-tapped, value-added in tennis, and we don’t really go after it enough in coaching, and I think we’re finding more and more people are starting to invest in that.”

Cahill kept his usage of the system a secret while he was coaching Hewitt and Agassi. “Smart guy,” Stosur said in an interview on Saturday.

Cahill said he did so “because I thought it was an edge, simple as that.”

Maintaining that edge was labor intensive. Cahill said it could take him “six or seven hours” to go through footage of a three-hour match, isolating and analyzing the elements worth highlighting to Hewitt or Agassi.

“It was a lot of man hours, but it was ultimately worth it,” he said. “Because you can sit a tennis player down and watch a three-hour match and it sort of gets lost in the wash, but if you can sit a player down and say there are three specific things I need you to look at, and it’s going to take a matter of 11 minutes and you can go to each of those specific things, I think the message goes home much quicker and harder.”

Cahill said Agassi liked the video package short and sweet. “Ten or 15 minutes of good stuff and that was it,” Cahill said. “But I used it a lot. For me to be able to deliver a message to him or find out where a guy is serving on a big point or to get a feel for what side he might cover at the net or to get a feel for Andre as well, if he’s giving up too much space on the forehand side when he’s going backhand to backhand, we could designate the video to find those areas.”

Performance analysis systems have become more nimble and sophisticated, but long hours remain part of the job description. In Melbourne, at Tennis Australia’s new video performance analysis center, McMurtrie said he had only one day off in December and January: Christmas Day.

“We’re the only ones to my knowledge who do coded matches to this degree,” McMurtrie said in an interview in Melbourne. “So you can say, ‘O.K., show me where Serena Williams serves on a break point,’ and we can give you the video of that over so many matches.”

McMurtrie said a player like Stosur would then receive a link to the processed footage that she and her coach, David Taylor, could then access through a touch-screen tablet computer.

“Dave probably chats to him more about all the stuff rather than me directly, but we certainly use it a lot, and he puts in a lot of work,” Stosur said of McMurtrie. “And it’s great to see tendencies or shot placement, serves, whatever it is, and I think if you can have that information for a player you’ve actually played, obviously it’s more relevant than information of them playing just anybody on tour. But I do certainly feel like it’s got a big place in trying to work out a game plan.”

What is unusual about Tennis Australia’s proprietary system is the depth of its database and its ability to analyze even obscure players well outside the top 100. They have also been filming junior players.

“We’re starting to record off all the streaming around the world,” McMurtrie said. “We do as much as we can ourselves, too, on court. Sometimes you’re out on some outer court and it’s 10:30 at night and you’re thinking, ‘What am I filming this for?’ And then the next week it comes in really handy.”

McEnroe said he was not “a huge believer” in exhaustive video analysis but said the U.S.T.A. now relied on the Dartfish system.

“I think in tennis there is so much you already know about your opponent,” he said. “To me, it’s different than football or something where there are so many different options that can happen. In tennis, there’s not that much you can do. Serving tendencies, but you can get that from Dartfish.”

Magnus Norman, the Swedish former star now coaching Stanislas Wawrinka, said he had noticed a big change at the highest reaches of the professional game in only the past three years and that there were now free apps available that rivaled some of the expensive systems.

“We use it more at our academy when we work on technique, looking at our own players’ strokes and stuff like that because it’s much easier to examine all that when it’s slow motion,” Norman said Saturday. “But I obviously know a lot more coaches, myself included, who are using it to see patterns and how opponents play when they are tight and how they play when they are leading. It’s getting absolutely more popular in tennis as in other sports.”

But Simon, eager for an edge like every player at Roland Garros, cautioned that video analysis should be handled with care.

“The video really can be a plus, but you have to really use it right; otherwise it’s too much information, and it can be almost paralyzing,” he said. “Tennis is in the moment. It’s about instinct, too. When the ball comes, you’ve got to hit it and perhaps your video analysis determined it was better to return serve to a certain spot, but if at that moment you really feel you want to put it somewhere else, you still need to listen to that. And you need to do that.”
26 2013-06-02 Two days later, the police chief authorized an all-white force of garbagemen to use billy clubs on 50 protesters. Mr. Campbell’s wife, Gloria, who’d left her four children at home, was among them. As they approached an alley outside the city jail, firemen turned their hoses on full blast. Falling amid the jets of water, Mrs. Campbell was battered in the hip. Her dress was ripped partway off. She remembers, as she fled, seeing a small girl lying in a pool of water, unconscious. Later that summer Dr. King called the use of police force in Danville among the most brutal he had yet encountered.

Mrs. Campbell’s hip still gives her trouble. She has spent much of her life since 1963 waiting for the city to acknowledge the pain it caused that night. The very history of the beating has been contested. In court a decade later, the police denied involvement in the events entirely.

AMID these details, my grandfather’s story begins. After three years of legal wrangling over Judge Aiken’s questionable injunctions, the process of sentencing the 300-odd protesters — some 50 of whom had been beaten so badly they needed hospitalization — began. The majority were sentenced to fines and hard labor.

After (as I hear it) downing some bourbon, my grandfather fired off a letter to Judge Aiken, whom he knew from Rotary and the country club. He called the sentencing of the protesters a sign of “petulance,” and called Judge Aiken’s decision “inane.”

My grandfather was not a protester by nature. My grandparents did learn to sing “We Shall Overcome” when my uncle came home from college one summer, and they did eventually work to urge their neighbors to allow the schools to integrate peacefully. But my grandfather also scolded my father for watching a demonstration. I doubt he considered marching.

But he found that even writing the letter pushed him over an unseen boundary. He arrived at work the next Monday morning to be served a bench warrant. He was taken to jail, and then the courthouse, where Judge Aiken sentenced him to the same jail time being served by the demonstrators and double the fine they paid, citing contempt of court.

My grandfather’s case got more local press than the first demonstrations had. In contrast to names like Lawrence and Gloria Campbell’s that the paper had refused to dignify, his name made the paper, not only in Danville, but in Richmond, Roanoke, Greensboro, N.C., and Washington. Some lawyers in Danville ran counter-editorials defending Judge Aiken and mocking my grandfather.

When Mills E. Godwin Jr., Virginia’s governor, returned from a meeting with President Lyndon B. Johnson, journalists asked him about what had happened to Leigh Taylor in Danville. (Godwin sidestepped the question, calling the whole situation “unfortunate.”)

At the advice of his lawyer, my grandfather, still a mill employee with four children to raise, apologized to the judge. Even then he wasn’t without spirit. Asked what he meant to achieve by his letter, he told Judge Aiken, “I wanted you to know what some people were thinking.”

Then he asked not to be sentenced, saying, “I hope you’d think of my position in the community.” Judge Aiken responded, “Mr. Taylor, you should have thought of my position in the community.”

Judge Aiken eventually vacated the jail sentence, but not the fine. Nevertheless, a chill fell around parts of my grandfather’s life in Danville. Although he was only in his mid-40s, he never got another promotion. He worked the same position in the mill for another 20-odd years.

My grandfather was not a hero. Unlike Mr. Campbell, he did not plan to put his life on the line. He set out as a privileged person expecting to be heard, and ended as a privileged person surprised by backlash. But he did speak up. He was then used as an example of what could happen even to a white man of standing if he stepped out of line. And, in his own way, he spent his life paying for it.

When we look back on our troubled histories, especially at the distance of 50 years, we might like to imagine that we would be Skeeter Phelan, the character in “The Help,” or an abolitionist. My grandfather’s story recalls the painful complexity of oppressive regimes not only to those they oppress most directly but to anyone who dares to question them at all.

It has taken a long time for the tide to turn in Danville; in some ways it is still turning. After decades of denying that the violence on June 10 had even occurred, Danville now has a public plaque to what is known as Bloody Monday. The Register and Bee has issued an apology for its failure to cover the protests and violence, what its editor called “sins of omission.”

But Mr. Campbell still thinks about the retired chief of police, who repeatedly denied the beatings, and of the Rev. R. J. Barber, a prominent white preacher who called him and King Communists.

I often wonder if my grandfather made any difference at all. I recently sat down with Mr. Campbell. After two hours I pulled out some yellowing newspaper clippings about my grandfather, who has been dead for 20 years. I expected him not to remember the story.

But Mr. Campbell looked them over, then told me: “I can count on one hand the white people from this town who said anything at all then.” Among them was my grandfather. I said I felt sadness that my grandfather had apologized to Judge Aiken. Mr. Campbell gave me a long stare. “ Don’t you doubt for one minute that your grandfather went through hell, baby,” he said. “It took a man to speak out.”

He paused. “It took God.” He added: “What your grandfather did was brave. In fact,” he waggled his finger at me, “it was stone cold crazy.”

I don’t know how crazy it was. Sometimes I am proud of my grandfather. Sometimes I feel, painfully, that his act was not enough. In some ways, his efforts are beside the point. But in other ways, they offer me a window into what presses down on a culture that is struggling to change.
27 2013-06-02 And the pace is picking up for Mr. Crane, even though his union, the National Immigration and Customs Enforcement Council, represents 7,700 of 20,000 employees of the immigration agency known as ICE.

The Senate bill, having survived a barrage of hostile amendments in committee, is headed to the full Senate with momentum that has surprised even its supporters, driven by a coalition including Latinos, high-tech businesses, growers, labor federations and religious groups. It would create a 13-year path to citizenship for immigrants here illegally, strengthen border security and revamp legal immigration.

Opponents, playing defense, increasingly argue that the bill is weak on enforcement and would allow a new wave of illegal immigration. Mr. Crane is the go-to guy to make that case.

He says, in stark terms, that the Obama administration’s performance could not be worse.

“Across the board, we’re not doing law enforcement work,” Mr. Crane said in a recent interview in Salt Lake City, where he is based. “It’s very disturbing as an employee in general to see the Department of Homeland Security lie to the American people day in and day out about who we’re arresting.”

He says that officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement have exposed agents to danger from gang members in detention centers, and that they threatened to discipline agents for detaining illegal immigrants encountered on the street. To reinforce his points, he brought a lawsuit last year against Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security. A decision from the Texas judge in that case is expected soon.

Homeland Security officials said their enforcement record spoke for itself. Under the Obama administration, ICE has deported more than 1.4 million people, including increasing numbers of convicted criminals — 225,000 last year. Officials say Mr. Crane ignores the deportation numbers as part of a personal crusade to put a right-wing tilt on immigration policy, which they say is out of line with his duties as a law enforcement officer.

Plain-spoken and camera-shy, Mr. Crane is an unlikely labor firebrand.

He said he had grown up in conservative country in Wyoming and served two tours in the Marine Corps before joining ICE 10 years ago. He traced his bitter doubts about the agency to his early days there, when, he said, his first supervisor was frequently drunk on the job. He joined the union for protection from retaliation after he reported that manager, he said.

Since then, morale among ICE employees has been sinking, he said, with Homeland Security ranking 279 out of 292 federal agencies in an annual federal government survey last year.

“Our managers are completely out of control,” Mr. Crane said. He recalled an episode in 2009 in an ICE office in El Paso when two married agents said their baby had been born with medical problems because of work pressure and sexual harassment during the pregnancy.

ICE agents protested on the female agent’s behalf, Mr. Crane said. He broke into tears as he recounted the events.

More recently, his feud with top ICE officials is over a policy instructing deportation officers to exercise prosecutorial discretion, deporting criminals rather than immigrants whose only violation is being here illegally. Mr. Crane said many ICE agents found the policy, which was started two years ago, confusing and contrary to their mission. He waged a battle with ICE managers over when and how agents would be trained to carry it out.

“They are asking law enforcement officers to basically ignore their law books,” Mr. Crane said. “For officers out in the field, we can’t function like that. We have to have laws that are very clear, that aren’t ambiguous, that we can confidently go out into the street and enforce.”

ICE officials strongly disputed many of Mr. Crane’s statements. Brian Hale, an ICE spokesman, said that the episode in El Paso had been swiftly referred to the agency’s inspector general and that top managers there had changed.

“Any suggestion that this allegation of local misconduct is in any way linked to the broader policy disagreements between the union and ICE management is incorrect and misleading,” he said.

Mr. Crane is in a minority in the immigration agency. Nearly 9,000 investigating agents in ICE are represented by a different organization, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and they do not agree with his approach.

“The union has a tendency to fire Scud missiles at the administration,” said Andrew Rakowsky, the association’s representative at ICE. “We work to find common ground.”

And Mr. Crane is in an even smaller minority among law enforcement leaders, with national associations of police chiefs and sheriffs rallying behind the White House to support the bill. He is also rowing against a flood tide in the labor movement, even though his local is affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The federation has organized a nationwide campaign to push for the overhaul. Its leaders have also called on the Obama administration to halt almost all deportations while the legislation is being debated.
28 2013-06-02 The deadly explosion at a in , Tex., in April has highlighted glaring shortcomings in federal and state regulation of facilities that produce, store and use toxic chemicals.

The casualties in — 14 killed and nearly 200 injured — were shocking, but the fact is that chemical disasters imperil millions of Americans who live and work close to industrial plants in dense cities and sprawling suburbs. Last November, the Congressional Research Service identified 2,560 facilities that could each put more than 10,000 people at risk in the event of an accident. Last year, 1,270 people died in more than 30,000 chemical spills and accidents. The Texas catastrophe showed that federal regulators have been far too lax in their oversight of ammonium nitrate, the fertilizer at the center of this explosion. The West Fertilizer Company stored 540,000 pounds of the stuff at its plant in 2012 (it is unclear how much it had in April). In spite of the potential risks posed by the fertilizer, plants are allowed to keep it near residential areas. Plants with large quantities are required to tell the how they keep the material secure, but the West plant did not bother to do so.

More broadly, the explosion is a reminder that the Obama administration has failed to uphold a promise the president made as a candidate in 2008 to require the industry to switch to safer chemicals and processes wherever feasible. The could compel plants to switch their materials and methods by invoking the general duty clause of the , which calls on them to prevent accidental release of dangerous chemicals and to minimize the consequences of such releases.

Many environmental groups and , an E.P.A. administrator during ’s first term, have lobbied for such a change. But the agency has not required the switch to safer technology, under pressure from the industry, which argues that such a mandate would be costly and cumbersome.

The health risk is particularly great for the poor and racial minorities, who are more likely to live in communities near facilities using hazardous materials. Much of this is the result of racial politics that put dangerous plants in segregated and poor neighborhoods where land is cheap. Restrictive zoning laws and subtler forms of discrimination can also make it hard for the poor and members of minority groups to move to nicer neighborhoods. A study published in the American Journal of Sociology in 2010 found that black and Hispanic families tended to live in areas with more industrial pollution than whites — even with similar levels of education and income.

For example, more than 40,000 people live in a three-mile radius around a Citgo oil refinery in , Tex., which uses a host of flammable and toxic chemicals, including butane and hydrogen fluoride. This population has an estimated per capita income of $12,700, and nearly 90 percent of those people are Hispanic or black, according to an analysis of E.P.A. and census data by an alliance of environmental groups known as the Coalition to Prevent Chemical Disasters. By contrast, the State of Texas has an average per capita income of about $25,500, and about 50 percent of its population is Hispanic or black.
29 2013-06-02 More than 40,000 people live in a 3-mile radius of this large petrochemical complex that uses several flammable and toxic chemicals like butane and hydrogen fluoride.

This plant uses chlorine to make bleach. About 240,000 people live within three miles. The company has said that it plans to switch to safer technology but has not provided details.

On the Michigan side of the river, 72,200 people live within a 3-mile radius of the Detroit Wastewater Treatment Plant, which stores and uses sulfur dioxide and chlorine gas.
30 2013-06-02 BEIRUT, Lebanon — A prominent Sunni Muslim cleric influential in the Syrian uprising has issued a fatwa, or religious decree, calling on Muslims around the world to help Syrian rebels in the embattled town of Qusayr and labeling Hezbollah and Iran, which support the Syrian government, enemies of Islam “more infidel than Jews and Christians.”

The cleric, Sheik Yusef al-Qaradawi, an Egyptian based in Qatar whom Syrian authorities have branded an extremist bent on inciting Syrian Sunnis but who is respected by many in the rebellion, made his statements in a sermon on Friday in Doha, Qatar, and posted them on his Web site. Though it was unclear how many would heed the call who were not already motivated to fight in Syria, his comments were bound to heighten sectarian passions in the region as the mostly Sunni rebels battle a government backed by Shiite Iran and Hezbollah.

Tensions also heightened on Saturday in Lebanon over the war in neighboring Syria. A mainstream Sunni Muslim organization called on Sunnis to join the fight against the Syrian government, and its leader was attacked as he drove through the Hezbollah-dominated Shiite area where he lives.

Sixteen shells and rockets fired from Syria on Friday night hit the outskirts of Baalbek, a city in Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley considered a stronghold of Hezbollah, the Shiite militant group that is also Lebanon’s most powerful political party. Around the same time, gunmen fired on a Shiite shrine there, according to Lebanon’s National News Agency.

Four Lebanese citizens were arrested in the gunfire, the agency said. Though the motive was unclear, taken together with the shelling of a majority-Shiite area, believed to be carried out by Syrian rebels, the gunfire raised fears that sectarian clashes were spreading further into Lebanon.

The Muslim Scholars Association of Lebanon, a group of Sunni clerics, also issued a fatwa calling on its followers to support Syrian rebels “by words, money, medical aid and fighting, within legitimate restrictions under the ethics of Islam.” The group said it acted in response to Hezbollah’s increasingly intense and public intervention on the side of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Hezbollah guerrillas are leading an assault on rebels in Qusayr.
31 2013-06-02 The United States Golf Association, in an endorsement of old-style golf architecture and in a bold tribute to the game’s roots, has chosen to bring its signature championship to pocket-size and hemmed-in Merion.

The fabled East Course at the club, which hosted its first national championship in 1904, has been home to more national championships than any American site. But the last time the Open was at Merion, 32 years ago, the consensus was that the off-the-course extravaganza had grown so outsize, it would be the final time the modest club would see the event. The United States Open has grown exponentially since.

“It was a challenge to even think about bringing the U.S. Open to Merion,” said Reg Jones, the U.S.G.A.’s senior director of the championship. “People said time had passed Merion by. But we thought it was more than worth it to try. It wasn’t going to be easy and it was going to take some out-of-the-box thinking, but we wanted to see if it could be done.”

The Merion grounds are about half the size of a 21st-century United States Open location. The club is confined by public roads, a bordering college, a meandering railway and dozens of homes.

In scale, bringing the modern United States Open to little Merion and its serene suburban environs is like bringing the Super Bowl to a small-college football field. And in this case, the Super Bowl comes for four consecutive days.

When the first tee shots rise into the air June 13, golf fans should be ready for things they have never seen before at a United States Open — and not just caddies reading putts with an eye on their wristwatches.

When was the last time a golfer in a major championship hooked a shot just 25 yards off line and landed in somebody’s patio barbecue grill? Or a second-floor bedroom? It’s possible on Merion’s 15th hole.

No wonder Mike Davis, the U.S.G.A. executive director, has taken to calling this year’s event “a boutique U.S. Open.”

About 12,000 people live in the less than two square miles of Ardmore, the orderly, uncluttered Philadelphia suburb where the Merion Golf Club was built in 1896.

When the United States Open descends here, the number of security personnel, members of the news media, officials and volunteers will equal the community’s population. They will be joined by a clamorous congregation of 190,000 spectators, who over four days will flock to an immense corporate tent city, multiple hospitality villages, a 24,000-square-foot merchandising store and acres of temporary grandstands, spectator plazas and food courts. It is a golf-themed Mardi Gras wrapped within one of the year’s biggest sporting events — all encircled by nine miles of chain-link fencing.

But Merion is also hallowed golf ground, and returning American golf to its embryonic grass roots is expected to be part of the charm. This is where Bobby Jones completed his Grand Slam in 1930; where Ben Hogan launched his historic 1-iron at the 18th hole in 1950; where Lee Trevino pulled a fake snake from his golf bag before winning his playoff with Jack Nicklaus in 1971.

The whole idea is old time meets big time. Still, when the United States Open was at the Olympic Club in San Francisco last year, the U.S.G.A. had 200 acres at its disposal. Merion has 110. And the Olympic Club was not surrounded by a neighborhood settled more than a century before the Revolutionary War. The logistics are so complicated and labor intensive that the U.S.G.A. said it could lose money on the event.

The first of what became hundreds of meetings in the community near Merion took place in 2005 at Haverford College, which shares a half-mile border with the club and golf course. There would be no United States Open at Merion if Haverford had not agreed to give up as much as 25 acres of its campus for an operational compound, a series of enormous hospitality tents and an 800-car parking lot.

“The college is not a golfing community, so some people were taken aback at the size of what was coming,” said Dick Wynn, Haverford’s vice president for finance, who was involved in the negotiations with the U.S.G.A. “But we wanted to be good neighbors, and as everyone learned that Merion is like a golf museum to golfers, we wanted to help the event come here.”

The college received more than 100 free tickets to the Open, which have been useful for institutional fund-raising. Other tickets have been raffled off to the college community.

There was the occasional clash of athletic cultures, though. When construction of the biggest hospitality tents began just beyond the outfield wall of the Haverford baseball field in early spring, the cranes and steel girders looming over the field were a minor distraction. Then the all-white plastic canvases that make up the tents’ walls and ceilings were stretched across struts and beams.

Suddenly, there was a sea of white spanning the horizon beyond center field, which made it impossible for batters to see a white baseball thrown from the pitching mound.

Baseball fields purposely have a black or green batter’s eye in center field to improve vision. Haverford now had a dangerous white-on-white problem — with a big doubleheader coming up against its archrival, Johns Hopkins, the next day.

Working together, a college maintenance crew and a collection of U.S.G.A. workers quickly found a dark tarp about 30 feet high and 70 feet wide. The tarp was propped across several pine trees beyond center field with a system of ropes and supports. It was not easy to hide a tent city more than 200 yards long, but enough of the white expanse was obscured for the baseball season to continue.

Haverford Township, which includes Ardmore, has asked for police help from about 85 surrounding towns and municipalities, a security force that will swell to several hundred officers, including the F.B.I., the Department of Homeland Security and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

John Viola, the deputy police chief of the township, worked the 1971 and 1981 United States Opens at Merion.

“In 1971, about the only thing we did was watch the fairways and greens overnight so they weren’t vandalized,” he said. “In ’81, maybe we had about 35 police officers helping out.”

To prepare for every contingency, the police have been meeting with various constituencies for two years, convening as often as three times a day. Pieces of five contiguous roads will be closed to traffic, with detours routing traffic around the community, which in addition to Haverford is home to Villanova University and numerous other colleges. Almost all the parking is far off site — about 24,000 cars are expected — with the overwhelming majority of fans arriving by shuttle bus or train.

The neighborhood enveloping the course will be patrolled by the police so that no one is allowed inside a specific perimeter without a resident pass.

“We didn’t want random fans, or lost fans, wandering through people’s yards or parading across lawns,” Viola said.

Besides, the lawns are too valuable. Certain homes are so close to the action — sometimes no more than 50 feet from fairways and greens — that their lawns were quickly snapped up as prime real estate for lavish corporate parties.

At some of the more sumptuous estates, the lawns are sprouting giant corporate tents of their own, with balconies that tower over fairways and bunkers. Eleven other parcels of land have been leased for concessions, restrooms, storage and the staging of essential equipment. Dozens of homes have been rented to players for the week.

Not all the local residents are certain to make money off the Open.

Kate Rapine owns Pepper’s Cafe on Haverford Road, less than half a mile from Merion. Many roads around her cafe will be closed during the tournament.

“It’s going to be a nightmare for me to get my produce and dry goods delivered,” Rapine said. “My regular customers may not be able to get here either. I don’t know if anyone will come by because everyone with a ticket will be bused into the golf course and there’s plenty of food there.

“I’m hoping the police will need somewhere to go.”

Rapine said conversation about the event inside her cafe was mixed.

“Some people are excited and proud,” she said. “Some people are fleeing for the week and want nothing to do with it. And some people are treating it like a big storm — they’re stocking up on groceries and essentials for a week inside their houses.”

But some things will go on as scheduled, like the commuter train horns and the peal of St. George’s bells.

“The players will just have to adjust,” Viola said.

The Rev. Ryan Whitley, St. George’s rector, said the church’s chimes, which ring from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., were popular in the neighborhood. St. George’s was built in the 1930s, so golfers have been making their way around Merion for quite a while with the bells serenading the grounds.

“Nobody I know of has asked us to turn off the bells,” Whitley said. “I have, though, told the U.S.G.A. that if any of the golfers want to come by I will bless their clubs.”
32 2013-06-02 Martin is best known for his lawsuit against the PGA Tour, under the Americans With Disabilities Act, which won him the right to use a cart in competition in 2001. But few knew that Martin, who has a degenerative circulatory disorder in his right leg called Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome, had stopped playing full time in 2003. He became the golf coach at the University of Oregon in 2006, taking a job in his hometown, Eugene.

“Tour life is great when you’re doing well,” he said in a telephone interview. “But when you’re single and not playing well, not so much. It had taken me a while just to get there. And I’d had enough.”

Martin had happily escaped the public eye. He said that using a cart on the PGA Tour was mentally grueling, not only because of the scrutiny, but also because he had to drive among spectators while his competitors walked between the ropes.

An admittedly relentless competitor, Martin channeled his energy into the Oregon program, trying to recruit top amateur golfers to Eugene, where it rains about 51 inches a year. In 2010, the Ducks played in an N.C.A.A. semifinal, losing to the perennial power Oklahoma State. Oregon also tied for third last year.

“I have had times where I’ve signed players,” Oklahoma State Coach Mike McGraw said, “and I’ll get a call from Casey the morning after, and I’ll be left trying to figure out how he even heard about it. He’s on top of everything.”

Watching his players on the range and in competition increased Martin’s voracious interest in the golf swing, not that he wanted to tinker with theirs. But if they struggled, he wanted to know why and to be able to turn them around quickly.

Although he never stopped pounding balls on the range — mostly with his driver before the Ducks reported for practice — Martin never played in events more competitive than alumni fund-raisers or a friendly Nassau. Until May 2012.

“His game, especially his ball striking, was just incredible from the beginning,” said Josh Unruh, a friend and former Oregon assistant men’s basketball coach, who was Martin’s caddie through local and sectional qualifying last year and will be on his bag Monday. “But I wondered if he could get through the 36 holes of sectionals.”

Martin’s right leg is atrophied, and it throbs day and night. So even though he used a cart during qualifiers and at the Open, hitting so many shots was painful. The weather did not help.

“We were in the last group to tee off,” Unruh said. “He played the first 18 holes at three under and birdied the first hole of the second round when the rain got biblical. There was a two-hour delay, where we saw he was tied for the lead. But he probably should have stopped after 15 holes because it was getting dark. He ended up needing to make a 5-foot putt in the dark on 18 to avoid a playoff. And he made it.”

It was as if Martin had stoked a fire. At the Open, he tied for 60th, one stroke below the cut line. His two-day score was the same as players like Lucas Glover, a former United States Open champion, and Louis Oosthuizen, a former British Open winner.

And as Martin likes to point out, “I can say I beat Rory McIlroy.”

Martin, who recently had a painful kidney stone procedure, knows the sectional will not be easy. Only the two lowest scorers in the 34-player field will qualify for the Open, which begins June 13 at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore, Pa.

To that end, he has been working with the swing coaches Joe Mayo and Grant Waite. Martin maintains that he is hitting the ball better than when he was a full-time professional. In local qualifying in Portland, Ore., Martin shot a 69 and beat a few of the players he coaches.

“I’m excited to try and take some of that new knowledge out there,” Martin said. “One thing I have learned is that I still enjoy playing, and that’s why I’m trying again.”
33 2013-06-02 Sunny’s, a beloved hangout by the Brooklyn waterfront, has remained shuttered since it was severely damaged by Hurricane Sandy....
34 2013-06-02 Admirers of more cerebral musicals may sometimes wonder why “Grease,” the nostalgic tribute to adolescent angst and blooming love at Rydell High in 1959, continues to find its way to numerous stages. The original Broadway production, which opened in 1972 and closed eight years later, set a longevity record for its time. It has been turned into a movie and had two major Broadway revivals and countless other productions. Its beloved songs, like “Summer Nights” and “Those Magic Changes,” are by now easily mistaken for iconic 1950s ballads instead of the fond sendups they were meant to be.

It must be the songs.

At Gateway Playhouse in Bellport, the show begins with an awkward audience-participation dance party hosted by Jim O’Brien, who is a real-life D.J. at B-103 in Farmingdale, in a tuxedo and glittery bow tie. He is partly in character as Vince Fontaine, the flashy radio D.J. character he portrays, and partly not, as he tells the audience that they are going to have a great time and that the show they are about to see uses the original 1972 script.

He is not quite right on either count. This production comes alive vocally during its musical numbers, but does not shine in the dance category and languishes painfully during the spoken dialogue. Furthermore — though this is nothing to complain about — it incorporates two songs, “Hopelessly Devoted to You” and “You’re the One That I Want,” both by John Farrar, from the popular 1978 movie adaptation starring John Travolta. Many stage productions now do, often borrowing other elements from the film as well. These additions may not require adjustments to the spoken words, but they do alter the show’s texture.

Ray DeMattis, the director, performed in the original Broadway show and has since directed other productions. But he has not found ways to finesse the meandering story line, hokey interplay among characters and woeful lack of consistent themes. Of the book, music and lyrics written by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey, the book is the weak link.

Fortunately, the production is filled with personable young actors who have mastered a pleasing pop-rock style. The standout is Holly Ann Butler, who plays the tough-girl Betty Rizzo with a desperate edge that brings surprising emotional depth to her character. Betty is the leader of the Pink Ladies, working-class teenagers who drink and smoke (cigarettes, daring enough in 1959) and are the female counterparts of the Burger Palace Boys, who use grease in their hair.
35 2013-06-02 When Better Place, the global electric-car charging company with a home base in Israel, announced last month that it had reached the end of the road, it left behind both bold dreams and valuable assets.

The company, which took in about $850 million from investors, was best known for its network of battery swapping stations that let E.V. drivers avoid long recharge times by simply changing to a fully charged battery in an automated process that took only minutes. At its peak under Shai Agassi, its charismatic founder, the company had operations in Israel, Denmark, Australia, China, the United States and the Netherlands; in February it cut back to the first two.

Susanne Tolstrup, a former spokeswoman for Better Place, said in an e-mail that the company had 1,000 customers in Israel, with 37 swap stations and more than 1,000 “charge spots.” In Denmark, she said, the company had about 500 customers, 18 swap stations and 700 chargers. The Renault Fluence Z.E. electric car, a model designed to use switchable batteries, is offered in both countries.

American operations had already begun winding down.

In Northern California, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission in 2010 announced nearly $7 million in awards to build Better Place taxi fleets with swappable batteries in San Francisco and San Jose.

“Here in the Bay Area, we’ve been supportive of a lot of different initiatives on climate change,” Randy Rentschler, a spokesman for the agency, said in a telephone interview. “We knew we were taking some chances, and this is an example on the electric vehicle side that wasn’t quite ready.”
36 2013-06-02 “I was already done with the drama of fourth-grade girls,” Ms. Dutcher said. In addition, she wanted to remedy a time-management issue: “At home I could finish my school work in a couple of hours, ride my horse, take a walk with the dog and then watch everybody else come back in the school bus.” When she was 14, she started attending community college. “I didn’t do things like everybody else, and I continue not to,” she said.

While wolf-dogs look precious as puppies, as they grow, they tend to turn unmanageable, and their owners no longer want them. Hence the laws restricting them in residential settings. That also explains the need for rescue organizations, like Wolf Connection ranch, 28 acres housing 24 wolf-dogs and financed by private donations as well as school districts and foster-care agencies that pay for the youth programs.

Caring for wolf-dogs was a complicated business; so was managing Mr. Alfero’s relationship with his new volunteer, 20 years his junior. “It’s not that I liked her and I pretended not to,” he said. “She was underage, and I just didn’t look at her as a woman when I met her.”

Ms. Dutcher, too, felt the need to maintain a level of propriety. “I didn’t have romantic ideas about Teo until I started getting older and discovering myself,” she said. Nevertheless, others at work suspected that sparks were flying between them.

For a long time, Mr. Alfero, now 41, would admit only to appreciating the way Ms. Dutcher interacted with the wolf-dogs. “She’s a small-framed girl, 5-foot-3,” he said, “and 120-pound wolf-dogs obeyed her as if she was a powerful being, and she is. And I began to be: Wow. I’m impressed by her.”

Then one stormy night the wind destroyed fencing surrounding the wolf-dog cages. “It was three in the morning in the rain and wind, and she was out there with me using pliers with her frozen hands to bend back wire,” Mr. Alfero said. “I thought: ‘This is it. I’ve discovered a partner who would be there no matter what.’ ”

Still, unlike Ms. Dutcher, he had already had other relationships. He felt responsible for taking things slowly. After she turned 18, they began to go out to movies and dinner.

“We held hands one night, and that felt awesome,” Mr. Alfero said. Everything was leading up to a first kiss, but there were still those complications. They often talked about how she was young and he was her boss. Finally, both concluded that their feelings for each other were strong and there to stay.

“We drove up past Sacramento to rescue an animal, and were staying in separate bedrooms in a bed-and-breakfast,” Ms. Dutcher said. “We wanted to cross that line and make our feelings into something, and so we kissed.”

“We knew where they were headed from the beginning,” said Ms. Dutcher’s mother, Jodie Robitaille, a chef.

Ms. Dutcher’s father had other thoughts. “At first I was concerned about the age difference,” said Richard Dutcher, a utility company lineman. “But after seeing them together over the years, it’s clear they were made for each other.”

The couple’s passion for animals is undeniable. As for what makes their human relationship work, Ms. Dutcher said that Mr. Alfero had a gift for reading people. “He knows exactly what’s going on with me,” she said. “If I’m sad or upset, he can read that and be supportive. I never feel alone.”

Mr. Alfero cited one of the benefits of age and periods of self-reflection. “I come from a culture where men don’t talk about their feelings, and about the only emotional reaction they’re allowed to have to something is anger,” he said. “I want to believe that I’m able to express my emotions to Renee, be they joy or sadness or sorrow or love. I tell her I love her 20 times a day.”

A Wolf Connection board member and friend, Grace Kono-Wells, suggested that Ms. Dutcher’s pragmatism served as a counterweight to Mr. Alfero’s idealism. “He goes off into left field: ‘Let’s get 300 acres and 1,000 more kids and bee hives and a vegetable farm and an archery range,’ ” she said. “Mentally, he’s in his early 20s, like a kid with his first baseball, and even though she’s a lot younger, she’s the one to slow him down.”

AFTER DATING for two years, the couple began to talk about starting a family. That’s when Mr. Alfero decided to propose. He took her to an elegant Los Angeles restaurant overlooking the ocean (without the wolf-dogs in tow). When she wondered aloud about what name they might give a son or daughter, he jumped in, saying that would depend on one question. “I took the ring out of my pocket and said, ‘Will you marry me? Then we’ll know what last name to give our kid.’ ”

On May 25, wearing a short white dress she bought online for $65, they were married in front of a big tepee at the Wolf Connection compound. Four days earlier, she had turned 21, and that Saturday there happened to be a full moon. (Always a lively time for wolf-dogs and their handlers.)

Portable toilets and power generators were brought in because the ranch does not have plumbing or electrical lines of its own. The wolves were nervously pacing nearby, as the groom, completely calm, greeted his guests. Women dressed in light summer dresses anchored by clunky shoes stood on the rocky dirt. Tufts of pale wolf-dog fur floated in drifts of wind.

After the couple recited their vows, Ashton Dorkins, a friend of the couple who had been ordained online by the American Marriage Ministries, completed the ceremony. Then the 165 guests moved to a clearing in a grove of trees where a dance floor and 20 tables dressed in lavender cloths and purple plastic utensils had been set up.

As the newlyweds waited to make their official entrance into the grove, they breathlessly confessed that when they stood in front of the tepee, they were so overwhelmed that they forgot the vows they had written, and had winged them.

“It was like in the movies, and there was this white light that blocked out everybody but you,” he said.

“Same here,” she said. “If you asked me to name one person who was there, I couldn’t. All I saw was you, only you.”

The wolf-dogs howled, their keening drowned out by the power generators running the ice machine and sound system.
37 2013-06-02 Jennifer Meyer Maguire’s jewelry line, which she began designing in 2005, is nominated for a Council of Fashion Designers of America award. A Los Angeles native, Ms. Meyer Maguire, 36, lives there with her husband, the actor Tobey Maguire, and their children, Ruby, 6, and Otis, 4.

Flew into Cannes yesterday — my husband’s film “The Great Gatsby” is playing — and had a wild night drinking Bellinis at the Hotel Du Cap. So started the day a tad late with lunch by the pool. I wore a Bilitis Dix-Sept Ans flower print dress from Opening Ceremony, a striped Marc Jacobs cashmere pullover and Tabitha Simmons sneakers, also striped.

Later, for the “Gatsby” premiere, I was in head-to-toe Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane. I was born in ‘77 and the ‘90s was really when I started expressing myself in fashion. I was all about Hole and Courtney Love, and those are his references. Anyway: a long black chiffon dress with gold polka dots, open-toe heels and, of course, my own jewelry. I always wear two gold rings with my kids’ names.

After another long night, I woke up and put on Current/Elliott jeans, striped J. Crew shirt, black Isabel Marant sneakers and black Ray-Bans and was in full mom mode. I would love to be that woman in a scarf and large glasses pretending I’m in a Fellini movie, but that’s just not my reality. By night I was in five-inch Alaïa heels. It was a big, fun casual dinner with everyone from “Gatsby.” I wore leather pants and the Marc Jacobs striped sweater and a gorgeous Saint Laurent tuxedo jacket. Watched the sun come up — magical.

Woke up with the kids, had croissants in a hotel robe while we practiced French. To walk around a bit, I wore my favorite vintage hippie dress — white, pink, sort of tea-length — with black Converse and an American Apparel cardigan. To catch the plane back to L.A., I threw on a DVF blue and white jumpsuit and gray J. Crew sweater. Into my Donatienne canvas tote: my children’s books, iPads, extra clothes.

Home, sweet home! My kids and I played Barbies for most of the day. I wore parachute pants in a white and red pattern with the softest Hanes white tank top and Havaiana flip-flops. I fell asleep in the same clothes; I was that comfortable.

My husband left for Australia. So it was me with the kids. The weather was gorgeous. I wore an Urban Outfitters eyelet cotton dress that I have had for 10 years, my American Eagle Outfitters sandals and a J. Crew hat. We went to the park, drove to Malibu, went back to the park. For dinner at our favorite Italian restaurant, Giorgio Baldi, showered and put on a little Shoshanna tank dress with Rag & Bone bootees and an A.L.C. tan sweater. I don’t have the flattest stomach in the world; I wear looser cuts so I can eat a bowl of pasta if I want to.

Got the kids into school mode, then to work in a Jenni Kayne striped dress with Topshop ballet flats. For dinner, my Tabitha Simmons sneakers again and a purple Rodarte dress that I wore to my first C.F.D.A. presentation with Anna Wintour.
38 2013-06-02 For me, reading dog books is always a little bit fraught. There’s just no way around comparing the dogs in the book with the ones that share my home. And mine, you see, are just this side of feral; their virtues include not eating all six of my dining room chairs. I almost never read books about good dogs or working dogs if I can help it, and certainly not about therapy dogs. I mean, what kind of therapy dogs would my dogs make? Is there a person whose life is too neat, or too happy?

Sue Halpern’s book “A Dog Walks Into a Nursing Home” features the kind of angelic animal I normally try to avoid: Pransky, a sweet 7-year-old Labra­doodle. Halpern had Pransky certified as a therapy dog when her daughter was getting ready to go away to college and her husband was working and traveling a lot. It took a little over six weeks to get the very well-behaved, if slightly bored, Pransky up to speed, and even before she was fully trained, Halpern had arranged for them to visit the residents of a nearby nursing home.

Pransky turns out to be a natural. “Watching Pransky jump in bed with a nursing home resident or put her head in someone’s lap, I could see that the love she was sharing was simple and profound,” Halpern writes.

To understand the human-dog bond and Pransky’s particular talents, she draws upon Schopenhauer on lovingkindness, Descartes on the separation between mind and body, Aristotle on self-restraint and Darwin on animal emotions. And as we get to know Hal­pern better, it comes as no surprise that she volunteers. She’s a really good person, and Pransky is a really good dog, and despite that, I loved the book.

When writing about pets and infirm and elderly people, the temptation to get sappy and sentimental may be great, but Halpern never succumbs. I found myself choking back tears at her spare and dignified descriptions of life in a nursing home: “Iris was in the far corner, her back to the window, her body framed by the sunlight, her eyes open, staring idly in the middle distance. . . . Dottie faced the television, which was turned off, its black screen broadcasting her own dull stare back to her.”

Nor does the book become depressing, though the deaths do come. There are small and great triumphs — a partially paralyzed woman wills herself to move in order to get closer to Pransky. When a nearly mute woman touches Pransky’s head and says, “Puppy,” Halpern writes, it was like “feeling the synapses fire in my own brain.” And there are many laughs as well, as when Halpern and the divine Pransky encounter vicious dog haters. (“Get your goddamn dog out of here!”)

Halpern is profound on what it means to be a patient in a nursing home, stripped of identity. “Old age and illness are the great levelers,” she writes. She notes that Pransky sees the elderly for “who they are,” not “what they are — disabled, aphasic, blind, mute.” Pransky “started from acceptance, unlike the rest of us.”
39 2013-06-02 Three years ago my son was attacked by a dog. Otto was 2 at the time — a towheaded slip of a boy with bright blue eyes and porcelain skin you could practically see through. He was instinctively drawn to dogs, and we didn’t see any reason to discourage him. Of course I knew they could nip, and every once in a while break the skin. And I had heard the horrific news stories of those seemingly devil-possessed dogs who leapt on unsuspecting neighbors, inflicting actual, permanent harm. But regular dogs, I had no real fear of them. Not having seen a dog attack, I was completely ignorant about how bad it could be, how, in five seconds, a dog could tear the flesh off your bones. Or worse, the skin off your child’s face.

It was dumb, really. I knew the dog, Zeke — I rescued him from St. Croix a number of years earlier. I realized Zeke was not a family dog after my first son, Zane, was born. I could see him looking askance at the baby in my arms and, after a couple of pointed growls, Zeke was put on a plane to my father’s house in . (Thank you, Dad.)

So what was I thinking when, a few years later, while I was seven months pregnant with our third boy, we went to stay with my dad, and of course Zeke, for a family wedding? Well, I thought what I thought — that it would be manageable. That “normal” dogs didn’t do serious harm.

Otto was all over him from the minute we walked through the door. Zeke minded, he made that clear, and my husband and I would quickly intervene, loosening Otto’s tight little grip from Zeke’s tail or ear or whatever body part he’d decided needed a swift tug. Zeke growled, he bared his teeth, he air-snapped (that’s the technical term, I now know), but we always got there in time.

Then one morning, while I was taking a shower, it happened. My husband had gone back to New York, and my dad was watching the boys. This time, when Otto did what Otto had been doing and my dad couldn’t swoop him away fast enough, Zeke tore into Otto’s face, biting through his nose in two places, through his upper lip and ripping a two-inch gash into his right cheek.

I heard it all from the bathroom. The yowling, yelping, growling and thrashing noises of a dogfight and the desperate cries of a toddler, unable to protect himself from this wild animal unleashed. By the time I made it down the stairs, Otto was covered in blood, my father was screaming and crying and Zane, then 6, was cowering in the corner of the room, shaking in fear. I couldn’t even tell where the blood was coming from, there was so much of it, but we hustled everyone into the car and sped to the hospital, my dad slamming his hands on the steering wheel and sobbing uncontrollably the whole way there. I tried to tell him it wasn’t his fault, but I don’t think he heard me.
40 2013-06-02 What followed was an unhappy period of wandering. He made a few mediocre solo records. He became bloated from drinking. Everyone who followed his work with the Truckers knew he was one of America’s thoroughbred songwriters, with a knack for rueful melodies and the kind of grainy blue-collar detail that pins a song in your mind, like the character in “Outfit” who winds up back in “tech school/just to memorize Frigidaire parts.” But he’d lost his way.

His resurrection began when his single, “Alabama Pines,” won Song of the Year at the 2012 Americana Awards, which honor the kind of rebellious and pared-down roots music that used to be called alternative country. “Alabama Pines” is pure Isbell: elegiac and self-lacerating. “I can’t get to sleep at night, the parking lot’s so loud and bright,” the song’s narrator intones from a motel room. “The a/c hasn’t worked in 20 years/Probably never made a single person cold/but I can’t say the same for me, I’ve done it many times.”

But his real comeback wasn’t possible until February 2012, when his girlfriend (now wife), the singer and songwriter Amanda Shires, with the help of his manager Traci Thomas and the musician , got him into rehab. Isbell spent two weeks in Cumberland Heights, an alcohol-and-drug-treatment center in Nashville. His head cleared. When he came out, the whiskey weight drained from his cells, and he shed 40 pounds almost overnight. Best of all, that summer he began writing the songs that make up “Southeastern.” The record, which evokes powerful and intimate classics like ’s and Rosanne Cash’s is a breakthrough for Isbell — prickly with loss, forgiveness, newfound sobriety and second chances­.

Standing outside the studio, where he was working on a few final tracks, Isbell stubbed out a third cigarette. “I’m lucky to have a second chance at all this. I don’t remember a lot of the good times from my days with the Truckers.” This time around, no Pedialyte will be necessary. “This time I want to remember it all.”

“All right, hippies, let’s nail this thing,” Dave Cobb whispered into a microphone. He’s the young Nashville-based producer who was brought in to work on “Southeastern” after Ryan Adams, with whom Isbell toured last year, dropped out of production duties at the last minute, rankling some in Isbell’s camp. Cobb’s backyard studio, like most recording studios, put me in mind of a casino and an artisanal cocktail bar at the same time: dark at midday, air-conditioned, absent of clocks, with banks of colored LED lights.

Cobb may have been a last-minute fill-in, but he has produced albums by renegade country talents like Jamey Johnson and Shooter Jennings, and he had an easy rapport with Isbell. He rocked in his chair like a penitent, eyes closed, his long hair swinging, as Isbell laid down the guitar and vocals for “Different Day,” a ballad on the new record. “I think we got it,” Cobb said after the eighth or ninth run-through. Then he leaned into the microphone again to ask Isbell about a curious word in the song’s lyrics. “What’s benzodiazepine, anyway?”

Isbell’s work is filled with references to prescription drugs — one of his finest songs, a kind of fiddle-strewn anti-waltz, is titled “Codeine” — and when I asked him later why this is, he hesitated for a minute. “I think I just love the sound those words make,” he said. “Prescription drugs have never been seductive to me, but they put some realism in a song. More people are addicted to legal drugs than illegal ones.”

Isbell is a slow, careful writer. He worries the little things. “What keeps me up at night is stuff like the consistency of pronouns,” he says. He’s a grammarian. “My dad, as much as I love him, has one of those signs — ‘The Isbell’s’ — on his front door, and he’s got the damn apostrophe in there. I haven’t strangled him yet.”

When Isbell was young, his father, Mike Isbell, worked as a house painter in Greenhill, which is in rural northern Alabama. There wasn’t much to the town but liquor stores and speed traps, Isbell says.

Mike’s advice for his son is immortalized in Isbell’s anthemic song, “Outfit,” written while he was with the Truckers. The song’s crucial observation comes when Isbell’s father warns him away from the indignities of his own profession: “Don’t let me catch you in Kendale, with a bucket of wealthy man’s paint.”

The Isbell family lived in a trailer when Jason was born. Within a few years they graduated to a one-level Farmers Home Administration house. Isbell got his first electric guitar, an Electra MPC, at age 7 or 8. By the time he was a sophomore in high school, he was so adept with it that his mother would drop him off at bars to sit in with local bands.

These weren’t just any musicians he was jamming with. Isbell grew up near Muscle Shoals, where artists like , the and made classic records with a tight-knit group of soulful session musicians, white guys who sounded black. These men included the bassist David Hood, the father of Patterson Hood, with whom Isbell would later play in the Drive-By Truckers.

“Those older guys would record behind other people during the day and go out and play these intense R.&B. covers at night,” Isbell says. “They took a real interest in me. They taught me a great deal.”

Isbell wasn’t especially popular during high school. He looked like a football player, but he wasn’t interested in the sport. He played trumpet and French horn in the marching band instead. He was a sensitive kid who was usually mistaken for something else. “Every time I’d get a job, they’d say: ‘You’ll be good at loading trucks,’ ” he says. “I couldn’t explain that there was more to me than carrying things.”

Later, after a long day of recording, Isbell was sitting at the kitchen table in the unassuming duplex apartment he shares with Shires on a run-down street in Nashville. There were guitars and books all over the place. Isbell attended the on an academic scholarship. He studied creative writing to help his songwriting and published a few poems in small literary magazines. He read a lot of Faulkner and Welty and and . So their apartment looks like what and Tammy Wynette’s apartment might have looked like, if George Jones and Tammy Wynette had gone to the Writers Workshop.

Isbell was beginning to dive into the story of how he found himself playing with the Drive-By Truckers when Shires shuffled down the carpeted stairs in her pajamas, yawning, and snuggled onto his lap. She’s tiny, with brown hair and fine features. Shires, who grew up in Lubbock, Tex., is a prodigiously talented singer, songwriter and fiddle player in her own right. She joined the Playboys, the former backing band for the Texas swing legend Bob Wills, when she was 15. She has released three increasingly fine albums. Her song “When You Need a Train It Never Comes” was ranked the fifth-best song of 2011 by American Songwriter. It ranked No. 1 among the songs I found myself playing over and over last year. Isbell and Shires have become a kind of power couple in Nashville, though you get the sense they would react to this notion, if proposed, as if someone had just flecked them with chicken feces.

Shires gave Isbell a kiss and headed back up to bed, after bringing us two RC Colas and a couple of Moon Pies. The next morning, they would race into Nashville in his pickup truck, an Obama/Biden sticker affixed to the bumper, to get a marriage license. That night, he watched her go with a sheepish grin and said, “I used to think that only stupid people could love each other this much.”

Isbell never did graduate from . He left one physical-education shy of a diploma. He returned to the Muscle Shoals area in 2001 and began to play in a band that included Shonna Tucker, whom he’d known since he was 16. The band’s demos got Isbell noticed by F.A.M.E. Publishing in Muscle Shoals, which signed him to a songwriting contract at $250 a week.

He also began playing the occasional show with Patterson Hood, who along with Mike Cooley makes up the brain trust of the Drive-By Truckers, a band they founded in 1996. Hood and Cooley grew up near each other in Muscle Shoals. One night at an important house party the Truckers were scheduled to play — a journalist and a photographer from Spin magazine had flown in to do a feature on the band — the band’s third guitarist, Rob Malone, didn’t show.

“Jason happened to be there that night, and we had an empty chair,” Hood says. “He ended up going on tour with us.” Within two weeks, Isbell had written “Decoration Day” and “Outfit,” the songs that defined his tenure with the band. “I knew we’d struck gold,” Hood says. “This chubby kid — he was 22 but looked like he was 15 — was going to be one of the great songwriters of our time.”

It was an auspicious moment to join the band. The Truckers has just released their third record, a double album titled “Southern Rock Opera” (2001), which become a major statement and breakout success. Rolling Stone gave the album four stars. The online music service Rhapsody ranked the album No. 6 on its list of “Rock’s Best Albums of the Decade.”

Twelve years later, “Southern Rock Opera” remains a masterwork, a record that bridged what seemed like an impossible gap between alternative country music and heavy rock. The lyrics, which evoke the dirty South of writers like Barry Hannah, Larry Brown and Harry Crews, are obsessed with race and class and everything from the ghosts of to what Hood refers to, in one song, as “the three Alabama icons” — Bear Bryant, George Wallace and Ronnie Van Zant.

On a song called about a friend who committed suicide, Hood sings the lyrics that, for me, sum up this band’s power: “Everyone has those times when the night’s so long/The dead-end life just drags you down: You lean back under the microphone/And turn your demons into walls/Of goddamned noise and sound.”

So it was an intense band that Isbell found himself joining. The songwriting competition was intense, too. In Hood and Cooley the band already had two of the best singers and songwriters working in America. With Isbell, the band became a three-headed monster, one of the rare triple threats in rock since the days of and the .

Isbell wasn’t a frontman on a level with Hood and Cooley. “I sang my few songs a night and got in the shadows and played guitar,” he says. But his songs had a sensitivity and lilting quality that Hood’s and Cooley’s mostly lacked.

“Even back when I first met him, when he was dripping with that Southern rock, Skynyrd-is-cool attitude, he had the ability to pull these beautiful songs out of his pocket,” his friend Justin Townes Earle says.

Isbell married Tucker in 2002, and she joined the band as its bassist in 2003. By 2007, the band was in disarray. “We had gotten to the point where we just hated being around each other,” Isbell says. His exit from the band was carefully stage-managed. It was said to be about creative differences among friends, and about Isbell’s desire to go solo because he was writing more songs than the band could handle.

But the reality was more complicated. Hood called Isbell and suggested he take some time off and get his life together. Isbell replied that if the band was going to tour under the name Drive-By Truckers, he wasn’t going to miss even one show. Cooley then called Isbell and said, as Isbell recalls, “that isn’t going to work for us.” He was forced out. “It was heartbreaking,” Isbell says. “I couldn’t picture what I was going to do. But now I can’t picture things having gone differently. I love those guys, but I’m glad I’m not playing with them anymore. I think they’re glad of it, too.”

On a bright afternoon in Nashville, Isbell was standing outside Cobb’s studio again, taking another cigarette break and telling me about the years following his breakup with the Truckers, wincing as he did so. On one occasion he was arrested for public drunkenness. He remembers waking up in strange places with no idea of how he got there.

These days Isbell is a popular and witty presence on , but in January 2012, a drunken tweet led to a feud with the country singer Dierks Bentley. Isbell claimed that Bentley’s single sounded too much like “In a Razor Town,” from Isbell’s 2007 album, “Sirens of the Ditch.” Isbell consulted a musicologist, who ultimately absolved and his co-writers, Dan Wilson and Brett Beavers, of plagiarism; the whole incident would end up costing Isbell a few grand in legal fees.

After that, Shires finally got him into rehab. “She got on the phone and called my mom and called Ryan Adams and called my manager and called a lot of other people whose opinions I respect and told them that I really wanted to do it this time, and to hold me accountable.”

Newly sober, Isbell is looking forward to touring behind “Southeastern” along with his band, the 400 Unit. He was funny talking about the almost-comic indignities that can befall a midlevel performer at large in America circa 2013. He mentioned the gruesomeness of a “pentagram tour.” When I asked what that was, he replied: “It’s when all your shows are spread out geographically, like the points of a star. There’s a lot of driving to do. You get rid of that booking agent real quick.”

He used a single word, “evil,” to describe Spotify, the online music-streaming service. “I think Spotify is honestly just another one of Sean Parker’s ways of ripping musicians off,” Isbell said, referring to the Napster co-founder who has a stake in Spotify. His comic mini-rant about Parker was so expletive-filled that, to paraphrase , even the words “and” and “the” from it are not printable here. But the gist of his complaint is this: “People can listen to your album over and over on Spotify, and you don’t really make anything on it.”

Isbell reserves special scorn for people who record his shows on cellphones and post clips to . “It’s an intrusion because I’m not performing for documentation’s sake, I’m performing for people’s ears and their eyeballs,” he said. “I don’t mind the scrutiny of it. We’re good every night. I just feel like people aren’t participating in the community of the room when they’re behaving that way.”

He shook his head. “My favorite thing about going to concerts has always been looking around and thinking that there’s a lot of people in here that are very much like me, a lot of people in here I could have a full conversation with. I might even get laid in this room. You’re not getting laid if you’re standing there with your cellphone.”

Then he laughed and said: “I can’t get too mad. I would have done the same with when I was a kid, if I could have.”

Jason Isbell’s redemption on “Southeastern” is one of the best stories American music has to tell in 2013. In the album’s opening track, “Cover Me Up,” he declares that “I sobered up and I swore off that stuff, forever this time.” But at heart the song is a flat-out love story. Isbell sings:

Girl, leave your boots by the bed we ain’t leaving this room

Till someone needs medical help or the magnolias bloom

It’s cold in this house and I ain’t going out to chop wood

So cover me up and know you’re enough to use me for good.

Talking about the record, Justin Townes Earle said to me: “You know, when I sit around and talk with Jason, he can sound, just as I can, like a dumb redneck. But put him on paper, or behind a guitar, and he can fly.”
41 2013-06-02 SAY HELLO TO YOUR MICROBIOME

Years ago on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, I saw a baby, separated from his pacifier, crawling on the very much-crawled-upon and walked-upon hard floor of my church’s child-care room. The mother calmly took note and, without missing a beat, sucked the errant pacifier “clean” and stuck it back in her baby’s mouth. I stood there, stunned. She turned to me, probably detecting my bewildered look. “You have to stimulate the immune system somehow,” she said with a twinkle in her eye. Well done, I thought. PETER PETITE, Beijing, posted on nytimes.com

Our bodies don’t embrace the microbiome without reserve. As we get to know the microbiome better, we shouldn’t fool ourselves into thinking of it as some wise guardian angel. It’s a horde of several hundred species of microbes, a horde that can do some stupid things. Consider the bacteria that line the delicate walls of our large intestines. If they multiplied with abandon, they would push down into the intestinal wall, pressing against our cells and wedging between them. If they broke through, they’d be swept away into the bloodstream, where they could cause dangerous infections. Our intestinal walls are also loaded with immune cells, and they can make this kind of breach even more damaging. They may overreact, causing dangerous inflammation in the intestines — creating a new environment that can foster the growth of disease-causing bacteria. CARL ZIMMER, The Loom blog on nationalgeographic.com

Michael Pollan makes one confusing conclusion: While stressing that exposure to bacteria boosts your immune system, a scientist tells him that “you want to keep your toothbrush a minimum of six feet away from a toilet.” You could just as easily conclude that we’d be healthier, metabolically if not psychologically, if we moved it a little closer! ADAM RHEA, Charlottesville, Va., posted on nytimes.com

Bragging about your “microbiome” is the new artisanal beet-pickling. @billgifford, via Twitter



Having been a student at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, at the same time as Rajat Gupta, I believe he was driven, like many of us, to succeed and, perhaps like a much smaller group, to achieve at all costs. This was and continues to be a feeling among these exclusive graduates — a sense they were the chosen ones. What the curriculum lacked was a deeper knowledge and sense of ethics, how the temptation to abuse must be reined in while in a position of authority. In America, where many of us migrated because of a lack of jobs in the early 1970s, we were reminded again and again that for all its faults, it remains a nation of laws, and, yes, they are applied equally. RUDY SHANKAR, Knoxville, Tenn., posted on nytimes.com

What strikes me, as someone who worked in the institutional-stock-trading market, is that these guys were stupid or naïve or both. For a number of years, security regulators have used well-functioning computer algorithms to spot trades that appear to have taken advantage of insider information — large buys in advance of good news or sells in advance of adversity. If something appears amiss, especially if a pattern of such trades is turned up, the trail is followed. Rajaratnam and Gupta, for all their experience, seem to have ignored this reality. CAROL GOLDSTEIN, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Phil Jackson has some great ideas, knows a lot and has managed many difficult egos. I just wish he had more influence on how basketball is actually played. The triangle is and was a great idea, but you see the league using primarily pick-and-rolls and isolation, which is like antibasketball (women and college players play a much better game). Jackson should have worked harder to counter this wave of specious athleticism. He should start a basketball college, bring the best people to it and teach these great offenses. Then we might see some decent basketball again. DAVID DELLER, New Bern, N.C., posted on nytimes.com
42 2013-06-02 It’s a man’s man’s man’s world, James Brown proclaimed in his celebrated wail inside a New York recording studio in 1966 — around the same time Beau Rosenwald, the focal character of Matthew Specktor’s sprawling, atmospheric second novel, “American Dream Machine,” sires two sons with two different women. One of those sons — the illegitimate one, Nate Myer — is the novel’s pensive narrator, and he presents his father as a cross between Augie March and Willy Loman: the child of a Queens shoemaker who works his way up from the mailroom of a former vaudeville agency in New York to representing A-list Hollywood stars while earning virulent enemies, a handful of ex-wives and millions of dollars along the perilous, ego-driven way.

On the surface, this is a deeply masculine novel, with Hollywood heavies in possession of huge wallets and matching appetites. But behind the drug- and alcohol-fueled machismo, the kingmaking and the crushing of rivals, are a feline watchfulness and a poetic sensibility that echoes Bellow’s and Updike’s prose rhythms along with their voracious, exuberant intelligence. Specktor evokes other literary giants, Raymond Chandler in particular, with metaphors both memorable and funny peppering the novel. After an awkward sexual encounter, for instance, the female participant “stayed where she was, in the staggered, vertical posture of a drunk hugging a street lamp.”

Nate narrates this hip bildungsroman as if in a fever dream, relating both his own coming-of-age story and his father’s over five sections that span some 50 years of Beau’s life. Many of the details are by necessity imagined, but Nate sets them forth with a confidence all the more striking since he himself is confident neither of his father’s affections nor of his place in the talent empire Beau helped create.

We are alerted early on, perhaps unnecessarily, that Beau’s fate will probably be unhappy: in the second chapter, his mentor sends him to Hollywood with a leatherbound copy of “Coriolanus.” The frequent allusions to Shakespearean tragedy (there are also nods to “Hamlet” and “King Lear”) make clear that Specktor sees the movie industry as a modern equivalent of the great battlefields. Here monumental characters interact in fateful ways while the author deftly explores some of literature’s ageless themes: mortality, betrayal, heroism and hubris.

Paired with the expected Lamborghinis, hot-knifed hash and Malibu parties are many remarkable feats of antic, mischievous imagination. Specktor knits real people into the fictional narrative, often to hilarious effect. Martin Scorsese, John Belushi, Albert Finney and John Travolta all make appearances. The prologue includes an extended, drunken interlude set in the Los Angeles of the early 1990s, with Nate and a young George Clooney reeling together through the Pacific night after Nate spots the actor vomiting into a potted ficus at Hamburger Hamlet. Clooney, not yet the astronomically famous star he will become, announces after he’s caught: “They make the Manhattans here really strong.”

Specktor, a founding editor of The Los Angeles Review of Books and a film executive on productions including “Fight Club,” intersperses other vivid, stimulant-saturated scenes throughout, displaying a gift for timing and the comic aside. If his dialogue sometimes reflects too intimate a familiarity with screenplays — “You have to understand what kind of person he was,” one character insists, as an excuse for Beau’s ruinous behavior — these bromides are at least appropriate for the subject matter.
43 2013-06-02 Head over to Hal and Mal’s, not far from Parlor Market, started by brothers Hal and Malcolm White. The bar and restaurant has been bringing blues, jazz and country bands to Jackson for more than 25 years. Pictures of past acts plaster the walls, as do their signatures. The bar keeps regional beers on draft.

Farish Street was the center of African-American life in Jackson during the Jim Crow era, but in recent decades the street has nearly emptied out. The Big Apple Inn, which opened more than 70 years ago, is one of a handful of businesses to survive the exodus. The limited menu includes smoked sausage sandwiches ($1.25) and pig ear sandwiches ($1.25). For breakfast, you can ask them to add an egg. When he was a field officer for the N.A.A.C.P., Medgar Evers had a small office above the restaurant, and he used to hold meetings inside with Freedom Riders, one of whom was the owner’s mother. Although the street, bustling then, is now mostly silent, little seems to have changed inside the restaurant. A gleaming soda vending machine nods to the present, and after you taste the homemade hot sauce, you’ll be grateful for this allowance.

The Jackson Farmer’s Market at the Mississippi Fairgrounds will give you a taste of the rest of the largely rural state. Try the hand-churned goat’s milk ice cream and buy some Mississippi-made soap, cutting boards and cornmeal to bring home. The market is held Saturdays year-round from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. with additional hours in the summer.

Lemuria Books, a Jackson institution, has changed locations a few times in some 38 years. Don’t be fooled by its current site, in a shopping complex next to the highway. Once you step inside the cozy store, pick out a book and sink into one of the plush, timeworn couches, you’ll begin to feel Lemuria’s magic. Perhaps it’s John Evans’s love affair with books coming through. Mr. Evans started the store because he had a hard time finding books in pre-Amazon.com Jackson. Today he’s cultivated sections on everything Southern, from cooking to gardening, literature to religion. Lemuria also has a room of rare, signed books. Beholding Faulkner’s signature on a limited-edition print is humbling. Check out the Web site’s events section to find out if you’ll be in town during a book signing with one of your favorite writers.

In Fondren, Jackson’s hub of creative, locally owned businesses, the more you look, the more you find. At Sneaky Beans, a good place to stop for a cup of coffee or a craft beer ($4), posters advertise concerts and events around town. Check out Morning Bell Records & Studios, inside the converted Duling Hall, once a school. Across the street, Brent’s Drugs, a throwback luncheonette, served as the setting for one of the scenes in “The Help.” Next explore the shops inside the mixed-use building Fondren Corner, like Blithe and Vine, which sells designer clothing and jewelry, or Swell-O-Phonic, offering snarky Jackson-themed T-shirts ($20) and skate gear. When you’ve finished shopping, sit on the patio at Babalu, a tapas restaurant, with a Cat 5 in your hand — similar to a mojito, but with Mississippi-made Cathead Vodka instead of rum.

Walker’s Drive-In isn’t really a drive-in. The beloved restaurant, considered by many to be the best meal in Jackson, manages to make retro diner décor elegant. At lunch, patrons crowd the booths for the redfish sandwiches, sweet potato fries and salads. During dinner, the menu changes entirely, with entrees like lamb with curry-tzatziki sauce and appetizers like fried oysters with warm Brie and apple slaw.

Underground 119 brings together the best of Jackson, with music of all genres and a diverse crowd. The club has a $10 cover for some acts. Tom Ramsey, the chef, who left a career as an investment banker and lobbyist to follow his dream, frequently makes the rounds to make sure everyone’s having a good time.

Eating at Two Sisters’ Kitchen feels a little like coming home, and only in part because it’s inside an old house. The restaurant was named in honor of the owner Diann Irving Alford’s sisters, who still provide some of the recipes. Take a plate and fill it with a comforting Southern meal: collard greens, fried chicken, black-eyed peas, macaroni and cheese, biscuits and fried okra are just some of the items that rotate on the lunchtime buffet ($12.50 on weekdays, $15 on Sundays). Sit down inside the house or out on the patio, where there’s often live music. It’s an easy way to get a helping of all things Southern, and the servers are as sweet as the tea.

The Fairview Inn (734 Fairview Street; fairviewinn.com) is housed in a 1908 Colonial Revival mansion in the Belhaven neighborhood. Some rooms are in a large addition, but many are in the original mansion ($149 to $299 for one). The Library, a bar in the original library, is a cozy place to unwind in the evening.

The Hilton Garden Inn (235 West Capitol Street; kingedwardhoteljackson.com)  is downtown, close to restaurants, museums and the Capitol.  Rooms generally range from $109 to $209.
44 2013-06-02 McCann left for good in 1986, at 21, having worked since age 17 as a reporter and eventually a columnist for The Evening Press — in the same newsroom as the legendary Irish sportswriter Con Houlihan and the novelist John Banville. The plan was to live in America and write a novel, but after finishing what he called “a truly terrible” few pages of one, he set out on his bicycle across America for the next year and a half. “Part of the reason for the trip was simply to expand my lungs emotionally,” McCann said, to come in contact with what he calls “a true democracy of voices.” He eventually ended up in in 1988, where for the next year and a half he worked as a wilderness guide for juvenile delinquents and then went on to get a degree in history and English from the University of Texas at Austin.

“Let the Great World Spin” was McCann’s seventh book. His eighth, “TransAtlantic,” comes out next week. Like the previous novel, it weaves together the stories of several characters and is told from various perspectives and in different authorial voices. And as in some of McCann’s earlier books — most obviously about , and “Zoli,” based on the life of the Polish Romany poet Papusza — the storytelling emerges from his obsession with actual people and events. What interests him increasingly, McCann said, are the blurred spaces between fiction and nonfiction, the “real that’s imagined and the imagined that’s real.”

“The best writers attempt to become alternative historians,” he said. “My sense of is guided by the works of Doctorow, for instance. My perception of Dublin in the early 20th century is almost entirely guided by my reading of ‘Ulysses.’ ” (A quick aside: A close friend of McCann’s, a photographer whom he had been urging for years to read “Ulysses” and who never got around to it, died not long ago. His friend’s partner put a copy of the novel on his chest in his wicker coffin. “Before the wake, I had a couple hours,” McCann said. “So I went in and sat next to him, lying there in his open coffin, and read the naughty bits from Molly’s soliloquy.”)

What distinguishes “TransAtlantic” from McCann’s earlier work isn’t the stunning language or the psychological acuity or the humor and imagination on display — all of that has been there before. It’s the sheer ambition, the audacity to imagine within the same novel the experience of in 1845, traveling in Ireland to raise awareness and money for the abolition movement and coming face to face with the horrors of the Irish famine; then the first nonstop trans-Atlantic flight, in 1919, from to the coast of Ireland, in a Vickers Vimy bomber flown by the English pilots John Alcock and Arthur Whitten Brown; then to leap into the near-present and embody the former senator George Mitchell, 64 years old, retired from politics, with a wife and new baby, devoting five years of his life to brokering the seemingly unbrokerable peace between north and south in Ireland; and finally to unite these stories, to give them even larger purpose than the historical significance they already possess, by knitting through and around them the stories of four generations of women, starting with Lily Duggan, the maid in the Dublin home of Richard Webb, Frederick Douglass’s host and publisher.

Of all those strands, I imagined the Mitchell material to be the most treacherous, not because it required more chutzpah than to imagine the state of mind of Frederick Douglass or an Irish housemaid, but because the man is still living — and in an apartment less than 10 blocks from McCann’s writing cupboard. “I wanted there to be a present tense to avoid the idea that this is an historical novel,” McCann said when I asked him about the difficulty of writing about a living figure. “Historical novels have the aura of the well-mannered about them. This is wrong, of course. But I wanted to avoid any stink of stasis. The novel had to touch the present. It had to be raw up against the ‘now.’ ”

McCann has a friend who knows Mitchell, and through him he sent a letter to Mitchell and his wife, Heather, “to get their blessing that I could embark on imagining his experience with the peace process,” McCann said. “At first I did not want to meet him. And they agreed to let me go ahead in this way.” After writing one full draft — and interviewing and several other diplomats to get down the nuts and bolts of the negotiations — McCann sent what he had to Heather for her to “fact-check” his descriptions of their life. He then wrote another draft and sent it to Mitchell, then sat down with him for a four-hour interview at his house. “What I wanted to get at from the opening page is the smell of that baby’s diaper,” McCann said. (The Mitchell section opens with Mitchell leaving on yet another trip to , saying goodbye again to his wife and baby, whose diaper needs to be changed.) “What is it like to be that man — the simultaneous public and private life, the grand history and the small history intertwined?”

The Mitchell of the book is a preternaturally humble man, which is precisely how he came across when I spoke with him briefly on the phone about the experience of seeing himself rendered in fiction. “That sort of thing never really happened to me before,” he said. “So it was a new thing. Interesting.” I asked if he felt McCann had captured the emotional truth of his experience. he said. “I think he did. The period of time he’s concerned with is that one week” — the last week of intense negotiations that led to the accord — “and he got that quite powerfully. But I was there for five years. The week that he covered was about the only good period we had. Otherwise, it was week after week, month after month, year after year of failure and setbacks. But who would ever want to read about that?”

McCann said of Mitchell: “His beauty was his ability for silence. He sat there and waited them out. He could’ve been anything at that stage, and he chose to do this. He’d go from , where he was working for his law firm, to New York and spend a night at home. Then he’d fly from New York to early on Sunday morning. Fly from London up to Belfast, spend three days there. Then fly from Belfast back to London, across to Washington, do two days of work there, then back up to New York to see his wife and child. And it was all unpaid. How incredible is that?”

There’s a moment in the book when the Good Friday Agreement has just been signed in Belfast, and Mitchell, who earlier compared himself to a terrorist willing to wait in a wet ditch all night (“It’s the tenacity of the fanatic that he wants to pitch himself against. There is, he knows, something akin to his own form of violence in the way he wants to hang on and fight.”), has stepped outside for the first time in days to speak to the press. He’s talking about the courage it takes to compete in the arena of democracy, as opposed to resorting to bullets and bombs, and then he says: “Generations of mothers will understand this. I do not find it sentimental at all, no, never, not that. Cynicism is easy. An optimist is a braver cynic.” He goes on: “Think about it . . . it’s simple enough. We’re forced to change because we’re forced to remember. And we’re forced to remember when we’re forced to confront.”

The shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary, just up the road from Newtown High School, occurred on Dec. 14. For a while after, students at Newtown High were encouraged to go wherever they felt most comfortable — to the art or music studios, to the gym, to classes they wanted to be in. There was an additional police presence in the school, and signs posted on the doors reminding students not to prop them open or let anyone in. Therapy dogs and grief counselors moved through the hallways. So many of the kids in the high school had connections to the 20 children and 6 adults who were killed — they were siblings or baby sitters or former students — and so many of the teachers, too, were affected, that they existed in a kind of collective traumatic haze. “I was mentally lost,” Lee Keylock, the teacher who first contacted McCann, wrote to me recently. “I was reminded by a grief counselor that people on planes are told to put their own oxygen masks on before helping others to do the same. I guess the analogy spoke to me in the sense that, yes, I was bitter and angry and utterly destroyed about the events of 12/14. . . . I suppose, however cliché it sounds, that McCann’s book was the first drop of oxygen.”

You can tell within about nine seconds of watching him in class that Keylock is one of those teachers that students will give speeches about years from now. On the day we went to Newtown, he escorted us from room to room, introducing McCann and then letting the kids guide the discussions from there. McCann talked a bit about his life in Ireland and the bike trip across America that was so formative. He told them about an organization he recently helped found, Narrative4, which brings together kids from different places — sometimes directly contentious places, sometimes just places with their own hardships — and how over a span of days the kids pair off, one from each place, and exchange the story that most defines who they are. At the end of their time together, they tell the stories to the larger group, taking on the persona of their partner — an exercise, McCann said, in “radical empathy.”

In each of the classes in Newtown, the conversation eventually drifted to the question of loss, and to the way McCann’s book takes on grief and despair and then offers the possibility for something else. It was impossible to look at those kids and not wonder what their own histories were, and how those histories would shape their lives. Occasionally, their experiences on the day of the shootings or in the months since would puncture the discussion. One girl remembered the younger children on the day of the shootings being gathered together outdoors. “I looked around at my peers,” she said, “and they were playing with the kids.” She thinks of that sometimes, she said, when she’s trying to find “a little spot of light.” In another class, a boy who’d spent nearly the entire discussion staring down at his desk suddenly raised his head and said that he used to believe the truth that pain makes you stronger, but he didn’t know anymore. “For some people, pain is what you get,” he said.

McCann thanked him for saying that. He was no psychologist, he said, but he believed it was necessary to acknowledge how powerful despair can be. The question was how to get to a place beyond that. “You have to beat the cynics at their own game,” he said, echoing, consciously or not, George Mitchell on that day in Belfast. There was nothing the least bit preachy in his tone. “I’m not interested in blind optimism, but I’m very interested in optimism that is hard-won, that takes on darkness and then says, ‘This is not enough.’ But it takes time, more time than we can sometimes imagine, to get there. And sometimes we don’t.” He couldn’t fathom what they were going through, he said, but he knew that the struggle against cynicism would be the challenge for them, as it is for anyone, for the rest of their lives.
45 2013-06-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
46 2013-06-03 “Too many characters,” the young woman to my right announced. Her friend had just read the program summary of “The Seagull.” We were seated on the grass in Central Park off 103rd Street, facing what is known as the Pool but looks like a lake, in a grove of grand old trees.

Well, it’s Chekhov, I wanted to say. Those big 19th-century Russian country houses would be pretty lonely without a large circle of lovers, losers and dreamers. The characters are actually easy to keep straight because each is miserable — or deluded — in his or her own way. This New York Classical Theater production (admission is free, by the way), directed smoothly by Stephen Burdman, conveys that well. Jean-Claude van Itallie’s translation sometimes registers as simplistic, but the classic lines remain. Some of us never tire of hearing Masha (Kersti Bryan) explain that she always wears black because “I am in mourning for my life.”

Ever since Meryl Streep starred in a Shakespeare in the Park production in 2001, “The Seagull” has seemed like Arkadina’s story, but it is really her son’s. Arkadina (Tamara Scott), a celebrated actress, takes it for granted that the world revolves around her. Her only child, Konstantin (Ian Antal), grown to manhood, is an inconvenient reminder that she is not as young as she believes she looks.

Happily, Konstantin has Nina (Lindsey Kyler), the world’s freshest ingénue — who even agrees to act in the terrible play he has written — but he may not have her for long. Trigorin (G. R. Johnson), a recklessly charming famous writer and Arkadina’s current lover, is to blame.

I am not a fan of roaming theater. Asking an audience to get up and stroll en masse to a new location several times (ending up on the Pool’s opposite side) seems cruel. But it does add texture, and I cannot deny the thrill of seeing these beloved literary creations, in luscious period costumes, on a summery night in a sylvan setting that might really be on the estate of Sorin (John Michalski), who is constantly complaining about his disappointing life.

“What a bundle of nerves you all are!” says Dorn (Nick Salamone), the sexy older doctor. Yes, they are. And it’s a pleasure to see them again.
47 2013-06-03 While investigating Sedna Capital, a hedge fund run by Rengan Rajaratnam, the government found communication between him and an SAC trader about tech stocks....
48 2013-06-03 Homes in struggling markets are being snapped up by big investment companies, shutting out regular buyers and creating concern about soaring prices....
49 2013-06-03 Microsoft is considering mixing up the responsibilities of its top executives as it seeks to further its transformation into what Steve Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, calls a “devices and services company.”...
50 2013-06-03 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Monday, selections include layoffs at Zynga and a former Microsoft executive’s foray into the marijuana retailing business....
51 2013-06-03 HardPin, Los Angeles, a production company specializing in digital video and live stream campaigns, was opened by a dozen or so former colleagues on the video team at Obama for America. Noah Meisner, former post-production supervisor at Obama for America, is executive producer at HardPin and Adam Wisneski, former travel team videographer at Obama for America, is creative director at HardPin.

Dan Hartshorn joined 97 Degrees West, Austin, Tex., as senior art director. He had been lead interactive designer at TripAdvisor, Newton, Mass.

Alicia Herczeg joined Quantasy, Los Angeles, in a new post, director for analytics. She had been an analyst at Edelman Digital, part of the Edelman division of Daniel J. Edelman Worldwide, in Chicago and Los Angeles.

Grant Holland and Gavin Milner joined 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners, as group creative directors. They had most recently been creative directors at 180 L.A., which is the Los Angeles office of the 180 division of the Omnicom Group.

Valerie Leuchs joined the New York office of Eye Mall Media, part of Ten Network Holdings, as an account manager. She had been an account executive at Verifone Media, New York.

Little Kids Rock, Cedar Grove, N.J., a nonprofit organization that helps to revitalize and restore music education programs in disadvantaged public schools, was selected to be the beneficiary of the 2013 Brand Aid effort by Landor Associates, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP. The organization will receive a rebranding initiative, free of charge, from Landor and its employees, who will volunteer their services.

Making Colorado, which is overseeing an effort to develop a brand identity for the state, named 12 creative professionals from Colorado to serve on its creative team. The men and women were chosen by Dave Schiff, a founder of Made Movement, Boulder, who will lead the group. The members of the team are: Todd Berger, graphic designer and co-founder, Berger & Föhr, Boulder; Justin Fuller, graphic designer and founder, Good Apples, Boulder; Mona Hasan, copywriter, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder; Evan Hecox, a freelance artist and graphic designer from Denver; Chris Holder, user interface design and developer, Colorado Department of Labor and Employment, Denver; Marcus Jimenez, designer and partner, Huemanitas, Denver; Delaney Keating, designer and copywriter, RoShamBo, Gunnison; Camille King, art director, Karsh Hagan, Englewood; Ramzy Masri, graphic designer, Made Movement, Denver; Katherine McCoy, branding and design consultant, McCoy & McCoy, Buena Vista; Jared Rippy, freelance illustrator and graphic designer, Bailey; and Joshua Wills, creative director, Factory Design Labs, Denver.

Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, part of the Martin/Williams unit of the Omnicom Group, hired four employees. They are: Amanda Deloya, media planner; Cynthia Pederson, producer; MK Smith, associate producer; and RaeAnne Tracey, account manager.

Sarah Montague joined Organic, part of the Omnicom Group, as senior vice president and general manager of the San Francisco office. She succeeds Alle Aufderhaar, who left to join a client, Google. Ms. Montague had most recently been senior vice president and director for client services at the San Francisco office of Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Ryan Murray joined Solve, Minneapolis, as account director on the True Value account, which the agency was awarded in February. He had been an account director at Fallon Worldwide, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Music for Advertising, New York, was opened by Richard R. Kurc, who is president.

Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington, presented its 71st annual Obie Awards for out-of-home ads, including three top category honors. Droga5, New York, won the Best Billboard Campaign Obie for the “Day One” campaign for Prudential Financial. Show Media/Dom Camera & Company won the Best Street Furniture, Transit or Alternative Campaign award for ads to promote the Bravo series “Interior Therapy With Jeff Lewis.” And TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, won the Best Multi-Format Campaign Obie for Absolut Greyhound, promoting greyhound cocktails made with Absolut vodka.

Laura Rojo joined Marca, Miami, in a new post, director for account planning. She had managed strategy planning at the Miami office of S, C, P, F, part of WPP.

Via Agency, Portland, Me., hired three employees for new posts. They are: Abha Dhakal, a client strategist; Richard Fryling, group strategy director on the Sam’s Club account; and Chris Gilbert, a copywriter.

Susan Young and Daniela Vojta joined McCann ExtraBold Condensed, New York, as senior vice presidents and group creative directors. They had been creative directors at Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe. McCann ExtraBold Condensed — a unit of the McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies — is an agency dedicated to working for MasterCard along with other Interpublic agencies that include McCann Erickson Worldwide, MRM, Octagon, R/GA and Universal McCann.
52 2013-06-03 The best of readers’ photos from the week of May 27....
53 2013-06-03 James Surowiecki, in his column in The New Yorker, argues for faster disclosures of material information as a means of discouraging insider trading. The proposal, however, has drawn skepticism....
54 2013-06-03 Aggregate madness....
55 2013-06-03 Regarding “The romantic advantage” (Views, June 1): It is pretty clear that David Brooks is only using the subject of China’s soulless brand names — which for most consumers are less important than the word “China” next to them, meaning “very good for the money with a slight risk of being unsafe” — to have a go at his beloved “bo-bo” class, an expression that Brooks himself minted but that caught on more here in France, where there are also lots of well-off people who go around looking like bums. This said, he is quite right to make fun of the semi-Socialists who buy one kind of shoe rather than another because it gives them a morally feel-good sensation, and also to point to the loftily “romantic” associations that advertising gurus astutely build into them.
56 2013-06-03 A prediction of 10 brands that will disappear by next year. Twenty-seven books every entrepreneur should read. How angry customers are actually doing you a favor. Does your small business make you healthier?...
57 2013-06-03 Metropolitan Diary: At Gray’s Papaya, a lifelong New Yorker critiques the order of two businesswomen....
58 2013-06-03 “It is amazing how some people can hold a grudge for so long, even centuries,” said Sekko Tanaka, the retired abbot of an ancient Zen temple that sits in the shadow of stone fortifications used by a Japanese warlord to invade the Korean Peninsula in the 16th century. “Now that the geopolitical situation is shifting, the former victims think its time for payback.”

Tsushima has been time and again caught up in that turbulent history. Known as Daemado in Korean, the long, thin island — slightly smaller in area than Cape Cod — lies 90 miles from Japan but just 30 miles from South Korea. Its 33,000 residents, most of them elderly, make their living off fishing, the lumber industry and, more recently, Korean tourists.

The island’s location has led some Korean leaders in the past to argue that it properly belongs to South Korea. But the current government in Seoul — which controls a separate chain of islets that Japan says belongs to it — does not make any official claim to Tsushima.

The islanders keenly feel Tsushima’s history as a steppingstone for military forays in both directions. On one windswept beach, local residents say they have gathered annually for most of the last seven centuries to commemorate a battle in which a small band of samurai was wiped out trying to stop a Mongol-led invasion fleet from Korea that was bound for Japan proper. The invaders, many of them Korean soldiers, rounded up local women by stringing ropes through holes sliced into their palms, local historians say.

“We are an outpost island whose history always seems to be swinging back and forth between conflict and opening,” said Mamoru Nishi, a manager in the island’s tourism office. “Tsushima’s history is the history of all Japan’s relations with Korea.”

But Tsushima also shows how nations in the region, while driven apart by history, are being drawn together by economic forces. Tsushima has become increasingly dependent on newly prosperous South Koreans, who travel here on a high-speed ferry from Busan, South Korea. The trip takes an hour.

This year, Tsushima expects about 200,000 South Korean tourists, surpassing for the first time the number of visitors from elsewhere in Japan. Korean-language signs have become as common a sight as the busloads of South Koreans in hiking boots who come for the island’s rugged landscape and the fresh sashimi.

Many islanders welcome the South Koreans as salvation from the dreary economic decline that has struck much of rural Japan, especially as Tokyo’s spending on public works has dried up. Yukihiro Yamada, a mackerel fisherman who converted the office of a struggling construction company into a restaurant, says he serves 160 Korean tourists per day, and double that on weekends.

“We used to look down on Koreans,” said Mr. Yamada, 50, “but without them, Tsushima would just wither.”

Like many of Tsushima’s residents, Mr. Yamada said that while he was angry at the refusal to return the Buddhist statue, he wanted to contain the dispute to protect tourism. He said that he and other business owners lobbied to ensure that the re-enactment of the Korean emissaries’ arrival — which involves 400 Japanese and South Korean participants dressed in period costumes and carrying flags and swords — would be revived next year.

The pageant’s organizers say they took the drastic step of canceling this year’s celebration out of their own growing frustration over what they call South Korea’s unwillingness to let bygones be bygones. Acutely conscious of Japan’s declining position in the region, they say the Japanese are losing patience with being demonized for crimes committed decades or even centuries ago.

“We tried to welcome them, and they betrayed us by stealing our statue,” said Hiromi Yamamoto, who heads the organizing committee.

To many South Koreans, the statue’s ownership is clear. They say it was taken by Japanese pirates who once used Tsushima as a stronghold in raiding the Korean coast — just one example, they say, of how Japan has repeatedly plundered Korea and its culture. They base their claim largely on a piece of paper found inside the hollow statue that says it was made in 1330 at Buseok temple in what is now South Korea, where the statue was to be “enshrined forever.”

“There is no doubt that Buseok temple owns the statue,” said the Venerable Wonwoo, a monk from the temple, in Seosan, South Korea.

But Mr. Tanaka, the retired abbot, whose temple oversees the smaller temple that housed the statue, says there is no evidence that pirates were involved, or that the artifact was stolen. He said the statue had probably been sold or given to traders from Kozuna centuries ago.

He said the villagers were unaware of the statue’s value until they heard that the five South Korean men who were arrested and accused of stealing it were trying to sell it and another statue stolen from a different Tsushima temple for more than $1 million each.

After the men’s arrests in January, monks from the Buseok temple filed a motion in court to block the statue’s return. In February, a Daejeon court issued a temporary order to prevent the statue from being returned to Tsushima until both the Korean and Japanese temples could present evidence at an unspecified date.

Tsushima’s mayor, Yasunari Takarabe, said retrieving the statue had become a new historical burden for the island.

“Our ancestors have faced the same ordeal between Japan and Korea for centuries,” Mr. Takarabe said. “I can feel them looking down now, and laughing at us.”
59 2013-06-03 JERUSALEM — President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Sunday appointed the president of a large West Bank university to serve as his next prime minister, replacing Salam Fayyad, who resigned in mid-April, and settling months of political uncertainty, at least temporarily.

The appointment of Rami Hamdallah, 54, a professor with no previous experience in government, ended the vacuum created by Mr. Fayyad’s resignation over internal differences. Mr. Fayyad, an internationally respected economist, had agreed to stay on as a caretaker prime minister for a short period.

In the longer term, however, the political outlook for the Palestinian Authority remained hazy. In announcing the appointment, the official Palestinian news agency, Wafa, said that Mr. Abbas remained committed to the reconciliation agreements his Fatah Party has signed with Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, and that he was eager to stick to the timetable agreed upon in Cairo.

The two sides met in the Egyptian capital last month and agreed to form a technocratic unity government within three months to pave the way for elections. Palestinian officials and experts said that the Cairo timetable aimed for the formation of a unity government by sometime in August, while the Wafa announcement on Sunday did not specify any dates or deadlines, leaving Mr. Abbas some leeway.

But Fatah and Hamas have failed to carry out their previous accords, which have remained only on paper. Hamas is wary of elections while Mr. Abbas has his relations with Israel and the West to consider.

Secretary of State John Kerry is in the midst of an intensive effort to restart Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. Israel has said that a Palestinian unity government with Hamas, which does not recognize Israel’s right to exist, would contradict peace efforts.
60 2013-06-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
61 2013-06-03 CHICAGO — An experimental drug from Merck that unleashes the body’s immune system significantly shrank tumors in 38 percent of patients with advanced melanoma, putting the company squarely in the race to bring to market one of what many experts view as the most promising class of drugs in years.

The drugs are attracting attention here at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, even though they are still in the early stage of testing. Data from drugs developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and by Roche had already been released.

The drugs work by disabling a brake that prevents the immune system from attacking cancer cells. The brake is a protein on immune system cells called programmed death 1 receptor, or PD-1.

Merck’s study, which was presented here Sunday and also published in the New England Journal of Medicine, involved 135 patients. While tumors shrank in 38 percent of the patients over all, the rate was 52 percent for patients who got the highest dose of the drug, which is called lambrolizumab, or MK-3475.

About 13 percent of the patients had a serious side effect — fatigue, rash, renal failure, diarrhea and some others — which is considered good for a drug treating a lethal cancer.

“This is the most impressive thing I’ve seen in melanoma,” Dr. Antoni Ribas, a professor of medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the senior author of the study, said in an interview. “We’ve never had something where we’ve had these rates of responses with these minimal side effects.”
62 2013-06-03 ■ Tourism Australia chose two agencies to handle creative duties on its worldwide account, with spending estimated at $250 million. Clemenger BBDO will handle the creative duties for traditional media, supported by its parent, BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. And DT, part of the Australian operations of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, will handle the creative duties for digital media. The account had previously been handled by DDB Worldwide, also part of Omnicom, which had its original three-year contract renewed twice, for a total of five years on the assignment. The STW Group owns 66.7 percent of the Ogilvy & Mather operations in Australia and WPP owns the rest.

■ Staples, Framingham, Mass., selected agencies owned by Dentsu to handle its North American account, with spending estimated at $85 million to $90 million. McGarryBowen, New York, will handle the creative duties, and Carat, New York, will handle the media duties. The lead creative agency for Staples had been McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe, had been the digital marketing agency. The media duties had been handled by MediaCom, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP.

■ P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Scottsdale, Ariz., named Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, part of the Martin/Williams unit of the Omnicom Group, as agency of record for two restaurant chains, P.F. Chang’s China Bistro and Pei Wei Asian Diner. Billings were not disclosed. The P.F. Chang’s chain had previously been handled by Vitro, San Diego, part of MDC Partners, and Pei Wei had been handled by Olson, Minneapolis.

■ Bill Kolb, chief executive at MRM Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was named to a new post, chairman and chief executive of the McCann Worldgroup’s global General Motors account. He will continue to be involved with MRM, as chairman, and also oversee the McCann Worldgroup operations in the Detroit area, which are based in Birmingham, Mich. MRM does not plan to name a chief executive to succeed Mr. Kolb; his duties will be handled by Michael Mclaren and Hank Summy, co-presidents.

■ Maurice Van De Ven joined MEC, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as its first executive creative director, based in the London office. He had been creative director at the Amsterdam office of StrawberryFrog, part of APCO Worldwide.

■ Jordan Bitterman joined Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as chief strategy officer for North America, a new post. He had been senior vice president and North America lead for social, mobile and content at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.
63 2013-06-03 After months of stalled negotiations over its planned Internet radio service, Apple is pushing to complete licensing deals with music companies so it can reveal the service as early as next week, according to people briefed on the talks.

Apple’s service, a Pandora-like feature that would tailor streams of music to each user’s taste, has been planned since at least last summer. But Apple has made little progress with record labels and music publishers, which have been seeking higher royalty rates and guaranteed minimum payments, according to these people, who spoke anonymously about the private talks.

While it is still at odds with some music companies over deal terms, Apple is said to be eager to get the licenses in time to unveil the service — nicknamed iRadio by the technology press — at its annual developers conference, which begins June 10 in San Francisco.

Apple has signed a deal with the Universal Music Group for its recorded music rights, but not for music publishing — the part of the business that deals with songwriting. Over the weekend, Apple also signed a deal with the Warner Music Group for both rights. It is still in talks with Sony Music Entertainment and Sony’s separate publishing arm, Sony/ATV, whose songwriters include Taylor Swift and Lady Gaga.

Representatives for Apple and the music companies declined to comment.

Apple’s Internet radio feature is expected to be free and supported by advertising, and would represent a relatively late arrival by the company into what has become a fast-growing — if low-margin — sector of the music business. Pandora has more than 70 million regular users, the vast majority of whom do not pay, and similar features have been introduced by Google, Spotify and the radio company Clear Channel Communications.

The licensing fees paid by Pandora have been a sore spot for music companies, which see promise in Apple’s service, particularly since it can be linked to sales through Apple’s iTunes store, but want higher rates. Publishers, for instance, are paid about 4 percent of Pandora’s revenue, but want as much as 10 percent from Apple.
64 2013-06-03 After the lawsuit was filed, the expectation was that e-book prices would drop sharply; the publishers that settled agreed to allow retailers to discount their e-books for two years. But the price drop has still not happened.

A government victory against Apple, which would not involve monetary damages, might also not affect e-book prices.

“Are consumers going to be better off as a result of any government win here?” said Charles E. Elder, an antitrust lawyer at Irell & Manella, which is not involved in the case. “That’s going to have to be seen depending on what happens to book publishing generally. It’s in trouble, and e-books are either the savior or they’re going to hasten the demise of book publishers.”

Apple declined to comment, but has said it has done nothing wrong.

“The e-book case to me is bizarre,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said during an onstage interview at a business conference last week in Southern California. “We’ve done nothing wrong there, and so we’re taking a very principled position of this. We were asked to sign something that says we did do something, and we’re not going to sign something that says we did something we didn’t do. And so we’re going to fight.”

Apple certainly has the money to fight, and a brand to protect, at a time when its stock is sagging and its tax practices and manufacturing processes are under scrutiny. Yet it is bigger than ever — with hundreds of millions of its iPhones and iPads in the hands of customers all over the globe.

The trial, before Judge Denise L. Cote of United States District Court, is expected to feature testimony from chief executives from the five publishers, who will offer a window into their world of fierce price negotiations. But the star witness may well be Mr. Jobs, even though he died in October 2011.

In the case, the government cast Apple as the “ringmaster” of the conspiracy. It said that when the company entered the e-book industry in 2010 with the introduction of the iPad, it wanted to pressure Amazon to raise its prices above its uniform $9.99 for new e-books.

At the time, publishers’ agreements to sell e-books were made under the so-called wholesale model of print books; publishers charged retailers about half the cover price for a book, and the retailers then set their own prices. The government said Mr. Jobs had persuaded publishers to agree to agency pricing, which allowed publishers to set their own prices for e-books, giving Apple a 30 percent commission for books sold in its online store.

The publishers’ contracts with Apple included a “most favored nation” clause, requiring that no other retailer sell e-books for a lower price; if they did, the publisher would have to match the price of the e-book in Apple’s store. That, the Justice Department said, resulted in higher prices that harmed consumers.

Around the same time, the five publishers renegotiated their contracts with Amazon to the agency model. In its case, the government said the result was that the price of newly released e-books went up to $12.99 and $14.99, evidence that a price-fixing conspiracy had taken place.

In pretrial papers, the government said part of its evidence would be this e-mail from Mr. Jobs to James R. Murdoch, an executive of News Corporation, which owns Harper Collins: “Throw in with Apple and see if we can all make a go of this to create a real mainstream e-books market at $12.99 and $14.99.”

In court this week, Apple will be relying on Eddy Cue, its senior vice president for Internet software and services who also negotiated deals with the book publishers, to give more context to Mr. Jobs’s e-mail.

The government also pointed in its pretrial filings to a quote from Mr. Jobs’s authorized biography, in which he conceded that he had “told the publishers, ‘We’ll go to the agency model, where you set the price, and we get our 30 percent, and yes, the customer pays a little more, but that’s what you want anyway.’ ”

In its own pretrial filings, Apple said the quotations from Mr. Jobs were edited and taken out of context in the government’s papers. The company said that even before it entered the e-book market, publishers were getting fed up with Amazon’s uniform e-book pricing and were planning to delay the release of e-books. That caused Barnes & Noble to push for agency agreements with publishers, Apple said.

In its defense, Apple has also picked out e-mail conversations for ammunition. It cites one Amazon executive who found it “hysterical” that Amazon used “Jedi mind tricks” to get publishers to do what it wanted.

Furthermore, Apple says that the average selling price of an e-book dropped after it entered the market. The trial will cap a difficult year for the industry, with five of the six major publishers grappling with the aftermath of the lawsuit. But the industry’s woes began long before.

E-books have caused a monumental disruption in the last five years, as a once-fledgling technology has taken hold for millions of readers. In 2009, e-books made up 1 percent to 3 percent of publishers’ total sales, but now account for 20 percent.

Publishers have also faced a transformed retail environment. Borders went out of business in 2011, leaving Barnes & Noble as the only major national bookstore chain. Barnes & Noble has its own troubles and is considering a move that would split its retail stores from its struggling e-reader division.

Two of the biggest publishers, Penguin and Random House, announced last fall that they would merge, a deal that is expected to be completed later this year.

John Sargent, the chief executive of Macmillan, which settled in February, has insisted that the company did not engage in collusion. He said it had no choice but to settle after receiving an estimate of the possible damages.

“I cannot share the breathtaking amount with you, but it was much more than the entire equity of our company,” Mr. Sargent said in an e-mail to authors, illustrators and agents.

Meanwhile, many new e-books have been released at presettlement prices, among them “Silken Prey” by John Sandford and “A Delicate Truth” by John le Carré, both new releases whose e-books were offered on Amazon for $12.99 last week. Some have been released at less than $10.

“There hasn’t been an aggressive amount of cost-cutting from Amazon,” said Michael Norris, a senior analyst for Simba Information who studies the publishing industry. “Slashing the prices down to nothing isn’t going to get them much if it’s not going to attract multitudes of people to their platform. In the couple of years since that pricing discussion began, Amazon released the Kindle Fire, and a lot of their attention these days is focused on video content.”
65 2013-06-03 A report on digital policy that was prepared for the government by Pierre Lescure, the former president of the pay-television company Canal Plus, in April recommended dropping the threat of disconnections and replacing it with a fine of €60, or $78, for repeat offenders. The report also recommended disbanding the enforcement agency, known by its French acronym, Hadopi, and subsuming some of its functions in the French media regulator, Conseil supérieur de l’ audiovisuel.

While government ministers have voiced support for Mr. Lescure’s recommendations, some lawmakers, including Patrick Bloche, an influential Socialist deputy, have suggested that the administration should go further and simply scrap the entire system of warnings and potential penalties.

Despite all the debate that the system has prompted, in and outside France, evidence of its effects remains skimpy. A study by researchers at Wellesley College near Boston and Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh that was published last year showed that the threat of disconnection was directing more French Internet users toward Apple’s iTunes store, a licensed source of digital music. Separate studies, commissioned by Hadopi, have shown a decline in illegal file sharing.

Yet the French music business remains deeply troubled. SNEP, a French recording company group, said Friday that industry revenue fell by 6.7 percent in the first quarter of the year. More alarmingly, revenue from digital outlets fell by 5.2 percent — the first quarterly decline — though the organization said several special factors played a role in this.

Meanwhile, SNEP said the number of visits to illegal music sites by French Internet users had risen by 7 percent between January 2010 and January 2013, to 10.7 million.

Guillaume Leblanc, director general of SNEP, said the group was willing to accept dropping the threat of disconnection, as long as the warning system was preserved, but said the proposed €60 fine was too low.

“Maintaining graduated response is essential for the music industry,” he said. “For the legal offer to keep developing, it’s important to have strong copyright protection on the Internet.”

While Hadopi has sent out hundreds of thousands of warnings to those suspected of being pirates, only a handful of cases have reached the third and supposedly final stage. Several of these were thrown out by the courts; others resulted in fines or suspended sentences.

“If you cannot chop off a few heads as an example, then the chopping machine inspires less fear,” said Jérémie Zimmermann, spokesman for La Quadrature du Net, a group that has campaigned against the law.

Supporters of the law say cutting off large numbers of Internet connections was never the point.

“From our standpoint this was always meant to be an educational and deterrent measure,” said Frances Moore, chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a trade group.

The Lescure report recommends that the downgraded penalty — a fine rather than disconnection — be accompanied by greater certainty that it would be applied, through the adoption of an administrative court procedure, like the one used for minor traffic violations.

A downgrade of the French system would leave South Korea, which also imposed a similar system in 2009, as the country with perhaps the toughest anti-piracy measures in place. More than 400 Internet accounts or Web sites have been suspended in South Korea since the law went into effect.

Recording industry revenue in South Korea rose by 26 percent from 2008 through 2012, a period in which sales worldwide fell by 14 percent, according to the international recording industry federation.

Whether the law is responsible for the gains is debatable; the surge has coincided with the K-Pop phenomenon, in which South Korean acts like Psy and his “Gangnam Style” have taken the world by storm.

The law is unpopular with free-speech groups, which are campaigning for a repeal.

In March, the Korean National Human Rights Commission recommended that the measure should be reviewed to determine whether it clashes with constitutional protections.

Elsewhere, countries that have adopted systems involving warnings and penalties, also known as graduated response, have tended to opt for less draconian measures than France or South Korea, sometimes involving private-sector deals rather than legislation.

In the United States, for example, five major Internet providers recently agreed to put in place a so-called copyright alert system, negotiated with the entertainment industry. Sanctions, which can include a temporary slowdown in Internet access speed, do not kick in until an account holder ignores at least five warnings.

Analysts say that the backtracking by the French could lessen legislators’ enthusiasm for graduated response systems in other countries, at least if they involve the threat of disconnection.

“Looking at this politically, if one of the few countries where they were able to get the political support to pass this — if they get rid of it, it could make it harder to do graduated response elsewhere,” said Brett Danaher, a professor at Wellesley College who worked on the study examining the effects of Hadopi on iTunes sales.

He and others said the entertainment industry and policy makers might now turn more of its attention to efforts to block Web sites that host content that infringes on copyright, rather than going after individual Internet users.

Ms. Moore said neither strategy would provide an easy solution.

“We have to take a holistic approach,” she said. “Web site blocking and alert systems are just two tools.”
66 2013-06-04 McCLINTOCK--Michael Robert, age 55, of Larchmont, New York, died on June 2, 2013. He was born to the late George D. McClintock and Aileen McHugh McClintock on August 20, 1957 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Mike married Cynthia Ann Crowley on June 21, ...
67 2013-06-04 LOWENSTEIN--Hugh Price, of Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, FL and Linville, NC died June 2, 2013. Born 1930 to Katherine and Melvyn Lowenstein. Graduated from Salisbury School. 1949; attended North Carolina State College; served in U.S. Army in Korea; ...
68 2013-06-04 McCLINTOCK--Michael R. Of Larchmont, NY and Nantucket, MA. We mourn the sudden passing of our friend Michael. We will forever miss a wonderful husband, father, friend and businessman, who was the life of any party. Our deepest sympathies go to Cyn...
69 2013-06-04 David Bundy for The New York Times
70 2013-06-04 Chants in support of jailed opposition leaders, and against Iran’s ruling cleric, rang out during a funeral procession for a dissident religious leader in the city of Isfahan on Tuesday....
71 2013-06-04 The Intellectual Property Exchange International, or IPXI, wants to make the patent licensing marketplace more transparent....
72 2013-06-04 Still, in designating A.I.G. and GE Capital systemically important, regulators show they are stuck for the most part in the last crisis rather than looking out for the next one, the author contends....
73 2013-06-04 In our race to keep up with men, we women have forgotten the joys that are given only to us....
74 2013-06-04 Apple’s chief has said that the company paid about 30.5 percent in taxes on its profits. The author examines cash tax payments to the Treasury Department and estimates that it’s probably closer to 8.2 percent....
75 2013-06-04 There is hope yet for Windows Phone, the smartphone operating system that could. A new report suggests that Windows Phone may finally be gaining some momentum in the United States, particularly on Verizon Wireless, the largest American wireless ne...
76 2013-06-04 A look at the three people — Patricia Ann Millett, Cornelia T.L. Pillard and Robert L. Wilkins — that President Obama plans to nominate to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit....
77 2013-06-04 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
78 2013-06-04 James E. Staley, who left JPMorgan Chase this year to join the hedge fund BlueMountain Capital Management, said on a panel at the Bloomberg Hedge Funds Summit that the regulatory changes being developed could present an investment opportunity....
79 2013-06-04 Streets is an app that adds Street View capability to Apple Maps....
80 2013-06-04 The government presented evidence that executives of big book publishing companies discussed raising e-book prices at Apple’s behest before the introduction of the iPad....
81 2013-06-04 Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the committee’s ranking Democrat, said the strategy simply will not work.

“Tax reform has to stand on its own two feet, and if it doesn’t, it will lose any chance to succeed,” he said.

For Mr. Camp, the first major overhaul of the tax code since 1986 has been a goal nurtured for years, but it may be slipping away. The 113th Congress will most likely be his last at the helm of the powerful tax-writing committee because of Republican term limits on chairmanships. The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and his partner in the venture, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, has announced his retirement.

Mr. Camp has approached the task methodically. Eleven bipartisan working groups last month completed their assessments of tax issues in areas like tax-exempt organizations, education, manufacturing, retirement savings and real estate. On May 6, the bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation wrapped up a 568-page compendium of options to overhaul the code.

What he lacks, at least so far, is the voter backing needed to propel the effort, which by definition would mean sacrificing or curtailing some politically popular tax breaks, like education tax credits and the mortgage interest deduction. Republican aides say that support, fueled by anger, could be building.

The I.R.S. controversies have trained voter attention on an agency they have long reviled for personal reasons.

A bipartisan group of senators, meantime, have spotlighted the byzantine efforts of Apple Inc. to take advantage of the tax code’s complexity to shield record profits from United States taxation with a web of offshore holdings.

And come this fall, Congress will once again have to raise the federal government’s statutory borrowing limit.

Already, Mr. Camp is angling to link any debt ceiling increase to some measure that would push the tax-overhaul cause forward.

House Republicans are determined to stoke the anger, and Democrats are in no mood to stand in their way. At a hearing Monday of the House Appropriations Committee, lawmakers from both parties flailed Daniel I. Werfel, the newly appointed acting I.R.S. commissioner, demanding drastic change.

“It seems we have a new misstep every day at the I.R.S.,” said Representative Harold Rogers of Kentucky, the committee’s chairman. “I’m very troubled with what might come to light next.”

Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the panel’s ranking Democrat, pronounced herself “furious.”

“What was the I.R.S. thinking?” she asked.

Mr. Werfel went much further than the acting commissioner he replaced, Steven Miller, saying he had reached the “inescapable conclusion” that organizations applying for tax-exempt status had been targeted according to political labels.

And he pledged to report to President Obama and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew by the end of the month what efforts he had begun to deal with the management lapses, hold those responsible accountable and put in place new controls on spending for travel and training.

On Tuesday, the Ways and Means Committee will hear from the leaders of four groups associated with the Tea Party, an anti-gay marriage organization, and an anti-abortion coalition, all of whom say they were inappropriately scrutinized.

Susan Martinek, president of the Coalition for Life of Iowa, said Monday her group was provisionally granted 501(c)(3) nonprofit status on the condition that its officers sign a promise that they would not protest at Planned Parenthood or organize protests or pickets of Planned Parenthood.

“That’s not what we’re even about,” said Ms. Martinek, a witness at Tuesday’s hearing. “When we go to Planned Parenthood, we’re there to pray. Granted some of our members do bring signs.”

But even the witnesses are not so sure that the message from their travails is that the tax code needs an overhaul.

Ms. Martinek said her group’s push for tax-exempt status was driven by the desire by many supporters to be able to deduct their donations from their taxes. The desire for such write-offs does give the I.R.S. the political power to grant or deny tax-exempt status.

But another witness, Kevin Kookogey, president of Linchpins of Liberty, a one-man organization in Williamson County, Tenn., said any effort to jump from I.R.S. targeting to tax-code simplification “would be a misstep.”

“I do not like the complexity of the tax code, but this is political targeting, as simple as two plus two,” he said Monday. “If this is used as a political ploy to change the tax code, we will have missed the moral issue here, and nothing much will have changed.”
82 2013-06-04 In 15 years as president of An-Najah National University, Mr. Hamdallah tripled the student population to 20,000 on four campuses, making it the West Bank’s largest institution of higher education. He raised more than $300 million, mostly from Palestinian expatriates and other Arabs, building a new campus of modern white-stone buildings on a hill in Nablus from which you can see Tel Aviv 30 miles away, and a 400-bed teaching hospital that just opened. He added schools of medicine, engineering, optometry and nursing as well as a radio station and polling center.

“He always said, and I quote him, Palestinians, they only have one investment they should invest in — higher education,” said Kerie Rassas, An-Najah’s deputy president for international affairs. “We don’t have natural resources. We don’t have oil or petrol. All we have is our brains, and the only way is through higher education. We should educate as many as possible.”

Like Mr. Fayyad, who resigned in April after six years, Mr. Hamdallah was educated in the West — his Ph.D. in linguistics is from the University of Lancaster — and is not officially tied to any political party. But unlike Mr. Fayyad, he is considered sympathetic to Fatah, and is expected to have as deputy prime ministers two men close to Mr. Abbas, Mohammed Mustafa, currently chairman of the Palestine Investment Fund, and Ziad Abu Amr, a legislator and former foreign minister.

“It’s all the president’s men. That’s it,” griped one senior Palestinian official, insisting on anonymity to speak openly about the choice. “The post is nonpolitical, supposedly, but for a person to have standing, and respect, you do need to be known as having been within the political arena. He’s not going to inspire or excite public opinion. He is lackluster.”

Even some admirers acknowledged it would be a big leap. “I don’t know how he will fare on the political level. That’s something to see,” said Hanna Nasser, chairman of the Palestinian Central Elections Commission, where Mr. Hamdallah has been secretary general since 2002. “A university is a big complex project, but the government is something else.”

Part of a wealthy family that owned large swaths of land in the northern West Bank, Mr. Hamdallah grew up in the village of Anabta, where an uncle later served as mayor. (Another uncle was in the Jordanian Parliament before 1967.) He has spent his entire career at An-Najah, starting as an English instructor in 1982, and he met his wife when she was a student there.

Thirteen years ago, she was driving on the Nablus Highway when a collision with an Israeli vehicle killed their 11-year-old twins and another son, age 9, landing her in a coma for six months. The couple has since had a daughter.

“This is the biggest test of a man,” Mr. Masri said. “He said this is the fate from God and we just have to take it.” Ever since, Mr. Masri added, “nobody dies in Nablus or around Nablus that he doesn’t say condolences — you always see him there in the sad times.”

Besides the elections commission, Mr. Hamdallah is a member of more than a dozen boards, most related to higher education, but also the Yasser Arafat Foundation and the Palestinian Stock Exchange, where he has been chairman since 2008. The exchange’s chief executive, Ahmad Awaida, said Mr. Hamdallah has a dry sense of humor and is “smart enough to understand what you’re telling him even though he’s never been a banker.”

“He is very firm,” Mr. Awaida said. “Meetings in the Arab world tend to drag on for hours and hours and hours,” he said, but with Mr. Hamdallah, “I don’t recall a meeting that took more than the required time.”

Ms. Rassas, the deputy university president, said that in decision making, Mr. Hamdallah “knows in advance what he wants,” then “makes people feel that they need to take that position.”

Mr. Awaida said Mr. Hamdallah often approached him or other businessmen for money to support poor students at An-Najah; Maher Abu Zant, one of his senior university aides, said Mr. Hamdallah paid some student fees from his own pocket.

Magjeh Awadallah, who has worked as a campus security guard for 20 years, said that when he once told Mr. Hamdallah he was short of money, the president arranged for him to get an extra month’s salary. When Mr. Awadallah had heart surgery, he awoke to find Mr. Hamdallah at his bedside. And when his newly married son had a car accident, Mr. Hamdallah visited the son, too, in the hospital — twice.

“He is full of humanity,” Mr. Awadallah said. “He makes us feel we are one family.”
83 2013-06-04 Cardinal projects a jovial official face of Catholicism in this city. He can crack a joke with practiced timing. At the recent conclave in Rome, where bishops and cardinals paraded about in glorious raiment, he was regarded as quite the comer.

Back home, the Catholic Church and the archdiocese give the appearance of an empire sunk in financial despondency. Church attendance and school enrollment has tumbled for decades.

Some of the financial problems are owing to the church’s own lies and omissions around the sexual abuse scandals involving priests.

Cardinal Dolan and his school superintendent, who declined to comment, twice cut the system close to the bone in recent years, eliminating nearly 60 schools. They have sold off and leased real estate, raising many millions of dollars.

The superintendent, Timothy J. McNiff, said recently that the diocesan schools were stable. There’s a survivor’s comfort to be had in that. But you wonder what becomes of those who have turned to the beacon that has been Holy Spirit, an elementary school that sits atop the bony spine of the Morris Heights neighborhood. Generational waves of immigrants, Italians and Irish, Puerto Ricans and Dominicans, Mexicans and Ghanaians, have come through its doors.

The tuition at Holy Spirit is a pittance compared with a Dalton or a Brearley. And the archdiocese deserves for subsidizing these costs. But for a Ghanaian immigrant working two jobs and pulling down $25,000 a year, that tuition looms as a mountainous sum.

Any talk of subsidy, however, must include the teachers. A parochial school veteran with 20 years of service and a master’s degree makes $60,000; that’s a touch above the starting pay for a public-school teacher. Nor are parochial school pensions remotely comparable to those of public-school teachers.

That’s O.K., sort of. Ms. Martinez, who first spoke to me one evening after choir practice, talked easily of their mission. But this is a city grown more expensive by the week, and the gap between the wealthy few and the middle-class many who scrape by gets wider.

Ms. Martinez is divorced and has twice dipped into her small savings for her daughter’s tuition. She sprints paycheck to paycheck. “I always said I didn’t get into this for the money,” she said. “I guess I was right.”

Sacrifices are easiest when shared. No one likes to think of themselves as naïve. Last time, the archdiocese said it had set aside $7.4 million for a “teacher transition plan.” That was sophistry.

The diocese spent $600,000 on severance the last time it closed schools. It appears to have counted its payments into unemployment insurance to pad that package.

“I’ve told my landlord I’m facing a layoff,” Ms. Martinez said. “I want to know: Where’s that Catholic mission we have lived with all of our lives?”

We walked back down University Boulevard toward the Romanesque tower of the school. We passed children, who smiled, waved and shouted out her name. “I try to separate my faith from the institution,” she said slowly. “My faith now? It’s those children.”
84 2013-06-04 “Are you ready for summer?” “Any special plans for the summer?” Unlike fall or spring, summer is always getting italics like that. I want to meet its publicist.

Because I have questions. Why, year after year, do magazines yammer on and on about what the song of the summer will be, as if it’s a coronation with actual consequence? Winter doesn’t have a song. If it did, it sure wouldn’t be sung by the preternaturally peppy likes of Katy Perry.

Does summer have to be so grammatically piggy, a vain noun with adjectival delusions? Summer vacation. Summer rental. Summer stage. Summer stock. Summer lover. Summer fling. Summer nights. Summer breeze.

And summer movies, God help us, which are a dopey and clangorous breed apart. If they’re not sequels, they’re sequels to sequels or reboots of franchises I thought we’d booted to the curb long ago. In May alone we had our third “Hangover” and our third and we were for a sixth time. The is en route, with and fast on his airborne heels. Summer is rush hour for superheroes.

Speaking of which, did you know that traffic fatalities go up markedly in summer? The murder rate rises, too. It’s a mean season, even leaving the sun to the side. People drown, are struck by lightning and wear seersucker. I realize that the last item doesn’t really fit with the previous two, but it’s another potent argument against summer, and I had to put it in somewhere.

Perhaps my summer sourness is a function of aging, by which I mean my own, not the earth’s. Summer works best for the young. When you’re on the far side of 45, you and almost everyone you know looks appreciably better in a parka than in a tank top, and the sentence “I’d like to see more of you” concerns frequency, not swimsuits and open-toed shoes.

Or maybe I’m reacting to and to the chilling prospect, or rather the blistering one, that an intolerable season could become a quasi-permanent one.

In a sonnet that assessed summer, Shakespeare acknowledged, “Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines.” That was more than 400 years ago, so I’ll update the line in accordance with global warming and modern commerce: “Always doth I feel like a French fry under a heat lamp.”

That sentiment holds true already from late May through early September. What if the period grows longer, to five or six or even seven months of the year? I don’t have that many sandals, and I can’t imagine that many bug bites.

My dermatologist biopsied the Vesuvian one, only to determine that it would eventually shrink if I stopped scratching it, for which she gave me an ointment that has proved completely useless.

For the carcinoma, I’ll get surgery and a bevy of stitches. And then, I’m told, all will be well, except that one carcinoma often presages others, especially for those of us whose and delicate natures aren’t suited to a brutal season of excessive heat and extravagant light. My body isn’t just a buffet. It’s a skin-cancer farm, and summer its fertilizer.

I asked her what I should do about that.

“Wear hats,” she said. “Cover up. Stay out of the sun.”

In winter, that would be a cinch. In summer, it’s no breeze.
85 2013-06-04 The incident in Angola struck a familiar note to William Besse, vice president for consulting and investigations at Andrews International, who is based in Dallas. “It’s not all that unusual to be taken advantage of that way,” he said. “If you appear to know what you’re doing, they don’t want to push the point too far.”

If you know what the rules are and are a little bit assertive, Mr. Besse added, travelers can avoid further confrontation, as Mr. Tracy managed to do.

Other options are to ask for a supervisor or arrange for someone to meet you “air side,” before going through immigration, Mr. Besse said. If the country does not permit a traveler to be met there, arrangements can be made to meet within sight just on the other side of immigration. It is a service that a travel management or security company can arrange at nominal cost.

Corporations are increasingly becoming aware of their role in preparing their employees for a trip to an emerging market. “Corporations are being held responsible and corporations see the potential risk if they don’t do what is right,” Mr. Besse said. “They are catching on to corporate travel risk programs.”

Companies have to meet a basic standard of care for their employees, known as duty of care, which helps ensure their safety and well-being. If they fall beneath that standard, they may be liable.

“During an emergency you don’t want to be developing a plan,” Mr. Besse said. “Having a plan, travel risk planning, is very important now as people extend themselves around the globe to be competitive in places they have not been before.”

The business traveler — whether working for a corporation or as an independent business owner — can register with the regional security officer at the United States Embassy or consulate in the country to which he or she is traveling.

“We very rarely say, ‘No, you shouldn’t go.’ We tell them what to think about,” Mr. Besse said.

American citizens are urged to know the location and contact number for the United States Embassy or consulate and meet the regional security officer. “Know that person; visit that embassy,” Mr. Besse said. In addition, always research the company and principals with whom you intend to do business.

The State Department created the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program, or STEP, a free service for American citizens traveling to, or living in, a foreign country. Travelers can go to travel.state.gov to enter information about a coming trip abroad so they can be reached in an emergency and subscribe to travel alerts for particular countries. There also is a free STEP app for iPhones.

“This is not like going to London, Paris or Singapore where everything is set up,” said Gary Pearce, a senior vice president at Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a travel management company.

Companies like Carlson Wagonlit make recommendations about where corporate travelers might stay and which ground transportation to use, but the client decides, Mr. Pearce said. “The corporation is responsible for their employees” who are traveling, Mr. Pearce said. “We’re not going to book anybody in a hotel that a client hasn’t approved.”

New employees, including those who are just out of school, particularly need to be briefed on the country to which they are traveling, Mr. Pearce said.

Flight cancellations and delays can be the biggest issue in some markets, where a traveler could be stuck for at least an extra day, he said. During the political upheaval in the Middle East in recent years, business travelers had to be evacuated from Egypt and Libya. “Every one of these companies had contingency planning, security planning,” Mr. Pearce said. “No. 1 is the safety and security of their people.”

The use of cash versus credit in emerging markets can be an issue. Some hotels will not accept a credit card issued in the United States. If a hotel does not want to accept a credit card, a travel management company could prepay for hotel rooms in that market and guarantee payment with the hotel before the business traveler arrives, Mr. Pearce said.

Sometimes travelers need to use single-use electronic cards that are good for the duration of their stay at the hotel, he said. Ground transportation from the airport to the hotel is set up ahead of time as well; travelers generally would not want to use taxis in an emerging market.

Security training is available for travelers headed to emerging markets, and depends on what a client requests, Mr. Besse said. Companies may request a two-day session including first aid, what to do if someone is following you, driver training at different levels and destination-specific health concerns.

To find out what is going on in a particular market, use a combination of sources, said Mr. Tracy of BCD Travel. He reads government alerts but says he believes that reliable local sources are the best way to get current information.

“It’s reassuring to be met before you go through immigration,” he said, and on the first visit “have someone take you to the hotel and tell you where to exchange money. You can be guided through the whole thing.”
86 2013-06-04 A man suspected of sending poison-laced letters to President Obama and two other officials was charged in a federal indictment made public Monday. The man, James E. Dutschke, was charged with developing, producing and stockpiling the poison ricin, threatening the president and others and attempting to impede the investigation. The indictment says he mailed the letter in part to retaliate against a rival, an Elvis impersonator who was first suspected in the crime.
87 2013-06-04 MILAN — The holding company that controls 30 percent of Fiat said on Monday that it had sold its stake in a Swiss company, a move analysts said was to help prepare for Fiat’s eventual purchase of the rest of Chrysler.

The holding company, Exor, which is run by a member of Fiat’s founding Agnelli family, said it had sold its 15 percent stake in SGS, a Swiss inspection and testing company, to the Belgian conglomerate Groupe Bruxelles Lambert for 2 billion euros, or $2.6 billion.

Investors saw the move as connected to Fiat’s plan to buy the Chrysler shares it did not already own, an acquisition that is likely to cost about $4 billion but whose final bill has not yet been determined.

Fiat has steadily increased its ownership in Chrysler since an alliance between the two automakers was announced in 2009. It now holds 61.8 percent of Chrysler.

The chairman of Exor and of Fiat, John Elkann, signaled his determination last week that Exor’s stake in Fiat would not be watered down in the Chrysler merger, which Fiat’s chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, has said may be partly financed by a share issue.
88 2013-06-04 Ms. Vantoch was traveling in Scotland when I asked her in a phone conversation to evaluate how the job had evolved after those glory days in the 1950s and 1960s. At that time, educated young women, many from small-town America, eagerly chose the profession, despite low pay, for its entree into a glamorous, wide world.

“My impression now when I fly is that flight attendants are really safety professionals,” said Ms. Vantoch, who said that she interviewed hundreds of former and current flight attendants. “They’re so highly trained, and they have so much to get done in such a short amount of time. The bags, so many passengers on every plane — it’s almost a different profession from what it was in the ‘50s and ‘60s.”

At the advent of the jet age in the late 1950s, as more Americans traveled more widely than ever, “the stewardess rose to fame as a celebrated icon of American womanhood,” she writes in the book. At the same time, she notes, “because she bridged the midcentury gap between domesticity and wage work,” the American stewardess also became a protofeminist.

Back when women were a distinct minority on college campuses, airlines hired college-educated women as flight attendants, and expected them to exhibit youthful, wholesome beauty and poise, as well as the grit to adhere to rules imposed by a male-dominated culture on physical standards like hairstyle and weight.

Oh, and it helped to be able to speak French. “Pan Am, the largest U.S.-based international airline, also required fluency in at least one language other than English,” Ms. Vantoch notes. Airlines also discriminated blatantly against minorities (and men, of course), and tossed stewardesses off the job when they aged into their 30s.

Yet the job was also enormously rewarding, especially for those on international routes. “To be a Pan Am stewardess in those days was like being a supermodel or a movie star,” one stewardess from that era told her. Stewardess-school graduations featured lavish Champagne dinners and limousine service. “Stewardesses felt respected by airline management,” Ms. Vantoch writes. (And yes, I hear you snorting in derision, flight attendants of today.)

Sexism was a strong undercurrent. There also was an element of propaganda during the early stages of “cold war mudslinging,” Ms. Vantoch writes. American stewardesses were depicted as trim, pretty and consumer-oriented, while “Communism bred dour, chubby stewardesses who were, according to The San Francisco Chronicle, ‘less inclined to pamper the clientele’ ” on the Soviet airline Aeroflot, she writes.

Still, “the profession simultaneously offered a space for these young women to see themselves as capable, independent and ambitious professionals,” as well as “a unique opportunity for young women to travel far beyond the domestic arena and to forge a strong female-oriented community,” Ms. Vantoch writes.

The book’s payoff, I thought, comes in a chapter with the subheading, “Pretty Women Fight Back.” Flight attendants, as stewardesses came to be known, forged major accomplishments through unionization. Many ridiculous, racist and sexist rules went away. Pay improved. Career paths firmed. Well into the 1990s, “flight attendants continued to forge new legal rights for working women in America,” according to Ms. Vantoch.

And the reaction? Initially, she said, some flight attendants complained about the book’s racy title and its cover photo, which depicts two stewardesses in those ridiculous hot-pants outfits that some male airline and advertising executives thought were a good idea in the 1970s. “But when they actually read the book I started getting these incredible handwritten letters” from flight attendants who did not fully realize how important their history was, she added.

Handwritten notes, mind you. These women always had style.
89 2013-06-04 Recently, “it didn’t do all it needed to do,” she said.

In addition to changing ad themes, Intel is changing how it assigns creative tasks to agencies. After experimenting the last two years with a “jump ball” approach — deciding case by case which of its roster agencies would create each campaign — Intel is reverting to the so-called agency of record model, designating Venables Bell & Partners in San Francisco as its lead creative agency.

“It was whoever had the best brief got the work,” Ms. Conrad said. “When you have a lot of different agencies taking the lead on a lot of different projects, it gets unruly and the work can suffer.”

Designating Venables Bell as the lead creative agency “is part of a bigger effort to get supercrisp, supersimple, about who we are and what our brand means,” she added. “Simplicity is the order of the day now.”

Venables Bell is, of course, pleased with Intel’s decision.

“It’s always a little tricky competing for every project you’re trying to win,” said Will McGinness, executive creative director at Venables Bell. “This allows us to focus on the brand and think more strategically.”

To that end, “Look inside” is a more strategic way to express the Intel brand promise of innovation, Mr. McGinness said, and will capitalize on “the tremendous equity in the word ‘inside.’ ”

“If you ask consumers what Intel does, what a processor does, they can identify it’s really important, equating it to the heart or brain of a computer,” he added, “which has a great emotional appeal.”

In fact, the first commercial to use the “Look inside” theme tugs at the heartstrings with a paean to the potential of young women. The spot promotes Intel’s partnership with 10x10, an initiative to educate girls around the world, for “Girl Rising,” a documentary that CNN and CNN International will telecast on June 16.

“A girl is not defined by what her society sees,” the commercial declares. “A girl is defined by what she sees inside herself.” Intel, the spot concludes, “is fiercely committed to empowering girls everywhere through education.”

The jettisoning of “Sponsors of tomorrow” for “Look inside” is indicative of the elaborate efforts marketers make to ensure that their ad themes resonate with target audiences. A theme deemed memorable and effective can last for decades, as lines like “Just do it” (Nike), “Good to the last drop” (Maxwell House) and “We try harder” (Avis) attest.

Then, there are lines like “Sponsors of tomorrow.”

“It sounds like a parody,” said Allen Adamson, managing director of the New York office of Landor Associates, a brand and corporate identity consultancy that is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP.

“It probably sounded great in the conference room” when it was first proposed, Mr. Adamson said, laughing. “But it’s a big promise, almost too big for most brands.”

That said, Mr. Adamson acknowledged that developing a great brand theme was difficult. “Too aspirational, and it’s not believable,” he said, “and if it’s too bold, it tends to be forgettable and not ‘sticky.’ ”

“One of the biggest challenges is getting something that connects back to your brand,” Mr. Adamson said. That explains the popularity of a strategy known as nameonics, in a hat-tip to mnemonics. Such themes incorporate the brand’s name to jog consumer memories, as in “Zestfully clean” (Zest soap), “It’s time for a Maacover” (Maaco) and “Have you found your Balance?” (Balance Bar).

Although many on Madison Avenue mock nameonics as corny, it has its fans.

“Tag lines are not supposed to be cute,” said Gary M. Stibel, chief executive at the New England Consulting Group in Norwalk, Conn. “They’re supposed to sell, by making it easier for a buyer to remember what it is they’re supposed to buy.”

Before a reporter told Mr. Stibel that Intel was abandoning “Sponsors of tomorrow” for “Look inside,” he offered that one of “two things that Intel has going for it” is the company’s association with the word “inside.”

The other advantage, he said, is an aural branding device, the chime sound that denotes Intel, which will continue in the new campaign.

“The only thing I would have liked better than ‘Look inside’ is ‘Listen inside,’ ” Mr. Stibel said.

Listening or looking, consumers will be hearing and seeing a lot of “Look inside.” Intel spent more than $53.8 million to advertise in major media last year, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
90 2013-06-04 Simon & Schuster, HarperCollins and the Hachette Book Group settled the day that charges were filed; Penguin and Macmillan settled months later.

Apple insists it has done nothing wrong. Its lawyer, Orin Snyder, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, said Monday that the government had no direct evidence that a conspiracy took place. He said that government lawyers had taken quotes out of context and completely ignored the details of Apple’s negotiations with the publishers to create a “chain of inferences” that is “tortured and multifaceted.”

In its opening statement, the government brought up comments that Steven P. Jobs made to a reporter after he introduced the iPad and the iBookstore in January 2010. When asked why consumers would purchase an e-book from Apple’s store instead of Amazon.com, where e-books were $9.99, Mr. Jobs replied, “The prices will be the same.”

Mr. Buterman noted an e-mail exchange between Simon & Schuster executives talking about Mr. Jobs’s comment. “I can’t believe that Jobs made the statement below. Incredibly stupid,” wrote Elisa Rivlin, Simon & Schuster’s general counsel at the time. Mr. Buterman said this remark showed that Simon & Schuster felt Apple had given away that they had all been working to fix e-book prices.

But Mr. Snyder, in arguing for Apple, said the e-mail conversations show that the company had to negotiate aggressively to persuade publishers to adopt a different business model known as agency pricing, which allowed the publishers to set their own prices for e-books, giving Apple a 30 percent commission for books sold in its online store.

Mr. Snyder brought up an e-mail exchange between Mr. Jobs and James Murdoch, an executive of News Corporation, the owner of Harper Collins, which the Justice Department was presenting as evidence. Mr. Jobs had written, “Throw in with Apple and see if we can all make a go of this to create a real mainstream e-books market at $12.99 and $14.99.” But other parts of that e-mail showed that Mr. Jobs was unsure of whether the $12.99 price would succeed.

“Heck, Amazon is selling these books at $9.99, and who knows maybe they are right and we will fail even at $12.99,” Mr. Jobs wrote to Mr. Murdoch. “But we’re willing to try at the prices we proposed. We are not willing to try at higher prices, because we are pretty sure we’ll all fail.”

Mr. Snyder added that the exchange consisted of 15 e-mails, which showed Mr. Jobs had to push hard to persuade Mr. Murdoch — not evidence that a conspiracy took place.

Much of the disagreement between the Justice Department and Apple centers on a crucial part of the company’s contracts with publishers: the “most favored nation” clause requiring that no other retailer sell e-books for a lower price; if a retailer did, the publisher would have to match the price of the e-book in Apple’s store.

The government argues that the publishers used this clause to defeat price competition. The clause put pressure on Amazon to adopt the agency model as well, because otherwise, the publishers would provide their books to Apple instead, the government said. But Apple says the clause was intended to guarantee that if e-books were sold cheaper elsewhere, its customers would get e-books at the best price as well.

He said the most-favored nation clause “proves there is no price-fixing conspiracy” because it was intended to lower prices in Apple’s e-book store.

The Justice Department called as its first witness Kevin L. Saul, Apple’s lawyer who oversaw its negotiations with the publishers. When government lawyers asked him about his notes from his meetings with publishers, he confirmed that they were unhappy with Amazon’s $9.99 e-book price. But he denied that Apple was interested in helping them raise prices.

It was clear that before the trial began, Apple felt it was at a disadvantage. In his opening statement, Mr. Snyder asked Judge Denise L. Cote to “hit the delete button” on a tentative opinion she shared before the trial, in which she said she believed the government’s evidence would confirm that Apple abetted a conspiracy. Ms. Cote reassured Apple that she shared a tentative opinion only because she was asked to.

“The deck is not stacked against Apple unless the evidence is stacked against Apple,” Judge Cote said.
91 2013-06-04 The stage was set, then, for possible closure. At this year’s Summer Jam on Sunday night at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., streamed live on hot97.com, the thinking went, Ms. Minaj could perhaps perform a surprise set, bring out her label boss, Lil Wayne, and her label mate Drake, and set hip-hop back on its axis, and give this haphazard lineup some direction. (Because of travel constraints, I watched this year’s show via the live stream, which was mostly reliable if volume-challenged.)

She made no promises, though. That was probably because there was no way Ms. Minaj would cotton to an easy redemption narrative, or allow Hot 97 to profit from her name — not yet, at least. She did come onstage midway through the show on Sunday night, during 2 Chainz’s set, to perform a pair of songs. Her appearance was radiant and quick, and the reconciliation was terse and unsatisfying; she gave Mr. Rosenberg a brief, affectionless hug as she walked off the stage.

With Ms. Minaj out of the way, and on decidedly unflashy terms, it quickly became clear that Hot 97 had played its ace early: no real help was on the way. What was left wasn’t a referendum on hip-hop’s boundaries, like last year’s conflict, but maybe an inadvertent one on the scale of its current ambitions.

With no big-budget names to lean on, the show made do with a different caliber of star. 2 Chainz, just two years ago effectively a castoff, was a geyser of anthems and confidence and undoubtedly the most relevant rapper in this lineup. Meek Mill, not on the bill, stole sets from both the uncharacteristically amiable Wale and Fabolous. R&B was represented by the tender Miguel, who was joined by Mariah Carey, and the limber and soulless Chris Brown.

But the tenor of the night was set by the back-to-back sets of ASAP Rocky and Kendrick Lamar, two rising stars who are chipping away at hip-hop maximalism.

ASAP Rocky is an aesthete but not a worldbeater; his charms are restrained. He was energetic, though, and he brought out Bone Thugs-N-Harmony, the great and still-underappreciated Cleveland rappers of the 1990s that he, a New Yorker with open ears, cites as a major influence.

Mr. Lamar is a different kind of star — modest-size, with minor-key music who often crawls and rarely overwhelms. He was dominant during his performance, full of confidence that overshadowed his music’s fundamental humility. At the end of his set, his crew and ASAP Rocky’s crew stood at center stage together, staking a claim to victory that was not really challenged.

The night’s headliner was the human blend-tape French Montana, the hometown rapper who has made his career slurring over hits from a couple of generations ago. He was joined by Rick Ross and Lil Wayne, but this late blast of star power, just before his set abruptly ended, wasn’t enough to save him, or the night.

Summer Jam’s traditionally blatant hometown affirmative action also meant sets from Joe Budden, lately better known for his reality TV breakdowns than for his music, and the reliable if unexciting Fabolous. It also meant an overlong set by the Wu-Tang Clan, who performed at the first Summer Jam, in 1994, before many in the audience were born.

Summer Jam is ostensibly a party, but it remains allergic to out-of-town artists with beloved breakout hits — Ace Hood did perform “Bugatti” during French Montana’s set, but there was no Juicy J for “Bandz A Make Her Dance,” no Young Scooter for “Colombia,” no Rocko for “U.O.E.N.O.” (though Mr. Lamar did perform his devastating remix verse from it). Of the medium-size stars, there was no Young Jeezy, no Future. Of local heroes, there was no Nas, no Cam’ron. Jay-Z and Beyoncé were spotted backstage but did not perform.

Maybe Hot 97 is retrenching as a true hometown station, looking to promote its own local stars. That was the implicit argument of the festival stage preshow concert, which featured oodles of local comers. The festival stage is where Mr. Rosenberg got into trouble last year — he was little heard-from this time — and this year’s lineup, full of wordy New York classicists whose fan bases may be more virtual than actual at the moment, was built in his image.

Mostly, there were temperate performances from the likes of Action Bronson, Joey Badass, Troy Ave and Vinny Chase, but the clear star was the rowdy, growling ASAP Ferg, the ASAP Rocky affiliate whose monstrous, clanging “Work” is one of the year’s breakout anthems. With enough energy for a bigger stage, he was as ambitious as anyone who performed in the main show.

Well, maybe not as ambitious as one person. Just before French Montana, the Brooklyn footnote Papoose performed a song, much to everyone’s confusion. According to Mr. Darden’s Twitter feed, Papoose somehow sneaked onstage and took control of the microphone, literally stealing the show. It was apt given the state of Summer Jam: adrift, and anyone’s for the taking.
92 2013-06-04 ISTANBUL — As protests continued for a fourth day in major Turkish cities on Monday, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the demonstrations were the work of extremists led by political opponents trying to overthrow his government. But Turkey’s president, Abdullah Gul, called for calm from all sides and said protests and demonstrations were a natural part of democracy.

Protesters gathered again in Istanbul and other cities Monday evening, after security forces used tear gas and water cannons overnight on crowds of mostly youthful demonstrators in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir who were calling for an end to Mr. Erdogan’s more than 10 years in power.

For the first time, deaths were reported at two demonstrations: one protester died in Istanbul after a vehicle slammed into a crowd there late Sunday, The Associated Press reported, citing an Ankara-based medical official. And in the southern border town of Antakya, an opposition party deputy reported on the Web channel Halk TV that a 22-year-old man whom he identified as Abdullah Can Comert was struck in the head by at least one of four bullets fired from an armored police vehicle. Mr. Erdogan accused the main opposition party of using the demonstrations, which flared into a widespread confrontation with security forces on Friday, for political gain.

“If we set aside those that joined upon their innocent motives and information they got from the media, there are also ones that attended an event organized by extremists,” Mr. Erdogan said in a speech. He suggested the possibility of foreign provocation, although he did not specify its origin.

“Our intelligence agency has their own investigation on that — there is no need to disclose them as this or that,” he said.

Speaking at a news conference before leaving for an official visit to Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia, Mr. Erdogan also dismissed concerns that recent government actions, like tightened regulations on alcohol sales and use, were attacks on the lifestyles of secular Turks.
93 2013-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark. You were the most beautiful person who made my world. I'll love you forever, Marguerite....
94 2013-06-05 LOWENSTEIN--Hugh Price, of Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, FL and Linville, NC died June 2, 2013. Born 1930 to Katherine and Melvyn Lowenstein. Graduated from Salisbury School, 1949; attended North Carolina State College; served in U.S. Army in Korea; ...
95 2013-06-05 The long, lean line of Francisco Costa’s resort clothes for Calvin Klein today seemed attuned to the moment, though we won’t be seeing these designs in stores for several months....
96 2013-06-05 Monoprice, the Web retailer best known for its low-priced cables, continues to expand its product line with a low price 27-inch high resolution LED computer monitor....
97 2013-06-05 Credit: Benjamin Norman for The New York Times
98 2013-06-05 This student-produced and directed video was made, according to teachers, “off the cuff, from the heart and without notes.”...
99 2013-06-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
100 2013-06-05 Sales of Samsung’s new flagship phone, the Galaxy S4, combined with its bigger-screen Galaxy Note II and the older Galaxy S III, lifted Samsung’s sales above Apple’s last month, a report said....
101 2013-06-05 The actor explores the strange aisles of a Chelsea warehouse filled with movie décor as he sings “The Life That You Wished For” from the musical “Chaplin.”...
102 2013-06-05 Stripped of costumes and props, today’s best-known artists from the Broadway stage and Carnegie Hall offer intimate and thrilling performances for the camera.
103 2013-06-05 A county in Alabama took a big step toward resolving its bankruptcy. | Regulators are preparing for an important vote on the money market fund industry. | Obama’s planned F.B.I. nominee could offer a peek at the largest hedge fund in the world. ...
104 2013-06-05 The parent company of Bloomberg News will start its own venture capital firm to invest in start-ups, including some companies that its technology reporters write about, Nicole Perlroth reports in The New York Times....
105 2013-06-05 How you deliver the bad news can make a big difference in how it’s received....
106 2013-06-05 Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who leads the four-member Independent Democratic Conference that shares control of the Senate, said he supported an even broader plan for women’s rights than the governor’s 10-point act, but also hoped “that abortion does not become a political football used to divide legislators.”

The language about abortion in the measure is spare: five sentences at the end of a 59-page bill. The sentences would guarantee a woman’s right to an abortion as established by Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision that legalized the procedure. The measure would secure a right to late-term abortions when the health of the pregnant woman is at risk or when the fetus is not viable, as determined by a doctor.

Current state law allows abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy only if the mother’s life is in danger; but the state law is superseded by federal court rulings that allow for late-term abortions to protect a woman’s health.

In his announcement, Mr. Cuomo took pains to insist that the abortion element of the act did not expand or extend abortion rights, but simply protected existing rights for New Yorkers in case federal court rulings change. But groups opposed to abortion disagreed in a flurry of statements, including one from Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, the Roman Catholic archbishop of New York, who said the governor’s bill “runs the serious risk of broadly expanding abortion access at all stages of gestation.”

The inclusion in a single bill of the abortion rights language and less controversial women’s rights provisions was most likely to pose a challenge for some Republicans.

Jessica M. Cherry, counsel to Senator John J. Bonacic, a Hudson Valley Republican who believes abortion should be “safe, legal, and rare,” said Mr. Bonacic, for one, felt the governor should separate the 10 issues out.

Mr. Cuomo said that all 10 points were “vitally important,” and that he — and other members of a coalition of women’s groups who helped devise the legislation — want all 10 passed.

“I think it will bring clarity and transparency to the people of New York,” the governor said. “They have a right to know how their elected officials feel on each and every one of these 10 points.”

In the Assembly, where Democrats have a big majority, the abortion measure is likely to pass. But in the Senate, where Democrats hold a narrow numerical majority but do not have a functional majority, even if the measure came to the floor for a vote, it is not clear what would happen; most but not all Senate Democrats support abortion rights, and most but not all Senate Republicans oppose abortion.
107 2013-06-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
108 2013-06-05 Violent outbursts have become a defining feature. After a change in Italian law in 2011, those found to be residing illegally in Italy can now be detained as long as 18 months, in compliance with E.U. law, while their status is resolved. Since the change in the law, the authorities acknowledge, riots and attempts at escape have become more common.

When observers from Doctors for Human Rights, an Italian association, tried to visit the center in the southern city of Bari last July, they were denied access to holding areas “because of the tensions inside,” according a report that the group released in May. A revolt in August 2010 partly destroyed the center, which is working at reduced capacity after a class action suit was successfully brought against it.

In all, five centers have undergone major renovations after rioting. A revolt also damaged the center in Turin, where detainees are kept in six closed sectors. When workers from Doctors for Human Rights visited the center in April 2012, a third of the 120 detainees were taking sedatives or anti-anxiety drugs, and the director of the center reported that there were 156 acts of self-harm among detainees in 2011, the group’s report said. Depression is common in all the centers. Suicides are rare, but happen.

“In the 15 years since they were first instituted,” the group said in its report, the centers “have proven to be congenitally unable to guarantee dignity and fundamental human rights.”

What’s more, critics say, the centers have not deterred illegal immigration. The report by Doctors for Human Rights pointed out that only about 50 percent — 4,015 of the 7,944 irregular immigrants detained in 2012 — were actually deported. That was just a tiny fraction of the 440,000 irregular immigrants believed to reside in Italy.

“In Italy, life is not free,” said a 24-year-old Nigerian woman who did not want her name to be used and was detained at the Ponte Galeria center, which can hold a maximum of 360 detainees. “This is supposed to be a camp, not a prison. We are treated like slaves, but I am a human being. I want freedom.”

In a case that made national news in Italy, a 24-year-old Egyptian, known publicly only as Karim, was brought to Ponte Galeria after being stopped in April with an expired residence permit. He has lived in Italy since he was 6 years old, has two brothers legally residing here, and an Italian girlfriend of three years whose toddler from a previous union regards him as her father.

Like many detainees, Karim asked for, but was denied, political asylum. His lawyer, who is appealing the ruling, said Karim was most likely refused because he has a criminal record for drug trafficking and because he spent time in a rehabilitation center. Karim’s girlfriend is now trying to marry him. An online petition to halt his expulsion has registered more than 19,700 signatures.

“I haven’t been in Egypt since 1998, I don’t have anyone there,” Karim said in an interview last month, speaking with a marked Milanese accent. “People in the center look at me and say, ‘What are you doing here?”’

Others inside and outside the system are asking the same question of the thousands held around Europe.

The length of detention and the conditions at the centers differ from country to country, but “Italy is not unique with having criticism and problems in running these facilities,” said Michael Flynn, the founder and coordinator of the Global Detention Project, based in Geneva.

In Malta, migrants can be detained for 12 months, and then released into the community “as a matter of course,” said Philip Amaral, advocacy and communications coordinator for the Jesuit Refugee Service Europe, based in Brussels. “So why bother detaining them?”

In Britain, the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford has raised similar questions about the usefulness of detention. Spain has been criticized for housing migrants in tents; the Netherlands for keeping them on houseboats.

By virtue of its long coastline and proximity to North Africa, Italy faces a special predicament, however. With the chaos of the Arab Spring in 2011, the number of people who crossed the Mediterranean to Italy swelled to 62,000. The numbers have since dropped significantly. Last year, 13,200 made the crossing, according to estimates by the International Organization for Migration. In the first three months of 2013, about 1,500 had crossed.

Beyond the human rights issues, “the fact that you detain does not deter people from coming,” Mr. Flynn said. “If that is the public policy goal,” he added, “it is not working well.”

Despite such criticism, Italy’s centers, which are managed by private companies, have become “indispensable,” according to a 2013 Interior Ministry report. The report nonetheless acknowledged several problems, including the “total absence of activities inside the centers,” which “leads to an increase in aggressiveness and malaise, and has increased the tension between immigrants and police.”

The report called for a reform of the system, possibly putting all the centers under single management, with the aim of standardizing their quality and making them more cost effective. Government officials also say that the process would be more streamlined if foreign consulates cooperated more promptly in identifying detainees for deportation.

To reduce the “not-infrequent” outbursts of violence, the Interior Ministry report recommended isolating the perpetrators “for brief periods of time.”

Rights groups said the recommendation was a step in the wrong direction.

“The conclusion comes down to increasing the repression,” said Piero Soldini, who oversees the immigration department for the Italian General Confederation of Labor, a left-leaning trade union. “Our challenge is instead to demonstrate that we can do without them.”

Whatever the view of the centers, there is no doubt that they amount to a life of limbo. The “guests,” as they are officially known, are often bewildered by their predicament. Research by the Jesuit Refugee Service Europe found that in centers around the Continent, detainees “primarily suffer mentally, severe, psychological stress from not knowing when the detention will end,” Mr. Amaral said. It is worse, he said, than imprisonment, which has a fixed term.

Some come directly from prison, too, once they have served sentences. Former inmates say the added stay amounts to an unfair extension of their sentences.

“I waited for five years to be released,” from prison “and then I found myself locked away again,” said a 40-year-old Tunisian man who was being held at the Ponte Galeria center and did not want to be identified.

He had spent nearly half his life in Italy, working in construction before being arrested for drug trafficking.

“Jail,” he said, “was better organized than here.”
109 2013-06-05 Mississippi River communities scrambling Tuesday to fend off the rain-engorged waterway got discouraging news: More rains looming across much of the nation’s midsection threatened to slow the potential retreat of the river. In West Alton, Mo., the breach of a makeshift levee on Monday fanned worries that the town would be inundated. In Alton, Ill., north of St. Louis, floodwaters already forced the local casino to close.
110 2013-06-05 Apple’s legal victory against Samsung Electronics over patents in the United States is not flawless. A trade commission on Tuesday determined that the company had violated one of Samsung’s patents, and it ordered a ban on some older Apple devices.

But the ban is unlikely to have an immediate impact on sales of those devices in the United States.

The United States International Trade Commission said on Tuesday that it was issuing a ban for a handful of devices that work on AT&T’s network, including the third- and fourth-generation iPhone, and the first-, second- and third-generation iPads that have a cellular connection.

President Obama has 60 days to review the order and can veto it.

Apple said it intended to appeal the decision, so it will be some time until the commission’s decision goes into effect, if at all.

“We are disappointed that the commission has overturned an earlier ruling and we plan to appeal,” said Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman. “Today’s decision has no impact on the availability of Apple products in the United States.”

The ban already faces challenges because of executive orders issued by Mr. Obama on Tuesday to tighten regulations at the Patent and Trademark Office. One order, labeled “Strengthen Enforcement Process of Exclusion Orders,” called for a strict review of the procedures that the commission uses to enforce exclusion orders.
111 2013-06-05 In the most severe cases, legs are amputated. If the limb can be spared, doctors perform a debridement, a grisly operation that seems more fitting for the trenches of Verdun than for a dynamic, modern metropolis like Ho Chi Minh City. The procedure involves cutting away rotting flesh and is performed several times a day at Nguyen Tri Phuong and four other hospitals in Ho Chi Minh City that have wards dedicated to diabetes care.

Doctors and government officials say no statistics are available on the number of amputations linked to diabetes in Vietnam, but Dr. Thy Khue, a pioneering diabetes researcher in the country, says the problem is “severe” and a particular strain on the health system because patients with amputated feet or legs tend to stay in hospitals for weeks. Diabetes foot exists in the West, but rates may be higher in Vietnam and other tropical countries because people tend to wear sandals outside and go barefoot around the house, leaving their feet more susceptible to injury, Dr. Khue said.

Diabetes rates are surging in many countries, but it is a particularly poignant paradox that, after so many years of war in Vietnam, peace is now partly marred by the afflictions of rising prosperity: clogged hearts, obesity and diabetes.

Official statistics in Vietnam show a vertiginous increase in Type 2 diabetes overall, the form of the disease that is linked to diet and lifestyle and in the West has reached epidemic levels, especially among the obese.

From just 1 percent of the adult Vietnamese population in 1991 — the year the first nationwide survey of diabetes was done in Vietnam — the rate climbed to 6 percent last year. And in Ho Chi Minh City, a survey in 2010 estimated that 1 in 10 adults had the disease.

Dr. Khue said diabetes was once the preserve of the very wealthy. But as people have moved from rice paddies into factories and offices, her patients today are from all walks of life.

“It’s not the disease of the very rich anymore,” she said. “Now poor and rich — everyone — can get diabetes.”

Jesper Hoiland, senior vice president of Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest maker of drugs to treat the disease, said the number of people with diabetes in Vietnam was expected to climb higher as the country’s economy continues to grow — and as more people adopt modern, urban lifestyles.

“We are going to see a real pandemic in Vietnam in the coming years,” he said.

The International Diabetes Federation, a group that keeps statistics on the disease, calculates that 371 million people were afflicted with diabetes worldwide last year. Four out of five people with the disease live in poor or middle-income countries like Egypt, Guyana or Vietnam, the federation said.

“In today’s world, many more people are dying from overeating than from starvation,” Mr. Hoiland said.

Among the most severely affected are Pacific Islanders, where diabetes rates can go as high as nearly one-third of the population, as is the case in the tiny island of Nauru in Micronesia. Arab countries also have very high rates, according to data published by the federation. Nearly a quarter of the adult population in Saudi Arabia has diabetes, according to the data.

Diabetes affects the body’s ability to manage sugar and can be brought under control with exercise, changes in diet and, ultimately, injections of insulin to regulate blood sugar levels. But symptoms, which include frequent thirst and urination and weight loss, often develop slowly, experts say, and many people have the disease for years without knowing it, especially in countries where health care systems are rudimentary.

The reason for the disparity in diabetes rates among nations — and among ethnic groups within nations — is related to genetic predisposition, diet and exercise, or lack of it, experts say.

But doctors in Vietnam say the spike in diabetes has not been fully explained.

“Our patients are not obese. Some are very thin,” said Dr. Khanh.

Because of different body types, the threshold of what is considered obese is lower in Asia than in the West — obese patients in Asia can appear only mildly overweight by Western standards. But that still does not explain many of the cases he sees, Dr. Khanh said.

During a reporter’s visit, a 26-year-old woman in skinny jeans and a plaid shirt, Lam Loc Mui, was diagnosed with diabetes.

Ms. Mui, who was born in the provinces but works as a dental assistant in Ho Chi Minh City, is rail thin with a 27-inch waist.

“This came as a real shock,” she said. “I rarely eat sweet things.”

Dr. Khanh speculated that she could fall into the category of what experts call the “migratory effect.” Ms. Mui worked on a farm when she was young. Now in the city, she walks very little and exercises almost never.

Hans Duijf, the head of operations for Novo Nordisk in Thailand, said some patients who had grown up in the countryside become diabetic after a move to an urban environment with marginal changes to their diets.

“If your body is programmed to live off of very little food you have a much higher chance of getting diabetes with relatively small changes in lifestyle,” he said.

Dr. Khue, the diabetes researcher, said another factor might be exposure to chemicals and pollution. Not enough studies have been done into their effects, she said.

None of those theories were comforting to Phu Thi Hong Thuy, a 48-year-old diabetic who sat in the ward listening to a doctor discuss with a reporter the possible causes of her condition.

Several weeks earlier, Ms. Thuy had brushed against the closet in her home and cut herself.

“I didn’t think it was that severe,” she said. But when she arrived at the hospital, doctors decided to amputate.

“I’m still dreaming that I still have my leg,” she said. “Sometimes I feel my leg itching — but when I look, it’s not there.”
112 2013-06-05 The two battery incidents, both in mid-January, involved a fire on a Japan Airlines 787 parked in Boston and a smoking battery that forced an All Nippon jet to make an emergency landing in Japan.

Regulators in the United States and Japan have still not pinpointed the cause of the problems, though it is clear that the fire on the Boston plane started with a short circuit that spread through all eight of the cells on one of the plane’s batteries.

To get the planes back in the air, Boeing changed the battery manufacturing process to reduce the chances for a short circuit and added better insulation to keep a short in one cell from spreading. It also added a stainless steel box to encase the batteries and minimize the chances of a fire. And, as a last resort, it created titanium tubing to vent any hazardous residue from the plane.

“Boeing says that any battery fire will now go out on its own, so there’s no safety issue,” Mr. Nagasawa, the Japanese pilots’ union leader, said in an interview. “But that’s on paper. No pilot would ever want to keep flying with a fire on board, whether it’s in a metal box or not.”

Mike Sinnett, a Boeing vice president and the chief project engineer for the 787, said in an interview that the metal case would minimize the amount of oxygen near the battery to prevent a fire.

Boeing also received support Tuesday from the Air Line Pilots Association in the United States.

“A.L.P.A. is very satisfied with the B787 product improvements, and we have not heard any concerns from our members,” the union said in a statement.

The Japanese pilots first expressed their concerns in meetings with Boeing engineers in Tokyo in late March. Several pilots from All Nippon Airways raised about 30 safety concerns, according to a written account provided by the union.

Other more recent problems with the planes have added to the worries and irritated Japanese officials.

A loose fastener on an electrical panel caused a small part of that panel to char last month, though that occurred on a test flight without paying customers. On Sunday, two days after the Japanese airlines resumed 787 passenger flights, a sensor that detects uneven pressures near the batteries malfunctioned on one jet, forcing Japan Airlines to change planes for a flight to Beijing.

Mr. Sinnett said both problems were caused by maintenance errors by Boeing personnel. But Akihiro Ota, the Japanese transport minister, rebuked Boeing and Japan Airlines on Tuesday for the latest blunder. That the companies “failed to take all possible safety measures is deplorable,” Mr. Ota told reporters.

The 787 carries two lithium-ion batteries. The main battery provides backup power for the cockpit displays. The other battery starts a small engine that provides power to the plane on the ground.

According to the memorandum describing the meeting with Boeing in March, the Japanese pilots expressed concern that they would receive only a general warning of a battery malfunction, with no indication of its severity. The pilots were also worried about whether Boeing had provided enough proof that the jets could fly safely if the batteries failed.

Mr. Sinnett said on Tuesday that the planes had multiple backup systems and could still fly if the batteries failed.

He said the cockpit alerts were ranked in descending order by urgency — as warnings, cautions, advisories or status notices. He said that various problems with the batteries would only set off an advisory or status alert.

He added that the airlines had not asked Boeing to upgrade the alert system.
113 2013-06-05 Mr. Lei, for his part, hardly discourages comparisons to Apple and Mr. Jobs. And why would he? Founded by a group of Chinese engineers three years ago, his company sold seven million mobile phones last year by using designs that mimic the look and feel of the iPhone and using marketing that seems right out of Apple’s playbook.

It’s no surprise that entrepreneurs aspire to create a Chinese Apple. Many talk about moving China beyond the dead end of assembling devices for other companies.

So far, however, true innovators have been scarce. At best, they have adapted others’ technology to the Chinese market.

Mr. Lei has attracted believers because no company’s annual revenue has reached the $1 billion mark in China faster than Xiaomi, not even Amazon, which took five years to get there. Xiaomi did it while earning a profit.

Its backers include Qiming Venture Partners, the venture capital arm of Qualcomm and Digital Sky Technologies, an investment firm run by Yuri Milner, an early backer of Facebook, Groupon and Zynga.

Xiaomi, which is privately held, says an initial public offering is years away. But the company is worth $4 billion, according to its latest round of financing last June.

If that valuation holds up, it would make Xiaomi one of China’s most valuable technology companies, behind Alibaba, Baidu, Tencent and Netease.

The company caters to young, college-educated people who want a smartphone but cannot quite afford one, people like Lu Da, a 26-year-old education consultant in Shanghai.

“I chose Xiaomi because it’s good value for the money,” he said.

Skeptics say the company produces low-price iPhone imitations with no significant software or hardware advantages. They also say the company faces stiff challenges from Apple and Samsung, which are in a position to offer low-price smartphones.

The marketing power of bigger local handset makers like Lenovo, Huawei and Taiwan’s HTC, which together recently sold about 25 percent of all smartphones in China, cannot be discounted either.

Whether the company succeeds, its rise has solidified Mr. Lei’s reputation as a start-up wizard. Part entrepreneur and part start-up investor, he spent more than a decade at the Chinese software company Kingsoft and took it public in 2007. (He remains chairman and holds a $300 million stake.)

He also invested in a string of successful software and Internet companies, including YY, an online social platform that went public on the Nasdaq stock exchange in the United States last year and is now worth about $1.5 billion. One of Mr. Lei’s earliest successes came in 2004, when Amazon paid $75 million to acquire his e-commerce company Joyo.com.

“Lei Jun is a phenomenal entrepreneur,” said Kai-Fu Lee, the former Google executive who now runs Innovation Works, a Beijing-based firm that invests in Chinese start-ups. “He’s insightful about user needs and markets, and now he has this incredible desire to create a household brand in technology.”

Mr. Lei has revealed little about his personal life, but he has nearly five million followers on Sina Weibo, a sort of Chinese Twitter, and is treated like a celebrity in technology circles.

He grew up near Wuhan, a gritty industrial city in central China, and studied computer science at Wuhan University. It was during college, in 1987, he says, that he read a book about Mr. Jobs, and decided to emulate him.

“I was greatly influenced by that book, and I wanted to establish a company that was first class,” Mr. Lei said. “So I made a plan to get through college fast.”

After finishing his coursework in two years, he joined Kingsoft, a Chinese software company. A talented engineer with sharp marketing skills, he worked his way up into the executive ranks, and was named chief executive in 1998.

At Kingsoft, he also found time to set up Joyo.com and to become an angel investor in dozens of other companies.

“He has vision,” said Liu Ren, a longtime friend who runs an investment fund. “He sees trends earlier than others and is always ready to adjust. For instance, Joyo started as a downloading platform and at the beginning YY was just doing RSS subscription.”

With $41 million in initial financing, Mr. Lei teamed up with a former Microsoft and Google engineer, Bin Lin, and five other engineers to set up Xiaomi in a small office on the outskirts of Beijing.

Work began in 2010 on a software platform for the phone adapted from Google’s Android system. The company also sought out many of the same suppliers and contract manufacturers that worked with Apple, including Qualcomm, Broadcom and Foxconn.

In August 2011, Xiaomi introduced its first smartphone, the Mi-1, which sold out in two days. The Mi-2 was released last August, and sold out so quickly that some analysts claimed Xiaomi was creating artificial shortages to generate buzz through “scarcity marketing.”

To lower costs, the company cut out middlemen and distributors, selling directly through its Web site. The marketing was not just innovative for China, the company said, but allowed Xiaomi to sell smartphones for just half the price of the iPhone or Samsung Galaxy phones.

Xiaomi also outsources designs and features online from its so-called Mi-Fans, and releases a new version of the operating system every Friday, to add new features and keep the Mi-Fans excited.

“For a start-up it’s quite impressive what they’ve achieved,” Sandy Shen, an analyst at the research firm Gartner, said. “But the question is: how are they going to grow their market share beyond the narrow segment they’ve targeted?”

Many technology analysts and investors in China say that the company’s valuation is a bubble and that it will be difficult for Xiaomi to maintain its growth.

Mr. Lei insists his company could sell more than 15 million phones this year. Xiaomi — like Apple — is also looking at television.

Mr. Lei, listed by Forbes as one of China’s wealthiest entrepreneurs, worth $1.7 billion, has already helped create three multibillion-dollar start-ups in the last decade. Little wonder, then, that he comes across as confident, even a little cocky.

“We’re not just some cheap Chinese company making a cheap phone,” he said. “We’re going to be a Fortune 500 company.”
114 2013-06-05 David Bundy for The New York Times
115 2013-06-05 Mr. Grassley linked Mr. Froman’s financial issues with matters that arose during Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew’s confirmation this year and have also drawn questions for his nominee for commerce secretary, the affluent businesswoman Penny Pritzker.

White House officials said Mr. Froman played no role in creating, managing or operating the investment funds and had done nothing wrong.

“Mike Froman has paid every penny of his taxes and reported all of the income, gains and losses from the investment on his tax returns,” Mr. Whithorne said.

Mr. Froman, 50, a former investment manager at Citigroup, has been with the Obama White House since the beginning, serving as the president’s representative and negotiator at major economic gatherings like the summit meetings of the Group of 20 industrialized nations.

According to a 2011 financial document, Mr. Froman held $490,845 in a fund managed by Citigroup and based in Grand Cayman’s Ugland House, a modest whitewashed building that has been widely cited as a symbol of tax avoidance since it is home to nearly 19,000 business entities seeking favorable tax treatment.

In answers to Finance Committee questions, Mr. Froman said on May 17 that he still held those assets but would sell them off within 90 days of confirmation as trade representative.

Mr. Grassley said the president once called the Ugland House “the biggest tax scam in the world.”

“Yet he nominated two top advisers in a row who invested in the Ugland House,” Mr. Grassley said. “He also nominated a commerce secretary with significant offshore income.”

Mr. Froman’s 2009 financial disclosure forms showed holdings in three different Citigroup accounts that maximize profits through “carried interest,” a tax loophole that allows private equity and hedge fund managers to claim compensation as capital gains, thus paying a lower tax rate than if that pay is taxed as income.

Mr. Froman received a $2 million payout from Citigroup to waive his holdings in the India Infrastructure Carried Interest Plan and from another investment called the Sustainable Investments Carry LP. Another account, Citi Infrastructure Investors Carried LP, showed $1 million to $5 million in assets in 2009. Those assets were transferred to his wife, Nancy Goodman, who has promised to divest them as soon as he is confirmed. But White House officials say their value in his latest financial disclosure was revised to zero because of fund performance.

As the financial industry went into a tailspin, Mr. Froman received a bonus in 2008 of $2.75 million, based on his performance the year before. In 2009, his bonus for 2008 work was $2.25 million. The justification for these bonuses given to the committee was “normal industry practice.”

White House officials acknowledged the compensation Mr. Froman received to divest himself of accounts under the terms of his severance agreement with Citigroup. But, they said, that compensation was taxed as ordinary income, not capital gains.

The Obama White House has been trying to close the carried interest loophole since its first budget proposal in 2009, asking Congress to begin taxing such payments as ordinary income. So far, Congress has refused.

It is not clear whether Mr. Froman’s holdings will damage his chance at confirmation. But they could put Democrats in an difficult position. Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio and an economic populist, said he already was prepared to ask Mr. Froman tough questions about administration trade policies he does not like, especially efforts to expand trade agreements around the Pacific Rim.

Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the Finance Committee chairman, was less than effusive in his defense of Mr. Froman.

“Frankly it doesn’t bother me in the sense that he apparently didn’t break any laws anywhere, but it does highlight the need for tax reform,” he said
116 2013-06-05 The plan suggests that Kremlin forecasters are not expecting economic conditions or the political mood to improve in the near future. They may even have feared that Mr. Sobyanin would not win in 2015, when his current term ends.

“The protesters, these ‘modernized Russians,’ may not be a political force, but their mood is a factor that cannot be ignored, and they are getting angrier and angrier,” said Maria Lipman, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center. “The Kremlin, of course, and Putin personally, is trying to avert risk, to minimize the risks even if they are not too high.”

Among the politicians who have expressed interest in running for the post is Mr. Navalny himself, but he is on trial in the city of Kirov on embezzlement charges that could bring a sentence of up to 10 years.

Another is the billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov, who situated himself as a candidate for middle-class liberals in the 2012 presidential election, but who seemed to withdraw abruptly from the political stage after that.

Mr. Prokhorov said Tuesday that he would consult with his lawyers before deciding whether to run, and condemned Mr. Sobyanin’s decision as a result of “fear ahead of clean elections.”

“Only the naïve do not see a trick here — picking a time when it is impossible for political opponents to mobilize, and spend the brief summer organizing a campaign, during the season of summer cottages and holidays,” he wrote on his blog.

Most analysts said on Tuesday that Mr. Sobyanin would win easily in September.

Mr. Sobyanin has a blandly bureaucratic style, and served for years as Mr. Putin’s chief of staff before being appointed mayor.

Still, he has remained reasonably popular among Muscovites even as they cooled to the current government.

Though favorable conditions virtually assure Mr. Sobyanin of victory, the analyst Stanislav Belkovsky told Dozhd, an online news channel, the decision to speed up the race shows that the authorities recognize that they have new political vulnerabilities, that elections are necessary to legitimize leaders’ standing and that they can no longer expect growing support in Moscow.

“Let them call the elections for September if they want, but these two trends are not going away,” he said.

Asked about Mr. Sobyanin’s re-election campaign, he predicted a message “à la Leonid Brezhnev: Life is good, and it will be even better.”
117 2013-06-05 In the past few days, Mr. Erdogan has claimed that those rallying against him were mobilized by the country’s opposition parties, especially the ultrasecular and ultranationalist bloc led by the Republican People’s Party (C.H.P.). He said the issue was not the park but a concerted political campaign against him by those who opposed his policies on partisan grounds. This was understandable given that his opponents have ignored the A.K.P.’s landmark achievements for the sake of partisanship in the past.

However, a quick look was enough to confirm that the opposition that took over Taksim last weekend was different. It was a largely nonpartisan movement made up of liberals, conservatives, independents and even likely A.K.P. voters. Their cause was later overshadowed by some violent groups, who dealt a serious blow to the public image of the protests through vandalism, looting and attacking women wearing head scarves. Yet the initial sit-in group, as well as those participating in the broader protests that followed, represented a broad cross section of society.

Mr. Erdogan has remained defiant, but there have been critics of his handling of the crisis within his own party. Among them was Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, one of the heavyweights of the A.K.P., who said authorities should have communicated with the protesters instead of tear-gassing them. He also openly praised a local administrative court that issued a stay on the Taksim project amid the continuing protests on Friday. And Turkey’s education minister, Nabi Avci, observed on Monday that the government had done what the secular opposition parties had not been able to achieve for years: within five days, the police crackdown brought together masses who had been incapable of uniting against the government. It even managed to unite the fans of three archrival Istanbul soccer teams, which were engaged in a fierce fight for a championship just a few weeks ago.

The protests are hitting Mr. Erdogan at an inopportune time. He has been campaigning for a constitutional change that would give broad executive powers to the currently ceremonial presidency, raising concerns over how checks and balances in this system will be ensured if he runs for the post before his self-imposed three-term limit expires in 2015. When the demonstrations erupted, he had not yet persuaded the nation to switch to an executive presidential system, but the Turkish public has learned in Mr. Erdogan’s more than 10 years of rule that he sooner or later succeeds in whatever he plans to do.

Now many people, including his supporters, opponents and prominent intellectuals, are voicing concerns over the proposed presidential system. The recent protests are likely to complicate Mr. Erdogan’s calculations for a presidential run, as it may be difficult for him to persuade and eventually garner the support of the crowds he has so far refused to listen to.

In contrast to Mr. Erdogan’s dismissal of the protesters as “plunderers,” the Turkish president, Abdullah Gul, struck a different tone on Monday, telling reporters that “democracy is not just about elections” and that the protesters’ “message has been received. What is necessary will be done.” Deputy Prime Minister Arinc also adopted a conciliatory tone and apologized for the excessive use of police force while Mr. Erdogan was traveling abroad on an official visit to Morocco.

Tensions have eased slightly, but nothing will be the same for Turkey after these protests. Although Mr. Erdogan still argues that the majority of the nation is behind him based on his party’s recent internal polls, he would be wise to keep in mind the masses on Istanbul’s streets before making any future decision concerning people’s personal lives.

Mr. Erdogan was shown a yellow card in Istanbul; it is a warning to return to his reformist agenda and to open up channels of communication with all segments of society, including those who didn’t vote for him. Those in the opposition who wish to see him given a red card and ejected from office will have to wait until the next election in 2015 — unless Mr. Erdogan finds a way to ascend to the presidency before then.
118 2013-06-05 “All of the witnesses received onerous and intrusive questionnaires from I.R.S. agents across the country,” he said. “Some even had their confidential information leaked by the I.R.S. to the media, which can have the impact of chilling free speech.”

But the inspector general’s audit on excessive conference spending also bolstered White House claims that it has reined in such costs since the G.S.A.’s lavish expenditures came to light in the spring of 2012. The audit focused on a single conference of the I.R.S. Small Business/Self-Employed Division in August 2010. It was the most expensive conference from 2010 to 2012, the period examined.

J. Russell George, the inspector general, concluded that spending at that conference, held in Anaheim, Calif., was excessive. The agency managers booked three hotels, a Marriott, a Hilton and a Sheraton, making no effort to negotiate favorable room rates and instead accepted suite upgrades, free breakfasts and free drinks.

The agency spent $50,187 on videos, including a “Star Trek” parody and an employee dance video featuring the Cupid Shuffle. Another $35,800 was spent on three planning trips, and $135,350 went to 15 outside speakers. One of the speakers painted six portraits of famous people to reinforce his message that it takes creativity to find solutions to the challenges that managers face. Two of those paintings were given away at the event, three were donated to charity and one was lost.

The I.R.S. paid $30,000 for 45 employees who lived near the event to stay at the hotels and claim daily expenses. That money came primarily from unused funds appropriated to hire more tax enforcement officers, a White House priority.

“Certain of the I.R.S.’s expenses associated with the Anaheim conference do not appear to be a good use of taxpayer funds,” Mr. George said.

But he noted that the agency began clamping down on such conferences in early 2011. The White House budget office issued additional guidelines in May 2012, and expenditures plunged.

The Ways and Means Committee hearing gave conservative activists the chance to make their case against a government they have been protesting for years as intrusive and bullying, and they took full advantage.

Karen Kenney, founder of the San Fernando Valley Tea Party in California, said the I.R.S. demands for information “read like the chilling words from the 1950s” and she denounced “the jackboot of tyranny upon the field of our founding documents.”

Becky Gerritson, president of the Wetumpka Tea Party in Alabama, grew emotional as she recounted poor treatment at the hands of I.R.S. officials who reviewed her application for tax-exempt status.

“I’m not interested in scoring political points,” she said. “I want to protect and preserve the America that I grew up in, the America that people cross oceans and risk their lives to become a part of. And I’m terrified it is slipping away.”

Committee Republicans — and a vocal contingent of supporters in the audience — cheered on the witnesses, but some committee Democrats let their patience slip.

“None of your organizations were kept from organizing or silenced,” said Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington. “We are talking about whether or not the American taxpayers will subsidize your work. We’re talking about a tax break. If you didn’t come in and ask for this tax break, you would have never had a question asked of you.”
119 2013-06-05 After a fashion, he was also an eccentric voice of wisdom in the funny papers — the model for the Rev. Will B. Dunn, the bombastic preacher with the broad-brimmed clerical hat in “Kudzu,” Doug Marlette’s syndicated comic strip about rural Southerners.

Followers and friends called Mr. Campbell hilarious, profound, inspiring and apocalyptic, a guitar-picking, down-home country boy who made moonshine and stomped around his Tennessee cabin in cowboy boots and denim uttering streams of sacred and profane commentary that found their way into books, articles, lectures and sermons.

“Brother Will, as he was called by so many of us who knew him, made his own indelible mark as a minister and social activist in service to marginalized people of every race, creed and calling,” former President Jimmy Carter said.

The son of Mississippi cotton farmers, Mr. Campbell grew up in a backwater of segregated schools, churches and cracker-barrel country stores where men chewed tobacco and spat bigotry. He was ordained a Baptist minister at 17 and attended three colleges and Yale Divinity School before embarking on an unsatisfying life as a small-town pastor and then chaplain at the University of Mississippi. He left Ole Miss amid death threats over his integrationist views.

As a race-relations troubleshooter for the National Council of Churches from 1956 to 1963, he joined the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, James Farmer, Bayard Rustin, John Lewis and other civil rights luminaries in historic confrontations across the South.

Mr. Campbell was the only white person invited by Dr. King to the founding of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in 1957. Months later, Mr. Campbell helped escort black students through angry crowds in an attempt to integrate Central High School in Little Rock, Ark. (The students were turned away by the National Guard, but succeeded three weeks later with an escort of federal troops.)

In 1961, he counseled and accompanied Freedom Riders of the Congress of Racial Equality and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee who integrated interstate bus travel at the cost of beatings by white mobs in Anniston, Birmingham and Montgomery, Ala.

And in 1963, he joined Dr. King’s campaign of boycotts, sit-ins and marches in Birmingham, one of America’s most segregated cities. In scenes that stunned the nation, protesters were met with snarling police dogs and high-pressure water hoses.

“If it hits you right, the pressure from a fire hose can break your back,” Mr. Campbell said years later. “I remember seeing adults and children hit and rolling along the sidewalk like pebbles at high tide.”

Later in the 1960s, after appeals to Christian churches in the South to end segregation in their own ranks and actively fight discrimination, Mr. Campbell abandoned organized religion, though not his faith. He accused Southern Protestant churches in particular of standing silent in the face of bigotry.

Widening his horizons in the 1960s, he protested American involvement in the Vietnam War, helped draft resisters find sanctuaries in Canada, spoke against capital punishment and turned against politics, government and institutions in general for failing to provide solutions to the nation’s social problems.

His belief that Christ died for bigots as well as devout people prompted his contacts with the Ku Klux Klan, and he visited James Earl Ray in prison after the 1968 assassination of Mr. Campbell’s friend Dr. King. He was widely criticized for both actions.

In later years, Mr. Campbell campaigned for equal rights for women, gays and lesbians, and turned increasingly to writing. “Brother to a Dragonfly” was both an elegy to his brother, Joe, who died after years of alcoholism and drug addiction, and a memoir of the civil rights era and its bombings, murders and terrifying calls in the night.

“Will D. Campbell is a brave man who doesn’t like to talk about it,” John Leonard wrote in a review of the book for The New York Times, “one of a handful of white Southerners — like P. D. East, Ralph McGill, James Silver, Charles Morgan and Claude Sitton, all of whom appear in these pages — who Mr. Campbell says stood with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Fanny Lou Hamer and John Lewis in the worst of times.”

Will Davis Campbell was born on July 18, 1924, in Amite County, Miss., to Lee and Hancie Campbell. At 5, he survived a near-fatal case of pneumonia. He and his sister and two brothers attended local schools, and he went to Louisiana College before joining the Army in 1942. He was a combat medic in the South Pacific in World War II.

In 1946, he married Brenda Fisher. They had a son, Webb, and two daughters, Penny and Bonnie. They survive him, as do four grandchildren.

After earning a degree in English from Wake Forest College in 1950 and a year at Tulane University, Mr. Campbell graduated from Yale Divinity School in 1952. His two years at a small Baptist church in Taylor, La., dissuaded him from a pastoral career; two more as a chaplain at Ole Miss coincided with his growing opposition to segregation.

After his years in the civil rights movement, he directed the Committee of Southern Churchmen and for decades published Katallagete, its quarterly journal of politics and social change, whose title referred to a biblical passage on reconciliation. He wrote books at his farm near Mount Juliet and traveled widely, lecturing and ministering to followers who shared his distrust of institutions.

His books included critiques of modern Christianity, “Race and the Renewal of the Church” (1962) and “Up to Our Steeples in Politics” (1970); spiritual-historical novels, “The Glad River” (1982) and “Cecelia’s Sin” (1983); memoirs, “Forty Acres and a Goat” (1986) and “Crashing the Idols: The Vocation of Will D. Campbell” (2010, with Richard C. Goode); and various biographies, histories and children’s books.

In 2000, Mr. Campbell received the National Endowment for the Humanities medal from President Bill Clinton and was profiled in a PBS documentary, “God’s Will,” narrated by Ossie Davis.
120 2013-06-05 Chai Jinfeng, another survivor, said veteran workers had told her that the factory kept several doors locked to prevent workers from stealing. “The less doors, the easier it is to patrol,” she said.

The fire raised questions about whether government regulation was rigorous enough. The previous statements of support for the company, including recognition as a “top 100” agricultural firm in Jilin Province, are typical of the symbiotic ties between Communist Party officials and the businesses they are supposed to regulate. Such close working relationships have been a key to China’s successful transition from a socialist planned economy, but have also made industrial accidents, labor abuses and environmental hazards common.

“They’re really driven and focused on G.D.P. growth and bringing in companies that can help economic growth,” said Alex L. Wang, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has studied the cadre evaluation system by which officials are promoted in China. “So regarding any measures that would increase the costs of doing business for these companies, the government will tend to remain more hands off.”

In October 2010, the head of the local anticorruption body of the Communist Party visited the Baoyuanfeng factory to research conditions, according to a statement from Dehui propaganda officials on the municipal Web site. The official, Zhao Wenbo, found the company’s “progress into becoming a nationally known enterprise and the growth of its production inspiring,” the post said.

A different post from the same year on the Dehui site asserted that “through an advanced management concept and business model, the company quickly entered into healthy development.” It said the Jilin provincial government had called the company one of the “top 100 agricultural processing companies,” while the provincial capital of Changchun labeled it a “leading enterprise” in agricultural industrialization, a title that it also held in 2011.

Despite such accolades, surviving workers from the factory said safety measures were poor or nonexistent, Chinese state news media reported Tuesday.

The pattern of officials’ ignoring safety problems at businesses they support can be found throughout China. Coal mines are among the most dangerous places to work, yet for years officials tolerated the hazardous operations of small mining companies because coal is a huge moneymaker. The central government has been pushing in recent years to shut down many of the small mines.

Officials often ignore lead leaks from battery makers and metal smelters, which poison residents. In Mengxi Village in Zhejiang Province, 233 adults and 99 children were found in 2011 to have high concentrations of lead in their blood because of runoff from a factory. Over six years, officials had ignored flagrant environmental violations there.

State-owned enterprises, like the big milk producers involved in the deadly 2008 melamine scandal, have even cozier ties to local officials and can push further on what is permissible.

Officials in Dehui have avoided granting interviews, but some details of conditions at the factory began to emerge in state media. Xinhua reported that Changchun officials had concluded that working conditions were too crowded, fire escape routes and procedures poor, and inspections substandard. Much of the factory had been built from flammable materials, so “the risk of fire was very large,” Xinhua reported.

Medical workers at the site found that a main cause of death was ammonia poisoning, Xinhua reported; many victims had swollen respiratory tracts. Witnesses had said Monday that they heard one or more explosions. A leak of ammonia might have caused the initial explosion, and then more gas leaked, according to state media reports.

Several survivors said in online reports that 300 to 400 workers were in the factory when the fire broke out.

Officials had not released details of the investigation or names of those under scrutiny. The 21st Century Business Herald reported that Baoyuanfeng’s legal representative was Jia Yushan, and that the company was founded in September 2009. Its net worth is 62 million renminbi, or more than $10 million.

A job advertisement that Baoyuanfeng posted online in April said the company had grown to $58.7 million in sales in 2011 from $31.4 million the previous year. The ad said the company was hiring 200 processing workers and offering a monthly salary of $320 to $600. Applicants had to be 18 to 45 years old and have a junior high school education.

A posting on the Dehui Web site said the company was adding two automatic slaughtering and processing lines that could handle 100,000 chickens a day, or 67,000 tons annually, for distribution nationwide.

The post said that over its first year, the plant had generated $3.4 million in income for 1,500 chicken farms, supporting the equivalent of 3,000 jobs.
121 2013-06-05 Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China bypassed Mr. De Gucht during a visit to Germany last week and persuaded Chancellor Angela Merkel to call for further negotiations. China is a big export market for many German products, and Ms. Merkel is not eager to set off a Chinese-European trade war.

On Monday evening, Mr. Li went over Mr. De Gucht’s head, in a phone conversation with the European Commission president, José Manuel Barroso.

Mr. Li told Mr. Barroso that China was ready to retaliate if the European Union took action. Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, said Mr. Li had warned Mr. Barroso that “there would be no winners in a trade war.”

Solar panels represent more than 6 percent of China’s exports to the Continent, making them one of the largest Chinese exports to the European Union. In 2011, Chinese exports of panels and their main components to the European Union were worth about 21 billion euros ($27.4 billion).

“Our action today is an emergency measure to give lifesaving oxygen to a business sector in Europe that is suffering badly from this dumping,” Mr. De Gucht said.

“This is not protectionism,” he insisted, noting that the United States had also applied duties totaling about 30 percent to Chinese solar exports. But the Obama administration recently decided to seek its own negotiated settlement with China to replace the tariffs.

Saying Chinese exporters had captured 80 percent of the European Union’s market for solar panels, he suggested that “massive overcapacity” in China had led the Chinese to flood the European market. China is “producing today one and a half times the amount of solar panels the world needs,” he said.

A majority of the European Union’s governments were officially opposed to putting the preliminary tariffs in place. But under the bloc’s rules, they faced significant obstacles to stopping Mr. De Gucht, who had the backing of the European Commission, the group’s executive branch. Under European Union rules, preliminary tariffs can be turned into five-year tariffs six months later. But that would require a majority of the bloc’s member governments to approve the move.

Individual Western companies, in the solar industry and other sectors, have been wary of taking any public stand against China, which has become the world’s largest market in industries as diverse as steel, cellphones and automobiles. Chinese officials have considerable discretion in issuing factory permits, export licenses and even visas for visiting executives, making most companies leery of publicly voicing criticism of China or being seen as supporting trade actions against it.

In a nod to the heavy lobbying in Europe against the duties, Mr. De Gucht said that “cheap and plentiful seems great, but ultimately this will lead to a race to the bottom” where “everyone loses.”

Asked Tuesday whether he had succumbed to political pressure, particularly from Germany, Mr. De Gucht insisted that he had chosen a “reasonable” middle ground by giving the Chinese 60 days “to come to an amicable solution” before imposing the maximum rate of 47.6 percent.

But Mr. De Gucht suggested that the opposition to tariffs in many national capitals reduced his margin for maneuvering.

“Whatever decision you take in politics, you always take it influenced, and sometimes even pressured,” said Mr. De Gucht. “Decisions do not fall from heaven — they are made in an environment, and a political environment always has pros and cons and influences and so on.”

Despite the reluctance from many parties to back Mr. De Gucht, Western governments and industry trade associations have long contended that Beijing has helped several Chinese industries take over global markets. Beijing’s support, they say, comes through a combination of huge loans from state-owned banks, extensive government research programs, protection of the domestic Chinese market from imports and sometimes even industrial espionage.

China’s rapid expansion in renewable energy, a national priority, has long been cited as an extreme example. China went from a negligible player in the solar panel industry as recently as 2006 to the dominant world producer now, with two-thirds or more of global manufacturing capacity in the sector after $18 billion in loans from state banks.

That expansion contributed to the bankruptcy of or capacity cutbacks at a score of American and European solar companies in the last three years. Chinese solar panel companies have also been hurt lately by overcapacity, with Suntech Power of Wuxi, China, putting its main operating unit into bankruptcy in March.

Li Junfeng, a senior Chinese government energy policy maker who is also president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association, expressed delight when told that the European Union had sharply lowered its target for the preliminary tariffs.

“That’s really good news,” said Mr. Li, a senior energy official at the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s main economic planning agency. “At 11 percent, the Chinese companies can do very good business — it doesn’t affect them very much.”

Mr. De Gucht’s decision to impose much lower initial duties than expected could greatly reduce the incentive for the Chinese government to offer concessions in further negotiations.

SolarWorld, a German company that is struggling financially, has brought antidumping and anti-subsidy cases against China in the United States and the European Union in the last two years.

Milan Nitzschke, a SolarWorld vice president who is also president of EU ProSun, an industry group, said European Union countries, including Germany, would be more willing to support higher duties if China failed to negotiate in good faith now.
122 2013-06-05 On Monday, doctors removed Beatriz’s fetus — which had a severe defect that prevented the brain from developing — through an incision in her abdomen. They would have used the same procedure had the court ruled in Beatriz’s favor, according to her lawyer and the nation’s health minister, María Isabel Rodríguez.

Yet the procedure was not an abortion, the health minister said, because the fetus was delivered, placed in an incubator and provided fluids. It lived for five hours.

One Salvadoran anti-abortion group called the outcome a victory, describing the procedure as an induced birth in which the baby died of natural causes. Some abortion-rights advocates welcomed the outcome, too, saying it showed that El Salvador’s ironclad restriction did not have to imperil women with dangerous pregnancies, even when the fetus had little or no chance of surviving.

“It is an abortion,” said Alejandra Cárdenas, legal adviser for the Center for Reproductive Rights. “They are interrupting an unviable pregnancy.”

At its root, some legal experts said, the case was largely a battle over words.

Salvadoran law makes no distinction between an abortion and an induced premature birth, said Evelyn Farfán, a professor of constitutional law at the University of El Salvador. So when the judges said that an intervention was allowed but an abortion was not, she said, they “modulated the terminology they used in the ruling to say the same thing without referencing the same word.”

Salvadoran obstetricians and gynecologists have developed their own procedural guidelines to fill the gap in the law, including defining the 20th week of pregnancy as the dividing line between what would be an abortion and a premature delivery.

But many uncertainties remain. Morena Herrera, an abortion-rights advocate and a close adviser to Beatriz, said that one of the doctors involved in Monday’s procedure was worried that he would be prosecuted.

Sidney Blanco, one of the high court judges who ruled against Beatriz, said that “if they intervene and only Beatriz survives” because the fetus could not be saved, then it could be that her doctors “were not committing any crime.”

Lawyers and doctors say that pregnancies in El Salvador are regularly terminated at different gestation periods.

Motivation has become a determining factor in distinguishing abortions from early deliveries, some doctors say.

“An abortion is done with the intent of killing the baby,” said José Miguel Fortín Magaña, director of the Institute of Legal Medicine, which evaluates medical issues for the nation’s highest court. “An induction is done with the intent of saving the mother.”

Dr. Margarita de Romero has been a gynecologist in San Salvador for 20 years. She said she was deeply religious and opposed to abortion, but had terminated pregnancies or induced premature births many times.

In 2010, Dr. de Romero treated a woman named Melanie who had an ectopic pregnancy, in which the fetus was growing outside the uterus. At eight and a half weeks of gestation, the woman complained of pain, and her hemoglobin levels began dropping. Within 48 hours, Dr. de Romero had extracted the embryo through an abdominal incision.

“I didn’t ask for permission,” said Dr. de Romero, who labeled the procedure as a laparotomy — a surgical abdominal incision — and not an abortion.

But prosecutions do occur. According to the Center for Reproductive Rights, at least 120 women in El Salvador were tried between 2000 and 2011, charged with the crimes of abortion or aggravated homicide in connection with the death of a fetus. Thirty-eight of them were convicted, the center says.

Heavily influenced by the Roman Catholic Church, Latin American nations have long been known as having some of the world’s strongest laws against abortion. El Salvador, Nicaragua and Chile retain total bans on the procedure and threaten lengthy prison sentences for the women who undergo them and the doctors who perform them.

But a trend to loosen restrictions has emerged in recent years, with Mexico City and Uruguay legalizing abortions during the first trimester. Courts in Colombia, Brazil and Argentina have granted exceptions for certain cases, like those involving rape, incest or severe fetal malformations.

Shortly after El Salvador’s highest court issued its ruling, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights ordered the government to “immediately adopt the necessary measures” to protect Beatriz’s health and to ensure that there would be no “punitive action from the state.”

Beatriz said her doctors would have terminated her pregnancy regardless of what the high court ruled, expressing a confidence that they would value her life over that of an unviable fetus.

Melanie, the woman with an ectopic pregnancy, said she felt the same way.

“I knew that at no moment they would say, ‘We’re going to risk Melanie’s life,’ ” she said.
123 2013-06-05 Credit: Ryan Conaty for The New York Times
124 2013-06-05 Credit: Brian Harkin for The New York Times
125 2013-06-06 McCLINTOCK--Michael R. The Rye Country Day School Board of Trustees mourns the passing of Mike McClintock, husband of Board President Cynthia McClintock and father of Christina, Clare, and William, and sends them its heartfelt sympathies. Mike's u...
126 2013-06-06 McCLINTOCK--Michael R. The Rye Country Day School community is in mourning at the passing of Mike McClintock, a caring, supportive parent, loyal friend, and enthusiastic fan at all Wildcat sports events. We will move forward feeling Mike's absence...
127 2013-06-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
128 2013-06-06 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
129 2013-06-06 The New York Times and CBS News asked Americans about their views on the Supreme Court, some of the issues it will be deciding this month and other domestic topics. The public’s attitudes toward American military involvement in Syria, Iran and North Korea and their position on drones and the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, were also examined in the telephone poll.
130 2013-06-06 A look at the credit sequence of the documentary.
131 2013-06-06 The adaptation of Robert James Waller’s romantic novel, directed by Bartlett Sher, will open in February 2014....
132 2013-06-06 The actors will play husband and wife in Second Stage’s production of the new musical, based on the Oscar-nominated film....
133 2013-06-06 Knowing what I know now, I see Zeke was using all his best dog language to tell us he was afraid, annoyed, maybe even in pain....
134 2013-06-06 Classic boho style is getting a grown-up makeover....
135 2013-06-06 Freshening Up the New Bohemian Look with Florals and Fringe
136 2013-06-06 Chrysler discovered the problem in February, but held off issuing a recall in order to investigate the problems more thoroughly....
137 2013-06-06 As Congress debates immigration, countries like Canada and Australia are trying to lure foreign entrepreneurs, Somini Sengupta reports in The New York Times....
138 2013-06-06 Liu Ping, a rights activist, has had her charges lessened from subversion to “illegal assembly,” her daughter and lawyer said; but could still face a multi-year jail term if convicted....
139 2013-06-06 The order was marked “TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN,” referring to communications-related intelligence information that may not be released to noncitizens. That would make it among the most closely held secrets in the federal government, and its disclosure comes amid a furor over the Obama administration’s aggressive tactics in its investigations of leaks.

The collection of call logs is set to expire in July unless the court extends it.

The collection of communications logs — or calling “metadata” — is believed to be a major component of the Bush administration’s program of surveillance that took place without court orders. The newly disclosed order raised the question of whether the government continued that type of information collection by bringing it under the Patriot Act.

The disclosure late Wednesday seemed likely to inspire further controversy over the scope of government surveillance. Kate Martin of the Center for National Security Studies, a civil liberties advocacy group, said that “absent some explanation I haven’t thought of, this looks like the largest assault on privacy since the N.S.A. wiretapped Americans in clear violation of the law” under the Bush administration. “On what possible basis has the government refused to tell us that it believes that the law authorizes this kind of request?” she said.

For several years, two Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator of and Senator of , have been cryptically warning that the government was interpreting its surveillance powers under that section of the Patriot Act in a way that would be alarming to the public if it knew about it.

“We believe most Americans would be stunned to learn the details of how these secret court opinions have interpreted Section 215 of the Patriot Act,” they wrote last year in a letter to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.

They added: “As we see it, there is now a significant gap between what most Americans think the law allows and what the government secretly claims the law allows. This is a problem, because it is impossible to have an informed public debate about what the law should say when the public doesn’t know what its government thinks the law says.”

A spokesman for Senator Wyden did not respond Wednesday to a request for comment on the Verizon order.

The senators were angry because the Obama administration described Section 215 orders as being similar to a grand jury subpoena for obtaining business records, like a suspect’s hotel or credit card records, in the course of an ordinary criminal investigation. The senators said the secret interpretation of the law was nothing like that.

Section 215 of the Patriot Act made it easier to get an order from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to obtain business records so long as they were merely deemed “relevant” to a national-security investigation.

The Justice Department has denied being misleading about the Patriot Act. Department officials have acknowledged since 2009 that a secret, sensitive intelligence program is based on the law and have insisted that their statements about the matter have been accurate.

filed a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit in 2011 for a report describing the government’s interpretation of its surveillance powers under the Patriot Act. But the Obama administration withheld the report, and a judge dismissed the case.
140 2013-06-06 Gunmen killed 14 people in Nukhaib, a police official said. A local government official in Karbala, where several of the dead were from, said that the assailants had stopped the travelers at a fake checkpoint. The City Council of the Shiite holy city of Karbala issued a statement accusing Sunni insurgents and the Baath Party of being behind the killings. Iraq has been shaken by an upswing in sectarian attacks. There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the attack, The Associated Press reported.
141 2013-06-06 Multipliers at that time were actually multipliers that were in line with estimates by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said Poul Thomsen, the fund’s mission chief for Greece, in a conference call with reporters. He said other, unexpected factors had contributed to Greece’s collapse: among them the country’s internal political crisis, concern within the European Union that the country would abandon the euro currency and worries among investors that the Europeans did not have an adequate crisis response.

The initial program for Greece was “necessary” and “appropriate,” the report concludes. But it also bent the I.M.F.’s own rules for lending to bankrupt countries. In particular, the fund’s experts were “unable to vouch” that Greece would be able to repay its loans in the medium term. “Staff favored going ahead with exceptional access because of the fear that spillovers from Greece would threaten the euro area and the global economy,” the report said.

The I.M.F. released the document after The Wall Street Journal reported some of its conclusions online.

In hindsight, the fund arguably missed two other internal criteria as well, the report concludes: ascertaining that Greece had “good prospects of regaining access to private capital markets” and ensuring that it had a “reasonably strong prospect of the programs’ success taking into account institutional and political capacity to deliver adjustment.”

The report suggests that the so-called troika responsible for the bailout program — the I.M.F., the European Commission and the European Central Bank — might have forced Greek bondholders to take a haircut on their bonds sooner, while noting the political opposition to that step. “Not tackling the public debt problem decisively at the outset or early in the program created uncertainty about the euro area’s capacity to resolve the crisis and likely aggravated the contraction in output,” the report states.

The report also said Greece might have benefited from less stringent fiscal targets, or targets spread out over a longer time frame. But that would have required billions more euros in support, the fund said, and that support clearly did not exist. Indeed, “the fiscal targets became even more ambitious once the downturn exceeded expectations,” the report said.

The initial Greek program ended up acting as a “holding operation,” buying time for Europe to try to limit the fallout, the report concludes.

The I.M.F. also expressed misgivings about the troika that financed and ran the bailout program.

“None of the partners seemed to view the arrangement as ideal,” it said, and they failed to establish a proper division of labor. Still, “the view of everybody involved on the inside is that given that these are three institutions that have not had a history of working in that way together, it worked surprisingly well,” Mr. Thomsen, the Greek mission chief, said. “It doesn’t mean it couldn’t work better.”
142 2013-06-06 In fact, with a budget deficit that is below 2 percent of gross domestic product and overall public-sector debt of less than half its economic output, Turkey challenges powerhouse Germany for best-in-class status when it comes to these critical benchmarks of broad economic health.

For Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the political crisis he is facing seems manageable precisely because of Turkey’s economic success, which has buoyed a pious entrepreneurial class that forms the core of his constituency. As the protest movement has unfurled, few analysts have suggested Mr. Erdogan’s hold on power is in jeopardy, arguing that he maintains the support of the religious masses that propelled him to power.

But that dynamic could change quickly should the economy falter, as a growing number of analysts now say is possible.

Hundreds of billions of dollars of short-term loans have been flowing into the country from investors in search of higher yielding assets, financing the very malls and skyscrapers that have so dismayed the small but growing coalition of secular intellectuals, left-of-center political activists and a smattering of the professional classes.

What worries financial experts is that this so-called hot money can leave the country just as quickly as it arrived, touching off a currency crisis and, eventually, a collapse in the property markets that could threaten the nation’s banks.

“This is a classic credit boom, with money being thrown at Turkey, especially the banks,” said Tim Lee, an independent economist at Pi Economics in Greenwich, Conn., who has warned for years of a Turkish financial bubble. “At some point, though, you reach a moment when the music stops.”

It is perhaps too soon to say if that moment has come, but the financial jitters that have followed the protests have been noticeable, especially with regard to the wobbly lira.

Mr. Lee and other skeptics point to the currency as the ultimate barometer of how foreign investors see Turkey. The country’s two previous financial implosions, in 1993 and 2001, were largely currency disasters, set off by a stampede of fleeing investors and lenders.

Two points in particular concern them.

This year, for example, Turkey’s private sector will require $221 billion in outside financing alone, with most of it coming in short-term loans.

By normal standards, that is a heady sum, about 25 percent of Turkey’s G.D.P., and it is about the size of the economy of Greece, Turkey’s longtime rival.

Moreover, in preparation for the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Turkish republic in 1923, Mr. Erdogan’s government has unveiled a $400 billion public works program, which is more than half the size of the $770 billion Turkish economy.

Many of these grand projects will have a visible aesthetic effect on Istanbul, which is what infuriates the protesters.

Planners envision a third bridge spanning the Bosporus at a cost of $3 billion, for which ground has already been broken; $10 billion to be spent on a third airport, which would be the world’s largest; and a $2 billion outlay to create a financial center in Istanbul to compete with Dubai and London. On top of a slew of equally large projects in high-speed rail, subways, ports and other amenities, Istanbul is also seen as a leading contender to secure the 2020 Olympic Games.

The decision on the Games will be announced in September, and if Turkey wins, the building and borrowing will only speed up.

To Richard Segal, a credit analyst at the investment bank Jefferies in London, it is the hidden buildup of external debt on the part of Turkish banks and companies that is most worrying. He said it reminded him in some respects of the situations in Ireland and Spain before their collapse.

Ireland and particularly Spain entered the euro crisis with budget deficits and debt levels among the healthiest in the euro zone, the consequence of building booms that lifted tax revenues and allowed governments to spend freely without busting the budget.

As is now the case in Turkey, however, banks and corporations were issuing bonds, many of them short term, at very low interest rates. And like Spain and Greece before 2008, Turkey runs one of the largest current account deficits in the world, at around 7 percent of G.D.P. That, economists say, sets in motion a vicious circle as an overheated economy sucks in imports. That, in turn, creates a stronger currency that hurts the country’s exports, forcing Turkey to borrow ever more to finance the gap.

“This looks like a huge debt bubble,” Mr. Segal said.

He added that Turkey was even more vulnerable than other emerging markets pumped up by hot money in that domestic factors, particularly the possibility that the riots might lead to political unrest, were as likely to send investors fleeing as the wider possibility of an increase in interest rates in the United States, which would also stanch investment flows into emerging markets.

In fairness, many have predicted that the bubble would burst in Turkey — only to be proven wrong.

Having survived two financial meltdowns, the Turkish regulatory apparatus, led by the central bank in particular, is well aware of the risks, and the country’s banks, which just a few years ago saw lending growth of 40 percent and more, have been reined in and are flush with cash to cushion a downturn.

Turkey has other advantages, especially compared with countries in the euro zone.

It has a flexible currency and a central bank war chest of more than $100 billion in reserves. More sanguine economists point out that imported oil absorbs almost all of the country’s current account deficit, and that it is not just spending that fuels the gap.

Still, for the edgy traders in London and New York, eyeing scenes of mayhem in Taksim Square on their television screens, these are mere niceties, and may do little to keep them from redirecting their money to safer havens.
143 2013-06-06 The federal Office for Human Research Protections announced on Wednesday that it would suspend action against the University of Alabama at Birmingham, which it said in March did not adequately inform parents about the risks to their premature infants of enrollment in a large research trial.

In a letter dated Tuesday, the watchdog office still maintained that researchers had not properly informed parents, and that it could still require that the university and 22 other trial sites, which include many of the country’s top research universities, take corrective action. But it also acknowledged that federal guidelines about a researcher’s obligations needed to be clarified and issued. On the office’s Web site, the federal Department of Health and Human Services announced that a public meeting to debate such guidelines was forthcoming.

The timing of the letter coincided with the publication on the Web site of The New England Journal of Medicine of an opinion article by leaders of the National Institutes of Health that took issue with the agency’s initial condemnation of the Surfactant, Positive Pressure, and Oxygenation Randomized Trial, widely known as Support. Both the agency and the N.I.H. are branches of Health and Human Services.

The Journal also published a letter, signed by 46 doctors and scholars, that criticized the office’s initial action as overreaching and having a potentially chilling effect on essential research.

At the center of the uproar, which has engendered commentary from scientists, is whether researchers needed to disclose to parents the risks of a randomized trial of higher and lower oxygen levels administered to premature infants. The levels of oxygen concentration given to the infants were within the range of 85 percent to 95 percent, the standard treatment recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Researchers wanted to pinpoint more precisely the level at which the risks of eye damage or neurological damage, or even death, were abated.
144 2013-06-06 The classic red London double-decker crossed the Atlantic by ship this spring. On its early runs through the streets of New York City, Prime Minister David Cameron and Prince Harry were passengers. It ventured as far away as Boston in its promotional campaign for all things British.

But on Tuesday, instead of carrying a delegation of diplomats to work, the double-decker was confined to a traffic circle in front of the United Nations after the New York Police Department decided it might attract trouble thousands of miles from home.

Although the traffic would have been fierce, the bus’s planned route for Tuesday had been quite short. The first and only stop was in Midtown East, at the residence of the British ambassador to the United Nations, Sir Mark Lyall Grant. There, the bus was to pick up the various ambassadors to the Security Council, whom the British ambassador had invited to his home for breakfast. The destination was the United Nations itself.

But the Police Department’s Intelligence Division, which assessed the risk of such a journey, opposed the bus ride on security grounds, the department’s chief spokesman, Paul J. Browne, said on Wednesday.

“The concentration of so many ranking diplomatic personnel in a vehicle not designed to afford special protection was deemed a risk to their safety,” he said.
145 2013-06-06 With the Affordable Care Act poised to make addiction treatment available to millions of new patients, the Betty Ford Center and the Hazelden Foundation, two of the biggest names in substance abuse recovery, are pursuing a formal business alliance, the two groups said Tuesday. The boards of both institutions have approved the alliance in principle, though neither group will so far divulge specifics of the plan. Hazelden has a network of 10 treatment centers throughout the country.  Starting in 2014, Medicare and all insurance sold on Health Insurance Exchanges will be required to provide treatment for substance abuse under a provision of the Affordable Care Act.
146 2013-06-06 Mr. Shanks and Ms. Reidy were the first publishers to take the stand in Federal District Court in Manhattan in the civil antitrust trial stemming from the lawsuit filed last year by the Justice Department.

The publishers, which have all settled with the government, are not on trial. But the proceedings have provided a glimpse into the state of the book business during the period several years ago when Apple decided to enter the e-book market to coincide with the introduction of the iPad.

Lawyers for the Justice Department have argued that the publishers not only used Apple as a conduit to communicate with each other, but also had conversations in which they shared information about Apple and its competitor, Amazon, the dominant force in e-books.

They have repeatedly pressed publishing executives this week on the phone calls and e-mails they exchanged, the private dinners they attended and their conversations at industry events, interactions that, according to the government, are evidence that the publishers were engaged in a conspiracy to raise prices on e-books.

When Apple entered the e-book market, it did so under the so-called agency model, in which publishers set prices for e-books and the retailer takes a 30 percent commission. At the time, publishers sold e-books to other retailers under a wholesale model, where publishers charged retailers close to half the cover price for a book, and the retailers set their own prices.

Amazon, which controlled 90 percent of the e-book market, had set the default price of most new and best-selling books at $9.99, a price that publishers felt undervalued their books and cannibalized hardcover sales. Eager for another big competitor in the e-book market, all six publishers engaged in talks with Apple.

It was during that time, the government said, that the publishers and Apple illegally colluded, eventually forcing Amazon to adopt the agency model as well.

Lawrence Buterman, a lawyer for the Justice Department, questioned Ms. Reidy on Wednesday about her conversation with Brian Murray, the chief executive of HarperCollins, while Mr. Murray was trying to move Amazon to the agency pricing model.

Mr. Buterman also asked her about a conversation with John Sargent, the chief executive of Macmillan, a fellow publisher, during which the two talked about Amazon.

Ms. Reidy shrugged it off. “I made some crack about the personalities at Amazon,” she said.

Mr. Buterman pointed to phone logs that showed several phone calls between Ms. Reidy and David Young, then the chief executive of Hachette. Ms. Reidy said she did not remember all of the calls.

Ms. Reidy, displaying occasional flashes of impatience and sarcasm during several hours of testimony, repeatedly deflected the government’s suggestion that the most-favored-nation clause imposed the agency model on other retailers. The most-favored clause is a provision in the publishers’ contracts with Apple requiring that no other retailer sell e-books for a lower price.

“As a practical matter, the M.F.N. made Simon & Schuster want to move other retailers to an agency model,” Ms. Reidy said, emphasizing the word “want.” “It didn’t force us.”

Later, under questioning by Daniel Floyd, a lawyer for Apple, Ms. Reidy said she initially resisted the most-favored nation clause, but eventually agreed to include it.

Mr. Shanks, testifying on Tuesday, said he was not able to convince Apple to eliminate price caps of $12.99 and $14.99 on its e-books.

Ms. Reidy said she also opposed the price caps, but relented and allowed them to be written into the contract.

The antitrust trial, which is expected to take about three weeks, is presided over by Judge Denise L. Cote.

After the Justice Department filed a lawsuit against Apple and five publishers last year, the Hachette Book Group, Simon & Schuster, and HarperCollins settled immediately; Macmillan and Penguin agreed months later to settle. Penguin and Random House, two of the biggest publishers in the business, are expected to complete a merger in July.

Ms. Reidy provided the most embarrassing moment of the day when an e-mail from her to Mr. Moonves was projected onto a large screen. In the e-mail, Ms. Reidy updated Mr. Moonves, the chief executive of CBS, which owns Simon & Schuster, on her talks with Apple. She referred to an Apple executive as a “minion.”

The executive, Keith Moerer, was seated in the courtroom.

“Sorry, Mr. Moerer,” Judge Cote said, as the onlookers laughed.

“That’s just what I was thinking,” Ms. Reidy said.
147 2013-06-06 WASHINGTON — The productivity of American workers grew a modest amount from January through March, after having declined in the previous quarter. And a private survey showed on Wednesday that American businesses added just 135,000 jobs in May, the second consecutive month of weak gains.

The survey, from the payroll provider ADP, found that May’s gain was above April’s revised total of 113,000 but much lower than the gains ADP reported over the winter. Those numbers averaged more than 200,000 a month from November through February.

Productivity rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 0.5 percent in the first quarter, after a 1.7 percent decline in the October-to-December period, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. With productivity growth slow, companies might have to add workers if demand for their products continues to grow.

The first-quarter performance was revised down slightly from an initial estimate of a 0.7 percent first-quarter increase. The revision reflected the fact that the government lowered its estimate of overall economic output in the first quarter to a rate of 2.4 percent, from 2.5 percent. Productivity is the amount of output per hour of work.

Labor costs actually fell in the January-to-March quarter, dropping at an annual rate of 4.3 percent after having surged at an 11.8 percent rate in the fourth quarter.

The trend in productivity has been fairly weak in recent years. For all of 2012, productivity rose just 0.7 percent, after an even smaller 0.6 percent rise in 2011.
148 2013-06-06 The Open Trial taking place in Orlando, Fla., will select the two United States teams for the Bermuda Bowl in September. The semifinal draw for the unbeaten teams is Martin Fleisher, Michael Kamil, Zia Mahmood, Chip Martel, Michael Rosenberg and Chris Willenken against Warren Spector, Michael Becker, Curtis Cheek, Joe Grue, Fred Gitelman and Brad Moss; and Nick Nickell, Ralph Katz, Bobby Levin, Steve Weinstein, Jeff Meckstroth and Eric Rodwell versus John Kranyak, Gavin Wolpert, Kevin Bathurst and Kevin Dwyer.

These 120-board matches end on Thursday. The winners will play 120 boards on Friday and Saturday to select USA-1.

In the once-defeated bracket, the matches (by captains’ names) are Jeff Aker-Reese Milner; Robert Blanchard-Mark Gordon; John Diamond-Steve Robinson; and Jim Mahaffey-Howard Weinstein. They, along with the losers from the undefeated bracket, are competing to become the USA-2 team.

In the quarterfinals, the Kranyak team met Diamond, Brian Platnick, Eric Greco and Geoff Hampson. The match was decided by the third of eight 15-board sessions, in which Kranyak gained 62 international match points to take a 79-imp lead.

The diagramed deal was Board 38. The auction was almost identical at both tables. South’s one-diamond opening showed at least a doubleton and 11 to 15 high-card points. His one-no-trump rebid indicated 11 to 13 points. North’s two clubs forced South to bid two diamonds. Then two no-trump was a game-invitation, which South accepted.

At the other table, Platnick (East) did not double. So Diamond (West) led his fourth-highest club. East won with his queen, but now a heart shift would not have been successful, assuming Bathurst (South) ducked the first round, took the second heart and played on clubs. In fact East switched to a diamond. Declarer drove out West’s top clubs and ended with nine tricks: three spades, one heart, four diamonds and one club.
149 2013-06-06 “It is what it is,” Djokovic said of facing Nadal one round earlier than usual. “I don’t want to talk about what if, what if. We are playing the semifinal and we are both in good shape, and it’s going to be a good match.”

Their match was the final here last year, a two-day, mood-shifting ordeal that was interrupted by rain when Djokovic was taking command Sunday evening. Nadal won in four sets to secure a record-setting seventh singles title at Roland Garros. He has lost just once on the red clay in Paris at the Grand Slam tournament that he first played in 2005.

But Nadal has definitely lost on his favorite surface to Djokovic. Though Nadal has won 12 of their 15 matches on clay, they have split the last six. Djokovic can generate power and leverage with his two-handed backhand even on high, fast-spinning balls, neutralizing one of Nadal’s trump cards. He also has the speed, reach and defensive prowess to force Nadal to go for more than usual, generating errors.

He won their most recent match, defeating Nadal in straight sets in April in the Monte Carlo final.

“That is something that can maybe give me that mental edge when I step onto the court, knowing I already won against him on clay this season,” Djokovic said.

“But it’s the best of five, so it takes much more than just doing the same thing like in Monte Carlo, you know. It’s a Grand Slam also so there is more, I guess more tension, more things that are important for both us.”

Djokovic would seem to have the most at stake statistically. While Nadal already has won this title seven times and won all four of the Grand Slam tournaments, Djokovic is still missing the Roland Garros trophy.

In Australia in January, Djokovic made it clear that winning the French Open was his major goal this season, and he has embraced the symbolism of trying to win it for his childhood coach Jelena Gencic, who died in Serbia on Saturday at age 76.

At the memorial service for Gencic in Belgrade this week, Djokovic’s mother, Dijana, read aloud a letter from her son addressed to Gencic.

“I am sad beyond limits that I cannot come to the funeral,” the letter read.  “I know you would be angry if I give up and diminish my chances to fulfill our last wish to win Roland Garros.”

Djokovic’s ability to articulate his emotions is nearly as striking as his elastic ability to turn defense into offense. It is rare that he does not give a considered answer unless he is going for laughs.

Through the years, he and Nadal have answered many questions about each other.  Though Nadal’s rivalry with Roger Federer has received more attention, Djokovic and Nadal have faced off more often than any men in this era. This will be their 35th meeting — the last 11 in finals — with Nadal holding a 19-15 edge. Nadal and Federer have played 30 times, with Nadal holding a 20-10 advantage.

Djokovic was asked if there was a chance that this semifinal could be faster than last year’s Australian Open final, which required 5 hours 53 minutes for Djokovic to beat Nadal.

“Do you want to see more than six hours’ match?” Djokovic asked with a chuckle. “I’m sure I don’t want to be six hours on the court.”

There seemed little danger of marathon records Wednesday as Djokovic and Nadal dispatched the opposition in quarterfinals that ended within minutes of each other.

On the warmest day of the tournament, Nadal’s forehand was particularly lively and devastating, breaking down Wawrinka’s one-handed backhand with the same sort of ruthless regularity that it has broken down Federer’s one-hander.

“It’s difficult to be as strong with the backhand at shoulder height, which is where you have to hit it against Nadal again and again,” Wawrinka said.

Nadal did lose to a man with a one-handed backhand this season: Horacio Zeballos,  who beat Nadal in the final of the clay-court tournament in February in Vina del Mar, Chile.

That defeat came in Nadal’s comeback tournament after he had missed seven months of play because of a recurring knee problem and an illness. After Vina del Mar, Nadal won six of his next seven tournaments, the only defeat coming to Djokovic in Monte Carlo.

Nadal was, however, shaky at Roland Garros during the cold, clammy conditions of the first week, dropping a set to the unseeded Daniel Brands and to Martin Klizan. But Nadal has looked much more familiar in the warm glow of the last two rounds, generating more depth with his backhand and conjuring equation after equation that his opponents — Kei Nishikori and Wawrinka — could not solve.

“I think today I played my best match of the year in this tournament,” Nadal said.

A better one will presumably be required Friday, even if it still sounds strange to say Friday instead of Sunday about a Djokovic-Nadal duel.

“If you win, you didn’t win nothing yet,” Nadal said with a grin. “That’s a big difference.”
150 2013-06-06 But Jankovic, a six-time Grand Slam tournament semifinalist whose only final was at the 2008 United States Open, looked as if she would ease her way to an upset after less than a half-hour on the court. Jankovic is seeded 18th here, but from the beginning of the match she read Sharapova’s serve well and was able to apply pressure.

Sharapova began the match with a confounding demonstration of the full catalog of unforced errors. Her shots were millimeters wide, inches too long or straight into the net. As she struggled to find her range she committed 20 unforced errors in all, many of them followed by a glare. Jankovic closed out the set, fittingly, when a Sharapova forehand went wide.

But the first point of the second set was an indication of what was to come. Sharapova hit a topspin lob that floated over Jankovic’s head and landed cleanly in, so perfectly placed that even Jankovic applauded. That was probably the last time Jankovic felt so generous.

When Jankovic double-faulted to lose the first game of the second set, Sharapova was clearly back in the match, and Jankovic began her routine of screaming to family members in the stands whenever a shot went awry.

“That was really important,” Sharapova said of the beginning of the second set. “You know, at least give her something to think about. She was a bit in cruise control for a long period of time. Well, actually not that long, but for six games straight.”

Even Jankovic marveled at some of the ground strokes Sharapova began rifling in the second and third sets, including a crosscourt backhand that Jankovic described as a cross between a drop shot and a sharply angled shot.

“I don’t know how she does that, but it was an amazing shot,” Jankovic said.

Azarenka and Kirilenko have played doubles together and have a much warmer relationship than the day’s other pairing. Azarenka said the familiarity with each other’s games was why the first set was so tight. But as soon as Azarenka seized the tiebreaker, she was in command of the match.

As thrilled as Azarenka was to reach her first semifinal in Paris, the first 10 days of the tournament have felt largely like a competition for who gets to be cannon fodder for Williams in Saturday’s final. She has favorable records against the remaining women, and even her quarterfinal victim, Svetlana Kuznetsova, said it would be a big surprise if Williams lost.

Williams will again be the favorite over the 5-foot-4 Errani, who was overpowered by Sharapova in the final last year and who will be at a significant size and strength disadvantage. Errani has never beaten Williams in five career meetings.

Sharapova and Azarenka have played well enough during the tournament to be considered threats to Williams. They have played 12 times, with Azarenka winning seven.

The last time they played on clay was last year in Stuttgart, Germany, where Sharapova won in straight sets. Around that time, when she was asked about how she felt about playing on clay — her weakest surface — Azarenka said she was not yet married to the clay.

On Wednesday, her semifinal secured, Azarenka joked that her relationship with clay was at least heading in the right direction, requiring constant care and tending, and most of all, continued love.

“I still don’t have any ring on my finger,” she said with a smile. “But I feel like, you know, we made a step forward. We are moving in together. Kind of that type of a relationship is, you know, moving forward and see what happens after.”
151 2013-06-06 WASHINGTON — A panel of experts convened in response to the school shooting last year in Newtown, Conn., gave the federal government an ambitious set of priorities on Wednesday for research on guns, ending what experts said has been a 17-year hiatus in the study of gun violence after Congress took away federal money for the topic in the 1990s.

President Obama has included $10 million for gun-related research in his 2014 budget, the first federal financing for the topic in years, and the panel’s chairman, Alan I. Leshner, said the report was a first step to deepen evidence about the public health implications of guns. The panel was assembled by the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council at President Obama’s request.

“Policies are made on the basis of facts and values, and we are the facts people,” said Mr. Leshner, who is the chief executive of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. “We are trying to provide a tool for the country to address this very difficult issue more productively than it has been able to do in the past.”

Among the panel’s recommendations was a call for better data on guns. For example, there is no national count of how many guns there are in the country. And while federal law enforcement authorities, like the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, gather data on specific guns, they track only those used in crimes, and often the details are not accessible to researchers. One database, the National Violent Death Reporting System, which compiles information on deaths from police departments and medical examiners’ offices, covers only about a third of the states.

“Basic information about gun possession, distribution, ownership, acquisition and storage is lacking,” the experts concluded. They added that “without good data, it is virtually impossible to answer fundamental questions” about gun violence or to evaluate programs intended to reduce that violence.
152 2013-06-06 It has been a remarkable comeback for Mr. Sharif, a Punjabi steel tycoon whose last stint as prime minister was abruptly truncated by a military coup in 1999, forcing him into a seven-year exile in Saudi Arabia and London.

Now, after a sweeping victory by his Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party in the May 11 election, he returns to power with a strong mandate — one that he will have to employ if he is to tackle the country’s daunting array of urgent challenges.

In his speech to Parliament, Mr. Sharif referred to some of those issues: soaring government debt, a sagging economy, lawlessness and corruption. Equally pressing issues that received little mention include the festering Taliban insurgency in the northwest, Baluch separatism in the southwest and strained relations with neighboring India and Afghanistan.

Mr. Sharif said he could not promise to resolve those problems quickly, but he vowed to promote a culture of transparency. “My government will not tolerate any form of corruption,” he said as legislators thumped their desks in approval.

His comment on drone strikes suggested a firm, and perhaps more distant, tone in relations with the United States, whose alliance with Pakistan has frequently been stormy in recent years.

During the campaign, Mr. Sharif vowed to limit American influence in the country and drew a firm line against continued drone strikes. He boasted of having resisted American diplomatic and economic pressure in ordering the country’s first nuclear tests in 1998.

Analysts caution, however, that Mr. Sharif’s approach may have been driven by political considerations, and some suggest that he may be more pragmatic toward the United States now that he is back in office.

In contrast, Mr. Sharif has openly promoted warmer relations with China. In Parliament, he promised to increase economic cooperation with Beijing, including the completion of road and rail links between the Pakistani ports of Gwadar and Karachi, on the Arabian Sea, and the landlocked cities of western China.

Hours after his address, Mr. Sharif was sworn in by his rival, President Asif Ali Zardari, during a brief ceremony at the soaring presidency building that overlooks the capital, Islamabad. Mr. Zardari is to remain in office until September, and though relations between the two men have been tense at times, in recent months there has been little sign of open enmity.

Mr. Sharif’s return to power is the first time in Pakistan’s fragile democracy that a civilian government has served a full five-year term and peacefully passed power to another administration.

Mr. Sharif’s comeback looked distant in December 2000, when the military leader at the time, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, banished him into exile in Saudi Arabia, a year after the coup that ousted him.

Back then, Mr. Sharif had little public support because of accusations of corruption and mismanagement, while the coup received a broad, if short-lived, welcome. During General Musharraf’s nine-year tenure, however, Pakistan saw a rise in military violence and political instability.

Mr. Sharif and his opposition rival, Benazir Bhutto, returned from exile in late 2007. Ms. Bhutto was killed in a suicide bombing that year but her party, led by her husband, Mr. Zardari, won the 2008 general elections.

While the Zardari government introduced important constitutional changes and laws that strengthened women’s rights, it lost the public’s trust amid persistent accusations of mismanagement and corruption, as well as the effects of a painful electricity crisis.

Although Mr. Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party was trounced in the May 11 election, it remains the country’s second-largest political force, just ahead of a grouping led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.

Beyond dealing with Mr. Zardari’s party, Mr. Sharif faces a more immediate, and longer standing, test from the military command that toppled him in 1999.

In the years since his return to Pakistan, Mr. Sharif has done little to hide his hostility toward military meddling in democratic politics, and that sense of suspicion was reciprocated by the military top brass. During the negotiations to resolve the 2008 political crisis, the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Kayani, told the American ambassador then, Anne W. Patterson, that “regardless of how much he disliked Zardari, he distrusted Sharif even more,” according to a State Department cable published by WikiLeaks in 2010.

But as elections neared this year, Mr. Sharif toned down his hostility. He says that he will also hold the defense and foreign affairs portfolios himself — a move that some interpret as an effort to coordinate policy on delicate issues, like Afghanistan and Islamist militancy, with the military.

One early litmus test of that relationship may lie in the fate of General Musharraf, who is under house arrest at his villa on the edge of Islamabad facing a litany of charges.
153 2013-06-06 LONDON — Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive of Rupert Murdoch’s newspaper operations in Britain, appeared in court on Wednesday and denied charges relating to the country’s phone hacking scandal, which has sent shock waves through the press, the police and the political establishment.

In Southwark Crown Court in London, Ms. Brooks, 45, entered a plea of not guilty to five charges, including conspiracies to hack phones, to commit misconduct in public office and to pervert the course of justice. Five other former employees of News International, the British subsidiary of Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation, as well as Ms. Brooks’s husband, Charlie, also appeared in court and entered pleas of not guilty to various charges.

The arraignment was the latest chapter in an unfolding drama that led to the closing of Mr. Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid in July 2011 after accusations that its reporters had hacked into the voice mail of a kidnapped teenager, Milly Dowler, who was later found murdered.

The scandal mushroomed into bribery investigations involving police officers and public officials. A panel of inquiry set up by Parliament urged that British press regulations be enshrined into law to prevent a recurrence of the scandal.

Ms. Brooks, with her connections to the political elite, including Prime Minister David Cameron, has been closely watched throughout the scandal. A former editor of both The News of the World and The Sun, Ms. Brooks has been accused of conspiracy to hack phones between 2000 and 2006 and conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office between 2004 and 2012. She is also accused of seeking to pervert the course of justice by conspiring with her personal assistant to spirit material away from police investigators in July 2011.

Ms. Brooks, Mr. Brooks and four other former News International employees were accused of seeking to pervert the course of justice. Separately, Clive Goodman, the former royal reporter for The News of the World, was accused of conspiracy to commit misconduct.
154 2013-06-06 While taking Qusayr could infuse Mr. Assad’s forces with momentum and embolden him to push for more military advances — just as Russia and the United States are pressing the antagonists in the Syrian conflict to negotiate — the intervention by Hezbollah could be problematic for that organization, which historically has been revered in Syria for its opposition to Israel. Now, in the eyes of the Syrian insurgency and its sympathizers, Hezbollah has turned its guns on fellow Muslims and taken on the form of an occupying force.

In the fight’s final days, as a reporter traveled through villages around Qusayr, rebel fighters and their civilian supporters vented rage not only at Mr. Assad but at his allies — particularly Iran and the well-trained Shiite Muslim fighters of Hezbollah, whom they largely blamed for the casualties they had suffered.

The mostly Sunni activists and rebels expressed bitterness toward Shiites generally, but they reserved particular anger for Mr. Nasrallah. The Hezbollah leader had exhorted his followers to come to fight in Syria against what he portrayed as a jihadist-Israeli conspiracy to topple Mr. Assad and subvert Hezbollah’s ability to attack, or defend against, Israel.

The many religious and ethnic groups living in an area stretching from Qusayr across the nearby border into Lebanon have long been entwined in business and familial relationships. Now many Sunnis there said they felt betrayed by Hezbollah, which they had once exalted because its fighters had helped end Israel’s long occupation of southern Lebanon in 2000.

Families in Qusayr and surrounding villages say they remember sheltering many Lebanese refugees during Hezbollah’s war with Israel in 2006. One resident, Abu Mahmoud, 50, led the way along back roads that he said he once used to smuggle weapons to Hezbollah. Now, he said, he was using the same routes to furnish weapons and fighters to the insurgents battling Hezbollah in Qusayr.

One activist, Mohammed al-Qusairi, said Hezbollah was “placing a burden on the shoulders of generations” of Shiites, like the one borne by Germans after their leaders “committed massacres against the Jews.”

The events in Qusayr added to an array of Syria developments on Wednesday that suggested the conflict, which has left more than 80,000 people dead, would worsen and widen as it enters its third year.

A meeting convened by American, Russian and United Nations officials in Geneva aimed at finding a way to hold peace talks was adjourned in failure, with no agreement on even who among the Syrian antagonists would attend. Lakhdar Brahimi, the special Syria envoy of the United Nations, said that the officials would hold another meeting June 25 and that “evidently, there is still a lot of work to do.”

Worries about the use of sarin nerve gas in the conflict intensified, as Britain joined France in asserting that the evidence of such use by Syria’s government was more persuasive. The statements confronted American officials with the possibility that Mr. Assad had crossed what President Obama has called a “red line” that could prompt a more assertive American intervention.

Reflecting concern about a spillover in the war, Jordanian officials said that they had asked the United States for Patriot antimissile batteries and fighter jets to bolster their defense abilities in the event of an attack from Syria, their northern neighbor. A Pentagon spokesman, Army Col. Steve Warren, confirmed the request and said Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel “will favorably consider it.” Further underscoring the volatility of the conflict, Syria state news media suggested that the fight there might not be completely over, and said the military was still sweeping northern Qusayr for militants.

During the reporter’s visit, before Qusayr fell, the rebels proudly described the preparations that had allowed their outnumbered force to hold off the assault for longer than expected: tunnels that enabled them to slip in and out of the town; underground command rooms stocked with food, water and drugs; booby traps and mines; even cameras that monitored their attackers.

“We got this experience from Hezbollah’s tactics against the Israelis,” said Abu Ali, a fighter in the nearby village of Hamediyeh who, like most people interviewed, gave only a nom de guerre for safety. “Today we are using the same tactics against Hezbollah.”

Despite their bravado, fighters around Qusayr said they felt alone, exhausted and abandoned in the face of a more powerful opponent. Strikingly, some seemed to borrow from Hezbollah’s history: embracing a sense of dispossession and grievance that they said would be felt for generations.

That feeling is familiar to Shiites, who still mourn the defeat and death of the revered Imam Hussein in a seventh-century battle against what they viewed as the oppressive faction that would become known as Sunnis. In Qusayr, as the rebels saw it, Shiites were the oppressors.

“The Shiites shout at us that we are the killers of Hussein,” Abu Zaid said. “We will call them the killers of women and children.”

Underscoring the challenge of ever stitching Syria back together, mostly Sunni activists and rebels expressed anger in sectarian terms. Shiites, they said, were arrayed against them with other sects, including Alawites, the sect of Mr. Assad, whom they accuse of attacking Sunni civilians; and Christians, who they say have remained silent on the excesses of the government’s crackdown.

The bigger picture is more complicated. Though it is difficult to gauge events in an area where access has been limited by fighting and government restrictions, sectarian fighting, with attacks by both sides, seemed to begin a year ago. Shiite and Christian civilians, like many Sunnis, have fled to Lebanon, saying they, too, have been attacked and driven from their villages, by Sunni rebels.

The situation inside Qusayr had grown especially desperate in the past few days as the government refused to admit Red Crescent workers until military operations ended.

When his makeshift hospital was bombed, Dr. Qassem al-Zein said, he moved his patients to houses and basements, without oxygen, anesthetics or antibiotics. There was little to offer more than 1,300 wounded people but the blood that others donated as often as possible, said an activist, Ammar.

“Those who are wounded,” he said, “can certainly expect to become martyrs.”

Rebels said they had managed to evacuate some of the wounded, although there were fears of reprisals against those who remained.

“Yes my brothers, it is one round that we lost,” the Qusayr Coordinating Committee, an antigovernment group inside the town, said in a posting on its Facebook page on Wednesday. “But war is a drawn out competition.”
155 2013-06-06 But the ministry issued a separate statement expressing “resolute opposition” to the decision on solar panels. “We hope the E.U. will further show their sincerity and show flexibility, through consultations to find mutually acceptable solutions,” the statement said.

The 27 countries of the European Union exported $980.7 million worth of wine to China last year, most of it from France, according to customs data compiled by Global Trade Information Services in Columbia, S.C. That is much smaller than Chinese exports of solar panels to Europe, which reached $27 billion in 2011 before a combination of trade frictions and cuts in European subsidies to buyers of solar panels started to discourage shipments.

President François Hollande of France called on Wednesday for officials from all 27 countries to meet and form a united position on trade policy toward China, while France’s trade ministry labeled the Chinese action as “reprehensible.”

Threatening to retaliate against fine wines during a trade dispute with the European Union is a time-honored tactic for international trade negotiators. Wine exporters are a powerful political constituency and national figures in some European countries, particularly France. A threat to limit their overseas sales is a way to bypass European leaders and appeal to public sentiment for a reduction in trade tensions.

Mr. De Gucht was already bucking widespread opposition in Europe by taking on Beijing over solar panels, with a range of national politicians and executives from other industries eager to expand — not curtail — trade relations with China.

In November 1992, in a dispute over European farm subsidies, the United States announced that it was imposing a 200 percent tax, to take effect in 30 days, on imports of still white wines from Europe, like Chablis from France and riesling from Germany, and a few red wines. The two sides quickly reached a compromise.

Until now, China has tended to pursue retaliatory trade actions against industrial products, including imports of polycrystalline silicon, the main material for solar panels. That material is already the subject of a Chinese trade investigation after the United States imposed antidumping and antisubsidy tariffs totaling about 30 percent on Chinese solar panels.

The Chinese threat against wine imports has the potential to upset consumers in China — at least some of the most affluent ones. The move may also end up impinging on some Chinese investors because growing wine consumption in China has prompted a surge of investment in French vineyards.

In recent years, Chinese companies and business leaders have snapped up more than three dozen chateaus in Bordeaux, the wine region that has drawn the greatest interest from Chinese drinkers.

The acquisitions involved mostly lesser-known vineyards among the close to 10,000 Bordeaux estates. Many of these properties have struggled in recent years to sell their wine in the traditional markets of Europe.

Under the new Chinese owners, production in some cases is exported entirely to China, where the wine often is marked up substantially. Low-end Bordeaux that might sell for less than 5 euros, or $6.50, in France, might go for five or 10 times as much in China.

Philippe Castéja, president of the Conseil des Crus Classés en 1855, an organization representing elite chateau owners of Bordeaux, said punitive Chinese tariffs could substantially harm the French economy. About 500,000 people in France are employed in the wine industry. About 20,000 of those jobs, he said, are supported by sales to China, directly or indirectly.

“The potential effect is very serious, both in terms of revenue and employment,” Mr. Castéja said.

As for Mr. De Gucht’s wine holdings, according to the personal financial declaration he filed last July as a European Commission official, the estate, called La Macinaia, is a small vineyard and a destination for agricultural tourism, or vacationing in farmhouse resorts.

The business, valued at 1 million euros, lost 145,313 euros in 2011 but still benefited from a small European Union subsidy of 1,500 euros as a “biodynamic winery,” according to the declaration by Mr. De Gucht, who is a Belgian and a former president of the Flemish liberal party.

He had a share in the property before he was European Union trade chief, said his spokesman, John Clancy. “There are no exports to China,” Mr. Clancy said.

While the Chinese trade case was immediate news in Europe on Wednesday, it drew less attention in China, possibly because the Ministry of Commerce did not release a timetable for its investigation. Western governments have long complained that Chinese antidumping and antisubsidy inquiries are capricious and seem to follow few of the complex but fairly transparent legal procedures used in the West.

Some in China may be able to avoid the higher prices for wine if they are imposed. Hong Kong ended taxes on wine several years ago in a fairly successful bid to become a wine trading hub, and the nearly autonomous territory has become a popular place for many mainlanders to drink, then bring a bottle or two home.

Extra taxes could also help another, more dubious Chinese industry: the entrepreneurs who print fake French labels and slap them on bottles of local plonk, some of it almost undrinkable.
156 2013-06-06 A refreshing soup that is great to keep on hand as summer arrives....
157 2013-06-07 McCARTHY--Cecelia, lost her battle against breast cancer at age 62. She died on May 26, 2013 in her home in Astoria, NY with her husband, Kirk Bigelow, by her side. She was a beautiful, devoted wife who loved her family deeply. She was also a true...
158 2013-06-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
159 2013-06-07 Conventional wisdom says people should hold more bonds as they age. But ultralow interest rates have left many would-be retirees with a big problem: the chance that they will exhaust their bond portfolios before they die. The outlook is worse for people who retire earlier and withdraw more. Adding stocks to a portfolio increases the risk of big losses, but it also reduces the risk that you’ll outlive your money.
160 2013-06-07 Victor Dosti, a portfolio manager at the Whittier Trust Company, is the ninth person to be charged relating to the Dell trade....
161 2013-06-07 Survivalist bloggers and lawmakers think the Department of Homeland Security is deliberately creating a domestic bullet shortage....
162 2013-06-07 The app stores have plenty of learn-to-draw apps — for adults and children....
163 2013-06-07 The economy feels very different depending on your level of educational attainment....
164 2013-06-07 The May jobs report appears to show little change in the general economic picture, and for Wall Street that’s not a bad thing....
165 2013-06-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
166 2013-06-07 Sensitive to a fault and soggy with emo music, “Tiger Eyes” hovers over 17-year-old Davey (Willa Holland, wan and wispy) as she grapples with bereavement, a disengaged mother (Amy Jo Johnson), bossy relatives (Cynthia Stevenson and Forrest Fyre) and a hunky college boy (Tatanka Means) chock-full of American Indian wisdom. That he also has flowing black hair and is named Wolf makes his aphorisms only more compelling.

Directed by Lawrence Blume and adapted from the young-adult novel by his mother, Judy Blume, this attenuated coming-of-age tale oozes heart and perhaps too much respect for its source material. There’s plenty here to give the proceedings edge — including a murder and the brutally unforgiving rock formations and atomic history of Los Alamos, N.M. — but Mr. Blume never removes his kid gloves. Even when Davey learns that her new home once belonged to J. Robert Oppenheimer, she forgoes a walk-through with a Geiger counter in favor of volunteering at a hospital.

Warmly photographed by Seamus Tierney, Davey’s journey is awash in characters and events — like a messed-up school friend and a celebrate-life lecture from a terminally ill patient — that seem conveniently manufactured to hasten her painful maturation. It’s all a bit precious and predictable, and it would have benefited from a more sensible rating. Twelve-year-old girls will eat this up with a spoon.
167 2013-06-07 For his first feature, “1 Mile Above,” the Chinese director Du Jiayi tries to persuade us that there’s nobility in risking your life to cycle more than 1,100 miles across some of the world’s most treacherous terrain. When you have never even owned a bicycle.

Like his hero, he struggles. Adapting Xie Wanglin’s novel “Zhuan Shan,” Mr. Du merges road movie and spiritual pilgrimage to follow Shuhao (Bryan Chang), a young Taiwanese graduate, on his rocky road from central China to Lhasa, Tibet. To honor his beloved brother, an experienced cyclist who died before completing the same trip, Shuhao will brave extreme altitudes, food poisoning, wild dogs and deadly ice. Not to mention his own clumsiness.

Luckily for Shuhao (and for us, as Mr. Chang is a singularly inexpressive lead), he meets Xiaochuan (Li Xiaochuan), an older, more seasoned rider whose knowledge of fluctuating elevations and hairpin bends proves invaluable. As Xiaochuan pushes his young companion through pain and exhaustion, Mr. Li provides the charisma that his wooden colleague lacks. This is at least partly the fault of a screenplay (by Chang Chia-lu and Cheng Hsiao-che) that gives Shuhao very little to say: whether making eyes at a winsome widow or witnessing a tragic accident, he makes fewer noises than those dogs.

An earlier cut of the film, the publicity notes suggest, may have deepened the character, but this version seems determined to make location the star. Filling the blanks with ice cream mountains and swoon-inducing vistas, the cinematographer Du Jie delivers moments of visual ecstasy that almost make us forget that they’re framing a reckless cipher.
168 2013-06-07 The excellent 1980 movie “Fame” has inspired a less honest television series, a tamer stage show, a movie reboot and bubbly incarnations like “Glee” and “Pitch Perfect.” But now we have the documentary “Fame High,” a not-so-eager-to-please effort that understands Alan Parker’s original vision — of rejection, hard work and self-discovery — and depicts it with clear eyes. The film’s director, Scott Hamilton Kennedy, trains his observant cameras on the Los Angeles County High School for the Arts, where the students are in for a well-rounded, and very personal, education.

“Fame High” focuses on Grace, a senior dancer struggling to reach beyond technical expertise; Brittany, a senior singer-musician who bypasses academics to seek immediate work; Ruby, a freshman actor who’s zealous about her developing artistic identity; and Zak, a freshman jazz pianist whose teachers’ lessons often counter his father’s.

The hesitant Zak is someone no actor could play so believably, and his story — with his advisers’ tug of war and its layers of subtlety that invite attention — is most involving. A close second is Grace’s tale, her appeal wrapped in the context of her Korean-American upbringing.

Grace’s dancing glows. Her fellow students are impressive; how can performers so young (real kids, not 30-year-old versions) produce work so worthy of a teacher’s demanding dissection? (And the students are far from coddled. Good job, teachers.)

“Fame High,” a timely plug for arts education, does what its subjects hope to do: it opens our hearts and entertains with truth.
169 2013-06-07 Employers are to blame for high and widely divergent prices for health care in the United States....
170 2013-06-07 Congressional leaders from both parties stood by a program that they had effectively sanctioned through the passage of counterterrorism laws over the years. Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, the chairwoman and vice chairman of the intelligence committee, released a joint statement defending the surveillance.

“The threat from terrorism remains very real and these lawful intelligence activities must continue, with the careful oversight of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government,” they wrote.

Mr. Obama seems to encapsulate the debate himself. He came to office promising to end what he had characterized as the excesses of his predecessor, but found that many of those policies had already been modified by Mr. Bush under pressure from courts and Congress and out of a desire to make them more palatable.

After his inauguration in 2009, Mr. Obama signed an order banning what Mr. Bush euphemistically called “enhanced interrogation techniques” and what critics called torture, but by that point waterboarding had been halted for nearly six years. Mr. Obama promised to close the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, but found it just as hard as did Mr. Bush, who had expressed the same desire, though less firmly.

By the time he took over, the warrantless surveillance program Mr. Bush had started had been legalized by an act of Congress, with the support of Mr. Obama when he was a senator. Mr. Obama kept a system of military commissions while building in further procedural safeguards and gave up an effort to try Sept. 11 plotters in civilian court. He released some secret documents about past programs but continued to invoke national secrecy in other instances.

When he talked about how all wars must end in his speech at National Defense University last month, Mr. Obama said it was time to begin a new phase in the battle against Al Qaeda and allied extremists, narrowing the scope of the conflict and cutting back on the use of drone strikes overseas. He suggested the threat of terrorism had receded to the level it had been before Sept. 11, a regular danger but not the overarching issue it had become.

But just as an unmanned aerial vehicle strike in Pakistan days after the speech made clear the drone war is not over, so too did fresh revelations about government surveillance indicate little retreat from the expansive tactics of the past.

“You have a president who’s basically arguing against himself,” said James Jay Carafano, a senior fellow for national security and homeland security at the Heritage Foundation. “It’s almost Shakespearean. In the speech, he’s saying we’re going to stop doing this stuff, it’s bad. But then he keeps doing it.”

Former Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, questioned whether such expansive sweeps of data were even effective. “If everything’s a priority, then nothing is,” he said. “I think prioritization is a far better way to go about doing it. Just because they have the authority doesn’t mean they should exercise it.”

Aides said Mr. Obama’s approach is necessarily subtle, neither excessively hawkish nor overly restrained. The president believes in sustaining some post-Sept. 11 abilities to fight Al Qaeda, aides said, but has made a point of imposing stronger oversight and checks and balances that were not present immediately after the attacks on New York and Washington.

“We’ve come a long way in terms of narrowing our focus and constraining our actions,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. “It’s only natural, and healthy, that as the nation considers the current scale of the threat of terrorism, we will also consider whether the balance between security and privacy is appropriate.”

He pointed out that Congress “overwhelmingly supported the reauthorization of these authorities.”
171 2013-06-07 Ms. Angelos, known for her work with the troupe the Five Lesbian Brothers, wrote the adaptation and portrays the young Sontag onstage, mostly as she sits doggedly at her desk, scribbling away in her journals or poring over the piles of books (Gide, Balzac, Dostoyevsky, Pushkin) that she consumes as her contemporaries scarfed down burgers. She also appears on video as the older Sontag, chain-smoking and riffling through the old journals, casting amused, intrigued or dismayed glances at her younger self and interjecting annotation as needed.

With her crisp, quiet, earnest delivery, Ms. Angelos is surprisingly effective as the teenage Sontag, who entered the University of California, Berkeley at 16. She immediately fell under the spell of an older woman referred to only as H and embarked upon a sensual awakening that she probes in excited detail in the journals, even as she becomes an accomplished student of philosophy and literature.

In these early passages we hear a voice straining toward sophistication. Much of the charm of these segments is the discovery that the celebrated intellectual was once a young woman who could sound so comically desperate to impress upon her journal her world-weariness. “I read again these notebooks,” she says. “Can I never escape this interminable mourning for myself?” (Even as a teenager, she was making literary allusions.)

But Sontag’s sentimental and sexual education took some unusual turns, even as her intellectual maturity proceeded at a breathtaking pace. Within a year of entering Berkeley she transferred to the University of Chicago, graduating at 18 before continuing her studies at Radcliffe and Oxford.

In Chicago, she began doing research for the instructor Philip Rieff. “Ten days later,” the older Susan darkly intones, her life was set on a new course. “Last night, or was it early this morning, I am engaged to Philip Rieff,” she crisply notes in her journal, alongside other daily occurrences: “Finished rereading the Joyce ‘Portrait,’ — oh, the ecstasy of aloneness!” (A theme threaded through the show is the internal war between Sontag’s fierce desire to unite herself with another and the fear of losing herself in another.)

As Ms. Angelos sits behind the desk piled with books, occasionally rising to pace the room or impersonate another character in Sontag’s life (her lover the playwright María Irene Fornés, or Thomas Mann, whom an infatuated teenage Sontag met before she left for college), Austin Switser’s elegantly collated video imagery fills a screen behind her. Often we merely see the young Sontag filmed from above, as her hands race across the pages of the journal, piling up reflections on experience (“Life is suicide, mediated”) and her tumultuous emotions (“I am jealous of everyone Irene sees”), or merely listing her reading and voracious moviegoing.

The video provides the show with a dynamic background, but it also neatly symbolizes the self-consciousness of Sontag’s writing process: even as she confides her most intimate secrets to the page, she observes herself doing so, aware that the journal is more than a mere record of experience, but a tool she is consciously employing to shape it.

“Superficial to understand the journal as just a receptacle for one’s private, secret thoughts,” as she puts it, “like a confidante that is deaf, dumb and illiterate. In the journal, I do not just express myself more openly than I could in person; I create myself.”

In “Sontag: Reborn” Ms. Angelos and Ms. Weems have brought a vivid theatrical animation to this process of closely examined self-creation, as Sontag builds a shining mirror of words in which, as she puts it to her journal, she “exists solely as a perceiving, suffering, struggling being.” The result is a freshly imagined work of theater that offers us an enriching opportunity to move through the crucible of youth in the company of an ever-stimulating, ever-stimulated mind.
172 2013-06-07 Ms. Angelos, known for her work with the troupe the Five Lesbian Brothers, wrote the adaptation and portrays the young Sontag onstage, mostly as she sits doggedly at her desk, scribbling away in her journals or poring over the piles of books (Gide, Balzac, Dostoyevsky, Pushkin) that she consumes as her contemporaries scarfed down burgers. She also appears on video as the older Sontag, chain-smoking and riffling through the old journals, casting amused, intrigued or dismayed glances at her younger self and interjecting annotation as needed.

With her crisp, quiet, earnest delivery, Ms. Angelos is surprisingly effective as the teenage Sontag, who entered the University of California, Berkeley at 16. She immediately fell under the spell of an older woman referred to only as H and embarked upon a sensual awakening that she probes in excited detail in the journals, even as she becomes an accomplished student of philosophy and literature.

In these early passages we hear a voice straining toward sophistication. Much of the charm of these segments is the discovery that the celebrated intellectual was once a young woman who could sound so comically desperate to impress upon her journal her world-weariness. “I read again these notebooks,” she says. “Can I never escape this interminable mourning for myself?” (Even as a teenager, she was making literary allusions.)

But Sontag’s sentimental and sexual education took some unusual turns, even as her intellectual maturity proceeded at a breathtaking pace. Within a year of entering Berkeley she transferred to the University of Chicago, graduating at 18 before continuing her studies at Radcliffe and Oxford.

In Chicago, she began doing research for the instructor Philip Rieff. “Ten days later,” the older Susan darkly intones, her life was set on a new course. “Last night, or was it early this morning, I am engaged to Philip Rieff,” she crisply notes in her journal, alongside other daily occurrences: “Finished rereading the Joyce ‘Portrait,’ — oh, the ecstasy of aloneness!” (A theme threaded through the show is the internal war between Sontag’s fierce desire to unite herself with another and the fear of losing herself in another.)

As Ms. Angelos sits behind the desk piled with books, occasionally rising to pace the room or impersonate another character in Sontag’s life (her lover the playwright María Irene Fornés, or Thomas Mann, whom an infatuated teenage Sontag met before she left for college), Austin Switser’s elegantly collated video imagery fills a screen behind her. Often we merely see the young Sontag filmed from above, as her hands race across the pages of the journal, piling up reflections on experience (“Life is suicide, mediated”) and her tumultuous emotions (“I am jealous of everyone Irene sees”), or merely listing her reading and voracious moviegoing.

The video provides the show with a dynamic background, but it also neatly symbolizes the self-consciousness of Sontag’s writing process: even as she confides her most intimate secrets to the page, she observes herself doing so, aware that the journal is more than a mere record of experience, but a tool she is consciously employing to shape it.

“Superficial to understand the journal as just a receptacle for one’s private, secret thoughts,” as she puts it, “like a confidante that is deaf, dumb and illiterate. In the journal, I do not just express myself more openly than I could in person; I create myself.”

In “Sontag: Reborn” Ms. Angelos and Ms. Weems have brought a vivid theatrical animation to this process of closely examined self-creation, as Sontag builds a shining mirror of words in which, as she puts it to her journal, she “exists solely as a perceiving, suffering, struggling being.” The result is a freshly imagined work of theater that offers us an enriching opportunity to move through the crucible of youth in the company of an ever-stimulating, ever-stimulated mind.
173 2013-06-07 Portions of a temporary Interstate 5 bridge could extend over the Skagit River in a day or two, and the entire 160-foot gap should be filled by mid-June, reopening freeway lanes that have been detoured since the bridge collapsed on May 23, the Washington Department of Transportation said. “We’re gradually launching the bridge across the gap,” a spokesman, Travis Phelps, said Thursday. The department expects to meet its goal of reopening in the second or third week of the month, he said. Some debris still has to be removed and divers have to make sure the bridge piers are in good shape to hold the temporary crossing, and repairs also have to be made to the top of piers that will hold the replacement.
174 2013-06-07 A group of investors, including pension plans from Connecticut and Sweden and the United Automobile Workers medical benefits trust, is sponsoring a shareholder proposal related to an inquiry over Wal-Mart Stores’ potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The proposal asks that Wal-Mart disclose whether the company is holding current and former executives financially responsible for breaching company policies.

Calpers, the nation’s largest public pension fund, which owns about $400 million in Wal-Mart shares, says it continues to be concerned about the Mexico inquiry, and it is troubled by recent Wal-Mart supply-chain issues. It says it will vote against several board members and support several shareholder proposals.

“We’re extremely concerned about Wal-Mart’s monitoring on its supply chain — the fires and deaths in Bangladesh, and other concerns about supply-chain issues in the U.S.,” said Anne Simpson, senior portfolio manager for investments at Calpers.

The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, a large pension plan, is supporting the autoworkers’ proposal and will also vote against all board members over concerns of independence.

And Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass, Lewis, the influential proxy advisory firms, are advising clients to vote against certain board members based on the active bribery inquiry and other issues and advocating support of the United Automobile Workers’ proposal.

The board’s failure to reassure shareholders that the alleged violations of the foreign bribery law “will have a limited impact on shareholder value, and that any responsible executives will be appropriately held accountable, calls into question the ability of the company’s leaders to protect shareholders’ investments,” I.S.S. wrote in its report on the company.

The New York Times reported in April of last year that officials at Wal-Mart de Mexico, a subsidiary, had bribed authorities to ease expansion in that country and that executives at the company’s headquarters in Bentonville, Ark., had been alerted to the bribery and declined to take action. The company is conducting an internal investigation into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and it is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.

Last year, about one-third of nonfamily-member shareholders voted against four directors — Michael T. Duke, the chief executive; H. Lee Scott, a former chief executive; S. Robson Walton, the chairman; and Christopher Williams, the chairman of the audit committee. Including family member votes, the opposition exceeded 12 percent, the biggest opposition any had faced in years and the biggest vote against a sitting chief executive in recent company history. This year, the board and company are again under fire, as advocates say the company needs to improve transparency surrounding the investigation, among other issues.

Investors “remain in the dark as to the nature and extent of the alleged violations (and knowledge of them within the company); as to the nature of any past or future sanctions for executives with direct responsibility or oversight responsibility; and even as to the timetable for completion of the investigation and disclosure of its results,” I.S.S. wrote in a report.

Citing those concerns, I.S.S. recommended that shareholders vote against the re-election of S. Robson Walton, Mr. Duke and Mr. Williams.

Randy Hargrove, a company spokesman, noted that Wal-Mart had made several changes to its compliance program in the last year and a half. It improved the way it reported and investigated accusations of ethical violations; it hired new executives to oversee compliance; and it combined its compliance, ethics, investigations and legal functions into one department, he said.

It spent $73 million in the last quarter alone on the investigation and compliance reviews, close to double what it had expected to spend.

As for I.S.S.’s complaints, Mr. Hargrove said that Wal-Mart had provided several updates on its findings and that it did not believe that the issues would have a material adverse effect on the business.

Since December 2011, when Wal-Mart began investigating the matter after The New York Times alerted it to its reporting, the company “issued a number of disclosures to shareholders and to the public via our Web site to keep them informed of our process,” he said.

Mr. Hargrove said managers continued to report updates to the audit committee, and the audit committee met an additional seven times in its most recent fiscal year, which ran through January.

In addition, he said, compliance targets were now part of the compensation formula. If the audit committee felt that the company was not achieving compliance targets in the current year, for instance, then the governance committee could reduce or eliminate executive bonuses, and that would be disclosed in the next proxy statement. Wal-Mart “is putting measures in place that hold executives accountable,” he said.

Glass, Lewis advocates “no” votes against five executives with links to the bribery scandal: Mr. Duke, Mr. Scott and Mr. Williams, along with Aida M. Alvarez and James I. Cash Jr., who are members of the audit committee.

“Shareholders should vote against these directors to send a clear message to the board that such poor oversight does not come without repercussions,” Glass, Lewis wrote in its report.

The shareholder proposal backed by the U.A.W. pushed for more clarity around whether executives were being held responsible for ethical breaches.

The proposal deals with “clawbacks” — when the company takes back bonuses from executives. The proposal asks Wal-Mart to disclose when it has done so and with which senior executives, citing the Mexico scandal as one area where shareholders would like to know whether executives have been punished as a result.

Some investors also objected to the heavy presence of insider directors on the board: two Waltons, one Walton son-in-law, the chief executive and a former ex-chief executive. After the 2013 meeting, when three independent directors will step down, about 65 percent of the board will be independent.

Mr. Hargrove responded that the audit and compensation committees were made up entirely of independent directors and that Wal-Mart required a majority of its directors to be independent.

Some investors were not swayed. “Since last year’s no-confidence vote, Wal-Mart’s board has become even less independent,” the New York City comptroller’s office said in a statement.
175 2013-06-07 Instead of enjoying it, however, Lukas said, he drove himself and his help too hard and continued a battle with the news media over whether he was good for the sport after Charismatic finished third and broke his leg in the race.

His horsemanship and his integrity first drew fire when Union City, a horse some believed was not sound, fractured a leg in the 1993 Preakness Stakes and did not survive. The charge that Lukas often pushed his horses past their breaking point has been renewed over the years as many of his Triple Crown stars were injured and retired after brief and brilliant campaigns. In 1996, for example, his Derby winner, Grindstone, was injured and retired while preparing for the Preakness.

Over the last decade, however, Lukas has embraced the role of articulate ambassador for an embattled sport, whether it is plucking a child from the crowd into the winner’s circle with him, as he often does, or chastising younger trainers for tarnishing the game. Last spring, he was critical of Doug O’Neill’s multiple drug violations, saying they were eclipsing the Triple Crown bid by O’Neill’s colt, I’ll Have Another.

Lukas has always been among the first horsemen to arrive at the barns, getting there at 3 a.m. This time around, he has been the last one to leave, allowing conversations with clients and well-wishers — even reporters — to stretch late into the morning.

“I’m comfortable,” Lukas said. “When you’re younger, you think you have to prove to everybody every day that you can train a racehorse. I know I can train a racehorse.”

Lukas’s impact on horse racing reaches beyond the record books. He adopted a corporate approach to training, manning satellite stables with young educated assistants to ensure he was represented at the best races on any given day. They were supplied with the best feed, hay and wraps, and each operated with the same protocols and regimens. At the end of each day, for example, the dirt surrounding his barns was raked in the same herringbone pattern.

“The fresh paint on the barns, the flower pots and the first-class treatment he gave to his owners were revolutionary at the time,” said Shug McGaughey, the trainer of this year’s Kentucky Derby champion, Orb. “He turned what we do into a business.”

Lukas has always likened his operation to a cross between a McDonald’s franchise and an athletic program, emphasizing consistency as well as developing talent. His former assistants have taken this template and incorporated their own ideas.

Three of them, Todd Pletcher, Kiaran McLaughlin and Dallas Stewart, will have horses in the gate alongside Oxbow in Saturday’s 145th running of the Belmont Stakes. And Pletcher, perennially at the top of the national standings, will saddle five horses in the race, another tactic Lukas pioneered.

Lukas’s most envied talent, perhaps, is talking rich people out of their money. His passion and charisma have persuaded enough of them to plunk down more than $250 million at horse auctions.

His clients have ranged from Eugene V. Klein, a former owner of the San Diego Chargers, to the Kentucky industrialist William T. Young, to the Southern California beer distributor Robert Lewis. They were all men of Lukas’s generation. They have all died.

“You don’t replace guys like that very easily,” Lukas said.

It has meant scaling back to 48 horses and closing his stables in California — where he has spent most of his career — as well as in New York. Lukas’s latest renaissance has been financed by a benefactor on the scale of some of his previous clients. Oxbow is owned by Calumet Farm, which since last year has been operated by Brad Kelley. Kelley sold a discount cigarette company for $1 billion in 2001.

Like Lukas, Calumet Farm holds a storied place in horse racing. It has owned eight Kentucky Derby winners, including the Triple Crown winners Whirlaway and Citation. Like Lukas, Calumet has had some ups and downs. Calumet went bankrupt in 1991 (and Lukas lost $3.1 million of his own money), and in 2000 two of Calumet’s principals were convicted of fraud and bribery.

“Now, Mr. Kelley is bringing them back to glory, and I’m happy to be a part of it,” Lukas said.

Lukas is no longer throwing tens of millions of dollars around at the yearling sale.

“Two years ago, I bought six of them, and two — Oxbow and Will Take Charge — will run all three legs of the Triple Crown,” Lukas said. “We’re good when we can go to the sales.”

As far as regrets go, Lukas has only a few. He takes the blame for wrecking four marriages.

“I’ve been married to these horses for a long time,” he said, “and I thought I could blend in a relationship, but that hasn’t been the case. It’s been my fault.”

He also professes to be unimpressed by his accomplishments in the sport. Lukas has won the Eclipse Award as top trainer four times and has trained 24 champions, including three horses of the year: Criminal Type in 1990, Lady’s Secret in 1996, and Charismatic in 1999. He is approaching nearly $300 million in purse earnings.

There is one record out there that Lukas wants as his own. It is also held by Fitzsimmons, the trainer who dominated the sport for much of the early 20th century. In 1957, Fitzsimmons trained Bold Ruler to a victory in the Preakness.

“He was 82 years old, and it made him the oldest person to ever win a Triple Crown race,” Lukas said. “That’s one to gun for. It will mean I’m still in the game, and they haven’t furrowed me underneath the racetrack somewhere.”
176 2013-06-07 WASHINGTON — A year ago the fate of Chen Guangcheng, a blind Chinese activist spirited into the American Embassy in Beijing, threatened to upend the Obama administration’s careful cultivation of China’s leaders before an important annual meeting between the two governments. On Thursday, Mr. Chen joined relatives of prominent political prisoners and 30 organizations in calling on President Obama to use his summit meeting in California this weekend with President Xi Jinping to highlight the issue of human rights abuses in China.

In a letter to Mr. Obama and in a briefing here, the organizations tried to draw attention to an issue that has been largely overshadowed ahead of the meetings by thorny questions about the two countries’ economic and military relationships and pressing international issues like Syria, Iran and North Korea. They urged Mr. Obama to appeal for the release of 16 prominent prisoners jailed for political reasons, including Liu Xiaobo, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010.

The campaign, echoed by statements and letters by members of Congress, underscored the balance that Mr. Obama, like previous presidents, has tried to strike, at times awkwardly, between engaging China as a rising economic and diplomatic power and championing Chinese advocating for political or religious freedoms.

“They are, of course, only the tip of the iceberg among hundreds of thousands of cases,” said Mr. Chen, a lawyer who had been placed under illegal house arrest before he made a daring escape to the American Embassy last year. He spoke through a computer link from New York, where he settled after the administration negotiated his release. His remarks were translated by Bob Fu, the pastor and president of ChinaAid, a group in Texas that champions the rights of Christians in China.

“So we should work together and join hands together to free them,” Mr. Chen added, arguing that human rights, not economic and trade issues, should be at the center of Mr. Obama’s agenda during his meeting.

The White House has portrayed the informal meeting with Mr. Xi, which begins Friday afternoon at a 200-acre estate outside Palm Springs, Calif., as an opportunity for the two leaders to develop a personal relationship. Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi have set aside several hours for meetings and meals that are intended to be less scripted than typical meetings between world leaders.
177 2013-06-07 A federal judge threw out the Pennsylvania governor’s lawsuit against the N.C.A.A. over penalties against Penn State related to Jerry Sandusky, calling his argument a “Hail Mary pass” that easily warranted dismissal.

Judge Yvette Kane’s decision put an early end to the antitrust lawsuit Gov. Tom Corbett filed in January in which he sought to overturn a $60 million fine, a four-year bowl ban, scholarship limits and other penalties.
178 2013-06-07 Even as Americans signal a desire to draw inward, however, they appear sensitive to the nation’s growing vulnerability to attacks on its computer systems. An overwhelming majority said cyberattacks were a very serious or somewhat serious threat, with nearly six in 10 saying the United States is not adequately prepared for them.

More than half of Americans said the United States should never conduct cyberattacks against another country, while about a third said such attacks should be carried out. The Bush and Obama administrations, working with the Israelis, have made covert attacks against Iran’s nuclear program.

For Mr. Obama, who shuffled his national-security ranks this week by naming Susan E. Rice as national security adviser, the poll brought a mixed verdict on foreign policy. Forty-five percent approved of his stewardship and 39 percent disapproved.

The administration’s handling of the attack on the mission in Benghazi, Libya, continues to cast a shadow. Fifty-three percent of people said it was “mostly hiding something” about the attack, while 34 percent said it was “mostly telling the truth.”

At the same time, people were cynical about the motives of Republicans in denouncing administration officials, including Ms. Rice, over Benghazi. Nearly six in 10 said the criticisms were mainly for political reasons, as opposed to a search for the truth.

When people were quizzed about the level of American engagement in April 2003, 48 percent said the United States should take the lead, while 43 percent said it should not. In the latest poll, only 35 percent said it should take the lead; 58 percent said it should not.

The evolution of those attitudes is in line with some of the ideas that Mr. Obama laid out last month for how the United States should handle counterterrorism in the post-9/11 era — a strategy that continues to rely on the use of drones. Seventy-two percent of people supported using drones to kill terrorism suspects, though there was significant concern that they kill innocent people and are not subject to adequate oversight.

Mr. Obama’s renewed promise to close the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and transfer the inmates found little support, however. Fifty-eight percent of people said it should remain open, while only 34 percent said it should be closed.

The telephone poll was conducted on both landlines and cellphones from May 31 to June 4 with 1,022 adults nationwide and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
179 2013-06-07 “The federal government is too involved in too many personal things that they don’t need to be involved in,” said Frances Narramore, 75, a retired teacher in Arizona, who calls herself an independent. “Just look at what’s happening at the I.R.S., and you see what I mean by that.”

Asked whether same-sex marriage rights should be “determined by the federal government or left to each individual state government to decide,” 60 percent preferred leaving it to the states, and 33 percent the federal government.

Yet respondents also wanted equal treatment for gay people who are already legally married. By a 17-point margin — 56 percent in favor, 39 percent against — they said the federal government should recognize legal marriages of same-sex couples and provide them the same federal benefits given legally married heterosexual couples.

In addition to the same-sex marriage cases, the Supreme Court is also likely to issue decisions on two other major cases — one on the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and one on whether public universities can consider race as a factor in admissions — by the end of June.

Americans are divided over whether the voting act is necessary; 49 percent said it is, but 44 percent said it is not. Black respondents and Democrats were far more apt to say the act was still needed. The Supreme Court is now reviewing the part of the act that bars jurisdictions with a history of discrimination from changing voting laws without federal approval.

More than half of Americans, 53 percent, favor affirmative action programs for minorities in college admissions and hiring, the poll found. (Other surveys that frame the question in terms of giving minorities “preference” find less support.)

In a case brought by Abigail Fisher, a white student denied admission to the University of Texas at Austin, the Supreme Court is considering whether to affirm, limit or overturn a 2003 ruling allowing public universities to consider race as one factor in an “holistic review.”

In the Times/CBS News Poll, those who favor affirmative action said by large margins that they believe achieving diversity is a stronger rationale for it than making up for discrimination.

But here, too, there are racial and partisan differences. While three-quarters of blacks support affirmative action, fewer than half of whites do, according to the Times/CBS News Poll. And while support stands at 75 percent among Democrats, it drops to 37 percent among Republicans.

“If you’re smart enough to get into college, you should be smart enough without your race,” said one Republican respondent, Krista Bumgarner, 27, a homemaker and personal care assistant in Foley, Minn.

The question of state-versus-federal authority is at the heart of all three major pending court cases. Gay-rights advocates liken California’s Proposition 8, which in 2008 banned same-sex marriage there, to earlier state bans on interracial marriage, which fell across the country in 1967 after the Supreme Court’s landmark decision in Loving v. Virginia.

Chad Griffin, who organized the challenge of the California law and is now president of the Human Rights Campaign, an advocacy group, argued that the court must intervene, saying marriage rights should be fundamental, and “not determined by what side of a state border one lives on.”

“The exact same arguments were made in the 1950s and ’60s — let the states decide integration, let the states decide voting rights,” he said.

Some justices have expressed skepticism, though, including Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, citing the firestorm after the court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling establishing a right to abortion. Many legal analysts expect the court to issue a narrow ruling that applies to California alone.

Respondents to the poll seemed to support that course, regardless of whether they favored allowing gay people to marry. “We’re sort of set up for things to go through the states, and then filter up to the federal government,” said Steve Koivisto, 47, a Democrat and music instrument repair technician in Baton Rouge, La., who backs same-sex marriage.

Same-sex marriage is legal in 12 states and the District of Columbia; in three of those states — Delaware, Minnesota and Rhode Island — the laws are so new they have not yet taken effect. Still, that is far short of the 34 states that permitted interracial marriage when the court decided Loving v. Virginia.

Many Americans are convinced that marriage change is coming; 72 percent see legalization as “inevitable,” according to a Pew Research Center survey released Thursday.

“The time will come soon enough when enough of these states will have legalized it, for the federal government to make it law,” Mr. Koivisto said.

Surveys have shown that support for same-sex marriage has been increasing, and the Times/CBS News Poll found that 51 percent back marriage rights for gay people, while 44 percent are opposed, largely unchanged since late last year. Support spikes to 68 percent among Americans under 30, but gay marriage wins the backing of just 32 percent of those 65 or older.

The survey of 1,022 Americans had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. It was conducted from May 31 to June 4, as the Obama administration was coping with the I.R.S. controversy and revelations that the Justice Department had sought reporters’ telephone records.

President Obama seems to have been unaffected; his approval rating held steady at 47 percent, the survey found.
180 2013-06-07 Yes, racism persists in European soccer in general, but its presence in Italy is pronounced. So after what he endured in January in the Netherlands, could Altidore really see himself voluntarily moving to a country where another incident was all but assured?

He looked out the window.

“Racism in football is not a little problem; it’s a big problem, a problem that is more alive than people realize,” he said finally. “To go and face it at the root? It would almost make it more appealing to go there.”

After a moment, he added: “I’m not saying Italy is a racist country, but it would be a good opportunity to take a stance. Italy is a stage.”

Then he shrugged. “If anything,” he said, “it would make it feel like there’s more to win, there’s more to gain.”

The issue is both simple and complex for Altidore. For years, he has been defined by a puzzling inconsistency, the result of scrutiny since he was 16 and expectations that were almost impossible to meet.

At 17, he juggled prom plans with practices for the Red Bulls. (He was allowed to miss a game once to attend the dance.) At 18, he was on the cover of a soccer video game. At 21, he arrived in the Netherlands, having bounced from New York to Spain to England back to Spain and then to Turkey.

Now, he is finally showing signs of delivering the production predicted for him since Adidas signed him as a teenager in 2006. Then, the company saw nearly unlimited potential: a young, athletic American goal scorer who could be in the spotlight for years.

“We always look for icons,” said Chris McGuire, the head of sports marketing for Adidas. “Jozy was that. He was targeted as a future star for club teams and the national teams.”

It was not until recently, however, that Altidore broke out. And even with his abundant scoring in the Dutch league, there are no guarantees the success will translate. He scored in the United States’ exhibition victory over Germany on Sunday, his first international goal since 2011. Yet Jürgen Klinsmann, the United States coach, cautioned that there might yet be a ways for Altidore to go before he could become the striker fans have craved for years.

“The international game is a different speed” than the Dutch league is, Klinsmann said. “You’re talking about two or three different levels.”

That uncertainty is part of the reason Altidore is so passionate about addressing the issue of racism in soccer. Whatever happens in terms of his career as a player on the field, he said, he wants to be certain that he does everything he can to address an issue that he knows, firsthand, continues to have an insidious presence in the world game.

Awful incidents cropped up seemingly weekly throughout Europe last season, with the ugliness including racist chants in the stands, bigoted signs waved by spectators and bananas thrown at black players. There was also the much-scrutinized criminal trial in England involving Chelsea’s John Terry, who admitted to using racist language toward an opponent during a game in 2011.

“We’re all human, and we all make mistakes, but at the end of the day, John Terry has to live with that,” Altidore said. “That’s the biggest punishment. You only get so many ways to define who you are, and that is never going to go away for him.”

On Jan. 29, Altidore was targeted by fans during AZ’s Dutch Cup match at Den Bosch. Teammates told him they had heard the monkey chants early in the game, but it was not until Altidore chased a pass into the corner near one particular section of the stands that he became fully aware of what was happening. Then, after he was awarded a penalty kick and converted it, the monkey chants and racist taunts grew louder.

The episode hurt Altidore on multiple levels. First, he was stunned simply by the overt nature of the hate. Second, he was crushed because he had come to adore living in the Netherlands, having built a network of friends there. He had favorite restaurants and cafes. He loved his apartment.

“It was like moving into a new neighborhood and you’re getting along with everyone and then something happens and all of a sudden you feel like an outcast,” he said. “The referee asked me if I wanted to stop the game, but I said no. I can’t fight 8,000 people. I can’t. I didn’t want to stop because I didn’t want them to see that they hurt me.”

The episode was hardly Altidore’s first encounter with racism, although the intensity of the experiences has varied. At age 7 or 8 in Florida, he said, a neighboring child told him and his sister that they could not ride their bicycles home from school on a particular road because “black kids aren’t allowed to take that shortcut.” At a youth tournament in Ireland as a teenager, he was confronted for the first time with large-scale racism as he heard hateful chants from a group of Irish fans.

While he played in Europe, there were more low-profile occurrences — “you know, things at restaurants or whatever,” Altidore said — but the biggest test of his patience surely came in the Netherlands.

Not long after that January game, Altidore received an e-mail from an official of FIFA, global soccer’s governing body. He and Kevin-Prince Boateng, a German-Ghanaian, were the only players selected to join a task force organized by FIFA that was charged with addressing racism in soccer.

Boateng, who plays in Italy, walked off the field after being racially abused by fans in an exhibition last season. UEFA, which oversees soccer in Europe, and FIFA recently announced stricter punishments in an attempt to curb that sort of episode.

Altidore explained last weekend that he had done his best to keep his focus singular. He is not concerning himself with the transfer rumors, he said, and he has long since stopped reading articles about himself, knowing that many will mention his lackluster track record with the national team.

Certainly he hopes that these next few qualifiers will allow him to add to his underwhelming total of 14 goals, in 57 appearances, for the United States.

“I know what I need to do; I don’t need anyone to tell me,” he said.

But even if the goals do not come, Altidore has designs on improvement elsewhere.

“I’m not a civil rights leader; it’s not like I’m leading marches,” he said, but he quickly added that he also believed he could help effect change.

Many Americans may think of Europe as wholly socially progressive, but Altidore has seen — and heard — the nastiness that lingers. Asked whether he thought he would see a day when racism in soccer was mostly stamped out, Altidore shook his head sadly.

“Unfortunately, no,” he said. “It’s something that’s too big, too ingrained in too many places.”

He stood, ready to head to a team dinner. “Hopefully we can leave it in a better place than it was before,” he said. “But it’s very deep-seated. It’s more alive than people think.”
181 2013-06-07 In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted May 31 to June 4, 39 percent of respondents said that the recent condition of the economy was very or fairly good, the highest share saying this not only since President Obama took office but also since the recession officially began in December 2007.

About a third of respondents said that the economy was getting better, similar to what the trend had been in the previous six months. (Another 24 percent said that it was getting worse and 42 percent said the economy was staying about the same.)

Nearly half of respondents — 46 percent — rated the job market in their areas as very good or fairly good, with a third saying that they thought their local job markets would improve over the next year.

The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

Despite newfound optimism in some quarters, the economy continues to send mixed signals. Even as consumer spending remains healthy and the housing market rebounds, the labor market has been much slower to recover and many Americans at middle and lower income levels remain worse off than before the downturn.

The latest report on jobs will come Friday morning, when the Labor Department reports employment data for May. Month-to-month numbers have been bumpy this year, with the economy adding a robust 332,000 jobs in February, then slowing to a pace of 138,000 new positions in March and 165,000 in April.

Economists are looking for the report to estimate that the economy created roughly 165,000 jobs in May, with the unemployment rate holding steady at 7.5 percent. On Thursday, the government reported that initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 11,000, to 346,000, just under the four-week moving average of 352,500.

Trading on financial markets was volatile as investors readied positions ahead of the Labor Department report.

After spending much of the day in negative territory, the stock market staged a late-day rally. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 80.03 points to 15,040.62 and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index inched up 13.66, to 1,622.56. The Nasdaq composite index increased by 22.58, to 3,424.05.

The bond market rose modestly, with the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds falling slightly to 2.08 percent.

In the currency markets, the dollar fell sharply against the yen and the euro on Thursday, and continued to fall Friday morning. Currency traders will be watching the jobs data on Friday for signs about the economy’s underlying strength and the Fed’s next move on monetary policy.

The lackluster gains in jobs and income for most Americans stand in contrast to the rally on Wall Street and increase in home prices so far this year.

In the first quarter of 2013, real estate holdings accounted for a $784 billion gain in household net worth, while the value of corporate shares and mutual funds increased by nearly $1.5 trillion, the Fed said.

The stock market gains primarily benefit a fairly narrow stratum of American society, Mr. Maki noted, with the top 20 percent of earners holding 80 percent of stocks.

“That group always accrues the bulk of the benefits from a rising stock market,” he said.

The Federal Reserve report also showed that Americans remained cautious, continuing to reduce debt levels and strengthen their personal balance sheets. Household borrowing sank at an annual rate of 0.6 percent in the first quarter, with mortgage debt declining by $53.2 billion.

The implosion of the housing sector, and the stock market tumble in 2008 and early 2009 took a huge toll on the net worth of American families. Between 2007 and 2008, household net worth dropped by nearly $13 trillion, a decline of nearly 20 percent.

While unemployment remains high by historical standards at 7.5 percent, the economy has shown signs of life lately. Consumer spending has held up this year, despite fears that an increase in payroll taxes and cutbacks in government spending might cool the economy.

The stock market has surged in 2013 in anticipation of better economic growth and expectations that the Federal Reserve will not pull back on its efforts to stimulate the economy until evidence is much stronger that jobs are more plentiful and living standards are improving. But stocks have wavered in recent days on worries that the central bank will not keep pumping as much money into the financial system.
182 2013-06-07 In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted May 31 to June 4, 39 percent of respondents said that the recent condition of the economy was very or fairly good, the highest share saying this not only since President Obama took office but also since the recession officially began in December 2007.

About a third of respondents said that the economy was getting better, similar to what the trend had been in the previous six months. (Another 24 percent said that it was getting worse and 42 percent said the economy was staying about the same.)

Nearly half of respondents — 46 percent — rated the job market in their areas as very good or fairly good, with a third saying that they thought their local job markets would improve over the next year.

The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

Despite newfound optimism in some quarters, the economy continues to send mixed signals. Even as consumer spending remains healthy and the housing market rebounds, the labor market has been much slower to recover and many Americans at middle and lower income levels remain worse off than before the downturn.

The latest report on jobs will come Friday morning, when the Labor Department reports employment data for May. Month-to-month numbers have been bumpy this year, with the economy adding a robust 332,000 jobs in February, then slowing to a pace of 138,000 new positions in March and 165,000 in April.

Economists are looking for the report to estimate that the economy created roughly 165,000 jobs in May, with the unemployment rate holding steady at 7.5 percent. On Thursday, the government reported that initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 11,000, to 346,000, just under the four-week moving average of 352,500.

Trading on financial markets was volatile as investors readied positions ahead of the Labor Department report.

After spending much of the day in negative territory, the stock market staged a late-day rally. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 80.03 points to 15,040.62 and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index inched up 13.66, to 1,622.56. The Nasdaq composite index increased by 22.58, to 3,424.05.

The bond market rose modestly, with the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds falling slightly to 2.08 percent.

In the currency markets, the dollar fell sharply against the yen and the euro on Thursday, and continued to fall Friday morning. Currency traders will be watching the jobs data on Friday for signs about the economy’s underlying strength and the Fed’s next move on monetary policy.

The lackluster gains in jobs and income for most Americans stand in contrast to the rally on Wall Street and increase in home prices so far this year.

In the first quarter of 2013, real estate holdings accounted for a $784 billion gain in household net worth, while the value of corporate shares and mutual funds increased by nearly $1.5 trillion, the Fed said.

The stock market gains primarily benefit a fairly narrow stratum of American society, Mr. Maki noted, with the top 20 percent of earners holding 80 percent of stocks.

“That group always accrues the bulk of the benefits from a rising stock market,” he said.

The Federal Reserve report also showed that Americans remained cautious, continuing to reduce debt levels and strengthen their personal balance sheets. Household borrowing sank at an annual rate of 0.6 percent in the first quarter, with mortgage debt declining by $53.2 billion.

The implosion of the housing sector, and the stock market tumble in 2008 and early 2009 took a huge toll on the net worth of American families. Between 2007 and 2008, household net worth dropped by nearly $13 trillion, a decline of nearly 20 percent.

While unemployment remains high by historical standards at 7.5 percent, the economy has shown signs of life lately. Consumer spending has held up this year, despite fears that an increase in payroll taxes and cutbacks in government spending might cool the economy.

The stock market has surged in 2013 in anticipation of better economic growth and expectations that the Federal Reserve will not pull back on its efforts to stimulate the economy until evidence is much stronger that jobs are more plentiful and living standards are improving. But stocks have wavered in recent days on worries that the central bank will not keep pumping as much money into the financial system.
183 2013-06-07 The electrical utility’s use of petcoke, which is a particularly high emitter of greenhouse gases, feeds into concerns that the waste material’s unusually low cost and increasing availability in the United States may derail efforts to shift coal-burning power stations to cleaner natural gas.

At the same time, the Obama administration is reviewing the Keystone XL pipeline, a project that would send more oil sands bitumen to American refineries and correspondingly increase the amount of American petroleum coke.

Residents on both sides of the Detroit River have noted regular visits to the coke pile by two self-unloading, oceangoing bulk carriers owned by Canada Steamship Lines of Montreal. Web sites that track ship movements indicate that one of those ships, the Atlantic Huron, has made several trips this year from Detroit to a coal terminal in Sydney, Nova Scotia. The terminal services two Nova Scotia Power plants that burn petroleum coke, according to regulatory documents.

A power station at Point Aconi in Nova Scotia that uses the petcoke has an unusual burning system that minimizes some forms of pollution from high-sulfur fuels. Documents suggest that it is Nova Scotia Power’s heaviest user of petroleum coke.

The Point Aconi plant, which opened in 1994, was initially promoted as a way to keep a local coal mine open. But the mine closed anyway and the power station now relies entirely on imported fuel.

Nova Scotia produces natural gas from offshore fields and Nova Scotia Power, which was owned by the provincial government until 1992, burns the cleaner fuel in some of its plants. But last year, the company produced 59 percent of its power from coal and petroleum coke, an increase of two percentage points from 2011.

In a blog post on the company’s Web site, Wayne O’Connor, the company’s executive vice president for operations, said the increased use of coal and petroleum coke was a matter of price.

“We had been steadily increasing our use of gas because we could buy the fuel at relatively low prices and using it creates fewer emissions than coal,” he wrote. “In this case, the switch to coal help save our customers money over continuing to use gas, while still allowing us to meet emissions requirements.”

Despite the regular visits to Detroit by ships to take away the petcoke, the oil sands bitumen refinery there is producing the material at a rate which means the waterfront pile continues to grow.
184 2013-06-07 Stocks rebounded late Thursday, after the Dow Jones industrial average briefly dropped more than 100 points and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index slipped below its 50-day moving average.

By the end of trading, the S.&P. was up 0.9 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.5 percent and the Nasdaq was up 0.7 percent.

Investors were looking ahead to Friday’s nonfarm payroll report from the Department of Labor, which will not only give insight into the strength of the economic recovery, but could also provide a clue into how long the Federal Reserve will keep its stimulus policy intact.

Today’s session ended two consecutive days of market decline based on concerns that the Federal Reserve might scale back its bond-buying stimulus before the economy is strong enough to stand on its own.

Economic data showed weekly initial claims for state unemployment benefits declined 11,000, to a seasonally adjusted 346,000. Economists in a Reuters survey had forecast a total of 345,000 new filings compared with 354,000 in the previous week. On Friday, the Labor Department presents its nonfarm payrolls report for May.

“If you are bullish and you think it’s a better-than-expected number tomorrow, you are putting some money to work, if you are worried the jobs numbers are going to be soggy, you are staying put for now,” said Joseph P. Quinlan, chief market strategist at U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management in New York.

The ADP National Employment report on Wednesday showed that private employers accelerated hiring in May from the previous month, but the gains fell short of expectations.
185 2013-06-07 LONDON — Andy Coulson, formerly a close aide to Prime Minister David Cameron and senior editor in Rupert Murdoch’s British newspaper outpost, pleaded not guilty on Thursday to charges relating to the phone hacking scandal that spread turmoil among journalists, politicians and police officers.

Mr. Coulson’s appearance at Southwark Crown Court in London came a day after Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive of Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper operations in Britain, appeared in the same court and denied five charges relating to the scandal.

The two former editors were among several ex-employees of Mr. Murdoch’s News International, a subsidiary of the giant News Corporation, based in New York, who have been formally arraigned over the past two days pending trials expected to start later in the year. All have denied wrongdoing.

Mr. Coulson, 45, a former editor of the now-shuttered News of the World who went on to become Mr. Cameron’s communications director, faced one charge on Thursday of conspiring to intercept voice mails between 2000 and 2006, and two other charges relating to payments to public officials in return for information at various dates between 2002 and 2005.

On Wednesday Ms. Brooks, 45, entered a plea of not guilty to five charges, including conspiracies to hack phones, to commit misconduct in public office and to pervert the course of justice. Five other former employees of News International, the British subsidiary of Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation, as well as Ms. Brooks’s husband, Charlie, also appeared in court and entered pleas of not guilty to various charges.
186 2013-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
187 2013-06-08 Palace Malice upset the Preakness winner Oxbow, who finished second, and the Kentucky Derby winner Orb, who came from behind to finish third, in the 145th running of the Belmont Stakes....
188 2013-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
189 2013-06-08 Let’s start with the real basics. Does the N.S.A. really need all the stuff it’s collecting? Ever since the attack on the World Trade Center, the agency has been exploding. It has an enormous operation outside of , and it is building another million-square-foot complex in the desert. It collects an estimated 1.7 billion pieces of communication a day.

“When you have the ability to get more and more data, the natural inclination is to get as much as possible,” said Representative , the former chairman of the House oversight committee.

Those of us who have seen the show “Hoarders” know that more is not always better, and “as much as possible” is sometimes covering up a pile of dead cats. After all, the government didn’t fail to stop the attack on the World Trade Center because of a lack of data. It had lots of information about and its plan to stage an attack on America. The problem was with follow-up.

And the N.S.A. has been known to go overboard. During the administration of , it decided to drop a modest in-house plan for data analysis in favor of a gargantuan program called Trailblazer, which funneled more than $1 billion to private consultants and turned out to have the additional liability of not working. The official who fought most vigorously against it was rewarded in 2010 by being charged with violating the Espionage Act when he released information to a reporter.

That was only one incident, but we do seem to have an ominous combination: an agency with a bad record on thriftiness, and practically everything it spends money on is secret. “It’s a tough balancing act,” an Obama administration official told me. “It’s incumbent on us and Congress to do the job of scrutinizing the budget, both in terms of cost and efficacy.”

Yeah, what about Congress? The president keeps saying that “Congress is continually briefed” about security issues. In reality, the briefing is pretty much confined to the members of the House and Senate intelligence committees, who are sworn to secrecy. Many of them also have a longstanding record of being in the pocket of the intelligence community. A few of the others had been desperately trying to warn their colleagues about the telephone-call program without breaking their vow of silence. Senator of did everything but tap dance the information in Morse code.

“Does the N.S.A. collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?” he asked , the director of national intelligence, at a public hearing.

I wouldn’t rely on Congress to keep things under control. It’s really up to the president. As a candidate, Obama looked as if he would be great at riding herd on the N.S.A.’s excesses. But if he has ever seriously pushed back on the spy set, it’s been kept a secret. Meanwhile, the administration scarfs up reporters’ e-mails and phone records in its obsessive war against leaks.

And without the leaks to reporters, we would never be having discussions about whether it’s a good idea for the government to collect piles of records about our telephone calls every day.

“I welcome this debate,” Obama said Friday. “I think it’s healthy for our democracy.” Under further questioning, he said that he definitely didn’t welcome the leaks. Without which, of course, there would be no debate.

Do you remember how enthusiastic people were about having a president who once taught constitutional law? I guess we’ve learned a lesson.
190 2013-06-08 The nuclear industry has had a difficult year as it tries to compete with cheaper, abundant natural gas. San Onofre’s two reactors are the third and fourth reactors to be retired so far this year in the United States.

“It’s no secret that power markets have been radically changed by the development of shale gas,” said John Reed, an investment banker who specializes in nuclear reactors. “That changes the economics of any other power supply option, including nuclear.”

Dominion shut its reactor in Wisconsin in May because of unfavorable economics, and Duke said in February that it would not restart Crystal River 3 because mechanical problems were too expensive to fix.

The loss of San Onofre has already pushed up electricity prices in Southern California, to about $4.15 a megawatt-hour higher than prices in Northern California. Those higher prices are an inducement to developers to build new generation, either natural gas or renewable energy, according to Marie Rinkoski Spangler, an electricity analyst at the Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.

Ms. Rinkoski Spangler said that since June 2012, California has added slightly more generating capacity than it will lose with the retirement of the reactors, in the wrong places.

“Geography really matters,” she said. “The generation itself is not enough, because of where San Onofre sat” near Los Angeles and San Diego.

At the California Independent System Operator, the company that runs the power grid in most of the state, Steve Berberich, the chief executive, said that most of the replacement power had come from natural gas, and that if California’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per kilowatt-hour, “you’re moving in the wrong direction.”

But in the longer term, he said, retiring San Onofre would encourage the replacement of older power plants with newer ones that would produce more electricity with the same amount of fuel. And the newer ones could increase and decrease their output faster, he said, making them useful to balance a system with a lot of wind and solar generation, which is highly variable.

San Onofre 2 and 3 entered commercial operation in August 1983 and April 1984. A third reactor was mothballed in 1992.

Many nuclear plants around the country have won permission from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to run 20 years beyond their initial 40-year licenses, but in a conference call with reporters, Mr. Craver of Edison International said that the prospects for license renewal were uncertain, following the three meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in March 2011, and the demand by regulators for a re-evaluation of San Onofre’s vulnerability to earthquake.

Edison had been seeking to restart one of the units at 70 percent power, a level it thought the steam generators could tolerate, but when plant opponents persuaded a panel of three administrative law judges at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that this would require a public hearing, the company concluded that the proceedings could stretch to the end of next year or longer. Operation and maintenance expense at the plants, which employ 1,500 people are roughly equal whether it is running or not, he said, and if the plant could not reopen by December, retiring it would be cheaper.

The company has $2.7 billion saved up for decommissioning, which is about 90 percent of what is required, he said. Edison shares ownership with San Diego Gas & Electric, which owns 20 percent, and the city of Riverside, which owns 1.79 percent.

Edison has about $2.1 billion invested in the plant, the fuel and related assets. Division of costs between Edison’s shareholders and ratepayers, its insurers and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, which supplied the heat exchangers, has not been determined.

As for the plant’s workers, the closure will be felt in the area. “When 1,100 people lose their jobs, there will certainly be an impact,” said Bob Baker, the mayor of the nearby city of San Clemente. “San Onofre changed San Clemente when it opened, and it’s going to change San Clemente now that it’s closing.”
191 2013-06-08 The Senate vs. the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court

Four senators wrote a letter to the court asking it to provide summaries of its opinions on domestic spying, but the court resisted. Here is the letter from the senators and the response from the court.
192 2013-06-08 Pictures From the Week in Business
193 2013-06-08 The N.C.A.A. largely accepted Mississippi State’s self-imposed penalties on its football program for recruiting violations. The penalties included two years of probation and scholarship reductions. According to the N.C.A.A.’s report, a booster provided improper benefits to a recruit, including a car for $2,000 less than the actual value.
194 2013-06-08 Artemis Racing will continue its challenge for the America’s Cup, although it will miss some early rounds of the trials. The team is recovering from the capsizing of its first boat, in which a sailor died, in San Francisco Bay last month. The Louis Vuitton Cup for challengers is scheduled to begin July 7 with a race between the only other challengers, Emirates Team New Zealand and Italy’s Luna Rossa.
195 2013-06-08 He was responding to assertions by the I.M.F. that the European Commission, the union’s executive arm, had blocked proposals back in 2010 to make investors share more of the pain by writing down Greece’s debt and, more generally, had neglected the importance of structural reforms to lift Europe’s sluggish economy.

Simon O’Connor, Mr. Rehn’s spokesman, said the report had made some valid points, but he derided as “plainly wrong and unfounded” a claim that the commission had not done enough to promote growth through reform. On this issue and events in Greece, Mr. O’Connor said, “We fundamentally disagree.”

Left-wing politicians who have long denounced the troika as an alien and unaccountable force are muttering “told you so” and complaining that putting policy in the hands of a triumvirate of unelected institutions could never work.

“The troika is constructed in such a way that it is untouchable, and that is the end of democracy,” said Udo Bullmann, a Socialist member of the European Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee from Germany and a strong critic of austerity measures that have formed the core of the troika’s policy prescription for Europe’s ailing economies.

“What is this troika?” asked Mr. Bullmann. “It has no address and no telephone number. Who do you talk to?” He said the troika was designed to diffuse and thus dodge responsibility. “Decisions are made in a nontransparent and nondemocratic way so that nobody has to take the blame,” he said.

Charles H. Dallara, a former United States Treasury Department official who represented the banking industry in negotiations with the troika over Greece, said that the I.M.F. and the European Commission were never as united as they often seemed and were bound to come to blows at some point.

“It is very difficult to have three cooks in the kitchen all the time. That is just life,” said Mr. Dallara, who now works for a private equity company based in Switzerland. “You need one institution driving negotiations. You don’t need three.”

The idea of yoking three together to address Europe’s troubles dates back four years to when it became clear that Greece, the weakest member of the 17-nation zone that uses the euro, would need a bailout to stave off bankruptcy. Northern European countries, particularly Germany, demanded that the I.M.F. play a role in order to share both the cost of a bailout and the blame for imposing tough terms.

The triumvirate immediately became a lightning rod for public anger, denounced in Greece and in three other countries that later went to it for help as an agent of misery. Unemployment soared, reaching 27 percent in Greece and nearly that in Spain. Repeated assurances that recovery was just round the corner collided with reality. The European Union as a whole has now had six quarters in a row of negative growth. Greece has been stuck in a grinding recession for six years.

When the troika agreed to throw a lifeline to Cyprus in March it imposed such harsh terms, including the effective confiscation of some bank deposits, that protesters took to the streets waving placards denouncing it as the “Fourth Reich.”

Only in Ireland have the troika’s policies, anchored in budget cuts and tax increases, shown much sign of working. In recent weeks, Mr. Rehn has signaled a slow but steady retreat from these austerity measures and acknowledged that unemployment has reached unacceptable levels.

“Is the troika learning from its mistakes?” asked Capital Economics, a British research group, in a research note released Friday. It said the I.M.F.’s admission that “mistakes were made” raised hope that the troika “might be becoming more realistic about the demands that they should make of struggling euro zone members.” But it added that the I.M.F. and its two partners differed on how far the softening of austerity should go, with the European Central Bank still championing the cause of “fiscal consolidation.”

Disbanding the much reviled troika, or at least overhauling its crisis management strategy, will not be easy. Addressing the European Parliament last month, Jörg Asmussen, Germany’s representative on the board of the European Central Bank, acknowledged that “the setup is a bit strange” and said it “has to be changed.”

But he added that as long as Europe’s economic crisis continued and countries remained under programs negotiated by the troika, the current state of affairs must remain in place. “We have no alternative to it right now,” he said.

Mr. Rehn, in an interview last month, acknowledged complaints in the European Parliament that the I.M.F., an outsider, did not have to answer to European institutions and that each of the three members of the troika had “its own philosophy and rules and a very strong sense of independence,” and putting them together was always going to be difficult. But, he added, “It has worked in practice even if it might not have been possible to work in theory.”

All the same, he said, change is still needed, particularly in relation to decision-making in the 17-nation euro zone. One big problem, he said, is that when finance ministers of countries using the euro meet to discuss a possible bailout, they must agree unanimously before anything can be done. “By definition the rule of unanimity makes decision-making much less effective and efficient than it should be,” he said.

The 50-page I.M.F. report released Wednesday did not provide a general survey of what had gone wrong in Europe, but focused on mistakes in Greece’s first bailout in 2010, which totaled about $143 billion. A major error, it said, was not to force investors holding Greek bonds to accept losses from the start — instead of waiting until late 2011 — so as to reduce the pressure on the government to cut spending. One reason this did not happen, according to the I.M.F., was opposition from the European Commission.

Though cast in part as a mea culpa by the I.M.F., the document has hit a raw nerve in Brussels, where officials have mostly refrained from criticizing the fund despite quarrels behind closed doors. There have been frequent tensions within the troika, with some European officials aghast at what they regarded as the I.M.F.’s insistence on unrealistic debt targets for Greece. Negotiations over what to do about Cyprus also created friction, particularly over a quickly aborted initial plan that involved seizing a portion of insured bank deposits held by savers with less than 100,000 euros in their accounts.

The European Central Bank has mostly stayed out of this week’s public fracas. Mario Draghi, the head of the bank, said in Frankfurt on Thursday that his institution had no plans to issue its own mea culpa. “In fact, one good thing, as far as I understand, about this I.M.F. paper is that the E.C.B. is not being criticized,” said Mr. Draghi.

Instead of reviewing past errors, he said, Europe should “take stock of the extraordinary progress made and the positive path that has been taken.”
196 2013-06-08 Recent events in Turkey should not surprise Western observers who continue to succumb to the falsehoods and dishonesties of Ankara’s being a model democracy for booming Islamic countries. So-called free speech is embodied in a news media friendly to the government, a convenient tool, and more journalists are imprisoned for voicing their opposition than in any other country in the world, according to Reporters Without Borders.

Dissent is something that all democracies should embrace and not contain with water cannons or bullets. It’s amazing to see how Turkey masks its authoritarian rule by redefining its present by trying to change its past.

What has been transpiring in Taksim Square over the last several days is something the minority populations living in Turkey, like the Armenians, have been aware of for decades. Finally, the world is starting to see Ankara’s true colors.
197 2013-06-08 Last week, I wrote about how parents should think about lending to their children. But for many young adults, parents are not a source of financing. This is where a site like Upstart comes in.

The investors, or backers as they are called, receive a percentage of the young person’s income for 10 years, regardless of whether the idea they backed is successful. If the person is paid less than $30,000 a year, the period extends for a year to a maximum of 15 years. If the person tries to avoid repaying the investment — as opposed to earning too little money — that investment converts into a loan with a staggering annual interest rate of 15 percent.

Dave Girouard, founder and chief executive of Upstart, said that to ensure borrowers do not regret the deal, the amount a person could borrow is limited to 7 percent of future earnings and the payback is capped at five times the loan amount. That limits the upside on the few people who succeed financially.

“People might be paying more than they would on their fixed-rate loan,” Mr. Girouard said. But, he added, the people who have gotten financing so far were comfortable with the possibly of paying back a higher amount than on a loan because it would mean their idea had succeeded.

What I wanted to know was: What did investors want to get out of this and how did they select young people who would agree to give them a percentage of their income for a decade?

Backers on Upstart have to be accredited investors, which means having an annual income greater than $200,000 or a net worth above $1 million. They can invest any amount they want, though their offer has to be accepted. They can also sign on to be a mentor.

For connecting borrowers and lenders, Upstart takes 3 percent of the money young people raise, and 0.5 percent annually of the amount a backer has invested. Mr. Girouard said the company was close to signing an agreement with a student loan processor to act as a backup if Upstart goes out of business and can no longer collect payments.

David Croson, a professor of entrepreneurship at the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University, said he had invested $100 to $10,000 in about two dozen young entrepreneurs over the last month through Upstart. He did so after talking to his wife, also a business professor, about how hard it was for young entrepreneurs to get started.

“We were discussing the problem of people who had been relieved of all of their money by educational institutions,” he said. “That doesn’t matter much for people going into traditional professions, but it does for an entrepreneur who has a negative $100,000 net worth.”

He said he did not have high expectations for a return — about in line with his bond portfolio — but he was hoping there would be the additional upside of one or two people succeeding wildly. “It’s almost like being on the board of directors of these companies,” he said. “All it takes is for one of these people to succeed for it to work out.”

Still, as someone who has studied entrepreneurship, Mr. Croson said there were flaws in the model. For one, the young people who have the time to go through the vetting process are not the ones who are working around the clock on their idea.

Mr. Croson’s research has also looked into the optimal time to quit your job to start a company, and he said that most of the people on the site were probably quitting too soon. But he was heartened that Upstart takes a percentage of a person’s income for a decade, which made it more appealing than some peer-to-peer lending sites.

“It’s not something that allows people to default and walk away,” he said. “They can’t say I failed once and let me start again. Most of the people I picked are people who are going to have second and third ideas.”

Susan Tenney, a former software engineer turned nurse practitioner and baker in San Francisco, said she backed 20 people with $500 each, simply because she wanted to help young people. She liked the prospect of receiving a good return for doing it but considered it fairly high-risk.

“I am interested in talking to people who were interested in being socially responsible entrepreneurs,” she said. “I invested a modest amount so that if I lost it completely, which I recognize could happen, it would not be a severe financial blow.”

Her one complaint was how long a financing round was open — generally 60 days. If the young person did not accept the offer or raise enough to close on the financing, there was an opportunity cost to committing money that could have gone to someone else.

As for what the borrowers are using the money for, there is a range from the practical to the speculative.

Josh Eddy, who graduates this spring from the University of California, Los Angeles, with degrees from the business and law schools, said he went on Upstart for money so he could study for the bar exam before starting his job at a law firm in the fall. He had tried to go the traditional route of taking out a so-called bar loan but was turned down because he already owed about $250,000 in student loan debt and had no parents to co-sign the loan.

“I’m somebody who came from an at-risk background,” Mr. Eddy said. “But I graduated from high school, college, started my own business and went back to graduate school. I’m proud of that, but student lenders don’t give any credence to your history beyond your credit history.”

He said his funding period had not closed, but so far he has raised $13,000, which was what he needed and worked out to less than 1 percent of his income. “A lot of people look at giving away a percentage of your income, but I look at what I’ll be giving away with my student debt,” he said.

At the other end is someone like Cynthia Salim, who quit her job as a consultant at McKinsey & Company to start a clothing company that would make business attire for young women with an eye toward ensuring the manufacturing process was ethical.

“We’re challenging the idea that being wildly profitable and being ethical are mutually exclusive,” Ms. Salim said of her company, C Suite Apparel.

As for Ms. Kumar Friesen, who was in the first class of people to receive financing, she said that the process was already paying off. She learned how to code, reintroduced a new version of her Emotitones app this week and paid off her earlier debt. Even the prospect of paying 6.89 percent of her annual income for 10 years — up to $350,000 on a $70,000 investment — did not dampen her optimism.

“It’s happy days if that’s what I’m concerned about,” she said. “Because there’s no equity in the business, the only person being affected would be me.”

And that’s what the investment is about, on what might be possible. Mr. Girouard said, “We’re providing access to capital to consumers that’s based not on the income today or their assets today, but on their future.”
198 2013-06-08 “I was very surprised to receive the passports today,” Chen Guangfu said. He added that he would talk to his brother and review his family’s personal finances before deciding when to go to the United States.

Hu Jia, a well-known rights advocate who recently completed a prison sentence, posted photographs of the two passports on Twitter.

The granting of the passports appears to be another concession made by the Chinese government in the prelude to a summit meeting between President Xi Jinping, the Communist Party leader, and President Obama in California.

It is Mr. Xi’s first trip to the United States since taking over last year as party leader. This week, Hu Zhicheng, an American engineer and entrepreneur who had been prevented from leaving China for five years after getting into a dispute with a Chinese business associate, returned home to Los Angeles after being released by the Chinese authorities. Mr. Hu was born in China but had become a naturalized American citizen.

Chen Guangcheng had been keeping in touch with his family in Linyi through a telephone line that American officials had insisted be installed during negotiations with their Chinese counterparts.

Chen Guangfu said Chinese officials recently cut off the line. Mr. Chen then bought a cellphone and regularly spoke with his brother in the United States that way.

Chen Guangcheng’s nephew Chen Kegui is still serving a three-year prison sentence for assault. Mr. Chen had slashed at a local official with a knife after officials tried to enter his home at night to look for Chen Guangcheng about the time of his escape.

Chen Guangcheng’s flight became the subject of an intense diplomatic standoff between the United States and China. It occurred at a particularly delicate time, when Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state at the time, was arriving in Beijing to engage in standard diplomatic talks with China.

She and other senior State Department officials spent long hours trying to persuade the Chinese to allow Mr. Chen and his immediate family to leave the country for the United States after he expressed fears that he and his family would suffer further harassment if they remained in the country.

Mr. Chen settled in downtown Manhattan and began studying English to attend law school at New York University, under an arrangement made by Jerome A. Cohen, a law professor at New York University and longtime friend. Mr. Chen now has a book contract to write a memoir.
199 2013-06-08 HONG KONG — Rising operating costs and slumping commodity prices continue to create problems for global mining companies.

The latest to come under pressure is Newcrest Mining, Australia’s biggest gold miner, which said Friday it would write down assets worth 6 billion Australian dollars, or $5.7 billion, and scale back planned spending on exploration and new projects.

Newcrest, which has gold mines in Australia, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia and Ivory Coast, said its moves were the result of ‘'the current market environment and outlook, including a recent sharp deterioration in the gold price, the largest in 30 years.'’ The company also blamed rising costs and the strong Australian dollar.

Large miners of ore and other raw materials have been drastically scaling back spending and dropping plans for new projects in recent months. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, two of the world’s biggest mining companies, announced the departures of long-serving chief executives early this year after a number of financial setbacks.

While revenue at the world’s 40 biggest mining companies in 2012 was basically unchanged from the previous year at $731 billion, net profits fell 49 percent, to $68 billion, according to a report released Friday by the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Forecast 2013 capital expenditure by the companies of $110 billion is 21 percent lower than spending for last year, the report said.
200 2013-06-09 McCARTHY--Cecelia, May 26, She leaves sorrowful sister Sara McCarthy Velez, niece Laura, nephew Daniel; other relatives, friends, colleagues in US and Ireland, who will always cherish her memory....
201 2013-06-09 McCARTHY--Cecelia, lost her battle against breast cancer at age 62. She died on May 26, 2013 in her home in Astoria, NY with her husband, Kirk Bigelow, by her side. She was a beautiful, devoted wife who loved her family deeply. She was also a true...
202 2013-06-09 LOWENSTEIN--Hugh Price, of Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, FL and Linville, NC died June 2, 2013. Born 1930 to Katherine and Melvyn Lowenstein. Graduated from Salisbury School, 1949; attended North Carolina State College; served in U.S. Army in Korea; ...
203 2013-06-09 Rafael Nadal defeated his fellow countryman David Ferrer in straight sets, becoming the first man to win a Grand Slam event eight times....
204 2013-06-09 Politicians say intelligence agencies are just looking at the metadata, not the content, of traffic. But in many cases metadata matters more than content....
205 2013-06-09 Animal Kingdom is fast becoming a favorite among the British betting public. He is a favorite in the ante-post betting markets for the Queen Anne Stakes (Group 1) on the opening day at Royal Ascot, being offered at 4-5 and even money in places....
206 2013-06-09 Senator Dianne Feinstein, the chairwoman of the Senate intelligence committee and a defender of the phone and Internet surveillance programs that have come into public view in recent days, said she would consider holding hearings about them....
207 2013-06-09 The Federal Trade Commission wants to better distinguish the blurred line between celebrity endorsements and mere appreciation....
208 2013-06-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
209 2013-06-09 The substitute Haris Seferovic scored in the 90th minute as Switzerland beat Cyprus, 1-0, in Geneva to move a step closer to qualifying for the World Cup. Switzerland moved four points clear atop its group.
210 2013-06-09 Emily Jane Villemaire, the daughter of Diane Davis Villemaire and Bernard P. Villemaire of Moretown, Vt., is to be married Sunday evening to Eric David Helms, the son of Carolyn Helms and the Rev. Dr. David M. Helms of Southern Pines, N.C. The groom’s father, a Baptist minister, is to officiate at the Jekyll Island Club, a hotel on Jekyll Island, Ga.

The bride, 33, will be keeping her name. She is a human resources associate at the New School in New York. She graduated from the Massachusetts College of Art, from which she also received a master’s degree in art education.

Her father retired as a lender relations specialist from the federal Small Business Administration in Montpelier, Vt. Her mother retired as a biology teacher from Harwood Union High School in Moretown and as an adjunct professor of history of women in science at the University of Vermont.

The groom, 28, works in New York as an admissions assistant at Columbia, from which he received a Master of Fine Arts in writing. He graduated from Furman University in Greenville, S.C.

His mother, a registered nurse, retired as a nursing instructor from Sandhills Community College in Southern Pines. She is also a Baptist minister. His father is the senior minister of the First Baptist Church in Southern Pines.
211 2013-06-09 Emily Rose Anderson and Andrew Louis Stein are to be married Sunday at the Liberty House Restaurant in Jersey City. Rabbi Robin Nafshi is to officiate.

The bride, 31, will keep her name. She is a deputy attorney general in the appellate bureau of the Division of Criminal Justice at the New Jersey Department of Law and Public Safety in Trenton. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree from the Newark campus of Rutgers.

She is the daughter of Nancy J. Sobelson and James W. Anderson of Bridgewater, N.J.

The groom, 34, is the chief technology officer of Advantage Voice and Data, a company in Princeton, N.J., that provides commercial phone and Internet services. He graduated from Rutgers.

He is the son of Deborah L. Stein of Monmouth Junction, N.J., and the late Allen J. Stein.
212 2013-06-09 Vivian Ann McCallum and Judge Raymond Joseph Dearie were married Saturday by Judge Joanna Seybert of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in Central Islip, at Ms. Seybert’s home in Center Moriches, N.Y.

The bride, 54, is the director of the Independent Judicial Election Qualification Commissions for the Appellate Division, Second Judicial Department of New York State. She works in Brooklyn, helping to screen judicial candidates in New York City and several suburban counties.

She is a daughter of the late Joann Theis and the late Otto Theis, who lived in Millstadt, Ill.

The groom, 69, is a senior judge for the Eastern District, presiding in Brooklyn. He was chief judge of the Eastern District from 2007 to 2011. He graduated from Fairfield University and received a law degree from St. John’s University.

He is a son of the late Catherine A. Dearie and the late John A. Dearie, who lived in Rockville Centre, N.Y.

The bride’s previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom’s two previous marriages.
213 2013-06-09 Abigail Heyman, a photographer whose stark portraits of women at work, at home and at weddings gave a visual concreteness to feminist doctrine of the 1970s about the oppressiveness of traditional female roles, died on May 28 at her home in Manhattan. She was 70.

The cause was heart failure, said her son, Lazar Bloch.

Ms. Heyman was known best for her 1974 book, “Growing Up Female: A Personal Photo-Journal,” a sort of illustrated encyclopedia of women performing self-limiting roles. In claustrophobic black-and-white images of almost clinical detail, she portrayed women in curlers shopping for groceries; women as spectators, watching men do things they enjoy; a nude dancer at a strip joint flat on her back, legs apart; a woman at a kitchen table in an apparent stupor of fatigue, a wailing baby on the changing table nearby; little girls playing with dolls.

In one of the book’s most arresting images, Ms. Heyman photographed herself undergoing an abortion.

Her book, she said, was “one feminist’s point of view” of the narrow range of choices women had in their lives, which she hoped her work would help to expand. Frequently displayed in women’s bookstores — in the heyday of women’s bookstores — next to the best-selling feminist guidebook “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” Ms. Heyman’s “Growing Up Female” sold more than 35,000 copies, an unusually high number for photograph collections.

A 1978 book, “Butcher, Baker, Cabinetmaker,” was devoted to working women, and in “Dreams & Schemes: Love and Marriage in Modern Times” (1987), Ms. Heyman explored weddings — she attended 200 — with an eye for backstage drama that anticipated the granular detail, minus the bad taste, of reality television.
214 2013-06-09 For the Emirates, the case is unprecedented in the gravity of the charges and the prominence of the defendants. But it is also part of a broader trend in the region, where kingdoms that dodged the calls for democracy that inspired the Arab Spring have moved aggressively to stamp out hints of political activism.

The Arab monarchies of the Persian Gulf have long used petrodollars to placate calls for political change, and are once again relying on the threat of prison to silence dissent. In Qatar, a poet was sentenced in February to 15 years for a subversive poem. Saudi Arabia has suppressed protests by its Shiite minority and prosecuted rights activists.

The case in the Emirates — a federation of seven dynasties that has rocketed to prosperity thanks to vast oil wealth and business-friendly policies — is perhaps the most sweeping, where the government is trying to quash calls for change among Islamists and others. All three countries are American allies, important as oil suppliers and as regional counterweights to Iran.

Even while calling for reforms elsewhere, the United States has largely remained silent on the gulf monarchies’ profoundly undemocratic governments, and few observers believe their leaders will voluntarily share control.

“I see no reason these governments are going to willingly take significant steps by themselves to open their systems and hand power to someone else, be it a parliament or whomever,” said David Roberts, director of the Qatar office of the Royal United Services Institute, a research group based in London.

The crackdown began in 2011 after the start of the Arab uprisings. There were no protests in the Emirates, and in March 2011 the government announced $1.6 billion in infrastructure projects for less developed areas, widely seen as part of an effort to avert discontent.

That month, more than 130 activists, including academics and a few dozen Islah members, submitted a petition to the ruling sheiks calling for Parliament, controlled by the sheiks, to be freely elected and given full legislative powers. A month later, five prominent activists and government critics, most of whom had not signed the petition, were arrested and tried on charges of insulting the rulers. All got prison terms but were pardoned the next day.

The most prominent, Ahmed Mansoor, says that since then he has been beaten up twice, his car has been stolen and about $140,000 has disappeared from his personal bank account. He accuses the government of trying to intimidate him and says it refuses to return his passport. The government has not commented on his case, but says it uses legal means to uphold stability.

In mid-2011, the crackdown turned to Islah, which had operated legally in the country since 1974. In 1994, its headquarters in Dubai were shut down, so the group’s leaders moved here to Ras al Khaymah.

But starting in 2011, seven of its members were stripped of citizenship and scores were arrested, many held incommunicado for months without charge, according to Human Rights Watch and family members. The government dismantled the group, changing its name and appointing a new board.

The arrests mounted, including, in April 2012, that of Sultan bin Kayed al-Qassemi, Islah’s chairman and a cousin of the ruler of Ras al Khaymah.

Finally, in January, the attorney general said why. The detained, he said in a statement, “launched, established and ran an organization seeking to oppose the basic principles of the U.A.E. system of governance and to seize power.”

At first glance, the Emirates appear an unlikely home for an Islamist revival. Its leaders have used wealth, economic openness and foreign labor to become a regional hub. The nation is a top importer of American goods, and its ports host many American Navy ships.

But political openness has not followed. Political parties are banned, and most citizens cannot vote. Half of Parliament is appointed by the ruling sheiks; the other half is elected by a body chosen by those sheiks.

“We are not a democratic country, but we are progressive on various issues, on women and on what I would call tolerance,” said Anwar Gargash, minister of state for foreign affairs. The government emphasizes prosperity over political development, he said, adding, “We think 20 percent politics/80 percent development, and I think that is healthy.”

Many Emiratis agree, and fear that groups like Islah threaten a stability that has made their country of 5.5 million wealthy, safe and peaceful.

“It is apolitical, and that is why this country works,” said Sultan Sooud al-Qassemi, a writer. “It is a political Islamist-free zone. We don’t want your political Islam here. Go mess up another country.”

But the rush toward modernization has set off a debate about identity, with many asking what it means to be Emirati in a country just 42 years old, where foreigners outnumber locals four to one.

One vision is Dubai, the nation’s largest city, where locals are rare, alcohol is widespread and women in miniskirts flirt with men in public. The competing view, advocated by Islah, is prevalent in the less affluent northern emirates where traditional social codes prevail.

Many from the latter group believe the Emirates have changed for the worse. “There used to be alcohol, but not like now,” said Mr. Alroken, whose brother is on trial. “There used to be prostitution, but not like now. And we didn’t have beaches where the women are almost naked. Islah says we need to protect the society by preserving its Islamic, religious principles.”

But this is the kind of talk that the leadership will not tolerate. It is perhaps paradoxical that the uncertainty, and in some cases chaos and war, that followed the Arab Spring has increased support for the government’s view.

“I worry that a democratic transition in this period for a state like the U.A.E. would put us in the throes of reactionary conservatism, probably for the next 30 or 40 years,” said Mishaal Al Gergawi, a political analyst. “I look at what is happening in Egypt and other places, and I wonder, do I need that kind of transition?”

The verdict is expected on July 2.
215 2013-06-09 HERE’S an old riddle: a boy and his father are in a car crash and the father is killed instantly. The boy is airlifted to the best hospital in the region and prepped for emergency surgery by one of the top surgeons in the country. The surgeon rushes in, sees the boy, and says “I can’t operate on this patient. He’s my son.” Who is the surgeon?

When I heard this riddle as a teenager back in 1962, I was totally stumped. Had the boy been adopted, and the surgeon was the birth father?

It never occurred to me that the surgeon might be his mother.

How far we have come. Last month I attended my son’s graduation from medical school, where more than half the members of his graduating class were female.

And yet last year, when the researchers Mikaela Wapman and Deborah Belle posed the same riddle to students there, 86 percent of those who had never heard the riddle still could not figure out that the surgeon was the boy’s mother! It is an ironic indication of how far we have come in another direction that a higher number of students guessed that the boy had two gay fathers.

There is no denying that we have made great progress toward gender equality. Tomorrow is the 50th anniversary of the Equal Pay Act, which was signed into law on June 10, 1963. At that time, according to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, women earned less than 60 percent of what men made. According to Philip Cohen, a sociologist, a female college graduate at that time, working full time year round, made less than the average male high school graduate.

Today women earn about 80 percent of what men make for full-time work, and education now outweighs gender as a determinant of wage rates. Because women now earn the majority of bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees, we can expect the wage gap to narrow further in the future.
216 2013-06-09 The questions are almost unchanged from nearly a year and a half ago, when the fatal shooting of a black teenager by George Zimmerman, a volunteer neighborhood watchman, became a cause célèbre....
217 2013-06-09 Even before the cute siblings sing their playful “Dites-Moi,” and before the American nurse and the French plantation owner tenderly embark on their romance, the production of “South Pacific” at the John W. Engeman Theater at Northport exudes a sense of open-ended possibilities. The simple but elegant set designed by Josh Zangen does it, with four hanging, slatted panels evoking airy Pacific island architecture, and four rattan-like borders framing the stage, one behind the other.

The panels, it turns out, glide gracefully to suggest different backgrounds or delineate different rooms, accommodating a musical that moves from youthful exuberance to complicated love to the ever-present possibility of death during World War II, the setting for this 1949 musical.

Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II wrote a score filled with wonderful songs: “Some Enchanted Evening,” “Younger Than Springtime,” “I’m Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair.” Some critics in recent years have found the book, by Hammerstein and Joshua Logan, adapted from “Tales of the South Pacific” by James A. Michener, to be dated and overly preachy. But in the Engeman production, under the deft direction of Igor Goldin, every conversation propels the characters’ relationships and the musical’s themes, creating a vibrant portrait of life during wartime. This “South Pacific” is not transcendent, like the one mounted by Lincoln Center in 2008 and directed by Bartlett Sher, but it is a stellar achievement.

Kim Carson, who plays Ensign Nellie Forbush, the Navy nurse from Little Rock, Ark., and Rob Gallagher, who portrays Emile de Becque, the planter who longs for her youthful presence in his life, are particularly strong. Ms. Carson captures the can-do attitude of a self-described “hick” with an adventurous streak. Nevertheless, she finds herself becoming conflicted after learning first of de Becque’s possibly shady past in France and then of his former liaison with a Polynesian woman. That relationship clashes with her views about racial separation and initially causes her to reject de Becque. Mr. Gallagher, who was an understudy for the role of de Becque in the Lincoln Center production, has a mellifluous voice and a manner that conveys the character’s passion and his caution in courting a desirable younger woman.

Another romance marred by intolerance is that between Lt. Joseph Cable, a Princeton-educated Marine, and Liat, a very young woman (probably a teenager) who has grown up on an isolated island called Bali Ha’i. Cable finds it easy to make love to her but has trouble with the idea of marrying her. Peter Carrier does a fine job in the role, pondering the roots of his character’s prejudice in the gritty song “You’ve Got to Be Carefully Taught.” As Liat, Hsin-Yu Liao (who played this role in the national tour of the Lincoln Center production) looks heart-rendingly delicate and dances with flowerlike grace.

Antoinette DiPietropolo, the choreographer, has found telling steps for every scene, whether it is a love duet, a somber march into battle or the boisterous high jinks of sailors and Seabees belting “There Is Nothin’ Like a Dame.” The costumes by Amy Pedigo-Otto, the hair and makeup by Mark Adam Rampmeyer, the lighting by Cory Pattak and the music direction by James Olmstead provide sturdy support.

A few quibbles are minor: Despite the lovely aspects of the set, it could use more realistic palm trees and less pink in a backdrop painting. The hair-washing scene is a bit awkward, with Nellie wearing a shorts outfit in the shower, though at least she uses real suds and water. And Matt Wood, who plays Luther Billis, an aggressively entrepreneurial Seabee, tries too hard to be funny in his early scenes. But later he shows more depth — and greater comic élan — as Luther expands into a more multidimensional character.
218 2013-06-09 UNEXCITED? THERE MAY BE A PILL FOR THAT

Why is it a “problem” if a woman doesn’t have a strong desire to have sex? If we (men or women, but women especially) are content, we are told something is wrong. I can have an orgasm whenever I want, but I don’t think there is anything wrong with me if I’m not fundamentally motivated by sexual attraction. Of course, there’s no money to be made off that, is there? PAMELA S., Phoenix, posted on nytimes.com

I have no complaints with the pharmaceutical industry: S.S.R.I. medications have saved thousands of lives. I know people who would likely be dead had they not been prescribed such medication. Yet the No. 1 complaint about S.S.R.I.’s is that your sexual desire is reduced to almost nil right at a time in which productive, intimate relationships seem most possible. Providing such patients the opportunity to maintain sexual desire seems amazingly ethical and societally positive. I can only assume those of you critiquing the possibility of this drug hitting the market have little experience with people being treated for debilitating depression or simply little empathy for their plight. ELLIOT, Oakland, Calif.

At only 30 years old, I’m not menopausal and have not given birth. What I am is monogamous. I am in love with my partner of many years; I remain attracted to him. I want to marry him. But my desire is gone. I am terrified of entering into a marriage that will doom us both to decades of sexlessness. This is a diminished self; my old sense of lust crops up only in memory and fantasy. This is an issue so desperately connected not only to my quality of life but to my sense of who I am. Why would I not want additional choices? R.C.C., St. Paul, posted on nytimes.com

I suspect that many a man who seeks greener pastures, wearied and frustrated by his wife’s lack of interest, would rather be with someone he has loved for a long time and who wants him as much as he wants her. Marriage is, at least in part, a bargain. If there can be a safe and effective pharmaceutical solution to this problem, then more power to Big Pharma. ROBERT ASHBY, Annandale, Va., posted on nytimes.com

Genuine phrase from, no kidding, the NYT: “... one of the world’s masters of rat lust.” @stephenfrug
219 2013-06-09 As the movie explores the dire psychological effect those images have on Gilderoy, Mr. Strickland looked for dissonant, visceral ways to illuminate the sound production process. “If you take this very ridiculous image of grown men smashing watermelons, but couple that with very repellent violence,” he said by phone from London, “when you’re watching it, you think: ‘Should I laugh? Should I walk out?’ It’s quite disorienting.”

In addition to watermelon and cabbage stabbings, the film devotes considerable time to quieter aspects of a sound engineer’s job: spooling tape, looking at dubbing charts (a kind of sound storyboard) and keenly, and attentively, listening. Mr. Jones said that last action was crucial to his performance.

“In any role, your listening is important,” Mr. Jones said by phone from London. “But what I found useful was to try and register, so that an audience could see it, shifts in my body, shifts in my breathing. The change the character undergoes is so gradual and, in a way, like a dimmer switch, even though the things he’s seeing and hearing are so extreme. I learned to trust the power of working on a very small spectrum.”

Working on a larger spectrum was John Travolta, who played a sound recordist for B-horror movies who accidentally records the murder of a presidential hopeful in Mr. De Palma’s 1981 thriller, “Blow Out.” Mr. De Palma, known for his focus on visual style, drew from his own experience with a sound editor.

“When I was mixing ‘Dressed to Kill,’ ” — his “Psycho” pastiche from 1980 — “I was working with sound effects editor Dan Sable, who had done a bunch of movies for me,” Mr. De Palma said by phone. “We were looking for an effect. We had some wind in the trees, and I heard the effect he used and said: ‘Dan, I’ve heard that same wind effect in the last three movies. Can’t you get me some new sound?’ ” (They both laughed; the next day Mr. Sable went out to record some new wind.) Mr. De Palma wrote a scene in “Blow Out” that is taken almost directly from this exchange.

While the film involves a serial killer and features elaborately staged action sequences, Mr. De Palma makes time for detailed moments that explore his main character’s work. In a crucial scene, he syncs his recording to film images of the same event. “I did this as an editor, and sound editors do it, but I don’t think anybody had ever seen the process,” he said.

The whirring reels, large recording equipment and rolls of audiotape seen in “Blow Out” and “Berberian Sound Studio” are artifacts of the pre-digital filmmaking eras in which these movies take place. The imposing hardware, as well as the sounds it produces, plays a supporting role, too. Joakim Sundström, the supervising sound editor for “Berberian,” said that his team used digital equipment but he gave the sound a retro feel.

“What I did was take the majority of sounds that were in the film and I retransferred them onto magnetic tape and quarter-inch tape,” Mr. Sundström said.

“Nobody Walks,” by contrast, puts a sound man in a more contemporary setting. In that 2012 film from Ry Russo-Young, John Krasinski plays a sound designer helping a young artist (Olivia Thirlby) with the sound mix on her art film, a collaboration that leads to an affair.

“From my own experience of working on films with editors and in the creative fields, you’re sitting in a dark room with somebody into the night, working relentless hours,” Ms. Russo-Young said by phone. “There’s an intimacy there, and that was one of the things I was interested in exploring.”

Then again, sound itself could serve as a metaphor for that intimacy.

“There’s something about an affair and a covert relationship happening under everybody’s noses that almost feels like sound,” Ms Russo-Young said. “Sound is always happening around us, and sometimes we have to block it out to be able to stand it.”
220 2013-06-09 Eventually, R Family Vacations began to offer resort stays, family camps, adults-only vacations and even a Broadway cruise, staffed by entertainers like Anne Steele, a sultry mezzo-soprano with an effervescent smile who plays New York’s cabarets and piano bars.

In spring 2010, Ms. Steele, who is from an Indiana family filled with singers, was sitting at a dance party on an ocean liner in Hawaii when she felt the brush of Ms. Carpenter’s hand against hers.

“It was out of nowhere,” Ms. Steele said. “And I was like, um, is she holding my hand?”

She was. For years, Ms. Carpenter had maintained an air of brusque efficiency onboard the cruises (friends describe her as so organized that while they’re making lists for today, she’s already on to tomorrow’s).

“She was always working and always very closed off,” Ms. Steele said. “She had to be. It was like she was running a 4,000-person wedding for seven days at a time.”

But on this particular evening, after hanging out with and (could it be?) even flirting with Ms. Steele on the beach that afternoon, she let her guard down. Once again single and not looking for anything serious, Ms. Carpenter said that she decided “I’m just going to hold her hand and see what it feels like.”

“I thought she just accidentally touched my hand,” said Ms. Steele, who also was single at the time. “And then I thought, she’s definitely really touching my hand. It was so fifth grade. My face was bright red, and I wondered, ‘Is anybody seeing this?’ ”

During their years as friendly acquaintances back in the city, the women had shared the occasional cup of coffee or movie, “but it was not like we were best friends,” Ms. Steele said of Ms. Carpenter, who was ostensibly her boss.

“She’s an absolutely stunning performer, she’s got an unbelievable voice, she’s beautiful to look at,” Ms. Carpenter said. “But I never felt that I got to know the other parts of her that I did on that trip. Then all of the sudden I was like, ‘Wow, she’s smart, too, and engaging and interesting and funny’ — all the things I felt I didn’t know that much of, having worked with her.”

After the hand-holding episode, Ms. Steele excused herself for bed, but not before planting an awkward  good-night kiss on Ms. Carpenter’s lips. The next morning, she arrived at the staff meeting wearing dark glasses, the better to cloak her expression as she simultaneously looked and tried not to look at Ms. Carpenter, who was clearly doing the same. The chemistry was hard to ignore.

Finally Ms. Steele sent a text from across the room: “You want to make out?”

To which Ms. Carpenter responded, “Yes!,” inaugurating what she called “our teen romance.”

Love took flight as the women navigated the world that year. In July 2010, as they shared a hammock under the stars in Ixtapa, Mexico, Ms. Steele felt a head-over-heels rush but decided to play it cool.

“There was a lot of hiding because these were people who had known us forever,” Ms. Steele said. “It would have blown out of proportion way too fast.”

In August, while together on a weeklong cruise through the Caribbean, the situation changed as Ms. Carpenter revealed that she was enchanted as well. But Ms. Carpenter was cautious because her two sons, Parker, now 18, and Blake, 13, and two daughters, Chelsea, 15, and Vivi, 10, with whom she shares custody with Ms. O’Donnell, were also on that cruise.

“Because the kids were with us, we were able to see what we were together,” Ms. Carpenter said. “It deepened the relationship. Before that, the kids were not really involved. But this time, the kids were around us, and we had dinner with them, and you could see what it would end up looking like, what it would end up feeling like.”

That trip was the turning point. “It definitely changed over that time,” she added.

Once the children were aware that their mother and Ms. Steele were a couple, it was a matter of months before they had persuaded Ms. Steele to move into their home in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y., with Vivi commanding Ms. Carpenter to make room in her closet for Ms. Steele’s clothes.

“It was a huge change to live in the suburbs, and I had a real push and pull about leaving the city,” Ms. Steele said. “I didn’t know what would happen to my career. I didn’t know if I’d be able to hold on to what I need.”

“It turns out you can do all the same stuff,” she added, laughing. “You just drive in.”

Soon Ms. Steele had taken on the role of free-spirited and far-from-evil stepmother, serving as Ms. Carpenter’s sous-chef in the kitchen, where the couple wrote the nightly menu on a chalk board as they huddled with the children around a butcher-block island. For dessert, Ms. Steele would make confections like the ones she creates (when she’s not performing) for her online company, Annie’s NYC Cakes.

“Every morning when she comes down the stairs for her coffee, I feel like she’s grinning and I want to hug her every second,” said Ms. Carpenter, 46. “That’s what she has brought into our lives —  not just mine but into the kids’ lives. A level of joy that was not there before. I think she has a completely open heart and gave to me and the kids without holding back at all. It’s scary to open yourself up to the kids and fall in love with them and think that somehow it’s not going to go away.”

The women, who travel for work about eight weeks each year, were vacationing in Provincetown, Mass., when same-sex marriage was legalized in New York on July 24, 2011, and amid the hoopla, they looked at each other and said, simply, “We’re doing it.” But, with their own relationship so fresh, they wanted to allow what they called “a respectful grace period” in which their gay friends in longer-term partnerships could marry first.

“There was no rush to do it,” said Ms. Steele, 39. “We liked the idea of sitting back and letting all the people who had been together for so long do it first. This was the appropriate time frame. We know we want to be together. There are children involved, they want the definition of it.” As did Ms. Carpenter and Ms. Steele.

“I’ve always looked at Kelli like a gardener,” said Cathi Scalise, who met Ms. Carpenter when they were sorority sisters at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. “I think in friendships, she’s the steady one. She’s the one that’s going to water when it’s supposed to water and plant the right soil and whoever is with her, including the kids, can blossom because of her steadiness and guiding, calm hand.”

On June 1, the women were married by Lorna G. Schofield, a United States district judge for the Southern District of New York, in the backyard of their home in Chestnut Ridge, in the neighborhood they’ve christened Rainbow Ridge. Ms. Carpenter, who had been escorted through the terraced garden by her son Parker, wore a floor-length turquoise halter gown, and Ms. Steele, who had been walked down the path by Parker’s brother, Blake, chose an orchid-hued gown whose ruffled skirt echoed the ripples in her long hair.

With their children near, they stood on a wooden bridge built over the swimming pool and recited their vows, which for each began, “Little did I know that my future wife was standing in front of me all these years.”

Afterward, about 90 friends and family, including Ms. Carpenter’s parents, Melanie and Joel Safer, and Ms. Steele’s mother, Sue Steele, feasted under streamers of lights and bell-jar lanterns hanging from the trees before breaking into a flash-mob routine to “Call Me Maybe,” choreographed as a surprise for the newlyweds by Nate Buccieri, Ms. Steele’s accompanist and music director.

At the end of the night, guests cooled down in the pool and left with jars of homemade jelly, adorned with white toppers embroidered by Ms. Steele’s mother, with flowers and “A+K.”

“I can remember sitting in a diner with my mother in New York, telling her I was gay, and her sobbing and saying, ‘You’re never going to have kids, you’re never going to get married, I’m never going to have that, and you’re my only daughter,’ ” Ms. Steele said before heading with Ms. Carpenter to Greece for their honeymoon, their first trip together not involving work. “Now I’m like: ‘Surprise! Mom, I have four. Look what I did!’ ”

“And now she couldn’t be happier, and she couldn’t love Kelli more, and she couldn’t love the kids more,” she said. “And she’s made hundreds of jars of jelly. She’s bleeding from the knuckles. How it has changed.”
221 2013-06-10 At its annual worldwide developers conference, Apple unveiled its newest products and features, including the Mac Pro computer and iTunes Radio.
222 2013-06-10 The archive in Washington, D.C. will host a permanent exhibition depicting the struggles of women, African-Americans and immigrants....
223 2013-06-10 The annual conference for Apple developers started today with a new version of the iOS mobile operating system and a new, streaming music service....
224 2013-06-10 A person in Thailand, who has been accused of insider trading related to Smithfield Foods, used quite a few techniques that were bound to attract the attention of regulators, the author writes....
225 2013-06-10 The largest commercial airline association called on a U.N. panel to adopt an across-the-board, market-based mechanism to offset carbon emissions....
226 2013-06-10 The battery maker will seek to repair its finances amid rising costs for materials and the shutdown of an important operation....
227 2013-06-10 A “solid” job report. Dollar Shave Club is back with a new video. Suggestions for stowing excess cash. And where do you get your leads?...
228 2013-06-10 Metropolitan Diary: A poem about a neighbor’s poodle dashing out of the elevator and out the front door....
229 2013-06-10 In addition to Dwyer, Orlando City will be unable to use goalkeeper Jon Kempin, defender Yann Songo’o and midfielder Christian Duke in the Open Cup game.

“The gentlemen’s agreement that we had with Orlando City was that they weren’t going to” use them, Sporting Kansas City’s chief executive, Robb Heineman, told MLSsoccer.com. “Look, it’s not optimal, probably, for those guys, but what we’re about is winning championships. If those guys could impact that in a negative way — which, with the quality of players they are, they could — then they’re not going to play.”

To the sporting ears of many Americans, that may sound anticompetitive. But in world soccer, it is routine for players to be cup-tied — as it is under the rules of the United States Soccer Federation. Similar rules exist in the UEFA Champions League, often resulting in the curious omission of star players early in the competition in anticipation of their transfers. In addition, overseas players who are transferred from one club to another in the same league often have clauses in their transfer agreements that bar them from playing against their former clubs during the same season.

But in the first year of the working agreement between M.L.S. and U.S.L. Pro teams, this possibility was somehow overlooked. M.L.S. teams entered the Open Cup in the third round, and several M.L.S. team representatives said they were told by the federation that it would make every effort to keep separate the teams with loan relationships.

The other two M.L.S. teams that played their affiliates — New England and D.C. United — took different tacks in their Open Cup matches.

New England had lent four players — defenders Tyler Polak and Bilal Duckett, midfielder Gabe Latigue and forward Matt Horth — to its U.S.L. affiliate, the Rochester Rhinos. The Revolution, which recalled two players whom was not going to use, then defeated the Rhinos in the third round.

“When we realized we were going to play Rochester, we called them and told them to do what they had to do to win the game,” said Lizz Summers, a Revolution spokeswoman. “We recalled two who hadn’t played in the Open Cup to fill out our squad, and they played against Rochester.”

In an e-mail about the Dwyer situation, she added: “K.C. just doesn’t want to be beaten by their own player and said he couldn’t play against them. That’s a step we wouldn’t take.”

For its third-round match against Richmond, its U.S.L. affiliate, D.C. United recalled three players who had not appeared for the Kickers in the Open Cup for “depth-related reasons,” said D.C.’s Sarah Lerner, but was unable to recall goalkeeper Andrew Dykstra because he had played for Richmond in the second round.

Kansas City’s decision to recall its four lent players was particularly disappointing for Orlando City, which has designs on moving up to M.L.S. in the next couple of years. Its victory in the third round of the Open Cup against Colorado, the No. 1 team over all last season in the M.L.S. regular season, was its first against a top-tier club.

Sporting Kansas City Coach Peter Vermes told The Kansas City Star: “Our ownership group felt like it’s not wise to have our players playing against us and ultimately having the chance to knock us out of something. For one game, it doesn’t make sense.”

Kansas City is paying the salaries of the four players on loan. Should they be paid to play against the parent club? For soccer people, the answer is obvious. But some fans have taken to social media, calling Sporting “chicken.” Others are unable to fully grasp the loan agreements.

Dwyer took the high road in his comments about Sporting Kansas City.

“It’s a business move, and you have to respect them; it’s a smart move,” he said in a telephone interview from Orlando, Fla. “We have a really strong team. I’m still excited to see how it goes. If we progress, I look forward to showing my skills in the next round.”

The winner of the Kansas City-Orlando City match will play the winner of the -Columbus game in the quarterfinals.
230 2013-06-10 Charlie Coles, who coached Miami University in Ohio and its all-American forward Wally Szczerbiak to an improbable run in the 1999 N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament and became the most successful coach in the program’s history, died on Friday in Oxford, Ohio. He was 71.

His longstanding heart problems were evidently the cause, his wife, Delores, said.

Coaching for 6 seasons at Central Michigan and 16 at Miami, Coles, who retired in March 2012, was a longtime presence in the Mid-American Conference. Its midmajor teams seldom received national recognition, but he coached Miami to glimpses of the basketball spotlight while winning 263 games there. Most of those victories came while he was outfitted with a defibrillator. Coles took Miami to the 1997 N.C.A.A. tournament in his first season in Oxford.

He had a heart attack during the conference tournament at the close of the next season. His RedHawks were in Kalamazoo, Mich., facing Western Michigan when he collapsed in the first half.

“I was taking the ball out of bounds, and I heard a big thud,” Szczerbiak, a junior at the time, told Yahoo Sports upon Coles’s death. “He was laying on the ground. There were doctors around who were able to care for him. We had a two-hour delay. The coaches and players decided he would want us to play.”

A tube was inserted in Coles’s throat at a hospital to help him breathe, but he was undaunted. He asked for a piece of paper and scrawled, “We won?”

Miami did win that game and reached the tournament final under Coles’s assistants, but the team lost to Eastern Michigan.
231 2013-06-10 On the national stage, Merion, a grand old lady that is still devilishly difficult, will test if the cutting-edge technology of today’s equipment has subverted the basic and traditional challenges of the game.

If Merion is indeed overrun by the world’s greatest golfers, should the winning score be 15 under par, it may later be seen as the tipping point in the movement to inhibit how far the golf ball is allowed to travel. But if Merion grits its teeth and relatively low scores demonstrate that an old-style architectural marvel less than 7,000 yards long is not outdated, then the distance issue may lose some of its relevance, at least in the immediate future.

“Coming back to Merion is a truly magical thing and an important thing for golf,” said Mike Davis, the U.S.G.A. executive director. “This is a special place, and people will see that. I would say that there are probably more players that can potentially win this U.S. Open than in any other U.S. Open venue we go to.”

Davis insisted that at 6,996 yards, and a par 70, Merion will be anything but easy. And it will be neither a long hitter’s paradise nor an advantage for the more precise, finesse player.

“The short holes are short, so yes, there will be more birdies made — trust me — at this U.S. Open than any we have seen in recent history,” Davis said. “But the long holes are also really long.”

There are no par 5s at Merion after the fourth hole, which means there is no place for the long hitters to steal an easy birdie. The sloping greens will be mowed to a frighteningly fast 13.5 on the Stimpmeter. True to its 19th-century routing, there are blind shots, or semiblind shots, all over the golf course, and Davis called the uphill 521-yard, par-4 18th hole “the toughest finishing hole in all of the U.S. Opens.”

“And the final five holes will challenge any level of golfer from any era,” Davis said.

Yet the 13th hole is a measly 115 yards. Four other par 4s are shorter than 367 yards. But with the championship on the line late in the final round, some golfers will have to play the par-3 17th hole from 246 yards — a tee shot over a ravine to a green carved into a sloping hollow. Miss that green, and you’re either in the sand or have an impossible downhill lie.

“It’s really two different golf courses,” said Webb Simpson, the defending United States Open champion who played at Merion when it hosted the 2005 United States Amateur. “Potentially, through 13 holes, if you drive it well, you can have nine wedge opportunities to the greens. And then the last five holes are going to be some of maybe the hardest that we have ever had in the U.S. Open. So you kind of have the best of both worlds.

“But it’s going to take a good mind to play strategically, even after you make a mistake. And it will force a mistake. What I remember about Merion is that the second that you think you’ve got an easy hole is the second that you probably will make a mistake.”

The U.S.G.A.’s plans at Merion have been pondered and contemplated for more than five years. It is not the same course as it was in 1981, or even in 2005 when Simpson played it as an amateur. Extra land has been bought by Merion members, and the course has been lengthened by about 400 yards since 1981. Some fairways have been realigned, and a few other tricky or demanding elements have been added to holes. The club has worked tirelessly with its neighbors in the small community enveloping Merion to make the small physical footprint of the place work.

But if the weather does not cooperate and there is rain before or during the tournament, Merion’s treacherous greens and narrow fairways will be softened and the golf course will be largely defenseless to low scoring.

“I would contend that if you saw Merion firm for four straight days versus soft for four straight days, you may see an 18- to 20-shot difference in the winning score,” Davis said. “But we can’t control the weather.”

The Merion East Course, surrounded by a suburban neighborhood and a college, is wedged into about 110 acres, or about half as many as a usual American championship layout. On the second hole, a public road runs no more than 10 yards from the right edge of the fairway. Expect to see a lot of balls bounding down the macadam, which is out of bounds, and over a retaining fence.

There is another street just behind the sixth green. Elsewhere, there are fieldstone, estate-like homes that stand 20 or 25 yards from fairways and greens. They will receive some camera time as well, and they are also out of bounds.

But one of the best-known features of Merion, and viewers will hear all about it on the network broadcasts this week, comes near the end of the round: the 430-yard, par-4 16th known as the Quarry Hole.

It’s not an overly long hole, but a large, scruffy, gorgelike area — a filled-in old quarry — intersects play. Full of overgrown grasses, weeds, shrubs and wildflowers, the chasm is in the middle of the fairway and also obscures the view of a tilted green.

The golfers will have to carefully and strategically play in front of the gorge, and then take their best aim at where they think the hole is. With the tournament up in the air, it could be a matter of hit and hope.

Does that sound easy? With the lethal 17th to follow and a closing hole that might be the most difficult in Open history, that may be the more appropriate question of the week.
232 2013-06-10 The four men, now all in their 60s, pursued various lives. Chip Damiani, whose fierce drumming created a wall of sound, went into the roofing business. Vern Miller, who wore slick boots and played the bass, became a music teacher. Bill Briggs, whose throbbing electric piano riffs were central to their groove, sold cars. And Mr. Tashian was the only one to stay in music full time, his credits including playing with Emmylou Harris.

Mr. Tashian, 67, said that people regularly introduce him as the guy who “opened for the Beatles.”

“It’s like what I’m famous for,” he said. “Two weeks out of my whole life after 55 years in the music business.”

On Friday evening, the band sat backstage at the Bell House, reminiscing on their journey and curious placement in rock history. They recalled flying around the country in the Beatles’ plane, and being so young that their parents had to go to New York to sign their record contracts.

The concert at Shea Stadium was a blur. Mr. Tashian scratched his head. “The lights were really bright,” he recalled. “The stage was so far from the audience that you felt like you were dangling from a wire out in space. ‘Is there anybody out there?’ ”

Mr. Briggs said it was like playing on top of a mountain.

Regarding their abrupt breakup, a single answer is elusive, but they said Mr. Damiani’s departure from the band shortly before the Beatles tour seriously affected the mood, and that witnessing the Fab Four’s intense fame perhaps had an adverse effect. “Coming down from that tour,” Mr. Tashian said, “was like being dropped on a little rock in the middle of the ocean.”

And what of regrets?

“ ‘What-if’ is just fantasy,” Mr. Tashian said definitively, as if he had come to terms with the question long ago, and he seemed to speak for the band. Mr. Miller, whose face is now covered in a white beard, said of their reunions: “This was an important part of our lives, and we have no reason to let it go.”

The Remains took the stage to a filled room. They were a tight, loud unit, and their raw power pop seemed second nature to them. Mr. Tashian joked before a tune: “This is one of the first we recorded, back in 1864.”

He later addressed the coincidence of their show’s timing. “Paul is coming to town tomorrow,” he told the audience. “Paul McCartney. So here we are, opening for a Beatle again.” They finished to roaring applause and left the stage sweating and bearing boyish smiles.

Although Mr. McCartney’s show may have added extra meaning to their reunion for some, the coincidence did not seem to loom largely over fans. “I’d see the Remains over Paul any day,” was a common sentiment. One man said he would have “preferred to see Paul here and hear the Remains there.”

Lenny Kaye, the lead guitarist with the Patti Smith Group, announced the Remains onstage. Mr. Kaye, who is credited with introducing younger listeners to lost bands of the 1960s through the “Nuggets” compilation album, felt the coincidence of Mr. McCartney’s performance was a moot point.

“To be honest, I don’t feel they are in anybody’s shadow,” he said. “They have their own place in the rock pantheon.”

“That was a moment the stars aligned,” Mr. Kaye said of 1966, “but that does not define them. That was a gig to them. To me, their legend over the years is not dependent on Shea Stadium. It doesn’t matter to me they played Shea Stadium.”

“They are not the Beatles,” Mr. Kaye said. “They’re the Remains. And that’s a beautiful thing.”
233 2013-06-10 Your editorial endorsing a new chemical safety bill (“An Opening to Strengthen Chemical Regulations,” May 30) makes the unwarranted claim that the measure would be “a significant advance” over current law. While the editorial acknowledges our concerns, it does not make clear how fundamental they are.

In reality, the new bill mimics two of the fatal flaws of existing law — the lack of enforceable deadlines and a weak safety standard — while more broadly pre-empting states from protecting their citizens.

In short, the bill could result in few if any additional limits on toxic chemicals at the federal level, while blocking state action.

We need bipartisan chemical safety reform worthy of the name. We’re not there yet.
234 2013-06-10 Last month, the Southern Poverty Law Center and the American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit in federal court on behalf of the inmates — many seriously mentally ill — at the East Mississippi Correctional Facility. The conditions shock the conscience and, as the complaint charges, have “cost many prisoners their health, and their limbs, their eyesight, and even their lives.”

The “solitary confinement zones house dozens of seriously mentally ill prisoners who are locked down in filthy cells for days, weeks, or even years at a time,” the suit alleges. “Rapes, stabbings, beatings, and other acts of violence are rampant,” and inmates have set fires as “the only way to get medical attention in emergencies.”

This suit is the latest chapter in a series of challenges to horrendous conditions in Mississippi prisons. In March 2012, Federal District Judge Carlton Reeves in Jackson approved an agreement between the state and the Justice Department to reform a prison then called the Walnut Grove Youth Correctional Facility. The agreement was in response to a lawsuit, which was also brought by the A.C.L.U. and the Southern Poverty Law Center.

The abuses there included staff members coercing prisoners to have sex in exchange for food or even phone privileges, officers responding to minor aggression of prisoners by slamming them headfirst into the ground and widespread rape among the young prisoners. A withering Justice Department report called the sexual misconduct by the prison staff and rape there “among the worst that we have seen in any facility anywhere in the nation.”

The conditions at East Mississippi, experts found, were even worse than at Walnut Grove, with “an epidemic of suicide attempts, completed suicides and other self-injurious behavior.”

Under the federal Constitution, Mississippi is responsible for each prisoner’s safety and well-being. These cases make clear, as the Justice Department said, that the state is “deliberately indifferent to the constitutional rights” of inmates forced to suffer unspeakable abuse.
235 2013-06-10 The company is also expected to introduce new Mac notebooks and a redesign of iOS, its software operating system for iPhones and iPads, at the four-day developers conference. The conference includes seminars where software developers can get training on the latest Apple software development tools so they can start making apps.

The new operating system will be the first mobile software system made under the company’s lead hardware designer, Jony Ive. Mr. Ive was put in charge of software design after the company fired Scott Forstall, the former head of mobile software development, amid the flurry of negative news reports surrounding Apple’s mapping software.

Before taking over software design, Mr. Ive made it known in the company that he did not like some of the visual ornamentations in Apple’s mobile software, particularly the use of textures representing physical materials. Under his direction, elements like the yellow-notepad inspired Notes app and the leather borders in the Calendar app for the iPad are expected to be removed from the software. The overall look will be smoother and less ostentatious, according to a person briefed on the company’s plans, who asked not to be named.

For Apple, the expansion into streaming music underscores a competitive issue: one of its chief rivals, Google, has long had robust Internet services, like Gmail and Google Apps, while over the years it has gotten better at designing the software and hardware for its phones and tablets.

But while Apple struggles with Internet services, its stock is down about 37 percent after peaking at a little more than $700 in the fall. The company is still selling tens of millions of iPhones and iPads, but investors are concerned about its growth slowing and profit margins getting tighter. A shift into services like Internet radio could present new opportunities to make money.

But James McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester Research, says he thinks Apple is too late in this game. The company has to present an Internet radio service that is better than what is out there, he said, or people will continue to just buy its hardware and use other companies’ services.

“It’s going to have to innovate,” Mr. McQuivey said. “It can’t just be Pandora with an ‘i’ in front of it or Spotify with an ‘i’ in front of it.”

In the late 1990s, the music industry was in turmoil because many Internet users quickly learned they could download their favorite songs for free instead of paying for albums. Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s late chief, approached the music labels with the idea of a store offering the ability to download songs a la carte for 99 cents a download.

“When we first approached the labels, the online music business was a disaster,” Mr. Jobs was quoted as saying in the book “The Perfect Thing: How the iPod Shuffles Commerce, Culture and Coolness.” “Nobody had ever sold a song for 99 cents. Nobody really ever sold a song. And we walked in, and we said: ‘We want to sell songs à la carte. We want to sell albums, too, but we want to sell songs individually.’ They thought that would be the death of the album.”

In 2003, Apple was the first company to legitimize digital music when it opened the iTunes Store, a legal way for people to download and purchase digital songs. Now digital music has grown far beyond the traditional album. Many companies offer the ability to stream music over a data connection.

Spotify, for example, based in London, lets people search for songs and immediately stream them over the Internet on their smartphones and computers; a free version of the service plays ads every few songs, but paying $5 a month will skip the ads.

Rdio, another music streaming service, costs at least $5 a month to stream songs from a computer, but it has an emphasis on social networking, or discovering music by looking at what friends are listening to.

And Pandora, launched eight years ago, lets users create their own stations by entering an artist and then automatically playing songs similar to that artist. Its ad-free upgrade is $4 a month.

But online streaming services are not as popular as iTunes, which counts about 500 million customers with their credit cards on file. Apple is still No. 1 in the paid digital music market with a 63 percent share, followed by Amazon at 22 percent, according to NPD Group.

In a study, NPD said it found that 44 million Americans bought at least one song or album download last year, a number that has remained stable despite the growth of Pandora and music streaming services. A separate NPD study found that people who stream music are much more likely to buy music downloads.

When Apple enters online radio, it will be difficult for companies like Spotify and Pandora to compete, said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares. He said Apple will be at an advantage because it will have deeper control of the iPhone software and hardware, as well as more data about its own customers, than outside companies would, so that it can make smarter music recommendations for customers. Streaming music will also give customers a chance to listen to music they would otherwise never have heard before, and then perhaps buy the songs in iTunes, Mr. Balter said.

Mr. Balter added that Apple could potentially leverage the user data it gets from streaming radio and expand it into a future Apple television, where people could find video content about their favorite bands or even purchase concert tickets on the bigger screen.

“There’s so much of a white canvas here for Apple to paint on,” Mr. Balter said. “It’s refreshing to see them start to think in this area.”

As Apple expands its product lines to include cheaper products, like the iPad Mini and a rumored cheaper iPhone, its profit margins will decrease. That is when the importance of online services will become even greater for Apple because they will provide more ways to make money, Mr. McQuivey said.

“If Apple doesn’t make this shift to services,” he said, “they won’t be left with a leg to stand on.”
236 2013-06-10 “Canada’s public broadcaster’s name is the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation — in French, Société Radio-Canada — and I said to the President of C.B.C., Canadians will support a Canadian broadcaster if only they ensure the broadcaster is Canadian in content and name,” Mr. Moore, the minister of Canadian heritage, told the House of Commons on Thursday.

Some online critics, particularly on English-language Web sites, suggested that Quebec separatism was a factor in the new name. Radio-Canada has employed people who later sought office for various political parties, and it has been associated with several prominent separatists. Long before he became Quebec’s first separatist premier, René Lévesque was one of Radio-Canada’s best known journalists.

Pierre Nantel, a member of the opposition New Democratic Party, called such speculation groundless. Although Mr. Nantel, a former broadcaster who briefly worked at Radio-Canada, said it was important to keep the network at arm’s length from politicians, he added that he was somewhat puzzled by the rebranding.

“Everyone is against them,” he said from the Montreal suburb he represents in Parliament. “Why are they playing with a brand if everyone likes it?”

On Friday, William B. Chambers, the broadcaster’s vice president for brand, communications and corporate affairs, said that it was all a misunderstanding induced by the network’s “enthusiasm” for its new identity.

“Our purpose is not to hide or set aside ‘Radio-Canada,’ ” he said. The ICI rebranding, he said, is simply an attempt to add a succinct, single name to the wide variety of broadcast and Internet services it operates.

But it appears that “Radio-Canada” will generally not be seen or heard by listeners, viewers and readers. The prominent “Radio-Canada.ca” label on its home page, for example, will be become “ICI.ca” in October.

The loss of the full name in most instances, Mr. Chambers said, will be offset by including the network’s abstract logo. It is so well known that, in Mr. Chambers’s view, it immediately summons “Radio-Canada” in the minds of most people. While Mr. Chambers called it “the gem,” the logo is more commonly known as “the pizza” and has been around in various forms for about 40 years.

“It’s one of the most powerful logos in the country,” Mr. Chambers said. How that word association will work on radio, which will rename its main network ICI Première as of August, was unclear.
237 2013-06-10 Jeff Knapple, executive vice president at the Los Angeles office of Van Wagner Sports and Entertainment, part of Van Wagner Communications, was named president and chief executive at Van Wagner Sports and Entertainment, based at the New York headquarters. He succeeds Cliff Kaplan, who left “as a result of differences in strategic direction,” the company said in a statement, and is pursuing other opportunities.

Jennifer Maltby joined Full Contact Advertising, Boston, in a new post, director for strategic planning. She had been director of the Idea Group, an internal research group, at Communispace, Boston.

Lincoln Millstein, executive vice president and deputy group head of Hearst Newspapers, New York, part of the Hearst Corporation, was named to a new post, senior vice president of the corporation and special assistant to the chief executive, Steven R. Swartz, who succeeded Frank A. Bennack Jr. on June 1.

Parade Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, was renamed the Parade Media Group.

Parham Santana, New York, started a licensing division named BrandSlam, to be led by Aaron Spiegeland as vice president for brand strategy and licensing; he had previously been a director for brand management at Beanstalk, part of the Omnicom Group.

Omar Quiñones joined RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md., as director for strategic planning. He succeeds Scott Gold, who left, the agency said. Mr. Quiñones had been senior strategist for cultural and business insights at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners.

Donald Reilley joined Major League Gaming, New York, in a new post, executive vice president for sales. He had most recently been head of United States advertising sales for Kindle at the New York office of Amazon.

Jeremy Rosenberg joined Allison & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, senior vice president for digital media, leading the agency’s digital media operations. He had been senior vice president for digital media at Cohn & Wolfe, part of WPP.

Eric Segal joined Anomaly, New York, part of MDC Partners, as an executive creative director, working with Ian Toombs, who was recently promoted to executive creative director for creative director. Mr. Segal had been an executive creative director at Grey New York, part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP. Also at Anomaly, Sheena Brady, creative director, was promoted to a new post, global creative director. Ms. Brady, Mr. Toombs and Mr. Segal all report to Mike Byrne, global chief creative officer.

Gustavo Sousa, creative director on the worldwide Stella Artois beer account at Mother, based in London, is moving to the agency’s New York office, where he will continue to oversee the account and also becomes a partner. Mr. Sousa, who is originally from Brazil, will also be looking into the possibility of expanding Mother to Brazil next year.

Ravi Sunnak joined Havas PR North America, New York, in a new post, executive vice president for corporate and cause, leading the worldwide Coty account and also leading a new branding consultancy, Havas Peaks. He had been managing director at Grayling, New York. Havas PR North America is part of Havas Worldwide, a division of the Havas Creative unit of Havas.

TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, opened Being China in Shanghai, expanding its Being unit to that country. Being has its headquarters in Paris and has offices in cities that also include London, Los Angeles, New York and Seoul. Being China, part of the TBWA Greater China Group division, will be led by Shel Liu, general manager, and Colin Lee, group creative director.

Klas Uden joined Hearst Magazines, New York, part of the Hearst Corporation, in a new post, vice president for digital and acquisition marketing. He had most recently been consulting for media companies, including Hearst Magazines, and before that was vice president for consumer marketing at Dow Jones & Company, part of News Corporation.

Robert Valdes joined Droga5, New York, in a new post, head of interactive production. He had been head of integrated production at TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.

Emilie Vasu joined JWT New York, part of the JWT division of WPP, as director for business development. She assumes some duties that had been handled by Megan Kent, a global business director at JWT New York, who left, the agency said, to write a book on marketing. Ms. Vasu had been an account director at Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco, where she was also involved in leading new-business efforts.
238 2013-06-10 Nestlé Pure Life has a narrow lead in the bottled still water category, with a 10 percent share, followed by Dasani, a Coca-Cola brand, with a 9.7 percent share, and Aquafina, a PepsiCo brand, with a 9.4 share, according to data for the 52 weeks ending May 19 from SymphonyIRI Group, a market data company. Other Nestlé brands include Poland Spring, with a 6.3 share, Deer Park, with a 4.4 share, and Ozarka, with a 3.4 share.

Resource is being aimed primarily at “a woman who is a little more on the trendy side and higher-income side, and the bull’s-eye is 35 years old,” Mr. Cooper said.

New print ads show the bottle in lush woodland settings, and highlight “100 percent naturally occurring electrolytes — for taste, never added” and that the bottle has 50 percent recycled plastic content.

“It’s more than hydration, it’s total electrolytenment,” says the headline in the ads, which will be introduced on Monday in publications including People, Vanity Fair, In Style and Fitness. The campaign, which includes online advertising, is by McCann, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Public relations efforts for the campaign are by Cone Communications in Boston.

Nestlé, which declined to reveal expenditures for the new campaign, spent $51.5 million in 2012 on domestic advertising for its bottled water brands, according to Kantar Media, part of WPP.

Environmental groups including the Natural Resources Defense Council generally discourage drinking bottled water because of resources required to source, bottle and ship the water, not to mention the impact on the waste stream. But Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, commended Resource for using bottles that contain 50 percent recycled plastic.

“The fact that they are using recycled content in their bottles is something that all beverage companies should emulate,” Mr. Hershkowitz said.

In the United States, Coca-Cola brands use an average of about 5 percent recycled content in plastic bottles and PepsiCo soft drink brands average about 10 percent, the companies said.

As for promoting electrolytes, David G. Schardt, a senior nutritionist at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, noted that Resource stopped short of explicitly claiming they benefit health.

“They’re trying to stay away from F.D.A. interference but it also allows them to leave it up to the consumer to imagine the benefits that might come from electrolytes,” Mr. Schardt said.

With the exception of distilled water, all water contains some naturally occurring electrolytes like sodium and potassium, he said, adding that the added electrolytes in sports drinks are necessary only for extreme exertion.

“Replacing your electrolytes is only an issue for endurance athletes sweating for hours, not a jogger going out for a half-hour,” Mr. Schardt said.

Electrolytes and recycled content aside, Mr. Cooper said the real goal for Resource is to transcend mere beverage status.

“We want to raise it to the level of a lifestyle brand,” he said, “where she’s proud to carry around Resource as her bottled water accessory, so to speak.”

In a deal with “Project Runway,” the reality show on Lifetime, Resource will be featured throughout the 12th season, which will begin on July 18. In one episode the water will be integral to the theme of a design challenge, when fashion designers will be taken to a pastoral setting and challenged with reflecting elements of the natural environment in their designs.

Resource also has signed endorsement deals with Bobbie Thomas, the style editor on the “Today” show on NBC, Aida Mollenkamp, the host of “FoodCrafters” on the Cooking Channel, and Brett Hoebel, a fitness trainer who starred on “The Biggest Loser” on NBC.

It also will participate in fund-raising events for Dress for Success, the organization that provides professional clothing and confidence training to woman struggling to join the work force.

“As we’re trying to reach this new target, the brand is saying we’ve got to come at what their interests are and support their endeavors and causes,” said Leslie Sims, an executive creative director at McCann. “You have to be more interesting than just touting product benefits.”
239 2013-06-10 Erykah Badu didn’t move much in the time she spent onstage at the Brooklyn Academy of Music’s Howard Gilman Opera House, in front of the Brooklyn Philharmonic and a rhythm section. She stood next to the conductor Alan Pierson in a top hat, high-heel boots, blue tights, heavy necklace, and a long coat, which she never took off. She occasionally made a slow, alert swivel toward the backup singers on her right, with a look of approval. Once she turned 90 degrees and methodically played a solo on a theremin, at her left. That was about it.

And yet she did amazing things with her eyes and hands and, most of all, her voice. The orchestrations in Saturday’s concert were written by the composer Ted Hearne, but she gave the concert its binding unity: she was all music, even with her mouth closed, even during the short gaps between sections.

She pointed a finger, rotated a hand or, with restricted hip movements, relayed the groove played by the bassist Gregg August and the drummer Jonathan Barber. She played down phrases in a nasal treble, or let a phrase uncurl itself from a sleeping state and come alive. She enunciated tricky, elegant lines and used rhythmic accents as casual but well-chosen investments. And she made all the rests in the music count. There aren’t many singers as expert in their use of silence and small spaces.

There could have been reason to expect less. The performance wasn’t in her normal context. In recent years she has worked with rhythm sections and samples; her music runs on lightness of touch and depth of groove, not large-scale instrumental arrangements. A part-time resident of Fort Greene, she is this year’s artist-in-residence for the Brooklyn Philharmonic, and this collaboration was built around songs from her 2008 album “New Amerykah Part One (4th World War),” which is Ms. Badu at her most minimal and funky and repetitive and inward, awash in eccentric sound textures, broken up with spoken-word interludes. It’s a provocative record, too, about war and mind control and black solidarity in what she calls the “world of greed and hate.” How do you carpenter an orchestra into all of that?

The performance — scheduled for only one night, with a second added on Sunday because of public demand — was called “You’re Causing Quite a Disturbance,” after a line spoken by a glib male voice during an interlude on “New Amerykah.”

Mr. Hearne wrote material to complement six tracks from the record — “Amerykhan Promise,” “The Healer,” “Soldier,” “Master Teacher,” “Twinkle” and “Me” — as well as four interludes and compositions in themselves. His arrangements weren’t perfunctory, or there to class up the funk; they had rich harmony and tonal range and pulsation. You heard suspense-movie stabs, a high and stringent violin feature (played by Debbie Buck), sets of great pastoral chords with strings advancing to the front of the sound-mass and bending them toward slight dissonance. Or you heard new sounds written to complement old material — like the strings in Curtis Mayfield’s 1972 “Freddie’s Dead,” which were already cut up and fragmented in New Amerykah’s version of “Master Teacher” by the producers Shafiq Husayn and Georgia Ann Muldrow.
240 2013-06-10 ■ Scott Sorokin joined Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., part of the Publicis Groupe, as chief strategy officer, a new post. He had been chief digital officer at Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP.

■ Scott Donaton, chief executive at Ensemble, New York, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will also serve in a new post, as global chief content officer at Universal McCann, another unit of IPG Mediabrands.

■ Nancy Liberman joined Dailybreak, Boston, as chief marketing officer, a new post. She had been chief marketing officer at IMN, Waltham, Mass.

■ Nathan Stamos, the associate publisher of This Old House magazine who has served as acting publisher for the last four months, was named publisher, succeeding Charlie Kammerer, who became publisher of a sibling magazine, Real Simple. Both magazines are part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.

■ Jackson Huynh joined Flingo, San Francisco, an interactive television company, as chief operating officer, a new post. He had been global head of AdMob operations at Google.

■ Internet advertising revenue set a record in the first quarter, totaling $9.6 billion, up 15.6 percent from the same period a year ago, according to a report by the Interactive Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers U.S.

■ Advertising revenue for out-of-home media totaled $1.5 billion in the first quarter, an increase of 4.5 percent compared with the same period a year ago, according to a report from the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, fueled by gains in categories like automotive, restaurants and retailing.

■ Advertising spending in publications aimed at lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender readers totaled $322.6 million last year, up 5.1 percent from 2011, according to the annual Gay Press Report compiled by Rivendell Media, West Mountainside, N.J. The total was close to the record total of $349.6 million, set in 2009, suggesting that “the gay press is fully recovered from the Great Recession,” said Todd Evans, president of Rivendell.

■ The A.I.C.P. Show, sponsored by the Association of Independent Commercial Producers, New York, presented its honors for 2013. The honor for advertising excellence for a campaign went to three commercials for DirecTV in a campaign called “DirecTV Cable Effects,” which were directed by Tom Kuntz of MJZ through Grey New York, part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP. The honor for advertising excellence for a single commercial was presented to a spot called “Best Job” for Procter & Gamble, from Wieden & Kennedy and directed by Alejandro González Iñarritu of Anonymous Content. MJZ was the most honored production company, with eight honors, followed by Biscuit Filmworks, with six, and, tied with five apiece, Anonymous Content and Rattling Stick.

■ The Acura division of American Honda Motor has made a deal with Sony Pictures Entertainment, Culver City, Calif., to become the sole sponsor of a Web series, “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee,” created by and featuring Jerry Seinfeld. Financial terms were not disclosed. Acura will sponsor 24 episodes to be released this year and in 2014 on crackle.com and comediansincarsgettingcoffee.com. Mr. Seinfeld appeared last year in a Super Bowl commercial for the 2012 Acura NSX.

■ MFG Labs, Paris, which specializes in data analytics, was acquired by Havas Media, part of Havas. Financial terms were not disclosed.

■ Interactive Advertising Bureau, New York, has formed two task forces devoted to the booming trend of branded content, one devoted to native advertising and the other to content marketing.
241 2013-06-10 Such bootleg efforts are requiring producers of original content to grapple with what this means for their art form and how it affects their relationship with their fans.

Mitch Hurwitz, the creator of “Arrested Development,” sees the do-it-yourself creations as a new way to engage with his audience. Instead of the end of a season meaning the loss of a connection with viewers, he said, “I love the fact that they still have ways in which to play with it and dig it apart and enjoy it.”

Mr. Hurwitz said he had talked with Netflix about the possibility of presenting the new “Arrested Development” season in a more interactive way that would allow viewers to decide for themselves which characters they wanted to follow at various junctures in the narrative.

“The next iteration of the Netflix software, I’ll bet, is going to be more that you can jump from place to place,” he said.

But Damon Lindelof, one of the creators and show runners of the time-warping television thriller “Lost,” was less sure about where to draw the line between encouraging the creativity of fans and respecting the wishes of the original authors.

Mr. Lindelof said he could see why these fan-created re-edits would appeal to people who “like to take something apart and put it back together.”

“But story does not work that way,” he said, “and ‘Lost’ and ‘Arrested Development,’ which are both very character-driven stories, when you take them apart, you completely and totally lose the narrative that we wanted.”

Mr. Lindelof cited the example of Quentin Tarantino’s film “Pulp Fiction,” whose chapters are told out of sequence: a scene in which a hit man played by John Travolta is shot and killed is followed by a scene in which his character, still alive, hears a fateful speech on the mysterious possibilities of life from his partner, played by Samuel L. Jackson.

“That speech has resonance because you know that Travolta ignored it, and that’s going to result in Travolta getting shot coming off a toilet bowl,” Mr. Lindelof said.

“If someone went and put ‘Pulp Fiction’ in chronological order,” he added, “I’m not sure that movie would be as good.”

Regardless of what creators want, however, advances in technology are invitations in themselves for viewers to take part.

Only three years ago, when Mike Maloney wanted to make a chronological re-edit of “Lost,” the ABC suspense series about plane crash survivors trapped on a mysterious island, his options were more challenging than they are today.

Mr. Maloney, now a 30-year-old insurance underwriter in Chicago, had to wait for most of the episodes to be released on DVD and grab the remaining episodes once they had been broadcast. He was fortunate that the monthslong endeavor matched up with a busy time for his wife, then a graduate student.

“She didn’t really mind too much that I wasn’t paying her any attention and was sitting on the computer all the time,” he said.

To distribute his 101 episodes to other fans, Mr. Maloney had to upload them to various file-sharing sites, although he later created a dedicated Web site, chronologicallylost.com. (A fan of the project also created a Facebook page for him.)

Today an “Arrested Development” fan like Alex Green, 21, of Sayre, Pa., has access to the entire season at once. He only needed an online torrent file of the “Arrested Development” episodes, software like Adobe Premiere Pro to create his re-edited episodes and a site like Reddit to share his work with thousands of fellow viewers.

Mr. Green acknowledged that his particular use of copyrighted material was perhaps “not the most correct thing to do,” but said that his work was not meant to take the place of watching “Arrested Development” as Mr. Hurwitz and his collaborators intended.

“It’s not going to be as fun and as fulfilling as the Netflix way,” he said. “But it’s definitely a good way to watch a second or third time through, to see jokes in the right order.”

Mr. Lindelof, who was aware of Mr. Maloney’s chronological re-edit of “Lost,” said he could not quite bring himself to watch it, even if he appreciated the impulses that led to its creation.

“I totally embrace the experiment,” Mr. Lindelof said. “But part of me feels like, oh my God, if it actually works better in chronological order, what does that say about me?”
242 2013-06-10 But the path to this suspense-free Sunday had more than its customary share of uncertainty. There were the knee problems that kept Nadal off tour for seven months until February. And there was the brilliance and ambition of Novak Djokovic, the world’s No. 1 player, who beat Nadal on clay in Monte Carlo in April and came within a few points of knocking him out of this tournament in the semifinals on Friday.

“It’s clear this year means something very special to me,” Nadal said. “Five months ago nobody in my team dreamed of a comeback like this, because we thought it would be impossible. But here we are today, and that’s really fantastic and incredible.”

Sunday’s match with Ferrer was indeed an anticlimax after the emotional and tactical heights scaled in that semifinal in which Nadal had to rally to win, 9-7, in the fifth.

A lesser champion might have suffered a letdown, but Nadal — a world-class worrier who has yet to strike an overconfident note in his career — kept his eye on the usual prize and kept delivering lengthy, even impassioned, rebuttals to anyone who had the temerity to suggest that Ferrer might not pose much of a threat.

“If I don’t play perfect, I’m going to have a big chance to lose,” Nadal said before the match. “It’s impossible to arrive in the final of Roland Garros without losing a set if your game is not at a very high level.”

It was true that Ferrer, seeded No. 4, had not lost a set on his way to the final, but despite all his hustle and exquisite timing close to the baseline, he could not come close to winning a set against Nadal, who has dominated their head-to-head rivalry, winning 20 of their 24 matches.

There is no indignity in that, of course. Nadal is also the only member of the so-called Big Four to have a head-to-head edge over all the other members of that club: Djokovic, Roger Federer and Andy Murray.

“In his era, he’s dominating the very best competition,” said Jim Courier, the two-time French Open champion. “It’s going to take something really marvelous for any of those players to get back on even terms.”

With 12 Grand Slam singles titles, Nadal is now tied for third on the career list with Roy Emerson behind Federer’s 17 and Pete Sampras’s 14.

Nadal, 27, has more years of potential excellence ahead and solving the riddle of his game on red clay — whether rain-soaked or sunbaked — remains one of the great conundrums in modern sport.

His record at Roland Garros is 59-1 with the only loss coming in the fourth round in 2009 against Robin Soderling.

That is the kind of big-moment dominance that the Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt, a six-time Olympic gold medalist, could certainly relate to as he watched from the front row on the Philippe Chatrier Court.

“This is my first time seeing tennis live,” Bolt said. “For me, it’s outstanding to see a champion like that.”

As Bolt handed over the trophy, much of the crowd watched under the cover of umbrellas and ponchos.

It was a full-wardrobe French Open with the necessary gear ranging from winter jackets to linen shirts; from watchman’s caps to Panama hats.

“I don’t like to play in these conditions, probably my opponent neither,” Nadal said.

At one stage early in the third set, Ferrer, warmup jacket zipped up and racket safely stowed away in his bag, looked reluctant to return to the court after a changeover. But after a discussion with the chair umpire Cedric Mourier, he trotted back to the baseline and resumed fighting against a force majeure.

“Rafael, I think he has the best mentality I ever seen in my career,” Ferrer said. “He has everything, no?”

Ferrer then went on to cite everything from Nadal’s touch around the net to his powers of recovery. In truth, it looked for much of the match as if Ferrer understood perfectly well what patterns were needed to beat Nadal. The problem, as ever, was in the sewing and even when it appeared that all the stitches were in place, Nadal often ripped them up with an off-balance forehand winner out of the blue (or the gray in the case of Sunday’s weather).

While Ferrer had to throw everything he had into his shots to make a breach in Nadal’s defenses, Nadal possesss the power and one-off technique to produce big trouble from less obvious positions of strength.

Consider what happened with Ferrer serving at 0-1, 30-15 in the second set and Nadal ripped six winners in a row — two off deep and seemingly worthy shots from Ferrer — on his way to a 3-0 lead. Or consider what happened with Nadal serving at 3-1, when Ferrer had four break points and made so many of the supposedly right choices and was still unable to prevent Nadal from holding.

It would take outsiders to shake Nadal’s concentration. With Nadal leading by 5-1, the intruder with the flare — a protester, according to the French police — came onto the clay and was quickly captured by security guards and taken off court.

It was not the first such incursion during a men’s final. In 2009, an intruder lept on the court and tried to put a cap on Federer in the midst of his match against Robin Soderling.

“I felt a little bit scared at the first moment, because I didn’t’ see what was going on,” Nadal said. “I got a bit scared the first second but then I see it’s one of these things that nobody can prevent and just can say thank you very much to all the security guys. They did just amazing work.”

French Open tournament officials later announced that there were multiple arrests in all at Roland Garros on Sunday with protesters also lighting flares and displaying banners criticizing the French president, Francois Hollande, in the upper reaches of the Suzanne Lenglen Court.

France has experienced a series of recent protests against Mr. Hollande’s successful legislation to legalize same-sex marriages and give same-sex couples the same right to adopt children. The protest movement, which included religious leaders and social conservatives, argued that all children should have a mother and a father and should not be in ignorance of their real parentage. The protesters adopted pink as their color. The protests broadened to include those generally opposed to Hollande and were marred by small groups of radical protesters who clashed with police. The law went into effect last month.

Nadal did not address the source of Sunday’s protests. He had other questions to answer: including some about his troublesome left knee, which is obviously much improved even if he will skip the grass-court event this week in Halle, Germany, and return to Spain to recover before Wimbledon.

He will try to win a third title there, but the bigger question for the chattering tennis classes on Sunday was how many French Opens he will ultimately win.

Nadal, true to what has brought him this far, was in no mood to speculate.
243 2013-06-11 Philadelphia Zoo Plans to Give Animals a Way to Roam
244 2013-06-11 The recent I.P.O. of the upscale grocer Fairway is an illustration of the real forces that drive the market for offerings....
245 2013-06-11 Two Cambodian antiquities, long on view at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, were returned to Cambodia after officials argued that they had been looted....
246 2013-06-11 The agency fined the Chicago Board Options Exchange and its affiliate $6 million in what was the first action related to an exchange’s responsibility to self-police its market....
247 2013-06-11 The University of California says student body diversity can’t be fully realized without taking race into account....
248 2013-06-11 Apple wants to prove that it has not lost the ability to innovate in a post-Steve Jobs world. The company introduced a major redesign of iOS, its mobile software system, as well as upgrades for some Mac computers, Brian X. Chen reports in The New ...
249 2013-06-11 If you were a buyer, what would you pay for this business?...
250 2013-06-11 Boston has been chosen to host the 2016 World Figure Skating Championships, the first time in seven years the event will be in the United States.

The last time the worlds were in the United States, Evan Lysacek won the men’s title in his hometown, Los Angeles.
251 2013-06-11 Washington seems not to have awakened to the problems caused by the growing share of the United States economy captured by the financial services sector....
252 2013-06-11 “There have been some unfortunate incidents in the past, and we want to make sure that we do everything we can as we enforce security to keep them from happening again,” Senator Richard J. Durbin, a Democrat from Illinois who proposed Section 1111, said in an interview.

The latest version of the border protection agency’s use-of-force manual, from 2010, says, “Only that force which is both reasonable and necessary may be used in any given situation.” The meaning of “reasonable,” though, has been a point of contention for shooting victims’ families and their advocates, as well as the subject of sharp discussions in Mexican diplomatic circles.

Many of the cases that resulted in a fatal shooting started when rocks were thrown at agents. In the year ending last September, the Border Patrol recorded 249 rock attacks along the United States-Mexican border. Agents working here, where only a fence divides bustling city centers on either side, said police officers in Mexico often did little to stop the rock-thowing or to catch the assailants. (Mexico does not have a border-patrol force.)

Shawn Moran, vice president at large of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that represents 17,000 Border Patrol agents, said force was sometimes necessary. “When their lives are threatened, when their well-being is threatened, and when they’re in danger to suffer great bodily harm, the use-of-force policies allow them to defend themselves,” he said in an interview. “When you look at the number of apprehensions we have every year, the number of use-of-force incidents is minuscule.”

There were nearly 357,000 captures of migrants at or near the border in 2012.

In a statement, the Mexican Embassy in Washington criticized the shootings as “disproportionate deadly force,” saying, “In recent years, the results of investigations have unfortunately not even resulted in the prosecution of the agents” who have engaged in fatal shootings “or even fired into Mexican territory.”

A spokesman for Customs and Border Protection said agents were permitted to use deadly force to counter threats from either side of the border. The agency has a process for investigating complaints when deadly force is used against the United States citizens, legal residents and visa holders at ports of entry. “We do not tolerate misconduct or abuse within our ranks,” the spokesman said.

Victims’ families seldom learn the names of the agents involved in the deadly shootings, or the type of discipline they faced as a result of deadly encounters.

Relatives of Carlos La Madrid, 19, an American citizen killed on March 21, 2011, as he climbed a ladder propped against the border fence in Douglas while trying to cross into Mexico, had to get a court order to learn the name of the agent who shot him so they could serve the agent with legal papers, The Arizona Daily Star of Tucson reported. The authorities said that Mr. La Madrid was unarmed and that he had 48 pounds of marijuana in his pickup truck. The inquiry is continuing.

On Sept. 3, Guillermo Arévalo Pedroza, 36, was shot to death by an agent while attending a family barbecue along the Rio Grande in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico. The agent, chasing by boat a man who was trying to swim to the United States, said he had fired at people tossing rocks at him. The investigation is continuing.

From her tidy mobile home here, Taide Elena, 63, waits for answers on the killing of her grandson, José Antonio. No investigator has come to talk to her, she said, so she has tried to piece together what happened through police and autopsy reports. Ms. Elena, a legal United States resident who cleans homes for a living, said she did not even know if one or more agents fired the bullets that killed her grandson.

Agents and Nogales police officers said they had been chasing people they suspected of being drug dealers near the border fence when rocks were lobbed at them from Nogales, Mexico. There is no indication from the reports or witness accounts that José Antonio, who, his grandmother said, aspired to be a soldier, was involved.

“He was carrying nothing beyond the cellphone I had bought for him,” Ms. Elena said. “I still can’t believe they took his life just because he was walking.”
253 2013-06-11 He added, “I know guys were hoping for a firm test.”

The downpour became yet another disruption this year on the PGA Tour. A 60-mile-per-hour wind buffeted a PGA Tour stop on Maui. Play was suspended for a day by fog in San Diego, by snow outside Tucson, and by a microburst of rain in Orlando, Fla.

“It’s going to be very sloppy now,” Els said. “I don’t care if they get helicopters flying over the fairways, it’s not going to dry up.”

Variables in the weather might account for an 18- to 20-shot difference in the winning score, said Mike Davis, the executive director of the United States Golf Association. If a soft course makes it more predictable, though, the winner may become less predictable, Arron Oberholser, a touring pro who is recovering from an injury, said Monday on the Golf Channel.

“The guys striking the ball marginally, or not striking the ball all that well, are going to be brought more into the fold because their misses are not going to be punished as they would at Olympic last year or at Oakmont,” the site of the 2007 Open, Oberholser said. “You would be punished here, too, very much, if it were dry and fast. But it is not going to play that way this year. You could get a guy you have never heard of winning the U.S. Open this year.”

Of particular concern is the 11th hole, the lowest point on the course. It is one of the most celebrated in golf, the hole where Bobby Jones consummated his Grand Slam in 1930 by winning the United States Amateur Championship. Jones is such a revered figure at Merion that attempts to change the floorboards in the clubhouse have been vetoed because his spike marks are embedded there.

But the green on the 367-yard, par-4 11th is bordered on its front, back and right sides by a creek, nicknamed the Baffling Brook by golfers whose innumerable shots have taken half-gainers into the water. Matt Shaffer, Merion’s director of golf course operations, told reporters the green had flooded about 20 times over the last decade. But the hole has been shored up, and the fairway is now designed to take on water so the green does not become inundated.

The 11th green did not flood Friday from Tropical Storm Andrea, nor from Monday’s downpours. But the surrounding creek overran its banks Monday morning and flooded the bunker that guards the left side of the green.

“It was almost an island green,” said Robert Tinsley, a police officer from nearby Sharon Hill, Pa., who was on duty at the 11th hole.

Water was pumped out, a layer of silt was removed from the bunker and three tons of new sand were added, Shaffer said. The hole reopened to play before noon, and a huge fan was employed to try to dry the area around the green, but rain pummeled the course again in the afternoon and the creek swelled anew.

“We’re bringing our fishing pole tomorrow,” said Carolann Jacobson, a course volunteer.

If, in the worst case, the 11th was left unplayable on Merion’s East Course, organizers have a backup plan to use a comparable hole on the nearby West Course. But that only has a 10,000-in-1 chance of happening, Davis said Monday.

“It is maybe the best draining golf course I have ever seen,” he said.

If it is wet Thursday, Davis said, pin locations would be placed at higher points on the greens to avoid puddling around the holes. Otherwise, he said, “We would just let the course play the way it’s going to play.”

As rain cascaded Monday, a parking lot for spectators in Media, Pa., was closed until further notice. All spectators were requested to use a parking lot about 15 miles from the course in Chester, Pa., or to use suburban rail lines.

On the Merion course, water stood in fairways, and walking paths assumed a Woodstockian muddiness. For a day, the smartest golf attire was probably a pair of knee-high boots.

“I texted my co-workers and they were going with sneakers and golf cleats,” said Jennifer Wisniewski, a boot-clad spectator. “I thought that was a bad idea.”
254 2013-06-11 The Bloomberg administration on Monday issued new warnings about New York City’s vulnerability to climate change, offering updated data to encourage businesses, residents and perhaps even future mayors to better prepare against hotter weather, fiercer storms and increased rainfall.

Administration officials estimated that more than 800,000 city residents will live in the 100-year flood plain by the 2050s. That figure is more than double the 398,000 currently estimated to be at risk, based on new maps the Federal Emergency Management Agency released Monday.

Many more businesses and jobs will also be at risk.

The data was released a day before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was to issue a report on how the city can better prepare for major weather events, including those like Hurricane Sandy.

Administration officials said that between 1971 and 2000, New Yorkers had an average of 18 days a year with temperatures at or above 90 degrees. By the 2020s, that figure could be as high as 33 days, and by the 2050s, it could reach 57, according to data collected by the New York City Panel on Climate Change.

The panel, formed in 2008 to assist in PlaNYC, Mr. Bloomberg’s sustainability initiative, presented its findings in 2009. The mayor asked that the panel accelerate its updates for the post-Hurricane Sandy report.
255 2013-06-11 “It makes it a little harder,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. Not only could Mr. McConnell get pushed to the right if a challenger emerged during primary season, but he also faces a grueling fund-raising gantlet to collect the $20 million or more his campaign is seeking to protect him.

Managing the roles of candidate and party leader “requires an inordinate amount of time, effort and concentration,” said former Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota. “It’s very challenging to deal with.”

Too challenging, as it turned out, for Mr. Daschle, who in 2004 became the first Senate party leader in a half-century to lose a re-election bid. In an era of extreme partisanship in Washington and dismal regard for Congress everywhere else, the extra burden of home-state peril has become an expectation ever since.

In early 2010, anticipation of Senator Harry Reid’s defeat in Nevada grew so great that attention shifted to intraparty jockeying over who would follow him as the head of Senate Democrats. Good fortune helped save him in November after Republicans nominated Sharron Angle, a favorite of the Tea Party movement in Nevada, whom Democrats successfully portrayed as an extremist.

These days, Mr. Reid’s Republican counterpart faces gossip from colleagues and ominous headlines in the news media. “Poll: McConnell Popularity Sagging,” read one in Politico this spring.

“Party leaders for about 50 years had pretty much a free ride,” Mr. McConnell said. “Now, there’s a new paradigm.”

He has responded by instructing aides to assemble, as he put it, “the best U.S. Senate campaign in the history of the country.”

After the Tea Party candidate Rand Paul bowled over his establishment choice for the other Senate seat in Kentucky in 2010, Mr. McConnell hired Mr. Paul’s campaign manager to run his re-election bid. On a surreptitiously taped campaign audio recording this year, he brandished a feisty “Whac-a-Mole” stance toward potential opponents like the actress Ashley Judd.

Still lacking a strong opponent in either party, Mr. McConnell has targeted President Obama — a promising tactic in one of the states where the Democratic incumbent drew less than 40 percent of the vote last year. A recent campaign video portrayed misconduct by the Internal Revenue Service as evidence that Mr. Obama has returned Richard Nixon-style lawlessness to the White House.

Mr. McConnell’s personal battle matters beyond Kentucky if it alters the national agenda. Mr. Reid’s race three years ago appeared not to.

Mr. Reid had no alternative, as Democratic leader, but to aggressively promote the agenda of a new Democratic president, who had also carried Nevada. He helped push through the economic stimulus, the health care law and the overhaul of Wall Street regulation. On revamping the immigration system, a critical concern for Nevada’s swelling Hispanic constituency, Mr. Reid sometimes carried the banner more aggressively than Mr. Obama himself.

That issue is not nearly so popular in Kentucky, with its tiny Hispanic population. The fact that bipartisan legislation has moved toward a Senate floor debate this week is one sign that Mr. McConnell will not block action to guard his right flank.

A potential breakthrough on long-term deficit reduction poses a tougher test. In return for curbs on Medicare and Social Security, Mr. Obama and Democrats have insisted on additional tax increases.

“There won’t be a deal, in large part because he’s worried about himself,” said J. B. Poersch, a veteran strategist for Senate Democrats. “The politics will demand that he be an obstructionist.”

That did not keep Mr. McConnell from reaching an agreement on Dec. 31 with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on higher tax rates for individuals earning more than $400,000 and families earning more than $450,000 — thresholds that, an aide noted, affect fewer than 5,400 Kentucky tax filers. Even as he blisters Mr. Obama, Mr. McConnell boasts of having negotiated every major bipartisan deal of the president’s tenure.

“I don’t think McConnell in his heart of hearts wants to be a partisan warrior all the time,” said Al Cross, a veteran Kentucky political reporter who directs the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues at the University of Kentucky.

Mr. Alexander, who is up for re-election in Tennessee, agrees.

As a conservative facing re-election in one of the nation’s reddest states, Mr. McConnell might well oppose any compromise including tax hikes and cuts to so-called entitlement programs.

Mr. Alexander, who dined with Mr. Obama and has talked with Democratic colleagues about a budget deal this spring, said that as a party leader with a keen tactical sense, Mr. McConnell knew that “the right time” for a politically sensitive budget compromise was when Republicans and Democrats shared power and could “spread the pain around.”

“I don’t think he’d try to stop a deal from happening,” Mr. Alexander said, “even though he may not be able to vote for it.”

Mr. McConnell does not rule out the passage of a deal he would personally oppose, calling the need to rein in entitlements “the transcendent issue of our time.”

“I wouldn’t want to pass up a single opportunity for the president to do the right thing for the country,” he said. “Divided government is probably the only time you can do this.”

“I don’t intend to support any deal that includes new revenues,” he said. But “I don’t know that I have the ability to block things.”
256 2013-06-11 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
257 2013-06-11 Dr. Hatzes’s skepticism proved catching. Suzanne Aigrain of Oxford University quoted Carl Sagan’s dictum that extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, saying that Dr. Hatzes’s paper “certainly casts doubt on the original evidence.”

Xavier Dumusque of the University of Geneva, who led the original discovery effort, said that Dr. Hatzes’s challenge was healthy for science. “Calling to question a detection is always something fruitful,” Dr. Dumusque wrote in an e-mail. But he added that it was clear in his team’s paper that “the signal we are searching for is at the limit of the data precision.”

More data, everyone agrees, is essential, and luckily there will be more data, according to Debra Fischer, a Yale astronomer who has studied the Alpha Centauri system. Both her group and the Geneva team of which Dr. Dumusque is a member obtained more observations in May.

May was a bad time for exoplanet astronomers. NASA’s planet-hunting Kepler satellite lost its pointing capability.

Quoting Jeff Lebowski, the hero of the Coen brothers movie “The Big Lebowski,” Dr. Hatzes said, “Life is indeed ‘gutters and strikes,’ and this week were some gutters.”

The Alpha Centauri B planet is hardly the first promising world to slip into the shadows of uncertainty. Astronomers are still arguing about the existence of Gliese 581g, a “Goldilocks” planet said to be almost a sure bet for life when it was discovered in 2010.

It all goes to show just how devilish the details have become as astronomers close in on the goal of finding Earth-like planets.

Dr. Dumusque and his colleagues first found the planet by the so-called wobble method — perfected over the years by Michel Mayor and his colleagues at the Geneva Observatory — which measures planets’ masses by how much they tug their host star to and fro as they orbit it.

The group uses a specially built spectrograph called Harps on a 140-inch-diameter telescope at the European Southern Observatory in La Silla, Chile, to measure those wobbles, which show up as slight rhythmic shifts in the wavelength of starlight.

The Earth imparts a kick of about four inches a second to the Sun as it orbits around, but that is much smaller than the jitter caused by sunspots and magnetic activity.

The result is that success in detecting low-mass planets depends more and more on digging a small signal out of a much larger background of noise in a reliable manner.

Kepler, which uses the blink method to find planets when they cross in front of their stars, is running up against limits of time.

On the grounds that three blinks were needed to verify an orbit, Kepler’s astronomers once thought they would need three years to verify the existence of planets in comfortable orbits like our own.

But the stars turned out to be noisier than predicted; a year ago, Kepler’s mission was extended so that more blinks could be collected, but the failure of a reaction wheel that allows the telescope to point precisely has probably brought an end to that.

There is still an enormous amount of data in Kepler’s pipeline, including 132 confirmed planets and, as of last week, 3,216 planet candidates.

Waiting in the wings for a 2017 launching is the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, TESS, which will monitor about two million nearby stars for exoplanets. “In fact,” the project’s leader, George R. Ricker of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said during a talk at Google a few years ago, “when starships transporting colonists first depart the solar system, they may well be headed toward a TESS-discovered planet as their new home.”

It might even be in Alpha Centauri.
258 2013-06-11 The new mobile software system is the first made under the company’s lead hardware designer, Jony Ive. He was put in charge of software interface design after the company fired Scott Forstall, the former head of mobile software development, during a flurry of negative news reports surrounding Apple’s new mapping software.

The design in iOS 7 introduces thin typography, similar to Microsoft’s Windows Phone software, and a new color palette. The keyboard looks simple, with gray letters on flat, white backgrounds. Apple also removed textures that made some apps mimic real-life objects. The Calendar app has shed its faux leather; the Game Center app no longer has green felt; and the shelves in the iBookstore app are no longer wood-grained. And the home screen has an effect called parallax to make the app icons look as if they are popping out in 3-D.

“We have always thought of design of being so much more than the way something looks,” Mr. Ive said in a video demonstrating the operating system. “It’s the whole thing, the way something actually works on so many different levels.”

A new iOS feature, called Activation Lock, disables the iPhone even if a thief has turned it off or erased the data on the phone. Some police officers have called for a feature like this — a “remote kill switch” that renders the stolen phone useless and difficult to sell in the black market. The phone can be reactivated only after the user logs into it with the right Apple ID and password.“We think this is going to be a great theft deterrent,” said Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior vice president for software engineering.

In iOS 7, Apple also made improvements to Siri, the voice-controlled assistant of the iPhone, which has been ridiculed for its spottiness and ineptitude. The feature has new male and female voices that sound more realistic, and it responds to more commands, like “Play my last voice mail” or “Increase my screen brightness.” In 2014, iOS and Siri will be integrated into cars made by a dozen manufacturers, including Nissan, Kia, Honda and Toyota, said Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president for Internet software and services.

Apple said iOS 7 would arrive in the fall. It will be a free update for iPhone and iPad owners.

The iPhone is driving Apple’s business, but the company is not lifting the gas pedal on its Macs. The company unveiled a major upgrade for the Mac Pro, its desktop computer for professionals, which it said would be assembled in the United States. The computer, scheduled for release this year, looks like a metal cylinder — a big change from the original rectangular tower. This was the first big upgrade for the desktop in three years.

It also unveiled new MacBook Airs, which it said would have enough battery life to last all day. The 11-inch version has nine hours of battery life and the 13-inch version has 12 hours, according to Mr. Schiller. Both versions start shipping immediately.

“You can watch the entire trilogy of ‘Lord of the Rings,’ ” on a single charge, Mr. Schiller said.

Apple also previewed its next Mac operating system, called OS X Mavericks. (The name is the first in a new theme, California, for Apple’s operating systems, after years of naming them for big cats. Mavericks is a reference to a major surf spot in California.) The new system includes some minor improvements, like the ability to tag documents to find them more easily. An urgent document can be tagged “Important,” for example, and can be quickly found in the operating system’s navigation window in a section labeled Important.

The hardware and software upgrades come at a crucial moment for in the competitive mobile market. One of Apple’s chief rivals, Samsung Electronics, has released several compelling smartphones and tablets over the last two years. And Google has gradually bulked up the Android software that runs on Samsung’s phones with powerful Internet services.

But Apple is, by some measures, still leading the mobile industry. The iPhone 5 is the best-selling smartphone in the world. Samsung Electronics sells the most phones over all because it sells multiple smartphones at different sizes and prices, whereas Apple has released one new iPhone a year.
259 2013-06-11 The Standard & Poor’s ratings agency posted improved expectations on Monday regarding the United States economy, but investors just yawned.

Stocks started higher at the opening of trading, shortly after the agency raised its outlook for the United States government’s debt rating and credited “the strengths of the economy.” But the gains proved both modest and fickle, and the market spent most of the day flitting between small gains and losses.

At day’s end, the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.& P. 500-stock index were lower, but just barely. The Nasdaq composite was slightly higher. It was a marked change from Friday, when the Dow jumped 207 points after a jobs report that investors viewed as positive.

Notable movers included Booz Allen Hamilton, the military contractor, which slid after an employee said he had leaked information about secret government surveillance programs. Its shares dropped 46 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $17.54.

Facebook rose after analysts at the brokerage Stifel Nicolaus upgraded the stock to buy from hold, saying the company was one of the most compelling investments in the Internet sector. The stock rose $1.04, or 4.5 percent, to $24.33.
260 2013-06-11 Prince Harry opened the event in an onscreen appearance, and with royals like Charlotte Casiraghi of Monaco and Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie in the audience, the event resonated across the world, even if a Twitter feed on the concert included people asking whether Beyoncé’s raunchy mesh hose and barely-there costumes were symbolic of female empowerment.

For Frida Giannini, Gucci’s designer, the idea, more than a year in the planning, had been to reinterpret Bob Geldof’s Live Aid from the 1980s by making celebrities the halo around an urgent cause.

“But the difference is that Bob Geldof didn’t have partners, you couldn’t follow him directly on TV,” said Ms. Giannini, who had already used Gucci to focus on the female factor at a New York Unicef event in 2008.

“I think it is a very personal thing, working for this cause,” Ms. Giannini added, referring to the recent birth of her daughter. “Gucci is one of the biggest brands in the world, and it is a great opportunity to create a community of people through new media. We have millions of fans on Facebook who cannot afford a Gucci bag — but want to follow us.”

Fund-raising is at the heart of Chime for Change, but there is something awkward about weighing a $2,000 handbag against the Afghan Institute of Learning, which offers education and health care to women and children, or a Pakistani school sponsored by Madonna.

Yet the event drew Desmond Tutu’s daughter Mpho to speak up for women’s empowerment and say: “Let us not fear that our individual acts are too small to change ‘his-story’ into ‘our story.”’

Those who sniff at the idea of stars turning out for a charitable event should listen to Ms. Obaid-Chinoy, who has brought the reality of life in Pakistan to the big screen.

“In places like Pakistan, grass roots activists need a boost and outside support is often critical,” the film director said. “Even within the country, pop icons lend their voices to educational and health projects and it does wonders. Catching the attention of youth isn’t always easy and engaging them is even more difficult. If a celebrity is able to further a cause just by lending his or her voice to it, I’m all for it!”

A similar view was expressed by Susan Ann Davis, chairwoman of Vital Voices, a Washington-based organization founded in 1997 by Hillary Rodham Clinton to focus on female empowerment, women’s political participation and human rights.

“It’s challenging to catch the attention of media — much less the public — on important issues without the help of celebrities, VIPs, corporate titans and politicians,” Ms. Davis said. “Their involvement is often the critical factor in breaking though the noise to draw attention and recruit supporters.”

In the current music scene, women seem to have the most fire, from Ms. Lopez through Florence and The Machine to Rita Ora, who all showed up for the Gucci concert.

One woman who was emphatically in favor of the event and its reverberation across the world was Maz Kessler, whose Catapult company, an online crowd-funding platform founded in 2012 with the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, allowed each member of the audience to become a donor. Audience members who bought a ticket received a voucher that could be used on the Catapult site to select a cause and donate money to women’s issues.

“I am focused on fund-raising — it is for us to take it from there and go deeper,” Ms. Kessler said. The activist thinks that the engagement of celebrities is part of the story and that “there is a role to play for everyone.”

“But it is really difficult — it’s not just a double-edged sword — it’s got a lot of edges to it,” she added, referring to the fact that people might now be prepared to talk publicly about domestic violence, but not yet about female genital mutilation. Ms. Kessler thinks that the next weeks, as the audience from the concert chooses varied causes and issues through the Catapult site, will provide background information about which grass roots organizations appeal to donors.

Celebrities tend to have particular causes. Ms. Hayek says that domestic violence issues are her focus, especially in her native country of Mexico.

“I was always bothered by justice, and I had an urge to do something about it since I was little,” she said. “I never experienced the subject of domestic violence, and when I started 20 years ago, nobody wanted to talk about it. It was impossible to get support. Now we know that not every country has a problem with hunger, but every country in the world has a problem with domestic violence.”

Luxury companies have often been generous philanthropists. The Pinault Foundation for Women’s Dignity and Rights was founded in 2009. Now known as the Kering Corporate Foundation, it says its mission is to “stop violence, improve women’s lives.” According to the company, there are 44 partnerships with local and national nongovernmental organizations, and more than 80,000 women in 16 countries have benefited from Kering’s support.

The Kering foundation marks Mr. Pinault’s effort to build social and environmental responsibility into Gucci and the group’s other brands, including Stella McCartney, known for her “eco fashion.”

On the philanthropic side, the executive is wedded to the cause of women.

“My wife has been a determining factor in my supporting the cause of women and violence and how to fight against it,” Mr. Pinault said. “The authorities don’t do much about the situation, so maybe a private group can do something.”

Only a few fashion companies have the global clout to assemble the kind of event that Gucci pulled off with the London concert. Mr. Pinault stressed that this was not conceived as a marketing event and praised “the real sincerity” of Ms. Giannini.

So after the enormous impact on Internet sites like Facebook, supposedly equal in response to a football final, what has changed since the concert’s chimes have faded?

“For me, the concert was an awareness tool,” Ms. Obaid-Chinoy said. “People heard stories of women from as far away as Iran and Pakistan. They saw images that shook them, voices that inspired them, they learned about today’s frontline warriors around the world. It was a message of hope and strength that encouraged those attending to give back.”
261 2013-06-11 However, the Prism program gathers metadata — information about patterns and locations of communications — rather than content.

Mr. Hague sidestepped when asked by Douglas Alexander, spokesman for foreign affairs from the opposition Labour Party, what controls apply over requests from G.C.H.Q. for information based on searches of foreign databases — rather than intercepts.

“Because circumstances vary and because procedures vary according to the situation, I don’t want to give a categoric answer,” Mr. Hague told British lawmakers, though he added that “ministerial oversight, independent scrutiny is there.”

“The idea that operations are carried without ministerial oversight, somehow getting around U.K. law, is a mistaken idea,” Mr. Hague added.

Mr. Alexander praised the work of the intelligence services but called for reassurances “in recognition of the depth of public concern that has arisen in recent days.”

Last week, The Guardian newspaper reported that G.C.H.Q. generated 197 intelligence reports through the Prism system in the year to May 2012. G.C.H.Q. has refused to comment on the details of the claims but said in a statement that its work “is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorized, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight.”

According to experts, the legal situation remains opaque. “We are told this is lawful but the precise nature of these legal judgments are hidden from us,” said Richard J. Aldrich, a professor of international security at the University of Warwick.

He argued that intelligence agencies now had access to enormous stores of information that could be crosschecked with other data to build up a profile of individuals’ lives.

“The last 10 years has been about working out how to warehouse unbelievable amounts of boring data and how to analyze that data — and they have cracked it,” Professor Aldrich said.

Through such a process it would be possible for the authorities “to have a better memory of what I was doing 10 months ago than I have,” he said.

Politicians in continental Europe also expressed concerns. “All our e-mails and other electronic communication, including social media, even if sent only between European Union citizens, can be intercepted and read by U.S. security services,” said Guy Verhofstadt, a former Belgian prime minister who leads the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats in the European Parliament. “This has obvious and very serious privacy consequences for E.U. citizens.”

Earlier Monday, Prime Minister David Cameron spoke in defense of the British intelligence agencies, also insisting they were operating within the law.

“I see every day the vital work they do to keep us safe,” he said while answering questions after a speech in Essex, “but it is vital work that is done under a legal framework within the law and subject to proper scrutiny by the intelligence and security committee.”

“The intelligence services operate within the law, within the law that we have laid down, and they are also subject to proper scrutiny by the intelligence and security committee of the House of Commons,” he said.
262 2013-06-12 ZABRISKIE--Sumner. Bnai Zion lost a dedicated member of its national board, involved with the organization for over fifty years. A devoted participant of the Kew Gardens Hills chapter, Sumner set up an endowment to help Bnai Zion and was highly su...
263 2013-06-12 Through an experimental method of financing social services, the bank is lending up to $4.6 million for a preschool program in Salt Lake City....
264 2013-06-12 The price of two second....
265 2013-06-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
266 2013-06-12 It may lack the touch-friendly software of newer iPod models, but the iPod Classic can still create playlists without a computer connection....
267 2013-06-12 Gov. Rick Perry, who will visit New York and Connecticut next week in hopes of luring business from the gun, pharmaceutical and financial industries, is spreading his recruitment message on the radio and television....
268 2013-06-12 The software, called iOS 7, adopts a “flat” design principle that simplifies the look, while introducing thin typography and a vibrant color palette....
269 2013-06-12 The videos, available online, were released a day after Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo unveiled a bill to establish a public financing system for state elections....
270 2013-06-12 Burberry’s latest online foray is a virtual kissing booth....
271 2013-06-12 Richard N. Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, the American foreign policy think tank, sat down with Rendezvous’s editor Marcus Mabry to talk Syria. Mr. Haass gave a long laundry list of what issues are more important to the Un...
272 2013-06-12 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
273 2013-06-12 What do you think? Should Mr. Reed automate — or delegate — more of his operational tasks? Should he change his e-commerce platform?...
274 2013-06-12 The technology companies asked the government for permission to reveal details about the classified requests they get for the personal information of foreign users, Claire Cain Miller reports in The New York Times....
275 2013-06-12 Advocacy groups have filed a civil rights complaint with the Justice Department on behalf of seven students in Texas. The move was to protest policies under which students are referred to truancy court.

The complaint, filed Wednesday by Texas Appleseed, the National Center for Youth Law and Disability Rights Texas — all nonprofit law centers — said that the truancy courts in Dallas County had prosecuted more than 36,000 students in four school districts, more than any other Texas county.

The students, some as young as 12, were prosecuted as adults, the complaint said, and not given any legal counsel. The complaint said that the districts — Dallas, Garland, Mesquite and Richardson — are violating the students’ civil rights and that the truancy courts violates the students’ right to due process.

“You have the adults pushing kids into this court system that could ultimately lead to them being locked up for very, very minor behavior,” said Michael Harris, a senior lawyer at the National Center for Youth Law.

In a statement, a spokesman for the Dallas Independent School District, said that the district believed that “student attendance is essential to academic success.” He added: “Dallas I.S.D. adheres to all attendance policies set by the state and cooperates closely with the Office of Civil Rights.”

A spokesman for the Richardson Independent School District issued a statement, saying that the district “works proactively to educate students and parents about attendance expectations and truancy,” adding, “When truancy situations do occur, R.I.S.D. follows Texas law.”

Babetta Hemphill, the director of student services and school choice at the Garland Independent School District, said that the district viewed truancy court as “our very last resort.” She said the schools “attempt to intervene and give the family ample opportunity” to respond.
276 2013-06-12 It seems likely that the Affordable Care Act will induce more people to retire and more employers to lay workers off....
277 2013-06-12 Eighteen Division I teams will miss postseason play, and another 18 in men’s basketball and 9 in other college sports will trade practice time for remedial classroom sessions as a result of the N.C.A.A. academic progress reports released Tuesday.

Poor academic progress rate scores mean postseason bans in the 2013-14 academic year for teams from 10 universities: Alabama State, Arkansas-Pine Bluff, Florida A&M, Florida International, Grambling, Mississippi Valley State, New Orleans, Norfolk State, Savannah State and Southern. In the 2012-13 postseason, 15 teams were ineligible.

Five teams received so-called Level 3 A.P.R. penalties, which can include financial aid reductions and multiyear postseason bans: the men’s basketball teams at Grambling, Mississippi Valley, New Orleans and Louisiana-Monroe and the Chicago State women’s volleyball team.

Most of the penalized universities, including 11 historically black institutions, have significantly more limited resources than top N.C.A.A. programs.

The overall four-year A.P.R. score across Division I is 974, a 1-point increase from last year. Scores are calculated by individual Division I teams based on eligibility and graduation and retention rates. A minimum four-year average of 900, or 930 over the most recent two years, is required for postseason participation. The minimum required A.P.R. scores will increase to 930 over four years or 940 over two years, starting with the 2014-15 postseason.
278 2013-06-12 A jury was sworn in Tuesday after a selection process in which the pool of candidates grew to 858 people, the largest in the history of the federal court in Massachusetts. The trial could last through September.

Mr. Bulger’s 32-count indictment brims with charges of racketeering, extortion, money laundering, drug dealing, gun stockpiling and, of course, murder. He has pleaded not guilty to all charges.

The ones that rankle him the most are those alleging that he violated his personal code, which bars not only the killing of women but also the ratting out of anyone. He is implicated in the deaths of two women (he says Mr. Flemmi did the actual choking of Ms. Davis). And while nothing was more despicable in his insular Irish enclave of South Boston than a rat, mountains of evidence, including his 700-page informant file, show that Mr. Bulger was a longtime informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

But Mr. Bulger is only half the story — the F.B.I. is effectively on trial, too. The bureau has yet to fully acknowledge how it allowed a criminal of Mr. Bulger’s reach to remain free while the bodies kept piling up.

“This is the worst informant scandal in the bureau’s history,” said Dick Lehr, co-author of “Whitey: The Life of America’s Most Notorious Mob Boss.” “You can’t prosecute Whitey for these murders without prosecuting the F.B.I., the big elephant in the room.”

Though Mr. Bulger’s reign in South Boston ended almost two decades ago — and the gritty Southie of his era has morphed into SoBo and is now overrun with yuppies and glassy condos — people here are still gripped by his story.

In a Suffolk University poll during the weekend, an extraordinary 68 percent of likely voters in Massachusetts said they were very or somewhat interested in the trial. Under questioning, several would-be jurors said they had read books about Mr. Bulger. At least 17 have been published, including two major opuses that have landed just in time for the trial, where the final chapter will be written.

“There’s something about this story that is timeless,” said Dr. John H. Halpern, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, who has never met Mr. Bulger but has closely followed his case.

“If you’re not caught until you’re in your 80s, it seems like you got away with it,” he said. “And so why not fight the charges? You get all the attention, you watch the government spend millions of dollars, and even though you’re in shackles, you’re the one in control. Who’s laughing here?”

The mere mention of the Bulger name conjures up multiple story lines worthy of an epic novel.

There is the tale of two brothers, Whitey and Billy, one a powerful and feared Irish mob boss, the other a powerful and feared Irish politician. William M. Bulger, president of the Massachusetts Senate for 17 years, was forced out as president of the University of Massachusetts in 2003 after taking the Fifth Amendment when testifying before Congress about his brother’s whereabouts. He is expected to attend the trial.

There is the Whitey who maintained two simultaneous romances over two decades with two women. He lived with Teresa Stanley and had dinner most nights with her and her children, whom he treated as his own. Then he would leave and spend most nights with Catherine Greig, who fed him a second dinner and would eventually disappear with him, even though he was implicated in the murders of two of her brothers-in-law.

And there was his relationship with John Connolly, the corrupt F.B.I. agent to whom Mr. Bulger fed information and who fed information back to him. This included a tip that Mr. Bulger was about to be indicted, sending him on the lam for 16 years.

He and Ms. Greig were caught in 2011 in Santa Monica, Calif., where Mr. Bulger had stashed $800,000 in cash and an arsenal of weapons in the walls of their bungalow. But the guns were useless when he was lured outside and taken into custody without a shot being fired, a surprisingly mundane ending for a man accused of blowing other people’s brains out (and being able to nap afterward).

Three of Mr. Bulger’s erstwhile accomplices, including Mr. Flemmi, are set to testify against him as star witnesses for the prosecution. Mr. Bulger’s theatrical defense lawyer, J. W. Carney Jr., who started a shouting match and interrupted the judge in court on Tuesday, is preparing to attack their credibility with their own past misdeeds, which include murder and being informers themselves.

Mr. Bulger is expected to take the stand. He has said in letters obtained by The Boston Globe that he wants to “get my name cleared.”

Michael D. Kendall, a former federal prosecutor who investigated some aspects of Mr. Bulger’s activities, said he expected him to use what he called the “Irish Alzheimer’s defense.”

“That’s where you forget everything but the names of your enemies,” Mr. Kendall said. “The point of the trial is not to defeat the charges and emerge a free man, but to get back at as many people as he can.”

Hordes of news organizations are primed for the spectacle. Many have set up special Web sites, live feeds and apps devoted to the case. The trial is such a part of the gestalt here that a recent news article in Plymouth said of a coming zoning board hearing: “It won’t have the lurid attraction of the Whitey Bulger trial, but ...”

Most of the people he is charged with killing were gangland rivals or people he thought would snitch on him. But one was an innocent bystander. Another was mistaken for someone else.

Like many of the victims, Ms. Davis was not found for several years, until a former Bulger accomplice led the authorities to her marshy grave. Her brother Steve, now 55, said he did not believe anything that Mr. Bulger says, especially that he did not kill women because he had a code against it.

“He never had a code,” Mr. Davis said scornfully. “He had a Whitey code — it was his rules and his way. It was Whitey’s world. And now it’s coming crumbling down.”

But given the history of the case, Mr. Davis does not have a lot of faith in the prosecution, either.

“I don’t trust anyone in this whole thing,” he said. “Is the government flying straight? You have to wonder.”
279 2013-06-12 WASHINGTON — American wholesalers increased their stockpiles in April, and their sales rebounded from a big decline in March, positive signs for economic growth.

The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that stockpiles at the wholesale level rose 0.2 percent in April. That followed a 0.3 percent gain in March.

Sales in April increased 0.5 percent, the best showing since February. In March, sales plunged 1.4 percent.

The April increase left stockpiles at the wholesale level at $504.8 billion, up 4.1 percent from a year ago and 31.2 percent above the recession low.

An increase in restocking can drive more economic growth because it indicates companies are ordering more goods from American factories.
280 2013-06-12 BERKELEY, Calif. — THE revelation that the federal government has been secretly gathering records on the phone calls and online activities of millions of Americans and foreigners seems not to have alarmed most Americans. A poll conducted by the over the four days immediately after the news first broke found that just 41 percent of Americans deemed it unacceptable that the “has been getting secret court orders to track telephone calls of millions of Americans to investigate terrorism.”

We privacy watchers and civil libertarians think this complacent response misses a deeply worrying political shift of vast consequence. While has conveniently described the costs of what appears to be pervasive surveillance of Americans’ telecommunications connections as “modest encroachments on privacy,” what we are actually witnessing is a sea change in the kinds of things that the government can monitor in the lives of ordinary citizens.

The N.S.A. dragnet of “connection data” — who communicates with whom, where, how often and for how long — aims at finding patterns between calls or messages, and between parties with given characteristics, which correlate with increased odds of terrorist activity. These patterns can in turn cue authorities to focus attention on possible terrorists.

The success rate in these operations is a matter of intense speculation, given the authorities’ closemouthed stance on the matter. But no serious analyst can doubt that such steps may be helping to pinpoint terrorist acts in advance, as supporters, like Senator , Democrat of , have insisted.

The question, though, is what comes next? Government planners have apparently invested billions of dollars to develop these new surveillance capabilities. Given the open-ended nature of this country’s relentless campaign against terrorism and other declared evils, it would be naïve to imagine that the state’s grip on “big data,” achieved at such cost, would be allowed to atrophy in the foreseeable future. It is far more likely that new uses — and, inevitably, abuses — will be found for these surveillance techniques.
281 2013-06-12 The United Nations human rights investigator for the Palestinian territories said Tuesday that he would not resign, and he accused critics who have called him anti-Semitic of trying to divert attention from his scrutiny of Israeli policies. The investigator, Richard Falk, left, accused Israel on Monday of imposing collective punishment on 1.75 million Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and said that the enclave’s viability was at stake. UN Watch and the United States have called for him to quit. The American ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council, Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, described him as “unfit to serve in his role as a U.N. special rapporteur.” Mr. Falk said Secretary General Ban Ki-moon had “joined in the attacks.”

“I don’t intend to resign, and there doesn’t seem to be any formal initiative that is seeking my dismissal,” Mr. Falk said at a briefing. “My role of trying to speak honestly about the situation that Palestinians are facing under this condition of prolonged occupation generates this sort of reaction that tries to paint anti-Israeli criticism as a form of anti-Semitism.” Israel and the United States have boycotted the debate at the Human Rights Council, where Mr. Falk, an American law professor who is Jewish, called for an inquiry into allegations of torture of Palestinians in Israeli custody.
282 2013-06-12 In the past year and a half, Damien Hirst’s spot paintings have sold at auction for anything between $53,000 and $1.7 million. Represented here are the individual works sold and their price ranges, by year.
283 2013-06-12 “Right now we have a situation where the executive branch is getting a billion records a day, and we’re told they will not query that data except pursuant to very clear standards,” Mr. Sherman said. “But we don’t have the courts making sure that those standards are always followed.”

Many lawmakers trained their sights on , the intelligence contractor who leaked classified documents to and The . Mr. Boehner called him a traitor.

Mr. McConnell told reporters: “Given the scope of these programs, it’s understandable that many would be concerned about issues related to privacy. But what’s difficult to understand is the motivation of somebody who intentionally would seek to warn the nation’s enemies of lawful programs created to protect the American people. And I hope that he is prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”

The comments of the Senate leaders showed a coordinated effort to squelch any legislative move to rein in the surveillance programs. Mr. Reid took the unusual step of publicly slapping back at fellow senators — including senior Democrats — who have suggested that most lawmakers have been kept in the dark about the issue.

“For senators to complain that they didn’t know this was happening, we had many, many meetings that have been both classified and unclassified that members have been invited to,” Mr. Reid said. “They shouldn’t come and say, ‘I wasn’t aware of this,’ because they’ve had every opportunity.”

Among lawmakers who have expressed concerns in the past, however, the issues have not been laid to rest. When reporters pressed Mr. Wyden on whether Mr. Clapper had lied to him, he stopped short of making that accusation, but made his discontent clear.

“The president has said — correctly, in my view — that strong Congressional oversight is absolutely essential in this area,” he said. “It’s not possible for the Congress to do the kind of vigorous oversight that the president spoke about if you can’t get straight answers.”

At the March Senate hearing, Mr. Wyden asked Mr. Clapper, “Does the N.S.A. collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?”

Mr. Wyden said on Tuesday that he had sent his question to Mr. Clapper’s office a day before the hearing, and had given his office a chance to correct the misstatement after the hearing, but to no avail.

In an interview on Sunday with NBC News, Mr. Clapper acknowledged that his answer had been problematic, calling it “the least untruthful” answer he could give.

, the former director of both the N.S.A. and the , said he considered Mr. Wyden’s question unfair, given the classified subject. “There’s not another country in the world where that question would have been asked and answered in a public session,” he said.

Some other statements of N.S.A. officials appear in retrospect to offer a mistaken impression of the agency’s collection of information about Americans. Mr. Wyden said he had pressed Mr. Clapper on the matter because he had been dissatisfied with what he felt were misleading answers from Gen. , the N.S.A. director. And in a recent speech, the N.S.A.’s general counsel, Rajesh De, sought to debunk what he called “false myths” about the agency, including the idea that “N.S.A. is spying on Americans at home and abroad with questionable or no legal basis.”

While that may be literally true — there is a legal basis — it appears awkward in retrospect that Mr. De’s defense of the agency failed to mention its collection of phone data on Americans.

“It’s a fine line he was treading,” said Matthew M. Aid, an intelligence historian and author of “The Secret Sentry,” a 2009 book on the N.S.A. “But trying to talk around these secret programs just makes matters worse.”

The solution, he said, is for intelligence officials to share more information about what the N.S.A. does and why. “Actually be forthright with the American people,” he said.

Senator of California, chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, told reporters on Tuesday that she had asked General Alexander to declassify more information about the surveillance programs — like terrorist plots that might have been foiled — to help explain their usefulness.

“If we can get that declassified, we can speak much more clearly,” she said.
284 2013-06-12 Just two weeks ago, Don and Chika

pastry. They open at 7 a.m., but you

do not have to get up at dawn; the

buns are available until midnight.
285 2013-06-12 For now, most of the old airport, including the area where the terminal building once stood, lies empty, the shiny new cruise terminal awkwardly isolated at the far end of the former runway. The nearest neighborhoods — Kwun Tong and Kowloon Bay — are somewhat rundown, and until planned public transportation connections are completed in the coming years, the terminal building’s rooftop gardens will be tough for ordinary visitors to reach.

While Hong Kong is home to one of the busiest container ports in the world, cruise companies held off factoring the terminal into their itineraries until it was actually finished. Just 19 ships are scheduled to dock at the new terminal in the next 12 months.

Still, industry executives say they believe that traffic will gradually increase as cruise activity in Asia picks up, and Hong Kong policy makers see the project as crucial to expanding tourism in the city.

Gregory So, the Hong Kong secretary for commerce and economic development, said at a media briefing last week that the new terminal would “greatly enhance the berthing capacity for cruise ships in Hong Kong, thereby enhancing our competitiveness and attractiveness.”

The decision to convert the old airport site is, in essence, a bet on Asia’s growing appetite for travel.

Over the last few decades, thanks to rising affluence and improved transport links, Asia has evolved from being primarily a destination for wealthy Westerners to being an increasingly important source of new travelers — Asians journeying to places within the region and beyond. Travel from mainland China, in particular, has soared, making the country both the biggest source of foreign tourists in the world, and the biggest spender in global tourism, according to the World Tourism Organization.

This growth has yet to extend into the cruise ship segment, which remains overwhelmingly focused on travel within the Mediterranean and the Caribbean. Just under two-thirds of the roughly 21 million people in the world who will take a cruise this year will come from North America, and about 27 percent will come from Europe, according to Cruise Market Watch, an American firm that compiles data on the industry. Only about 7 percent come from Asia.

In part, that is because Asians have only recently begun to approach travel as something that involves relaxation and leisure, rather than an activity focused on shopping and sightseeing, said Liu Zinan, chairman of the Asia Cruise Association and vice president of Asia for Royal Caribbean.

The lack of terminals that accommodate cruise ships also has hampered growth in the region.

“Compared to the Mediterranean and the Caribbean, there is a paucity of destinations for cruise ships to go,” said Jeff Bent, managing director of Worldwide Cruise Terminals, which manages the new terminal in Hong Kong. “Cruise lines have fewer options to put together interesting itineraries.”

That is changing rapidly as port cities and cruise companies race to expand their capacities in the region.

“The market potential for cruising in Asia is huge as the total potential number of cruise passengers could reach 3.7 million by 2017, and double to over seven million by 2020,” said Pier Luigi Foschi, the Asia head of Carnival Cruise Lines, which opened an office in Singapore last month to spearhead its operations in the region.

Singapore opened a large new cruise ship terminal last year, which, like the new center in Hong Kong, can handle ships as large as 220,000 tons. The terminal expects 100 ship calls in the coming cruise season, which runs from October to May.

In Hong Kong, the debut of the Kai Tak Cruise Terminal opens the city to superlarge cruise liners, which are too large to dock at the existing Ocean Terminal, just across Victoria Harbor from the city’s skyscraper-studded financial district.

And in mainland China, new operations have been developed in several coastal cities.

“Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tianjin, Singapore — they are all racing with each other to become leading cruise ports in the region,” said Mr. Liu of Royal Caribbean. Hong Kong’s geographic location and hotel and transport infrastructures, he added, mean the new terminal will be an important feature on tour operators’ itineraries.

Anyone who might want to reminisce over the old Kai Tak Airport and its legendary flight approach, however, will have to look elsewhere. The new building retains little of the site’s former incarnation, though a park being planned alongside it will have an “aviation theme.”
286 2013-06-12 “I think it’s the best thing that’s happened to the city in a long time,” said Abe Stanway, 23, a data engineer from Fort Greene, Brooklyn. “But it hasn’t proven itself to be reliable if I really need to be on time.”

After his latest problem with faulty docks in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn on Monday, Mr. Stanway said he decided to commute by private bike again for the foreseeable future.

The city’s Transportation Department has sought to minimize these issues, referring to them as inevitable kinks. Compared with the number of trips taken each day, the city said that incidents were infrequent and appeared to be diminishing, though officials would not provide a more detailed estimate of breakdowns in the system. Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the department, suggested last week that riders’ own inexperience with the system was contributing to their troubles.

But a survey of programs in other cities makes clear that New York’s problems lie with its system, not its users. Officials in Washington and Boston said that even in their programs’ infancies, they never had station failures like New York’s or widespread difficulties with docking.

Those cities also use New York’s chosen operator, Alta Bicycle Share, based in Oregon, but have software from a company called 8D Technologies. Alta’s partner based in Montreal, Public Bike System Company, has since severed ties with 8D, and chose to develop its own software before the introduction of the New York system.

New York’s program was expected to begin last summer, but faced delays because, as Mayor Bloomberg put it last August, “the software doesn’t work.” (Flooding from Hurricane Sandy postponed the program further, amid damage to equipment stored at the Brooklyn Navy Yard during the storm.)

In January, records show, Alta filed a lawsuit in an Oregon circuit court against Public Bike System Company, saying it delivered “nonconforming goods and faulty goods” to New York’s bike-share program. Alta said this week that the suit was never served and that the groups remained partners.

The other city using the new software is Chattanooga, Tenn., where a bike program began last summer. Philip Pugliese, the bicycle coordinator there, said in an interview that the city had experienced a spate of docking problems. But with only 300 bikes and about 30 stations, Mr. Pugliese said, “we could manage any customer service issues at the local level.”

In New York, with 6,000 bikes at more than 300 stations, gaps in the system have proved more difficult to patch. Stations are both solar- and battery-powered, with the strength of their charges dependent on factors like weather and use rates for bikes, as well as the adjoining touch-screen device. Accordingly, a beautiful day is both a blessing and a curse: The sun can help sustain a station, but ideal riding conditions beget heavy use, which can drain batteries.

As riders have sought to report problems since the opening, a customer service phone line has repeatedly failed. Station information provided by an app has often been unreliable, riders said, and many annual subscribers have still not received their membership keys.

Mr. Solomonow said the program had been rescinding overage charges when riders were unable to dock a bike, though it was not clear how the system could distinguish between riders who struggled to return bikes and those who simply rode for too long.

Officials also said this week that the customer service center’s capacity had been doubled, but even this bit of progress was met with some skepticism.

“Focus more on fixing your software and equipment malfunctions,” one man wrote on the Citi Bike Facebook page on Monday, “and then you will have far fewer calls and e-mails to customer service.”

Since the program began, on Memorial Day, the Facebook page has been host to several squabbles, dividing program loyalists preaching patience from others whose displeasure with the problems has already reached a boiling point.

“To all who are kvetching about the kvetching: Citi Bike was clearly unprepared, and it’s taken them way too long to acknowledge it,” one man wrote on the system’s Facebook page. “I am proud to be an early adopter/beta tester,” another said. “Hiccup city.”

Janette Sadik-Khan, the city’s transportation commissioner, said that “every new bike-share system has had an adjustment period,” adding that the scale of New York’s program “is like nowhere else.”

Yet for a program built on the notion of self-reliant travel and predictable commute times, the daily uncertainty of the docking system has undercut part of cycling’s very appeal.

“We feel in control,” Charles Komanoff, a transportation economist and longtime cycling advocate, said of bike commuting. “If you don’t have that with bike share, then it’s never going to fulfill its true potential.”

And yet, amid the chorus of complaints about station locations and reckless cycling habits, the city is teeming with those who hope the program does.

On Sunday, Erin Stabile, 23, walked more than a mile from the Upper East Side to a rack near 58th Street and Second Avenue, disinclined to spend any part of a picturesque day inside a darkened subway tunnel.

When she arrived, she said, the station was out of service. She walked west to another hub, where she was able to check out a bike, and rode to a station near the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, which would not allow her to return it. She found a working station a few blocks away, at Ashland Place and Hanson Place, and later rode back from there to the station at East 58th Street, which again refused to cooperate. “I’m an idiot,” Ms. Stabile said, walking toward a working kiosk on Third Avenue.

Though it would have been nice if the station were fixed, she explained, she should have known better.
287 2013-06-13 After two rain delays, the first round of the U.S. Open resumed, but play was cut short as darkness fell....
288 2013-06-13 Demonstrations on the Supreme Court’s grounds have long been banned, but the high court responded to a judgment narrowing that ban with a new regulation....
289 2013-06-13 The stores, at 1,500 to 2,200 square feet, will be the biggest stores-within-a-store at Best Buy, which has similar dedicated areas for Samsung and Apple products....
290 2013-06-13 AC Hotels by Marriott, a joint venture of Marriott International and the Spanish group AC Hotels, will be coming to North America....
291 2013-06-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
292 2013-06-13 Medicare is reducing fees for diabetes care supplies, and beneficiaries are likely to be charged less, too....
293 2013-06-13 HD Supply Holdings is planning an initial public offering that would value the entire company at about $4.3 billion, far less than the price paid by three private equity firms six years ago....
294 2013-06-13 After two rain delays, the first day of the United States Open ended with Luke Donald, at 4-under-par with five holes left in his first round, owning a one-shot lead over Adam Scott and Phil Mickelson....
295 2013-06-13 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
296 2013-06-13 Intel’s ambition to sell a bundle of television channels to subscribers over the Internet is running up against stiff resistance from cable and satellite companies, Brian Stelter reports in The New York Times....
297 2013-06-13 Do not waste time reinventing the wheel. There are established companies that are eager to share what they have learned....
298 2013-06-13 The Times’s Susanne Craig on the investment firm’s longtime chief executive Lloyd C. Blankfein, who is showing few signs of stepping down soon.
299 2013-06-13 The Bruins blocked 40 Chicago shots, led by defenseman Dennis Seidenberg, with 9, and Andrew Ference, with 8. Ference had a game-high 10 hits, while three Blackhawks had nine apiece. Chicago defenseman Duncan Keith led all skaters with 48:40 of ice time, and Seidenberg was next at 48:36.

Chicago forward Marian Hossa led all shooters with 10 shots on goal, followed by the Chicago rookie Brandon Saad, who had nine. The teams took 114 face-offs, with the Bruins winning 58 and the Blackhawks winning 56. The exhausted Blackhawks took two penalties during overtime for too many men on the ice.

“Obviously that kind of thing is going to set in — that’s the reality,” said the Blackhawks captain Jonathan Toews, who had 52 shifts. “Both teams are just kicking, trying to survive. Every time you go back on the ice, you try and get that feeling that it’s going to be that one chance that makes the difference.”

In the second extra period, each weary team took 10 shots. With 53 seconds left in the session, the Blackhawks took their second too-many-men-on-the-ice overtime penalty. The 6-foot-9 defenseman Zdeno Chara took a blast from inside the blue line with 10 seconds remaining, and the puck deflected off Jaromir Jagr and slammed inside the goal post behind Corey Crawford and skittered across the crease.

The Bruins sustained a blow during the first overtime when wing Nathan Horton left the game with a shoulder injury, which many have speculated he has been playing with in the playoffs. Horton is the N.H.L.’s postseason plus-minus leader with a plus-22 mark.

Bruins Coach Claude Julien said it was too soon to characterize the extent of Horton’s injury. But he said he was not upset by the defeat.

“It could have gone either way,” he said. “With a little bit of luck, we could have ended it before they did. But that’s the name of the game.”

In the second overtime period, Bruins forward Kaspars Daugavins almost won the game, but his shot at an open net was thwarted by Blackhawks defenseman Johnny Oduya.

“I missed my shot,” Daugavins said after the game, nearly distraught. “It hurts.”

Well into the third period, it looked as if the Bruins would run away with the game. Milan Lucic staked Boston to a 2-0 lead with goals in the first and second periods. Saad halved the Blackhawks’ deficit soon after Lucic’s second goal. But Patrice Bergeron made the score 3-1 with a power-play goal at 6:09 of the third period.

Yet the Blackhawks kept pressing and rallied. They pulled to 3-2 when Bolland scored at the eight-minute mark, and Oduya tied the score at 12:14 when his long slap shot deflected off the skate of Ference and into the Boston net.

With the third goal, the Blackhawks had beaten Rask one more time than the Pittsburgh Penguins had over the four games of the Eastern Conference finals.

As the two Original Six teams met, memories of Bobby Hull, Stan Mikita, Bobby Orr and Phil and Tony Esposito filled the air. Outside, a heavy Midwestern storm produced a loud thunderclap that startled fans inside the building.

The Bruins killed off three penalties, including a two-man advantage for 1:17 during the second period. They have now killed off 19 straight penalties, dating to Game 5 of the second round against the Rangers.
300 2013-06-13 The judge in the case, Shira A. Scheindlin, is set to decide in the coming months whether such violations existed in the Police Department’s tactic of stopping, questioning and frisking New Yorkers.

The trial, which ended in late May after two months of testimony, has emerged as a flash point in the mayoral race, with candidates drawing stark lines over whether they would embrace the tactics, strongly associated with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, or seek to end them if elected.

At times during the trial, Judge Scheindlin appeared skeptical of crucial aspects of the city’s defense. In an earlier trial related to a smaller number of police stops in the Bronx, she found widespread constitutional violations.

Should Judge Scheindlin find similarly in this case, Floyd v. City of New York, the next step would be to order the Police Department to make changes.

Wednesday was the deadline for parties in the suit to file their final post-trial motions. Though not a party to the lawsuit, the Justice Department has the standing to offer its views in any federal case, to provide its interpretation of case law and opinion on the best course forward.

Civil rights advocates, as well as some local and federal elected officials, have long called for the Justice Department to get involved in monitoring the practices of the Police Department and its tactics for street stops. Before the Justice Department filed its papers, the mayor’s office echoed statements that had been made throughout the trial, describing New York as “the safest big city in the country,” thanks to the Police Department’s work, and saying that the administration would “continue giving them the support and tools they need to do their jobs.”

The Justice Department challenged the notion, often cited by Mr. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, that a court-appointed monitor would diminish the Police Department’s ability to fight crime.

“In the experience of the United States,” the statement read, “reform through a court-ordered process improves public confidence, makes officers’ jobs safer, and increases the ability of the department to fight crime.”

The statement pointed to examples of several other cities in which monitors addressed court-ordered changes, including Seattle, Washington and Detroit. And it dismissed the suggestion that existing oversight mechanisms for the New York police were sufficient, should civil rights violations be found by the court, arguing that the existing structures focused on individual misconduct, not structural changes.

The lawsuit, brought by the Center for Constitutional Rights and others, claims that the Police Department has a policy of stopping and frisking black and Hispanic New Yorkers without suspicion of any criminality. Such stops of minorities are disproportionate to the black and Hispanic population and nearly 90 percent of the time result in no arrest or summons. Lawyers who brought the case argued that those facts provided evidence that the stops were unconstitutionally based on race or ethnicity.

City lawyers have responded that the high number of minority stops reflected the percentage of violent crimes committed by black and Hispanic men and, in some cases, was lower than would be expected based on descriptions of suspects. Mr. Kelly, who did not testify, and Mr. Bloomberg have strongly defended the Police Department’s practices, saying they were an integral part of reducing crime in the city.
301 2013-06-13 There are not too many precedents for players who are forced to make major adjustments to their swings midseason. But no matter when that kind of undertaking starts, it is a lofty task.

Fans around New York may remember when Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter devoted months before the 2011 season to trying to shorten his stride at the plate. It was a minor adjustment, born inside a private environment and carried eventually into games. But it proved maddening and unproductive for him, and a few months later, the project was scrapped.

Davis will have to do such self-examination, speculation and second-guessing while following a rigorous game schedule.

On Wednesday, Davis for a second straight day took extra batting practice, more than five hours before the Las Vegas 51s’ game against the Tacoma Rainiers at Cashman Field.

It was the same foursome as Tuesday afternoon — Davis, outfielder Mike Baxter, 51s Manager Wally Backman and the hitting coach George Greer — and it was the same scene, too, the four maintaining an animated conversation through the session, more and more baseballs dotting the outfield grass.

Opinions have seemed mixed, even within the organization, on the extent to which Davis needs to revamp his swing.

Davis, for his part, tried two separate batting stances Tuesday, his first game for the 51s. Greer said Davis made those midgame changes on his own. He said he had not given Davis any instruction and had preferred to observe him at work.

“He’s doing what he needs to do so he can find a groove,” Greer said. “He may change. He may not. I don’t know.”

Greer said he believed, as a general rule, that slumps were broken against live pitching.

“You’ve got to swing your way out of it,” Greer said. “You can swing your way out of a good swing, as well as you can swing your way into a good swing. If you’re not swinging well, you need to hit.”

So Davis was out there Wednesday, batting fourth as the designated hitter, going 2-for-5 with a double and a strikeout. Many more at-bats will be required before solid judgments can be made.

The Mets have tried to remove the harsh spotlight that trailed Davis during his slump. But it will remain to a certain extent while he plays for the 51s. The crowds will be smaller, the news media coverage lighter, but their presence will still be felt. His box-score line will be available every day.

Mets Manager Terry Collins said the nature of the game made it necessary to keep playing games. The speed and variability of a game cannot be replicated during batting practice.

“In our game, if you’re going to work on some things, you have to be able to apply them as fast as you can,” Collins said. “So to have him do all that stuff, which he’ll do early, at least he’s allowed to take it into the game that night and see how it works.”
302 2013-06-13 Growing experience from bike-sharing programs in many cities makes clear that bicycling can be a safe mode of transportation, and the mere presence of a bike-sharing program is a boon to the safety of all bicyclists....
303 2013-06-13 Deaths exceeded births among non-Hispanic white Americans for the first time in at least a century, according to new census data, a benchmark that heralds profound demographic change.

The disparity was tiny — only about 12,000 — and was more than made up by a gain of 188,000 as a result of immigration from abroad. But the decrease for the year ending July 1, 2012, coupled with the fact that a majority of births in the United States are now to Hispanic, black and Asian mothers, is further evidence that white Americans will become a minority nationwide within about three decades.

Over all, the number of non-Hispanic white Americans is expected to begin declining by the end of this decade.

“These new census estimates are an early signal alerting us to the impending decline in the white population that will characterize most of the 21st century,” said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution.

The transition will mean that “today’s racial and ethnic minorities will no longer be dependent on older whites for their economic well-being,” Dr. Frey said. In fact, the situation may be reversed. “It makes more vivid than ever the fact that we will be reliant on younger minorities and immigrants for our future demographic and economic growth,” he said.
304 2013-06-13 The World Bank’s leadership should not undercut the effective analysis enabled by its Doing Business indicators....
305 2013-06-13 A Tibetan nun who self-immolated on Tuesday in Sichuan Province in China during a religious ceremony is still alive and in a hospital, according to reports from Tibetan advocacy groups and Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government. The nun set fire to herself near Nyatso monastery in Tawu County. Free Tibet said about 3,000 monks from 60 monasteries had gathered to take part in a debate festival.
306 2013-06-13 Credit: Newsha Tavakolian for The New York Times
307 2013-06-13 The path Smith has followed to the United States Open has left him financially bankrupt at least twice. He gave up the game and tried working in finance, but he hated it. Missing the game, he returned to golf, but only as a $10-an-hour assistant lugging clubs out of car trunks so they could be loaded onto golf carts. Humbled, he tried to latch on to every pro mini-tour in existence — the Hooters tour, the Moonlight tour, the eGolf tour, the Fore the Players tour.

“I played everywhere and not always successfully,” he said Wednesday, standing alongside the practice green at Merion Golf Club. “Many times I was at the end of the range practically in tears trying to hit a golf ball the right way.”

About five years ago, in the midst of his journey, Smith decided to reconnect with his father’s family at the Six Nations reserve, near Brantford, Ontario. Growing up in New Hampshire — Smith said his mother, Lynn, “is blonde-haired and blue-eyed” — he had not been apart from his father’s family, but he had never lived on the 46,000 acres of the reserve along the Grand River.

“It was a part of my life that I was missing,” he said Wednesday. “I needed to go there.”

Smith moved into a log cabin with his paternal grandfather, Leslie, leaving for golf tournaments for a few weeks at a time and then returning to the reserve. Leslie Smith’s brother Harold, later known as Jay Silverheels, had become an actor who played Tonto on the Lone Ranger television show.

“My great-uncle died just after I was born, but my grandfather and I became extremely close,” Jesse Smith said. “He had a tremendous amount of wisdom and taught me a lot about life.

“Living at the reserve has turned out to be a huge part of my life. It’s been a big part of my growth as a person.”

Smith also reunited with one of his golf mentors, the top teaching pro David Glenz in New Jersey, whom Jesse had met through his college roommate at Colgate University several years earlier.

“David helped me rebuild my game and helped me get back on my feet when I needed it,” Smith said of Glenz, who will caddie for him this week.

Rejuvenated spiritually and reconstructed as a golfer, Jesse went to the United States Open 36-hole qualifier in Purchase, N.Y., on June 3, trying to play his way into the event for a third time. He ended up tying for the low score of the day. Tuesday at Merion, he played a practice round with Tiger Woods.

How did that happen? There was a vacant spot in Woods’s group, and he signed up.

“I thought, ‘Why not?’ ” Smith said, smiling. “Tiger couldn’t have been nicer to me.”

He has set no expectations for the tournament, other than to make sure the dozens of friends and family, which includes his mother and sister Jaime and a collection from the Six Nations reserve, get their tickets to watch him play.

“I want to prepare to play as well as I can and I’ll be happy for the opportunity from there,” he said. “And I am very proud to represent the Six Nations and to represent New Hampshire. That’s very important to me. I’m proud of both sides of my family.

“My life has been pretty neat. I became a golfer, and as it happens, golf is a game of equality. There is no draft, no combine and no coach’s decision about who plays. You do your best and the score decides where you end up.”

Standing in the sun at Merion on Wednesday, awaiting the biggest golf rounds of his life, Smith liked where he was.

“Life takes some funny turns and you have to learn from each one,” he said. “But if you believe in something, and if you keep your dream, it can happen.”
308 2013-06-13 For the last several years, the Environmental Protection Agency has focused its chemical plant safety inspection and enforcement efforts on facilities that can affect local communities across the country, taking steps to identify potential issues and recurring chemical safety risks. But as the tragic incident in West, Tex., in April showed, more must be done.

In the time since that accident, federal agencies have improved their coordination to identify potential risks in chemical plant safety. We will continue working with stakeholders to explore how our legal authorities and policies are being used to address these concerns and to consider potential adjustments to increase risk reduction.

Over the last decade, we have seen substantial reductions to chemical disaster risk across the country, including 20 percent fewer chemical accidents among the largest chemical plants. We must learn from what happened in West, Tex., and do all we can to ensure that an explosion of that scale doesn’t happen again.

This must include renewed focus on supporting local responders, further efforts by the federal government to advance additional chemical plant safety measures, and standardizing the best practices of industry leaders.
309 2013-06-13 New York stood for equality by approving same-sex marriage two years ago. It is time now for state lawmakers to extend basic civil rights protections to transgender people. The 2002 state statute that bars discrimination based on sexual orientation in employment, housing, education, credit and public accommodations does not explicitly cover transgender people.

Some jurisdictions, including New York City and Suffolk and Westchester Counties, have enacted protections. But in much of the state, people who have had sex-change surgery and others who do not identify with their birth gender can still be denied a job, shelter, credit or access to services because of who they are.

A measure to outlaw discrimination based on gender identity or expression — the Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act, or Genda, sponsored by Assemblyman Richard Gottfried and Senator Daniel Squadron — passed the Democratic-led Assembly in April for the sixth time. There is a good chance it would also pass the Senate, with nearly all Democrats and some Republicans voting in favor. The challenge is getting the bill to the floor for an up-or-down vote before the end of the legislative session, scheduled on June 20.

Senator Jeffrey Klein, the Democratic leader in the Senate’s coalition leadership, must insist on a vote. He should tell Senator Dean Skelos, the coalition’s Republican leader, that bottling up bills like this one is not part of their power-sharing deal. It would help if Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a supporter of the bill, would commit political capital to enacting the legislation before the session ends. Sixteen states — including New Jersey and Connecticut — and the District of Columbia have enacted anti-discrimination protections covering transgender people. New York should not lag on this important civil rights issue.
310 2013-06-13 Prospective products like Intel TV, delivered through the broadband Internet infrastructure of Comcast, Time Warner Cable or another provider and sometimes called “over the top TV,” have the potential to radically alter the media marketplace in the United States.

Unlike Netflix, which sells a library of TV episodes and mainly supplements cable, a service like Intel’s — with dozens of channels, big and small, streaming through a modern interface — could cause more consumers to cancel their cable subscriptions. (They would have to keep a broadband subscription, however, unless or until wireless capacity improves.)

It could also stir further innovation within the industry. If Intel’s service ever goes on sale, industry executives predict that others will quickly follow — either because they want to, or they feel they have no choice.

Apple, Microsoft and Sony are often mentioned as possibilities, but the more immediate competition might come from Comcast, Time Warner Cable and other major distributors, which could suddenly compete directly in markets all across the country. Comcast has quietly been working on an “over the top” service for well over a year.

“Suddenly there’d be a whole new world of competition,” said one of the executives, who declined to express support for the “over the top” option for fear of angering the existing distributors.

Most of those companies declined to comment on the record, but some representatives said privately that they are taking common-sense steps to protect their businesses. Each confidential contract between a distributor and a channel owner is different, they said.

Some contracts include clauses that expressly prohibit the channels to be sold to an Internet distributor like Intel, while other contracts merely discourage such competition by including financial incentives or penalties. So-called most favored nation clauses, which are common, exist to ensure that if another distributor receives a cheaper rate for a channel later, that rate applies across the board. Some of these provisions have been in place for years.

But critics said that the contractual language makes it much harder for new companies to enter the marketplace. A Justice Department official said in a presentation last year that “contracts that reference rivals” have the potential to harm competition.

Within the cable industry, the practice of discouraging new Internet distributors has been suspected but not widely documented. The issue attracted new attention on Tuesday during the cable industry’s conference when Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research, wrote in a blog post that at least one unnamed distributor had prevented a channel owner from selling to a service like Intel. Whether illegal or not, “it most certainly is bad for consumers, as it limits competition and prevents the emergence of distributors who can provide revolutionary new ways of experiencing” TV, he wrote.

Mr. Greenfield did not name any names, but several channel owners and smaller distributors said Time Warner Cable, the nation’s second-largest cable company after Comcast, had been by far the most aggressive in its dealings with channels. When Comcast acquired NBCUniversal in 2011, it signed a consent decree with the government that prohibited it from trying to block budding Internet distributors. Time Warner Cable declined to elaborate on its practices on Wednesday, but said in a statement that “it is absurd to suggest that, in today’s highly competitive video marketplace, obtaining some level of exclusivity is anticompetitive. Exclusivities and windows are extremely common in the entertainment industry; that’s exactly how entertainment companies compete.” It cited the N.F.L. deal with DirecTV and the Netflix distribution of the former cable show “Arrested Development,” among other examples.

Mr. Greenfield rejected that explanation. “They are not paying for exclusivity,” he said. “They are saying you can sell to X, to Y and Z, but you are forbidden from selling to this new class, called A.”

A spokesman for Intel declined to comment. But this week the company had a suite at a hotel, one block from the cable conference site, and held demonstrations of its service for potential partners. What Intel needs, according to people briefed on their plans, is the support of a critical mass of channels — not the entire universe that Comcast or DirecTV has, but enough to have a viable service. Intel will not introduce the service without that.
311 2013-06-13 The state that was the center of both the automotive and furniture industry for most of the 20th century has never been given due regard for its design influence. That’s the premise of “Michigan Modern: Design that Shaped America,” which opens on June 14 at the Cranbrook Art Museum in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Curated by Gregory Saldaña and Monica Ponce de Leon, the exhibition features well-known innovators like Eliel and Eero Saarinen, Florence Knoll and Henry Ford. But dozens of less-known figures also get to shine, including the textile designer Marianne Strengell, whose aluminum rug for Alcoa will be on view, and the architect William Muschenheim, whose 1954 home in Ann Arbor is shown here. A map room highlights every Michigan city that has made a design contribution, from Grosse Pointe to Kalamazoo. Through Oct. 13: (248) 645-3320 or cranbrook.edu.
312 2013-06-13 What’s the difference? Basically, local species evolve according to local climate, soil and pests. Big bluestem, a prairie grass from Long Island that is planted here, will have an advantage over the same species that evolved to suit particular conditions in Illinois.

And growing these local species preserves their particular genotypes, which might otherwise become extinct. Genetic diversity can exist even within a single species in the same region, like pyxie moss, a threatened plant that grows in the New Jersey Pine Barrens.

This expansion of the Native Flora Garden, which was planted on the adjacent two and a half acres more than 100 years ago, is really just another step in the botanic garden’s evolution toward ecological awareness.

The 1911 garden was created in a systematic fashion in which botanical families of plants were arranged in separate beds, said Uli Lorimer, the horticulturist and curator of the Native Flora Garden. “The idea was you would come to the garden and learn about asters and ferns and jack-in-the-pulpits, and then go out to the still-wild corners of New York City and find them,” he said. “Then in the late 1920s, the decision was made to redesign the garden along ecological, habitat lines.”

That design included a meadow and bog, a deciduous forest, a conifer forest and limestone and serpentine rock formations, as well as pinelands and a kettle pond. But over the years, the sunny spaces have turned back into forest and the sun-loving plants have been shaded out.

“That’s one of the big reasons that, five years ago, we decided to start this expansion project,” Mr. Lorimer told me as he led the way through the original Native Flora Garden, a lush woodland with 500 native species, including stands of spring ephemerals like Dutchman’s breeches, trout lilies, trillium and bloodroot. Since he arrived at the botanic garden in 2004, Mr. Lorimer has added about 100 species collected within the region.

“I thought it was important to sample the local genetic diversity,” he said, bending over a handful of sundial lupines that were surviving in a patch of sunlight. “Look, this one is starting to make seed pods, so we’ll have some local stock.”

It’s lovely to walk through the old garden, which can be entered through an oak gate with copper insets. Native rhododendrons and magnolias, Joe Pye weed and mallows, sensitive fern and fringe sedge, meadow rue and wild gingers nestling in the moist crannies of a limestone ledge combine to create a space that feels almost primeval.

“This garden has been relatively undisturbed for more than 100 years, so it has this wonderful authentic quality, as if it’s always been here,” Mr. Lorimer said. “People ask me, ‘Is this what Brooklyn looked like before the Europeans got here?’ And, truthfully, you would never see this many things in one small area, but it has the same character of what could have been here. So I generally say yes, because people come away with this feeling of how special this place is.”

By a grove of umbrella magnolias he planted six years ago, Mr. Lorimer opened another gate that led to the new native garden. We found ourselves on top of a hill, where a huge, century-old English oak, an enormous black oak and a river birch stood sentinel. Down below, in full sun, lay an admittedly raw expanse: tiny blueberry and bearberry plants were just taking hold in the sandy pinelands, and the barren edge of the pond was still waiting for the pitcher plants, sphagnum mosses and other bog-lovers that Mr. Lorimer has been nursing lovingly in the greenhouse.

So don’t expect a sea of prairie grasses or cranberries ripening in the Pine Barrens just yet. This is a place to return to time and again, to watch the process of nature, helped by the human hand.

“These are my babies, and I feel very protective,” Mr. Lorimer said, righting a tiny prickly pear cactus someone had unknowingly mashed over by the path. Its little mouse ear pads were hardly bigger than thimbles.

“I collected these seeds on top of Hook Mountain, north of Nyack, where there’s a beautiful population,” he said. The prickly pear’s yellow flowers will turn into bright red fruit whose seeds can be saved when ripe, like those of tomatoes.

MR. LORIMER, who trained as a horticulturist, glued himself to garden botanists like Gerry Moore, the former director of science at the botanic garden, and Steven Clemants, who founded the New York Metropolitan Flora Project before he died in 2008, as they forayed in the swamps and woodlands of the region.

“Dr. Moore is a South Jersey native, and he really knows the Pine Barrens, so my love of that landscape grew year after year,” Mr. Lorimer said. “To be able to apply that information and some of the plants to this new space is really thrilling.”

The New York Metropolitan Flora Project, which began in 1990, has been helpful as well. The project, which tracks populations of plants, as well as the effects of climate change and habitat loss, “has helped us target some things that have been in serious decline,” Mr. Lorimer said.

Many of the plants here tell of his collecting adventures. A single turkeybeard, a grassy little plant that flourishes in sunny areas disturbed by storm or fire, was blooming in the Pine Barrens here. “I had seen it budding up in the charred trunks of the pines from a fire four or five years ago,” he said. “But when I went back, the deer had eaten almost every single flower bud.”

Aristida stricta, a little wiry grass whose seed drills itself into the ground with the help of three whiskery hairs that act as a windmill, was collected on top of a 200-foot-high sand dune created by an old titanium mine near Lakehurst, N.J. “I looked down on this old air hangar, and somebody said, ‘That’s where the Hindenburg crashed,’ ” he said.

Two rare orchid species, rose pogonia and grass pink, were rescued from a bog in Ocean County, N.J., that was about to be covered over by a road-widening project.

“Some of these things, like the pyxie moss from the Pine Barrens, are thought to be in cultivation in a botanical garden for the first time,” Mr. Lorimer said.

Ironically, the soil here, in what used to be the botanic garden’s composting site, was too rich for the Pine Barrens and grasslands, and had to be shipped off and replaced with a leaner mix of soils designed by SiteWorks, the Manhattan-based landscape architecture firm that worked with Mr. Morrison, the garden’s designer. The firm took soil samples from habitats in the New Jersey Pine Barrens and worked with James Sotillo, a Long Island soil specialist, to infuse the various sections of this garden with the fungi and bacteria specific plants needed to thrive.

Mr. Morrison was the one responsible for the sweeping paths; the biomorphic pond inspired by Roberto Burle Marx, the Brazilian painter and landscape architect known for his swirling beds; and the council ring, made of sandstone, in the middle of the prairie. The curving benches are a tip of his cap to Jens Jensen, the early 20th-century Danish-American landscape architect who brought the feeling of the prairie, and Native American traditions, to Chicago’s parks and countless public and private landscapes across the country.

A longtime teacher of ecological design at the University of Wisconsin, the University of Georgia and Columbia University, Mr. Morrison helps students learn to capture the character of a plant community, a skill that is evident here. Although, as he observed, “Probably a lot of people who walk through will not know this was designed; but there is, in fact, design here.”

And while there is still more to be planted, like those pitcher plants around the pond, wildlife is already moving around, Mr. Lorimer noted. “The second day we filled the pond, a Virginia rail, a walking marsh bird with a really big beak, showed up,” he said. “Barn swallows were cavorting over the water.”

Last week, the two men were hot and sweaty from planting dozens of big bluestem and switchgrass seedlings in the prairie. They don’t look like much yet. But by fall, Mr. Morrison predicts, you should be able to sit on a bench among the blooming asters and goldenrod and watch these prairie grasses waving in the breeze. And those black gums, one of his favorite native trees, will have turned a flaming red.
313 2013-06-13 There’s still time to get the right present for every dad who doesn’t need another standard-issue tie. Story, the ever-changing Chelsea retail concept space, has partnered with Details magazine for His Story, its first dedicated men’s shop, which is stocked with stylish objets like a handblown and etched Czech crystal decanter and tumbler set from 3.2.1 by Jeff Miller ($400) and a Belgian dart set from Best Made Co. ($122). At 144 10th Avenue.

At Park Avenue Garage, the very only-in-New York luxury tag sale with discounted one-of-a-kind items from an array of cool designers, the Ann Dexter-Jones, sterling silver men’s ID bracelet with an inlaid burled ebony placard ($3,910) stands out. Through Friday at 10 West 56th Street.

On Friday from 6 to 10 p.m., the Williamsburg men’s wear emporium H. W. Carter and Sons is hosting a spring happy hour sale, with all stock, including Grenson calf leather oxfords ($345) and a Journal Standard linen shirt with leather collar ($110), at 30 to 70 percent off. Beers gratis. At 127 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn.

And in the neckwear department, Jonathan Adler has a novel proposition: two ties, one full size for father, and a matching mini clip-on for son, in festive Greek key, stripe or scooter designs ($150). At 47 Greene Street.

On Thursday, Diane von Furstenberg is opening her first accessories shop, in the gallery space of the company headquarters. You’ll find classic carryalls like the 440 top-handle satchel ($545) as well as the complete prefall collection, including the new 440 Mini ($295). At 440 West 14th Street.

The Rag & Bone sale is the place to go for spring merchandise like a military-inspired flight jacket ($250) or the label’s coveted stacked heels ($195) up to 70 percent off. Through Sunday at 410 West 16th Street.

From Friday to Sunday, head to Opening Ceremony for finds like metallic leather cutout sandals from Kenzo’s first-ever men’s runway show ($200) up to 90 percent off. At 33 Howard Street.
314 2013-06-13 “The way the Heat have been playing Tony and Manu, they’ve kind of trapped the pick-and-roll,” Neal said. “So guys like me, Danny and Kawhi are going to be able to get shots.”

The risk of failing to discombobulate the offense is never higher than against a team full of shooters that moves the ball quickly.

“Every shot they wanted to get they got,” Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. “We did not disrupt them.”

The question going forward is whether the Heat gave up those shots because the Spurs have figured out how to expose the Heat’s defensive system, or because they did not execute a tenable game plan with the necessary urgency and energy.

The Heat face a similar dilemma on the offensive end, where James has been neutralized by a defensive scheme reminiscent of how the Spurs covered him in the 2007 N.B.A. finals when he still played for Cleveland. Then, James was a 21-year-old phenomenon without a jump shot, not the well-rounded scoring machine he has become.

James has developed into an excellent jump shooter, but he remains a superlative scorer at the rim, where his power and skill are unmatched. To answer the problems he presents, Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich has turned to an unconventional solution. Essentially, the Spurs are walling off the paint with multiple defenders and surrendering as many open jump shots as James wants to shoot. James is so good at the rim that an easy 15-footer, a shot almost no team wants to concede, becomes a welcome alternative.

James is one of the brightest players in the N.B.A. and has figured out how to solve complex defenses in the past. But the Spurs’ defensive scheme is not especially difficult to understand; there are obvious solutions, if not ideal ones. James at times appears to be overthinking, hesitating when a good opportunity is staring him in the face because it is not the kind of shot he is accustomed to creating.

“It’s not just us stopping him,” said Green, who has performed admirably against James despite a marked size disparity. “He’s kind of stopping himself out there, and we’re getting a little lucky.”

In the finals, Wade, who has been something of a mess all over the court, and James have combined to convert just 28 percent of their shots that are not layups. Unable to find creases in the Spurs’ defense, the two stars have attempted only 14 free throws in the series’ three games. In the regular season, they combined to average 13 free throws a game.

After Game 3, James vowed to study the film and find solutions to the Spurs’ passive-aggressive defensive strategy. Spoelstra likewise alluded to schematic adjustments that could help James be “comfortable and confident,” but James’s intensity and energy were not adequate to the task of beating a team as smart and focused as the Spurs.

Now trailing two games to one, the Heat must win three of the next four to claim their second straight title. To do that, they will need to play with a near-desperate energy and focus. (One factor in the Heat’s favor is Spurs point guard Tony Parker’s injured hamstring, which may limit him in future contests.)

Still, recovering from Tuesday’s blowout will start with James, who must not only take and make shots, but set the emotional tone for his team. Even considering all of James’s accomplishments this season, leading the Heat to a series victory now would surely stand alone as the greatest triumph of his career.
315 2013-06-13 With a sweeping climate bill having died in the Senate in Mr. Obama’s first term, his only options for major action on the issue in the second term appear to involve executive action. In one of the signature moments of his 2013 State of the Union address, he vowed that if Congress failed to act on energy and climate change, he would use his executive powers to do so.

While Republicans continue to criticize the administration for what they call regulatory overkill, environmental advocates and some Democrats outside the administration argue that Mr. Obama has not made good on his recent promises and has failed to show enough urgency about climate change.

“The president has pledged if Congress won’t act on climate change, he will,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, who along with five other Democrats wrote to the administration’s new budget director, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, last week to complain about the regulatory delays. “If he is going to keep that promise, he’s going to have to have O.M.B. move with a lot more clarity and alacrity,” Mr. Whitehouse added, using an abbreviation for the budget office.

The slowdown stems from a combination of factors, including high-level vacancies and election-year politics. Analysts and former administration officials said the White House, sensitive to Republican charges that it was threatening the economy by pushing out dozens of so-called job-killing regulations, reined in the process last year, leaving many major rules awaiting action for months beyond legal deadlines.

Some administration officials are also concerned that regulations have the potential to do more harm than good. “If we make refrigerators lousy, that’s a big problem,” Cass R. Sunstein wrote in “Simpler: The Future of Government,” a book published this year about his time running the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, a small unit of the budget office responsible for reviewing regulations

If confirmed, Mr. Shelanski will take over the unit.

The administration’s concerns about the cost of regulations are especially acute at a time when unemployment remains high.

“The administration seeks to maintain a balance between our obligation to protect the health, welfare and safety of Americans and our commitment to promoting economic growth, job creation, competitiveness and innovation,” Ms. Burwell wrote in response to Mr. Whitehouse.

She did not address why the pace of rule making had slowed so sharply in 2012 and 2013, or why the energy efficiency rules were held up. White House officials have said energy efficiency rules issued in Mr. Obama’s first term would yield $400 billion in consumer savings and reduce carbon emissions by hundreds of millions of tons through 2030.

The White House acknowledged that the pace of rule making slowed last year, but noted that it had issued major rules on power plant emissions and vehicle fuel economy in late 2011 and 2012. The administration calculates the net economic and health benefits of those two rules at $64 billion a year.

One example of a delayed rule is an Energy Department proposal to mandate greater energy efficiency for walk-in coolers and freezers, which are common at many restaurants, supermarkets and warehouses. The measure has been awaiting action from the White House regulatory review office since September 2011.

The delay has added more than 10 million metric tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, according to calculations by two independent watchdog groups. The groups, the Appliance Standards Awareness Project and the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, said that each month of delay for the stalled efficiency rules creates pollution equivalent to burning 19,000 rail cars of coal.

Apart from the political battles over whether the government does too much or too little environmental regulation, there is no dispute that rule making has slowed sharply since 2011.

Federal records show that the Obama administration issued rules in its first three years at a pace similar to that of previous administrations.

But in 2012 — an election year in which the economy was the focus — the number of rules issued dropped to 424, the lowest number since the review process began in 1993. In the first three years of Mr. Obama’s presidency, the administration issued an average of 675 rules.

The amount of time each proposed rule spends under review has also spiked, to 79 days last year and 141 days so far this year. The average review time over the previous 18 years was 50 days.

Mr. Sunstein, who directed the regulatory affairs office from 2009 until last August, hinted at the reasons for the slowdown in a recent Harvard Law Review article and in “Simpler,” both of which describe his philosophy of regulation.

He said that a number of other White House offices, from the National Economic Council to the office of the vice president, often weighed in on proposed rules and sometimes disagreed. He added that some rules present difficult questions of costs and benefits.

“We need to know whether the new, energy-efficient refrigerators are as good as the current ones,” Mr. Sunstein wrote in his book. “If they don’t refrigerate as well, then the rule is imposing a separate cost, and we need to consider that cost in our assessment.”

Lisa Heinzerling, a professor of law at Georgetown University and a former top Environmental Protection Agency official who tangled with Mr. Sunstein over a number of environmental regulations in Mr. Obama’s first term, said in a recent article that such demands for detailed analysis become “a regulatory game of Whac-A-Mole: every time the agency meets one demand for a piece of information about the costs or benefits of a rule, it finds itself met with a new and different demand.”

She said the decision of how quickly to move now rested with Mr. Obama. “The cabinet does not need a presidential directive telling the agencies to do their work,” she said, “rather, it needs presidential support for the work they are trying to do.”
316 2013-06-13 BRUSSELS — The European Commission proposed Wednesday to expand the kind of customer information that banks must surrender to the authorities around the European Union, as political momentum grows to clamp down on tax evasion.

Algirdas Semeta, the European Union commissioner in charge of tax policy, outlined proposals for banks to disclose account balances, dividends and capital gains in an attempt to catch sophisticated schemes not covered by the simpler European Union rules now in place.

But the commission’s suggestion is likely face opposition from Luxembourg, which does not want to be forced to lift its veil of banking secrecy higher than that of Switzerland, its neighbor and chief rival as a financial center.

“Member states will be better equipped to assess and collect the taxes they are due,” Mr. Semeta said. “It will be another powerful weapon in our arsenal to lead a strong attack against tax evasion.”

Banking secrecy is high on the political agenda ahead of German elections later this year and following the resignation in March of the French budget minister, Jérôme Cahuzac, over a secret Swiss account.
317 2013-06-13 More than half of all new cars will integrate some type of voice recognition by 2019, according to the electronics consulting firm IMS Research. The auto companies argue that these systems are safer because they are hands-free.

“We are concerned about any study that suggests that hand-held phones are comparably risky to the hands-free systems we are putting in our vehicles,” said Gloria Bergquist, the vice president for public affairs at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington, adding that carmakers are trying to keep consumers connected without them having to use their hand-held phones while driving.

“It is a connected society, and people want to be connected in their car just as they are in their home or wherever they may be,” she said.

In April, the federal government recommended that automakers voluntarily limit the technology in their cars to keep drivers focused. The federal agency that made the recommendation, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said it would review the latest research .

What makes the use of these speech-to-text systems so risky is that they create a significant cognitive distraction, the researchers found. The brain is so taxed interacting with the system that, even with hands on the wheel and eyes on the road, the driver’s reaction time and ability to process what is happening on the road are impaired.

The research was led by David Strayer, a neuroscientist at the University of Utah who for two decades has applied the principles of attention science to driver behavior. His research has showed, for example, that talking on a phone while driving creates the same level of crash risk as someone with a 0.08 blood-alcohol level, the legal level for intoxication across the country.

In this latest study, he and a team of researchers compared the impact on drivers of different activities, including listening to a book on tape or the radio, and talking on a hand-held phone or hands-free phone.

The researchers compared how the subjects performed when they were not driving with two other conditions: when using a driver simulator and in a car equipped with tools aimed at measuring how well they drove. The researchers used eye-scanning technology to see where driver attention was focused and also measured the electrical activity in the brain.

Mr. Strayer said the results were consistent across all the tests in finding that speech-to-text technology caused a higher level of cognitive distraction than any of the other activities. The research showed, for instance, that the person interacting with speech to text was less likely than in other activities to scan a crosswalk for pedestrians. And that driver showed lowered activity in networks of the brain associated with driving, indicating that those networks were impaired by the interaction with the technology.

Mr. Strayer said that the reason for the heavy load created by the technology was not totally clear. One reason appears to be the amount of effort required to talk to the dashboard, which is greater than talking to a person, who can interrupt and ask for clarification.

With a passenger or even on a phone, the other person says “wait, wait, I didn’t understand,” Mr. Strayer said. “That stuff is gone when you’re trying to compose an e-mail. You have to get your thought in order and lay it out in order.”

Mr. Strayer said the research should give automakers pause. “Look at new cars; they’re enabling sending e-mails, sending text, tweeting, updating Facebook, making movie or dinner reservations with voice commands,” he said. “The assumption is if you’re doing those things with speech-based technology, they’ll be safe. But they’re not.”

But the automakers are not likely to slow down development of the technology unless the law forbids it, said Ronald Montoya, consumer advice editor for Edmunds.com, a research firm.

“They’re not going to pause based on this research,” he said.
318 2013-06-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
319 2013-06-14 To mark this weekend’s Les Journées Particulières, during which various LVMH brands open the doors of their workshops to the public, here’s an insider’s view of the creation of a Bulgari handbag.

In the 1960s, famous ladies with names like Elizabeth, Audrey and Sophia would duck into Bulgari’s private salon on Rome’s Via Condotti to try on a bauble or two. Now, any gal can get a glimpse of Bulgari’s inner workings during this weekend’s Les Journées Particulières, an LVMH-sponsored open house for Europe’s most exclusive ateliers (including Louis Vuitton).

In addition to offering a peek inside its jewelry archives in Rome, Bulgari is hosting tours of its Florentine workshop. Opened in 2005, this is where Bulgari leather goods — bags, belts, briefcases — are made. Here’s a step-by-step account of the creation of one of the products produced there, the Isabella Rossellini handbag, courtesy of the accessories manager Fabrizio Falanga.
320 2013-06-14 Polls have found that public support for intervention in Syria increases sharply under circumstances where it is confirmed that the Assad regime used chemical weapons....
321 2013-06-14 The Royal Opera in London commissioned Mr. Benjamin to compose his third opera. Martin Crimp is to write the libretto....
322 2013-06-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
323 2013-06-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
324 2013-06-14 Images from the second day of the United States Open at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore, Pa....
325 2013-06-14 A dog owner who tested Swifto’s services received a picture from the walker of the waiting dog, an alert on his phone when and where the pet had relieved himself and even GPS data of their route sent to a laptop....
326 2013-06-14 The rain-delayed first round finished up at Merion Golf Club and the second round began, with Phil Mickelson sitting atop of the leader board....
327 2013-06-14 Admission deans and college counselors suggest summertime reads for college-bound students, their parents and anyone who enjoys reading for pleasure....
328 2013-06-14 To mark this weekend’s Les Journées Particulières, during which various LVMH brands open the doors of their workshops to the public, here’s an insider’s view of the creation of a Bulgari handbag.

In the 1960s, famous ladies with names like Elizabeth, Audrey and Sophia would duck into Bulgari’s private salon on Rome’s Via Condotti to try on a bauble or two. Now, any gal can get a glimpse of Bulgari’s inner workings during this weekend’s Les Journées Particulières, an LVMH-sponsored open house for Europe’s most exclusive ateliers (including Louis Vuitton).

In addition to offering a peek inside its jewelry archives in Rome, Bulgari is hosting tours of its Florentine workshop. Opened in 2005, this is where Bulgari leather goods — bags, belts, briefcases — are made. Here’s a step-by-step account of the creation of one of the products produced there, the Isabella Rossellini handbag, courtesy of the accessories manager Fabrizio Falanga.
329 2013-06-14 Working with Mozilla, the MacArthur Foundation and a consortium interested in virtual learning, former President Bill Clinton announced a project on Thursday to expand the use of Open Badges — online credentials that employers or universities can use in hiring, admissions, promotions or awarding credit. The badges serve as credentials that can help self-taught computer programmers, veterans returning to civilian life and others show skills they learned outside a classroom. At the Clinton Global Initiative America meeting in Chicago Thursday, DePaul University and the Information Technology Industry Council pledged to incorporate badges into their hiring, admissions or credentialing.
330 2013-06-14 The commercial will be introduced Monday and will run widely, including during the Macy’s Fourth of July fireworks broadcast on NBC.

The campaign, which also includes online and print advertising, is by the Terri & Sandy Solution in New York. Guerrilla marketing posters feature figures from American history, including a painting of Abraham Lincoln and his dog, with the text, “If you said Honest Abe fed his pooch processed foreign ingredients, he would call you a liar.”

Freshpet will spend an estimated $10 million on the campaign.

While the brand and the agency dismissed the device of talking dogs as gimmicky, ascribing thoughts to them with the placards was a way “of letting dogs speak out,” said Sandy Greenberg, a founder of the Terri & Sandy Solution.

With no people in the commercial and only dogs looking into the camera, added Terri Meyer, the other agency founder, the perspective of the viewer mirrors that of dog owners accustomed to intent canine gazes.

“If you don’t show an owner with the pet, you can be the owner of the pet,” Ms. Meyer said. “You can put yourself in that situation with the dog.”

Cameron Woo, publisher of The Bark, a quarterly dog magazine, said that having only dogs in the commercial also underscored that it was advertising a pet product, which is not always obvious nowadays.

“It’s a creative distinction, because there are so many products that don’t have anything to do with dogs but have dogs in their commercials to sell cars, beer, anything,” Mr. Woo said.

The pet food maker Merrick also promotes American ingredients, including a 2012 online video, “Tails From the Revolution,” in which a talking dog wearing a beret sits in front of an American flag.

“The new goal of the bowl is that it should runneth over with real, wholesome food,” says the dog, adding that it should be “locally sourced.” The video is by Carmichael Lynch Spong, a public relations firm in Minneapolis.

Merrick also held a mock protest demanding “better food for the 99 percent” in Union Square Park in Manhattan in October, calling it a “Doggupy movement,” a reference to Occupy Wall Street protests.

Even after the 2007 recalls, dog and cat food imports from China have grown every year since, from 58.8 million pounds in 2008 to 85.8 million pounds in 2011, an increase of 46 percent, according to the Food and Drug Administration.

An article in the current issue of The Bark about pet food safety emphasizes that ingredients from the United States are far from immune, noting numerous recalls in 2012 of domestically sourced dog treats based on evidence of salmonella contamination.

In supermarkets, mass-market department stores and club stores, Freshpet sold $48.1 million in dog food and $3.5 million in cat food in the 52 weeks ending April 21, an increase of more than 44 percent over the previous year, according to data from SymphonyIRI Group, a market research firm whose data does not include pet stores. Pet stores account for as much as 25 percent of Freshpet revenue, according to the brand.

Scott Morris, the president and a founder of Freshpet, which is based in Secaucus, N.J., said that although the company used no ingredients from China, it did occasionally buy carrots from Canada.

The brand has had to convince retailers not just to let it install branded refrigerators in the pet aisles, which tend to be far from electrical outlets in the center of stores, but also to accept deliveries via meat distribution systems, meaning “either the meat or dairy guy has to put it in the pet aisle,” said Mr. Morris.

What has convinced supermarkets, along with earning higher margins than on lower-priced food, is that Freshpet is sold in smaller quantities and that most products must be used within seven days of opening. That means it can more often be the reason for the trip to the supermarket, and shoppers buying other items.

“You buy 40 pounds of kibble and you don’t come back for a month or two,” Mr. Morris said of large packages of dry food. “But we’re like milk and eggs.”

With so many over-the-top pet products and services like doggy day spas today, television advertising helps promote Freshpet as a mainstream product rather than a laughable luxury.

“TV is the main way to show that Freshpet is here to stay,” said Mr. Morris, “and not some weird thing the neighbor down the street who’s a dog kook is buying.”
331 2013-06-14 Many of these reporters say they routinely used the terminal’s function, called the UUID command, to find background information on subscribers, including contact information, when the subscriber had last logged on, and weekly statistics on how often customers used a particular function, like equity shares or currency markets.

Reporters also say they talked to their business-side colleagues to gain early access to company announcements, including company releases and bond prospectuses about to be made public, and queried Bloomberg’s own help desk to find out what pages and features customers might have been using.

“We were told again and again and again, find ways to use what’s on the terminal to write stories,” said one former Bloomberg reporter who, like most employees, was required to sign a strict nondisclosure agreement that prohibits them from speaking about the company. “They never said ‘Oh, please be careful and don’t breach any kind of privacy,’ ” the former reporter said.

A senior Bloomberg executive not authorized to speak for attribution confirmed the reporter’s account. “It’s not like this was some deep Bloomberg secret,” this executive said. “If it’s on the terminal, we’d say go for it.”

In the opaque world of Wall Street where traders tightly protect every shred of information, the privacy breach threatens to undermine Bloomberg’s core terminal business — which takes up 26 floors at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters, compared with four floors for the news unit. Bloomberg leases more than 315,000 of its roughly $20,000-a-year financial data computers, which made up 85 percent of the company’s 2012 revenue of $7.9 billion.

After Goldman complained, Bloomberg immediately shut newsroom access to the UUID function. Mr. Doctoroff promised an independent inquiry to be led by , the former chairman and chief executive of , who is a board member of Mr. Bloomberg’s charitable group. Mr. Doctoroff also appointed a senior executive to the newly created Bloomberg position of client data compliance officer.

Although Bloomberg has acted swiftly, several people close to the company said executives considered the controversy overblown, fanned by Wall Street banks frustrated with aggressive news coverage and eager to negotiate cheaper rates for terminals. Bloomberg controls more than a third of the $25.5 billion financial data services market, according to Burton-Taylor International Consulting.

Competitors have already pounced. At an investor conference on May 28, Lex Fenwick, chief executive of , publisher of The , and former chief executive of Bloomberg L.P. introduced a messaging system which, he said, would be “strictly stored on your servers and we can’t see what you’re saying to each other.”

Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswomen for , said “there are strict controls in place that prevent any Reuters or other staff outside of the development and customer service groups from accessing” customer data. But in a sign of just how competitive the market for financial news and analytics has become, Thomson Reuters allows a tier of select clients early access, by two seconds, to consumer sentiment data through an agreement with the . The unusual arrangement was first reported by CNBC.

A Bloomberg spokesman, Ty Trippet, said that while management did encourage the use of terminal data in reporting, the company did not condone looking at confidential customer information, and all new employees were required to sign a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from doing just that. He also pointed out that reporters could never see a subscriber’s specific trades, securities or news articles they had viewed.

Matthew Winkler, editor in chief of Bloomberg News, who called the practice of reporters looking at subscribers’ data “inexcusable,” said it dated back to the 1990s. “I have always been clear, as have our editors, that client trust is very important to us and we should always follow the highest ethical standards of reporting.”

The concept of reporters working hand-in-hand with the sales team served as a centerpiece to Mr. Bloomberg’s vision when he hired Mr. Winkler away from The Wall Street Journal in 1990 to build a different kind of newsroom. “Most news organizations never connect reporters and commerce,” Mr. Bloomberg wrote in “Bloomberg by Bloomberg,” a 1997 autobiography written with Mr. Winkler’s help. He added: “At Bloomberg, they’re as close to seamless as it can get.”

For years, Mr. Winkler told journalists to visit customers at banks and money management firms, often alongside sales staff, to help push the wonders of the terminals and to ask customers what types of news articles they’d like to read.

“It’s very much a trading floor culture,” said Chris Roush, a journalism professor at the at who worked at Bloomberg in the late 1990s.

Since the 1990s, reporters have been trained and tested on the terminal’s 15,000 functions. Many of them leave the weeklong training session baffled by the machines — which one employee likened to a “Soviet tank of an operating system.” But others, especially those who cover the core beats of business and finance, try to one-up each other on grasping the intricacies of the terminal tools.

“You could see a map of every ship at sea that has cargo carrying orange juice,” said one reporter who recently left the company. “Or, someone would say ‘Check out UUID. was logged on today.’ ”

The ability to produce market-moving news had financial rewards for journalists: it was among the top metrics in determining reporters’ performance in 2012, according to a copy of the company evaluation obtained by . The drive for market-moving news only added to the allure of tapping into the terminals’ troves of data, said several of the current and former reporters interviewed.

Peter K. Semler, who started Bloomberg’s bureau in the 1990s, remembered using UUID to trace, for example, where the chief executive of Fiat had logged on. “If you see the guy in or you can guess what he’s doing,” said Mr. Semler, who left the company in 1995, and founded the financial news service Capitol Intelligence Group, which competes with Bloomberg.

“Reporters, we’re snoopy guys. We read everyone’s stuff,” Mr. Semler added. “If you had access to something you weren’t supposed to have, the first thing we’d do was go into that.”

In 2011, a Bloomberg Television reporter said on air he had used the terminals to monitor the rogue trader Kweku Adoboli. After Bloomberg was the first to report on , the trader nicknamed the London Whale, bank executives questioned Bloomberg on whether reporters had snooped on Mr. Iksil’s terminal activity. Mr. Trippet, the Bloomberg spokesman, said he was not aware of any such complaints.

The question of how extensively Bloomberg reporters looked at customer information went beyond the Bloomberg terminal. Reporters have, for example, contacted colleagues on a team known as “fundamentals” that processes information that subscribers distribute over the terminals. That information can include analysts’ reports, company announcements and bond prospectuses.

“We had news calling us all the time. Is it public information? Yes. But did we get it 30 seconds before the public? Yes,” said one longtime employee. “News and data are married. It’s always been like that.”

Mr. Trippet said he was unaware of any company announcements or analyst reports made available to data analysts before others receive them. “There are strict safeguards to prevent unauthorized distribution of this information,” he said.

Two people with direct knowledge of the situation said reporters had contacted the customer help desk to ask about what sources were having problems with, gleaning hints that informed reporting.

The practice worked both ways. The company encourages the help desk to connect a customer to a reporter if, for example, the customer has a question about a news article on , said the senior Bloomberg executive. And a former editor at Bloomberg News said members of the sales team requested at least a half-dozen positive articles about a business or individual that could help them lure a new subscriber. (This person said, however, that none of those requests resulted in articles.)

“It’s a specialized audience with subscribers with expectations that are different than that of a daily newspaper,” , chief content officer at Bloomberg L.P., said in an interview. “These are subscribers paying a lot of money for information that will help them make money,” he added.
332 2013-06-14 Playing alongside Keegan Bradley and Steve Stricker, Mickelson completed five holes before an electrical storm moved through the area, causing a suspension of play that lasted 3 hours 31 minutes. There was a second, 45-minute weather suspension in the early evening, when Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and Adam Scott, the top three players in the world, who were grouped together, were on the fifth green.

Woods, a 14-time major champion, bogeyed three of the first five holes and was seen grimacing and shaking his left hand after hitting shots out of the rough on the 1st, 4th and 11th holes. His group was on the 11th green when play was called because of darkness.

When play was suspended, Luke Donald, through 13 holes, was the leader at four under.

When the first wave of bad weather hit, Mickelson was at even par, having made a birdie at the par-3 13th, his third hole. During the delay, he managed to take a one-hour nap. After the round resumed, he made birdies at Nos. 1, 7 and 9. That propelled him up the leader board, but two par-saving putts, covering 12 feet at the fifth hole and 8 feet at the sixth, provided more of a boost.

“I think in the U.S. Open par saves are as big or bigger than birdies because you don’t really expect birdies,” Mickelson said. “Those are the momentum builders that are important.”

Mickelson’s momentum ground to a halt when his group had to wait at the tee on No. 1 for the three players directly ahead of them to hit their drives and second shots. During the 15-minute delay, Mickelson finished a caffeinated energy drink in one gulp and chased it with a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.

On the clubhouse veranda a few yards from the tee box, Mike Davis, the executive director of the United States Golf Association, which conducts the tournament, was having lunch. Mickelson engaged him in a short conversation. “I think it’s the best U.S. Open setup I’ve ever seen,” Mickelson said later, “and that’s what I was telling him.”

Mickelson began the week in Memphis, where he closed with a 67 to finish in a tie for second at the St. Jude Classic. From there he flew to Philadelphia. Upon finding out that thunderstorms were headed for the area, Mickelson left Monday for San Diego. There he was able to practice in pristine conditions in the days leading up to his daughter’s ceremony and her speech, in which she quoted Ron Burgundy, the character played by Will Ferrell in the movie “Anchorman.”

“It might be abnormal,” he said, referring to his itinerary, “but it actually worked out really well.”

He traveled the extra 5,468 miles, or thereabouts, even though his daughter, whose impending birth in 1999 prompted Mickelson to carry a beeper in his pocket at Pinehurst in case his wife went into labor, told him to stay in Philadelphia.

“She told me, ‘It’s fine; it’s the U.S. Open, and I know how much you care about it,’ ” Mickelson said. “I told her, ‘I want to be there.’ ”

Mickelson said he was glad he made the effort. “I’m really proud of her,” he said. “She did a great job.”

Mickelson, a four-time major champion, said he spent part of Wednesday night’s flight studying the notes he compiled on Merion while playing the course during a visit two weeks ago.

“I think mental preparation is every bit as important as physical,” he said, “and I think I was able to take the time on the plane to go through how I was going to play each hole, where I want to miss it, where I want to be, study the green charts.”

In his comments after his victory in 1999, Stewart said, “Phil is going to have an opportunity to win again.”

Fourteen years later, Mickelson knows his opportunities are dwindling. “If I’m able to ultimately win a U.S. Open, I would say that it’s great because I will have had a win and five seconds,” he said. “But if I never get that win, then it would be a little heartbreaking.”
333 2013-06-14 ARDMORE, Pa. — Sergio García’s play was as erratic as the weather Thursday at the United States Open. He scored a double bogey and a quadruple bogey early in the first round, and received some heckling, before he recovered somewhat to finish at three-over-par 73.

García teed off at his first hole, the 11th, early in the morning before a strong storm halted play. When the round resumed, García ran into trouble, bogeying No. 11. On the 464-yard, par-4 14th, García slipped on his tee shot and drove it out of bounds, finishing with a double bogey.

He also drove his tee shot out of bounds on the 411-yard, par-4 15th and ended up with a quadruple bogey. After eight holes, García was seven over par.

“Unfortunately, I had two really bad holes,” García said. “The U.S. Open doesn’t give you much room.”

García stopped the free fall with a birdie on No. 1 and an eagle on No. 2. He bogeyed No. 4 but completed the round with birdies on Nos. 8 and 10.

“I wasn’t really able to get out of trouble because I made a 6 and an 8,” García said. “I was able to make a nice recovery, I guess, but obviously I put myself in a tough situation.”
334 2013-06-14 Gov. Andrew Cuomo has proposed an excellent 10-point bill to protect women’s rights in New York State. The problem now is that legislators are trying to chip away at his effort, piece by piece, nibble by nibble.

State Senate leaders, for example, are trying to remove crucial sections of the bill that would ensure abortion rights in New York even if the United States Supreme Court erodes or overturns those protections in Roe v. Wade. It’s particularly distressing that Senator Diane Savino, who has been an abortion rights proponent and is part of a breakaway group of Democrats in the Senate, has said it’s time to set aside the abortion issue for now and pass the rest of the bill. There are others in the Senate and Assembly who are trying to weaken protections, including those for young victims of sex trafficking.

Some in the Assembly apparently object to raising the penalty for sex trafficking to make it a violent felony crime. That is the wrong move. They are also wrong to try to remove sections that would make certain drivers who deliver prostitutes in “brothels on wheels” covered in the trafficking statute. And, Senate leaders are inexplicably resisting a section that would make sure girls ages 16 and 17 engaging in prostitution would be treated as victims, not criminals.

Governor Cuomo’s entire bill, which pushes for equal pay for women and provides safeguards against housing discrimination among other features, deserves to be passed as is. With less than a week to go before the official end of the session, lawmakers should stop trying to dismantle the Women’s Equality Act.
335 2013-06-14 Through a nearly full day of testimony on Thursday, Mr. Cue denied that he had encouraged publishers to impose a new business model on other retailers, including Amazon.com. Shown a slide displaying what the government has repeatedly called a “spider web” of communications among the publishing executives, Mr. Cue said he did not know that the executives, from publishers including the Penguin Group USA and Simon & Schuster, were talking to one another during their negotiations with him.

“I struggled and fought with them,” he said. “If they were talking to each other, I believe I would have had a much easier time getting those deals done.”

But he also revealed details of an unusually long and close working relationship between him and Mr. Jobs.

Mr. Cue, Apple’s senior vice president for Internet software and services, said he spoke or e-mailed with Mr. Jobs at nearly every step of the negotiations, once calling him on his way to the airport as he left a round of talks with publishers in New York.

In one e-mail, Mr. Jobs questioned Mr. Cue about the fledgling iBookstore. “Are we going to let anyone self-publish? Does Amazon?” he wrote.

After publishers signed agreements with Apple, shocking the publishing industry, Mr. Jobs e-mailed Mr. Cue: “Wow, we have really lit the fuse on a powder keg.”

The focus of the government’s questioning turned to December 2009 and January 2010, when Mr. Cue repeatedly flew to New York, met with publishers and tried to reach deals to make their e-books available in the iBookstore on the soon-to-be-unveiled iPad.

For publishers, the appeal of Apple getting into the e-book market was enormous. Amazon, which had introduced its Kindle e-reader in 2007, commanded a 90 percent share of e-book sales at the time. But the default price for newly released and best-selling books on Amazon.com was $9.99, a paltry sum in the publishers’ eyes and one that undermined the value of the authors’ work and cannibalized hardcover sales.

Apple encouraged publishers to switch to a so-called agency model, in which the publishers set the price of a book and the retailer takes a commission. Previously, e-books had been sold on a wholesale model, where the retailer pays the publisher about half the list price, then is free to set another price. The agency model prevented Amazon from sharply discounting the books.

Five publishers — the Penguin Group USA, the Hachette Book Group, Simon & Schuster, HarperCollins and Macmillan — have already settled with the government. But Apple, intent on protecting Mr. Jobs’s legacy, is fighting the charges in a nonjury trial that was expected to last several weeks.

The defense was questioning Mr. Cue when the day ended and he will return to the stand when the trial continues on Monday.

Lawrence Buterman, a lawyer for the Justice Department, occasionally raised his voice while he questioned Mr. Cue for several hours before a packed courtroom presided over by Judge Denise L. Cote.

“Isn’t it true, sir, that throughout your negotiations with the publishers, that you constantly pitched the deal that you were proposing as a way for them to change the entire e-books market?” Mr. Buterman said.

“No, that is not true,” Mr. Cue said.

Mr. Buterman asked Mr. Cue about a previous statement by David Shanks, the chief executive of the Penguin Group USA, that Penguin would only sign a deal with Apple if three other major publishers had done so first.

“Did that strike you as a little bit like, ‘I’m only doing this deal if my competitors do it?’ “ Mr. Buterman said.

“It’s not unusual,” Mr. Cue said. “Nobody likes to be the first to sign. Everybody thinks that you get a better deal by signing last.”

According to Mr. Cue, Apple approached the negotiations with publishers the same way it did with record companies and other content providers in the iTunes store.

After Apple and other retailers started selling e-books on the agency model, prices on many best-selling and new books rose to the $12.99 to $14.99 range, infuriating many consumers.
336 2013-06-14 David F. DeVoe, who has served as chief financial officer of News Corporation for more than two decades, will step down later this month, the company said on Thursday.

Mr. DeVoe, 66, joined News Corporation in 1983 and had been a strong behind-the-scenes presence in steering the media conglomerate through a period of growth, and more recently through the phone hacking scandal in Britain and the challenges in the print publishing business. He is among a handful of close confidants to Rupert Murdoch, News Corporation’s chairman and chief executive.

“I would like to express my profound gratitude to Dave for his enormous contributions to News Corp.,” Mr. Murdoch said in a statement. “He has played a pivotal role in building the company into a global leader.”

Among Mr. DeVoe’s lasting contributions was his strong advocacy for the company to split itself into two publicly traded companies. During a brief shareholder meeting in New York on Tuesday, investors voted to approve a separation.

“Dave DeVoe is not only one of the most talented C.F.O.’s I have ever dealt with, but also the ideal partner for Rupert,” said James B. Lee, vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase and a longtime adviser to Mr. Murdoch.
337 2013-06-14 Following is the statement issued by the White House in the name of Benjamin J. Rhodes, deputy national security adviser.

At the President’s direction, the United States Government has been closely monitoring the potential use of chemical weapons within Syria.  Following the assessment made by our intelligence community in April, the President directed the intelligence community to seek credible and corroborated information to build on that assessment and establish the facts with some degree of certainty. Today, we are providing an updated version of our assessment to Congress and to the public.

The Syrian government’s refusal to grant access to the United Nations to investigate any and all credible allegations of chemical weapons use has prevented a comprehensive investigation as called for by the international community.  The Assad regime could prove that its request for an investigation was not just a diversionary tactic by granting the UN fact finding mission immediate and unfettered access to conduct on-site investigations to help reveal the truth about chemical weapons use in Syria.  While pushing for a UN investigation, the United States has also been working urgently with our partners and allies as well as individuals inside Syria, including the Syrian opposition, to procure, share, and evaluate information associated with reports of chemical weapons use so that we can establish the facts and determine what took place.

Following a deliberative review, our intelligence community assesses that the Assad regime has used chemical weapons, including the nerve agent sarin, on a small scale against the opposition multiple times in the last year.  Our intelligence community has high confidence in that assessment given multiple, independent streams of information.  The intelligence community estimates that 100 to 150 people have died from detected chemical weapons attacks in Syria to date; however, casualty data is likely incomplete.  While the lethality of these attacks make up only a small portion of the catastrophic loss of life in Syria, which now stands at more than 90,000 deaths, the use of chemical weapons violates international norms and crosses clear red lines that have existed within the international community for decades. We believe that the Assad regime maintains control of these weapons.  We have no reliable, corroborated reporting to indicate that the opposition in Syria has acquired or used chemical weapons.

The body of information used to make this intelligence assessment includes reporting regarding Syrian officials planning and executing regime chemical weapons attacks; reporting that includes descriptions of the time, location, and means of attack; and descriptions of physiological symptoms that are consistent with exposure to a chemical weapons agent.  Some open source reports from social media outlets from Syrian opposition groups and other media sources are consistent with the information we have obtained regarding chemical weapons use and exposure.  The assessment is further supported by laboratory analysis of physiological samples obtained from a number of individuals, which revealed exposure to sarin.  Each positive result indicates that an individual was exposed to sarin, but it does not tell us how or where the individuals were exposed or who was responsible for the dissemination.

We are working with allies to present a credible, evidentiary case to share with the international community and the public.  Since the creation of the UN fact finding mission, we have provided two briefings to Dr. Åke Sellström, the head of the mission.  We will also be providing a letter to UN Secretary General Ban, calling the UN’s attention to our updated intelligence assessment and specific incidents of alleged chemical weapons use.  We request that the UN mission include these incidents in its ongoing investigation and report, as appropriate, on its findings.  We will present additional information and continue to update Dr. Sellström as new developments emerge.
338 2013-06-14 “This is truly a labor of love for our entire family,” she said.

The convention here in downtown Chicago had been billed as the foundation’s effort to bring together leaders from the business, nonprofit and government sectors to discuss ways to revive the nation’s economy.

But there was little doubt about the main attraction on Thursday, as speculation in and out of the convention site focused on whether Mrs. Clinton’s appearance was a sign of her interest in running for president in 2016.

Mrs. Clinton finds herself adjusting to an unfamiliar reality: she holds no government title now for the first time in more than two decades. And she and her aides seem to be grappling with how best to keep her in the news, without the State Department apparatus that provided an elevated stage for her during the past four years.

While she has said she just wants to “sleep and exercise and travel for fun” after leaving the State Department, her appearance on Thursday was clearly intended to ensure that she does not drift too far from public attention. Her aides alerted journalists days before that her appearance would be a significant event.

The convention — which is scheduled to run through Friday — showed the passions the Clintons continue to generate. The ballroom was packed with hundreds of admirers, and the guest list included some big names in finance, politics, government and entertainment: Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary; Gary Cohn, the president of Goldman Sachs; Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers; Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey; and Eva Longoria, the actress and political activist.

And yet Mrs. Clinton’s speech underscored the gap that still exists between the fervent enthusiasm of her admirers, who rose from their chairs and clapped madly when she walked onstage — and her deliberate and cautious manner. At times during her speech, she came across as dryly academic, citing studies and statistics.

The speech was notable, too, in what she did not dwell on: there was barely any mention of Mr. Obama as Mrs. Clinton seemed to turn the page on that chapter, and bask once again in her husband’s embrace.

The warm reception from the crowd was a far cry from the public battering that Mrs. Clinton has received in recent months.

Indeed, the popularity she has enjoyed in the polls during much of her term dropped in recent weeks, as Republicans in Washington have intensified an investigation into possible lapses at the State Department that may have left an American diplomatic station in Benghazi, Libya, vulnerable to a deadly attack last year.

There has been other potentially damaging news, including the recent disclosure of a report by a State Department investigator asserting that high-ranking officials under Mrs. Clinton tried to cover up allegations that American diplomats and security agents solicited prostitutes.

Mrs. Clinton, who has been working on a memoir, has undertaken a gradual effort to re-engage politically and otherwise after years of remaining above the partisan fray and focusing on diplomacy. In March, she released a video announcing that she was reversing her earlier position and endorsing same-sex marriage.

And this week, she opened a Twitter account with a profile that described her as “wife, mom, lawyer, women & kids advocate, FLOAR, FLOTUS, US Senator, SecState, author, dog owner, hair icon, pantsuit aficionado, glass ceiling cracker, TBD...”
339 2013-06-14 “It’s a really big result and something the players can be proud of,” Orlando City Coach Adrian Heath, told the club’s Web site. “All of a sudden we are a couple games from something really special. I’m looking forward to playing the next-round opponent.”

In the quarterfinals, Orlando City will faceChicago. The Fire-Crew game was postponed Wednesday night because of inclement weather and rescheduled for Thursday afternoon in Bridgeview, Ill. Chicago advanced, 2-1, on a late goal by Patrick Nyarko.

In other games Wednesday night, Dwayne De Rosario scored a hat trick in D.C. United’s 3-1 win over Philadelphia; New England defeated the Red Bulls, 4-2; and Dallas ousted Houston, 3-0, in the three all-M.L.S. games; and Real Salt Lake beat the Charleston Battery (U.S.L. Pro), 5-2; and Portland shut out Tampa Bay (N.A.S.L.), 2-0.

The match between Carolina and Chivas USA went to overtime before the RailHawks scored twice for the victory. Tiyiselani Shipalane gave the RailHawks a 1-0 lead in the 13th minute, but Walter Vilchez tied the score in the 57th minute. César Elizondo scored on a cross from Shipalane in the 92nd minute and Brian Ackley added an insurance goal in the 98th.

It was Carolina’s second Open Cup win against a visiting M.L.S. team from Los Angeles. The RailHawks defeated the Galaxy in the tournament’s third round and will play at Real Salt Lake in the quarterfinals on June 26.

New England 4, Red Bulls 2 Kelyn Rowe scored two goals in the first half, while Fabian Espindola pulled one back for the Red Bulls in a match played in Cambridge, Mass. Dimitry Imbongo gave the Revolution a 3-1 lead when he tucked in a header in the 51st minute, but the Red Bulls stayed close when Jonny Steele scored in the 61st minute. Chris Tierney iced the game on a goal in the 87th minute.

“This is one of those things that you sweep it under the rug,” Red Bulls Coach Mike Petke said after the game. “The fact is we lost to a mediocre team because we were way less than mediocre. It happens.”

The Red Bulls played the match without Tim Cahill (Australia) and Roy Miller (Costa Rica), who are on international duty. In addition, Thierry Henry and Jamison Olave did not dress for the game.

“We started the best lineup we could,” Petke said. “Like I said, we lost to a mediocre team because we were less than mediocre.”

Petke’s comments were provided by the Red Bulls in an audio file. An article that included his quotations, which could be interpreted by some as denigrating to the Revolution, was published on the league’s Web site, MLSsoccer.com, and was removed after about 60 minutes Thursday morning. New England will play at D.C. in the quarterfinals.

Dallas 3, Houston 0 Kenny Cooper put Dallas ahead in the 37th minute, his sixth goal in the Open Cup. Cooper scored again in the 59th minute. Dallas will host Portland in the next round.

Real Salt Lake 5, Charleston 2 Dane Kelly and Niki Paterson scored two minutes apart in the first half to give the Battery the lead less than 20 minutes into the game. But goals by Devon Sandoval and Joao Plata, on a penalty kick in the 79th minute, sent the game to extra time. R.S.L. scored three goals — by Sandoval, Khari Stephenson and Javier Morales — in the first overtime to ice the match.

Portland 2, Tampa Bay 0 Michael Nanchoff scored in the ninth minute, the fifth fastest goal in Timbers Open Cup history. The Portland captain Jack Jewsbury added a second goal in the 55th minute.

D.C. United 3, Philadelphia 1 Dwayne De Rosario’s three goals sent struggling United, which is in last place in the Eastern Conference of M.L.S., to the quarterfinals. D.C. has won the Open Cup two times, including a league and Cup double in the inaugural season of M.L.S.
340 2013-06-14 Petr Tluchor and Ivan Fuksa, former members of Parliament from Mr. Necas’s party, were detained. Both had recently resigned under unexplained circumstances.

While the motives for the arrests remained unclear on Thursday, analysts said that the detention of a senior member of Mr. Necas’s inner circle threatened to bring down the center-right coalition government, already weak after a series of corruption scandals that had pushed it to the brink of collapse.

But Mr. Necas told reporters that he remained confident in Ms. Nagyova and had no reason to think she had done anything illegal. He said he had no intention of resigning.

“I am personally convinced that I did not do anything dishonest and that my colleagues have not done anything dishonest either,” he said. “I expect that law enforcement agencies will quickly explain their reasons for launching such a massive operation.”

President Milos Zeman’s office said he would meet on Friday with Mr. Necas, Justice Minister Pavel Blazek, the national police chief, the chief of public prosecutors and the head of the opposition Social Democrats to discuss how to proceed.

The opposition Social Democrats called a party leadership meeting for Thursday afternoon to discuss its response. Some opposition members were already calling for early elections.

Jiri Pehe, a political scientist who is director of New York University in Prague, said that if people close to the prime minister were implicated in corruption, he would come under heavy pressure to resign or face a no-confidence vote. His coalition partners could also withdraw their support and bring the government down. “Unless the police have completely misfired, this could have serious and far-reaching repercussions because it concerns people close to the prime minister,” Mr. Pehe said.

The police declined to comment on the reasons for the arrests. But Pavel Hantak, the spokesman for the organized crime unit, confirmed that an extensive operation had taken place in which several people had been arrested. “We have to be careful about what information we make public and when, so as not to endanger the future of the operation,” he told reporters.

The Czech news media reported that the organized crime unit raided the government headquarters in Prague at 12:30 a.m. on Thursday, about 90 minutes after cabinet members had left the building. About 400 officers conducted raids across the country on Wednesday and Thursday, and the raids were continuing.

Across east and Central Europe and the Balkans, countries have been grappling with a surge of corruption, a hangover from decades of Communist rule.

The European Union is so concerned about rampant lawlessness among its newest members that Romania and neighboring Bulgaria have so far been denied entry into the Union’s passport-free area. In Croatia, which is set to join the European Union in July, former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has been charged with embezzlement.

In the Czech Republic, the arrests come amid a growing backlash against corruption that has blighted confidence in the political class. In Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Perception Index — in which the lower the ranking, the more corrupt the country is perceived to be — the Czech Republic was ranked 54th alongside Latvia and Bahrain on a list of 176 countries.

When former President Vaclav Klaus issued an amnesty decree at the beginning of the year that exonerated dozens of individuals on trial on financial corruption charges, the national outrage was so fierce that some mayors and teachers took his portrait off the walls of their offices and classrooms. Mr. Klaus was subsequently accused of treason, an accusation for which he was later cleared.

Karel Janecek, an entrepreneur and leading anticorruption campaigner, said the arrests appeared to be a milestone in a country that had turned a blind eye to corruption for decades. He said that corruption was a byproduct of the crony capitalism of the 1990s when, in the aftermath of communism, state assets were privatized, financial regulation was weak and collusion flourished between government agencies and corporate interests.

Vaclav Laska, a lawyer specializing in corruption cases, added that the prosecution of corruption cases until recently had been rare in a country where graft and bribery were considered a normal part of daily life. “Bribery has been perceived in Czech society as something normal,” he said. “Nobody is even surprised to hear about it anymore.”

Corruption is so endemic that one industrious Czech started a corruption bus tour around Prague. The stops on the tour include fancy villas, hospitals with a reputation for graft and a nonexistent house that 589 companies have registered as their headquarters.
341 2013-06-14 Sentiment has been fragile and trading volatile ever since, as investors have taken stock of the challenges that face “Abenomics,” the economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and weighed the pros and cons of taking profits after the rally.

A renewed rise in the yen also has eroded a factor that, for months, had worked to support Japanese stocks. The yen weakened substantially between November and May – a welcome development for Japanese exporters as it made their goods less expensive for customers overseas.

But the currency’s move, like that of the stock market, reversed in late May. On Thursday, the yen traded around 94.00 to the American dollar, its strongest level since early April.

In Tokyo, Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary, brushed off the market plunge.

“I feel it’s important not to swing from joy to sorrow every time stock prices rise or fall, and keep on doing what we need to do,” Mr. Suga said at a news conference Thursday morning, as shares fell. “The Japanese economy is steadily improving.'’

The Bank of Japan governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, met with Mr. Abe on Thursday to exchange views on the economy, according to local news reports. Mr. Abe told the governor he was determined to do his part in putting a growth plan into action, Mr. Kuroda later told reporters. Mr. Kuroda told the prime minister that the central bank was committed to supporting the Japanese economy through monetary stimulus.

Mr. Kuroda also said he expected markets to soon “calm down to reflect positive developments in the economy,” according to the Nikkei Web site. On Monday, the Japanese government revised its first-quarter gross domestic product figures, saying its economy grew at an annualized pace of 4.1 percent between January and March, better than the 3.5 percent it initially reported. But that upgrade has not been enough to calm investor jitters.

Factors beyond Japan also have helped send markets lower around the world.

In China, which is a key engine of global growth, the flow of economic data in recent weeks has reinforced the picture of an economy that is struggling to regain momentum.

And in the United States, comments on May 22 by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, that he and his colleagues might consider paring back their bond-buying programs “in the next few meetings” if the economy shows signs of improvement have helped fan global nervousness. Investors and analysts have struggled to assess the implications of even a small withdrawal of the bond buying that has supported markets in recent years.

In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have sagged 3.2 percent and 4 percent, respectively, in the past three weeks. The DAX in Germany has fallen about 4.5 percent and the CAC 40 in France has dropped more than 6 percent.

Key markets in the Asia-Pacific region have tumbled even more. The Straits Times index in Singapore and the S.&P./ASX 200 in Australia have lost more than 9 percent since May 22, and in Hong Kong, the Hang Seng has shed more than 10 percent.

A pessimistic outlook issued Wednesday by the World Bank added to the gloom, with Kaushik Basu, the bank’s chief economist, noting in a news release that “the slowdown in the real economy is turning out to be unusually protracted.”

The bank, based in Washington, cut its forecast for global growth to 2.2 percent from a January forecast of 2.4 percent growth.

In explaining the revision, Mr. Basu cited high unemployment in the developed world and slower-than-expected growth in emerging economies. He also noted that India was expanding at a rate below 6 percent for the first time in a decade.
342 2013-06-15 Phil Mickelson, a five-time runner-up at the U.S. Open, moved into position yet again for his first victory in the tournament....
343 2013-06-15 At least one part of the labor force has expanded significantly since the recession hit: the low-wage part, made up of burger flippers, home health aides and the like.

Put simply, the recession took middle-class jobs, and the recovery has replaced them with low-income ones, a trend that has exacerbated income inequality. According to Labor Department data, about 1.7 million workers earned the minimum wage or less in 2007. By 2012, the total had surged to 3.6 million, with millions of others earning just a few cents or dollars more.

In his State of the Union address in February, President Obama made raising the federal minimum wage his banner economic proposal. The White House argued that increasing the wage to $9 an hour from its current $7.25 and indexing it to inflation would lift hundreds of thousands of families above the poverty line.

Combined with tax measures the administration has supported, Alan B. Krueger, the departing chairman of the White House’s Council of Economic Advisers, said that raising the minimum wage would undo “a lot of the rise in inequality we’ve seen over the last 20 years.”
344 2013-06-15 Paul McCartney’s performance on Friday captured the ex-Beatle at all stages of his life and career....
345 2013-06-15 One person was killed and five people were injured in a chemical plant explosion in Donaldsonville, La., on Friday night, the state police said, a day after another fatal explosion at a chemical plant in the neighboring town of Geismar. The two explosions did not appear to be related. Friday’s was caused by a truck offloading material at the C. F. Industries plant, which produces nitrogen, among other chemicals, for fertilizers, said Lt. John Cannon of the Louisiana State Police.  The Thursday explosion, at a plant owned by Williams Companies Inc., based in Tulsa, Okla., killed two people and injured dozens. The Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration is investigating the blast at the plant, which makes ethylene and propylene, highly flammable gases.
346 2013-06-15 The wife of Liu Xiaobo, the jailed Nobel Peace laureate, has written an open letter to President Xi Jinping to protest the 11-year prison term given to her brother Liu Hui. In the letter, Liu Xiaobo’s wife, Liu Xia, said the sentencing last Sunday had been unfair and urged Mr. Xi to govern China in a way that respects the rights of individuals and avoids “ruthless suppression based on violence.” A Beijing court convicted Liu Hui of fraud in a real estate dispute. Family supporters have called the case retribution for Liu Xiaobo’s political activism.
347 2013-06-15 Yes, we all concluded: It had to be the lingering effects of the Dragon Boat Festival.

It’s not that there weren’t other things that Chinese officials wanted to talk about. But most of their observations began with the idea that their government was trying to be the “good” superpower, wanting harmonious relations with the United States, while the Americans continued to act in provocative ways, putting peace-loving China on edge. Topping the list of such “provocations” was the accusation made by the Obama administration that China has been hacking into American computers.

Is China hacking? Of course it is — on a broad scale. A report issued in February by the Mandiant Group was close to definitive. It traced a group of hackers to a building owned by the People’s Liberation Army. Yet any question broached on the subject brought furious rebuttals. China did not hack American computers, we were told. Our so-called evidence was pathetic. Zhang Ping, the vice president of the Chinese People’s Institute of Foreign Affairs, described the hacking allegations as “defamation.” Chinese computers were hacked every day, he said. It was the classic Chinese response to allegations it didn’t want to discuss.

We soon saw another classic response. After he had been in Hong Kong a few days, Snowden gave another interview in which he said that the United States had routinely hacked into Chinese computers. In addition to suddenly improving his chances of gaining asylum, Snowden had given the Chinese the ammunition they had been looking for.

All over the country, a magic switch went on. Thousands of writers and editors who hadn’t dared touch the Snowden story on Tuesday couldn’t get enough of it on Wednesday.

“The U.S. Has Attacked Chinese Networks for 15 Years,” said a headline in The Yangtze Daily. “Snowden Leaks Information About Prism to Reveal the Hypocrisy of the U.S. Government,” added The Wuhan Evening News.

China Daily quoted a Chinese expert on American affairs saying, “For months, Washington has been accusing China of cyberespionage, but it turns out the biggest threat to the pursuit of individual freedom and privacy in the U.S. is the unbridled power of the government.”

I don’t know whether Prism and the other programs truly stop terrorists. I have my doubts. What I do know is that if you are going to lecture the world about right and wrong — and if you’re trying to stop bad behavior — perhaps you shouldn’t be engaging in a version of that behavior yourself.

Instead, this has become one of the trademarks of the Obama administration: decry human rights abuses abroad, but hold men in prison in , , who have never been accused of a crime. Say all the right things about freedom of the press — even as you’re subpoenaing reporters’ phone records. And express outrage over Chinese hacking while carrying on a sophisticated spying operation of your own citizens. It may seem to us a false equivalence, but the existence of Prism will make it far more difficult to force the Chinese to get serious about stopping their own hacking.

Maybe America’s new motto should be: Do As We Say, Not As We Do.
348 2013-06-15 After meeting for hours, they walked out, after 3 a.m. on Friday, and announced a compromise: Mr. Erdogan had agreed to allow a legal challenge to the park’s demolition to proceed before any construction begins, and he also pledged to hold a referendum in Istanbul even if a court rules in the government’s favor and allows the park to be replaced with a mall designed to look like an Ottoman-era army barracks.

But from the moment the deal was reached, it was unclear how ordinary protesters in the park, who are mostly young, secular and middle class, would react. Many say they have no leader and do not trust the government to uphold its side of a deal.

“The government thinks the solidarity group represents all of us, and the rest are extremists and terrorists, but that is just not true,” said Cuneyt Yusuf, 25, referring to several leftist groups the government says are terror organizations and that joined street protests. “We in the park are a majority, and we do not have a representative.”

The defiant posture struck by the occupiers of Gezi Park underscored the amorphous nature of the protest movement, which is largely leaderless. Mr. Erdogan’s decision to directly engage the Taksim Solidarity organization, after days of defiant comments, was an attempt to focus the protests on their original cause: the preservation of the park. Originally, a few hundred protesters peacefully mobilized against the destruction of the park. But the police cracked down, spurring a broader protest movement that challenged Mr. Erdogan’s government, which many Turks view as becoming increasingly authoritarian.

“We want a group of representatives from all corners of the park,” said Bilgi Coskun, who has slept in Gezi Park for 17 days. “Those that have put up a fight, choked on gas, slept here day and night, guarding our soil. The Taksim Solidarity is no representative of this park or movement.”

The apparent unwillingness of many of the protesters to agree to the compromise also raised the specter of a further hardening of resolve on both sides, even as some leaders promoted a compromise. That raised more fears that ultimately the government would dispatch the police to empty the park, leading to more violence.

Mr. Erdogan said again on Friday that protesters must leave.

“Youngsters, look,” he said, “you have stayed there for as long as you could. We have received and evaluated your message. Now withdraw from Gezi Park and go home. If there are still some left from the illegal organizations, leave us alone with them.”

Protesters say it is now hard to sleep because they expect to be woken by a police raid.

“You get used to it,” Turgut Bulut, 29, said. “If they come, they come. We are not scared because it is them that will pay the price in the long run. They are going down.”
349 2013-06-15 “You don’t expect to be in a swamp at a golf tournament,” said Rachel Gdovin of Newtown, Pa.

Noting that her popular brand of boots had originated in Britain with the Duke of Wellington, Gdovin said, “They were used for trench warfare in World War I, so I tell you my feet will not get wet.”

Officials scattered hay on the spectator paths, which lent an aroma to the muck that recalled the equine fragrance of Churchill Downs.

“I feel like it’s Derby week,” said Ashley Teater of Lexington, Ky., the wife of the golfer Josh Teater, who had a friend bring her boots along at the last minute.

Vonn borrowed boots after she hit in the rough on a shopping trip.

“They’re not exactly something that’s sold at every store,” Vonn said. “I couldn’t find any. At least any that looked good.”

For many at Merion, golf has become a good pedicure spoiled.

Meredith Burton of Lancaster, Pa., said her father advised her to wear sensible shoes on Friday. That he happens to be Dan Burton, vice president of the United States Golf Association, might have been sufficient to discourage her from wearing open-toed sandals. Alas, it was not; she ignored his suggestion.

Still, she and a friend, Ashley Wolf, seemed to take the sartorial inconvenience in stride. Speaking for all those brave and defiant enough to wear sandals in a marsh, Burton said, “We can always take paper towels and wash off our toenails. When else is it possible to get a little messy and slob it up a bit?”

Lenora Palmer of Shelbyville, Ky., the mother of the golfer Brandon Brown, walked the course in flip-flops Friday with Brown’s girlfriend, April Bailey, figuring the shoes could be easily washed in the tub at the hotel.

“If Brandon does well,” Palmer said with a laugh, “we’ll be out there mud wrestling.”

One woman was bold enough to wear towering wedge heels as she walked, carefully, along the asphalt of Golf House Road near the 14th hole.

“I’ve seen my first idiot,” Stacey Martin of Malvern, Pa., told her husband, Steve.

At least the woman was agile enough to remain on her feet. Not everyone was, in a gallery that has become an inadvertent Slip ’n Slide.

A man walked near the 18th hole with a stripe of mud from his hip to his ankle. Some have reported shoes being abandoned on the course like cars in a mudslide, though no footwear has ended up in the lost and found.

“I have three pairs of eyeglasses, car keys, house keys, a wallet and a passport, but I don’t have any muddy flip-flops,” said Mary Ann Sheldon, a tournament official.

Footwear has not been the only unusual fashion item this week. A number of people have appeared, head to toe, in yellow rain slickers, attire not available among the green and coral outfits in the merchandise shop.

“When are you due back on the Gorton’s Fisherman box?” Matthew Pantaleno, a local television cameraman, needled a colleague.

Plenty of spectators were shod in familiar golf shoes and sneakers on Friday, but few arrived like Sean Nonemacher of Blue Bell, Pa., dressed in the steel-toed work boots he usually wears when drilling for natural gas.

“I’m charging the U.S.G.A. for ruining my golf shoes,” Nonemacher said with a laugh.

A number of women said that men had approached them, regretting that they had not thought of wearing rubber boots in conditions more suited to motocross than golf.

Women have an additional X chromosome, noted Michael Glacken, a hiking-boot clad psychiatrist from Thornton, Pa., joking that this gave them wisdom in “organization, food lists, understanding what men should and should not do and knowing appropriate footwear.”

Kevin Dyer flew in from Boston on Friday in flip-flops, and he used several bottles of water from a corporate hospitality tent to clean his muddy feet. He had a return flight scheduled Friday night and did not relish the prospect of removing his shoes to get through security.

“I’ll say, ‘Really, you sure about that?’ ”
350 2013-06-15 “I fought hard to stay in there and hit a lot of good quality shots,” Mickelson said. “Made a bunch of good pars.”

He added, “The way I have control off the tee and as good as the putter is, even though it didn’t show today, I’m very excited about the opportunity this weekend.”

Tiger Woods, the world’s No. 1 player and a 14-time major champion, had rounds of 73 and 70. Posting identical scores was Woods’s playing competitor and the world’s No. 2, Rory McIlroy, who had a hard time accepting the pars that Merion doled out like so many chaste kisses.

“It’s hard to believe that if you’re a couple over par you’re not losing ground to the field,” McIlroy said. “I’m thinking I have so many wedge shots, I should be a couple under par.”

He added, “You have to keep in mind that a 70 is a great score out here.”

The 37-year-old Woods was well aware that he was well situated for a title run. Asked if he liked his prospects for victory, he replied, “Yes.”

Woods, whose last major victory was the 2008 United States Open, which he won in a playoff against Rocco Mediate while competing on a broken leg, was almost as succinct on the subject of a left elbow injury that left him grimacing after some swings. “It is what it is,” said Woods, who sustained the injury last month during the Players Championship en route to his fourth win of the year.

Tied for second behind Horschel and Mickelson are Luke Donald, Justin Rose and Steve Stricker, who carded a 69. Donald played his first 13 holes Thursday in four under and his next 23 Friday in four over to stand at even par with scores of 68 and 72.

Donald, the former world No. 1 from England, hasn’t recorded a top-10 finish in nine previous United States Opens. He had at least three three-putts in his first two rounds, which speaks to the trickiness of Merion’s sloped greens. In 2011, when Donald became the first player to win the money titles on the PGA and European Tours, he put together a streak of 449 holes without a three-putt.

Merion’s long rough, and her mercurial streak, which were exacerbated by severe pin placements and swirling winds, left Donald scathed and scorched Adam Scott, the reigning Masters champion and the No. 3 player in the world. Scott was three under after his first 11 holes when play was suspended Thursday. He played his next 25 in 10 over, posting rounds of 72 and 75 for a cumulative score of seven-over 147.

“I got off on the wrong foot and just struggled to find my rhythm all day,” said Scott, who covered his first six holes Friday morning — Nos. 12-17 in his first round — in five over. “I didn’t make the putts I needed to kind of save some shots here and there.”

Scott played with Woods and McIlroy in the tournament’s marquee pairing. One of the other A-list groupings featured Jim Furyk, Zach Johnson and Graeme McDowell, who have combined to win two United States Opens and one Masters.

By the time Merion was through with them, they were a combined 40 over par. Johnson, the 2007 Masters champion, was the low scorer in the group at plus-11 after rounds of 74 and 77.

“I’d describe the whole golf course as manipulative,” Johnson said. “It just enhances my disdain for the U.S.G.A. and how they manipulate courses.”

He added: “Merion’s a great golf course if you let Merion be Merion. But that’s not the agenda.”

The order of business at any Open is to exalt the players who are the most technically efficient and mentally tough. The layouts value precision over power and place a premium on course management and putting.

Two days before the start of the tournament, Donald had his photograph taken with David Graham, who won the Open the last time it was held at Merion, in 1981.

“I asked him what’s the secret,” Donald said. “He said, ‘Keep it in the short stuff.’ ”

Donald smiled. “I think most of us know that,” he said. “It’s about doing it.”

Merion has done her part to make this week miserable for the men who came to conquer her. The winner will be someone who shows her the proper respect, which Woods knows from his experience with other grande dames like St. Andrews and Pebble Beach.

“Just keep grinding,” Woods said. “You just don’t ever know what the winning score is going to be.”
351 2013-06-15 Pictures From the Week in Business
352 2013-06-15 Andy Murray edged Benjamin Becker, 6-4, 7-6 (3), to reach the semifinals at Queen’s Club in London. He will play fourth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who ended the run of the 112th-ranked American Denis Kudla, 6-3, 6-2, in 53 minutes. The defending champion, Marin Cilic, will face the four-time winner Lleyton Hewitt in the other semifinal.

■ Roger Federer cruised past Mischa Zverev, 6-0, 6-0, to reach the semifinals of the Gerry Weber Open in Halle, Germany. It was his second career double bagel. He will play the defending champion, Tommy Haas, who beat him in last year’s final. Haas rallied to beat Gaël Monfils, 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-3.
353 2013-06-15 Rui Costa of Portugal won the seventh stage of the Tour de Suisse in a late sprint, while Mathias Frank retained the overall lead, 13 seconds in front of Costa.
354 2013-06-15 Yet it took until 2000 for European officials to coax the two very different Balkan nations into talking about the bridge, largely because they could not agree on a location for it.

Romanians speak a language they prize as descended from Latin roots; Bulgarians are Slavs and in Communist times were derided as being so close to Moscow as to be the virtual 16th republic of the Soviet Union. Each country adheres to its own Orthodox church, and for decades were simply disinterested in each other.

Their shared status in European development post-cold war has gradually brought them closer, as they have discovered more in common.

Both joined NATO in 2004, and the European Union in 2007. European Union officials have since criticized both nations, the bloc’s poorest members, for corruption and organized crime — some of which originated in the Vidin region in the 1990s, when criminals helped smuggle oil and other goods into neighboring Serbia, which was under United Nations sanctions for its role in the Balkan wars that broke up the former Yugoslavia.

“The illusions we created about what enemies the Romanians are and how different they are have disappeared into dust,” Gergo Gergov, the 35-year-old mayor of Vidin, said in an interview in the 15-story, Communist-era municipal building, by far Vidin’s tallest.

“We have stopped acting like we are locked up alone,” Mr. Gergov observed. “We have seen that there are other people around and have started to get to know them, to interact, trade, travel and work with each other.”

The bridge, he said, is “the biggest event in the modern history of the region.”

Vidin — which has a population of 63,000, down from 90,000 during the Communist era — could use the help. Its center, replete with decaying architecture from 19th-century glory days, offers some exotic sights for visitors who disembark every summer day from luxurious Danube cruise ships. A balmy river breeze spreads the sweet smell of linden through the city. But Vidin remains the poorest city and region in Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest member state with average monthly wages of 400 euros, or about $574.

The common market offered by European Union membership has catalyzed trade and business: trade between Bulgaria and Romania totaled 3.5 billion euros, or about $5 billion, in 2011, up from 900 million euros in 2005, about $1.09 billion at the time.

Ovidiu Cernatescu, 45, a Romanian from Craiova who started a metal construction business in Vidin two years ago and sells 90 percent of his product in Romania, is confident of further expansion and relishes the protection offered by European Union trade rules rather than capriciously applied local justice. “I’ve been waiting for the bridge like the coming of Jesus Christ,” he said.

Ten years ago, Mr. Cernatescu said, Romanians had heard only negative news about Bulgaria as a country where former Communists still held sway. Now, Romanians enjoy it as a cheaper, nice place to visit and trade, he said.

Bulgarian businesspeople in the region like Kostas Grivov, who employs 100 workers in two factories processing nuts and dried fruit, are expecting a short-term boom in tourism, shopping and investment.

Mr. Grivov, who is also Romania’s honorary consul in Vidin, said the bridge would halve his transport costs and greatly increase the speed and reliability of supplies and deliveries. The sole way to Romania had been an unreliable ferry that crosses only when it fills with cars.

In Calafat, the deputy mayor, Dorel Mituletu, sits in a restored late-19th century mansion that might be the envy of his Vidin counterparts. He welcomed the bridge, but said he feared merchants in his town would lose out to Vidin, where prices are 20 to 25 percent lower.

He also voiced concern about what he saw as difficult and complex procedures required to secure European Union financing for local projects — processes that have become stricter because of concerns about corruption and mismanagement.

“Romanians are not accustomed to begging,” he said. “Despite what the rest of Europe might think of us.”
355 2013-06-15 WASHINGTON — Economic reports released on Friday weighed on investors, showing that consumer confidence has fallen this month and that American factories barely increased their output in May.

In addition, the Labor Department reported that a rise in food and gas costs drove a measure of wholesale prices up sharply in May. But outside those volatile categories, inflation was mild.

The department also said on Friday that the producer price index rose 0.5 percent in May from April. Gas prices rose 1.5 percent last month, and food costs increased 0.6 percent.

Confidence in the economy has fallen in June to a lower level than economists estimated, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey.

Scott King, senior fiduciary investment adviser at Unified Trust in Lexington, Ky., said that investors were disappointed on Friday by the decline in consumer confidence. He described the economy as “plodding along.”

“Wage growth continues to be pretty meager, and unemployment continues to be lackluster,” Mr. King said.
356 2013-06-15 Farther along the trail, which rises as high as 37 feet, a group of white-faced saki monkeys ventured out from the primate house, where a notice explained their absence.

“If you don’t see me here, please look outside on the Treetop Trail,” it said.

The trails are the latest development in a movement by zoos worldwide to improve animal welfare and to simulate the wild more closely, said Paul Boyle, senior vice president for conservation and education at the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

At zoos that allow animals to move outside their traditional enclosures, there are signs that the animals breed more frequently and are less likely to indicate boredom, Dr. Boyle said. For visitors, particularly children, enhanced animal mobility increases understanding about how the creatures live and may build support for conservation of endangered species, he said.

“It’s a win for animals, a win for people and a win for the zoo,” Dr. Boyle said.

As a rare snow leopard slunk across a bridge connecting two parts of the Philadelphia Zoo trail, visitors waiting below grew excited.

“I have a problem with animals being caged,” said Robin DeLisser, 36, from Delray Beach, Fla., who was visiting with her children, Dillan, 11, and Kaelyn, 10. “This gives them more mobility.”

Starting next spring, the big cats will be able to roam outside their quarters on a new trail that will also be open, at different times, to great apes like orangutans.

The final stage of the project, which officials hope will be complete by 2017, will create a trail for other large ground-dwelling animals including zebras, hippos and the zoo’s solitary white rhino.

The last trail might also allow the zoo to reintroduce elephants after shipping out the last of its much-loved pachyderms in 2009 because of concern that the zoo would never have the space or financial resources to ensure their welfare, said Andrew Baker, the zoo’s chief operating officer.

For now, the zoo is raising funds for construction of the second phase, which is expected to cost $5.5 million. The first phase, which included a 1,035-foot extension of Treetop Trail, cost $5.8 million.

By allowing them to get closer to the animals, the Philadelphia Zoo hopes to encourage its 1.2 million annual visitors, particularly children, to understand and act on the conservation that is an increasingly important part of its mission.

Outside KidZooU, a children’s section that opened in mid-April, youngsters are encouraged to “act like an animal” by climbing rope netting shaped like the extension of the trail system next to it, where monkeys and lemurs are allowed to wander.

The young visitors are then invited inside the children’s zoo, where hands-on exhibits make a clear link between the survival of familiar animals and everyday choices that children can make.

As a model of a worried-looking polar bear leans through a living-room window against a background of melting icebergs, children can use a computer terminal to win points for energy-conservation measures like turning off lights to slow the climate change that is threatening the bear’s survival.

By loading cereal boxes onto a conveyor for recycling, children are told, they can reduce the energy consumption that is contributing to global warming and threatening the habitat of the much-loved budgerigar, or budgie. A small flock lives next to the recycling exhibit.

Like the trail system, the children’s zoo aims to foster a conservation ethic among the younger generation, Dr. Baker said. “We are creating a high degree of receptivity to the conservation message that we have to share,” he said.
357 2013-06-15 The choreographer Patricia Noworol, who grew up in Poland and moved to Germany as a teenager, is fond of emotional and physical extremes. In the United States premiere of “?Culture,” performed at Danspace Project on Thursday, she is the queen bee. She perches on a high ladder wearing a hot pink robe while shrieking into a microphone, dances topless under strobe lights and lectures the audience about arts financing.

As dance-theater, this collaboration with the German hip-hop company Renegade is purposely garish, yet not a bit daring. “Theater is only interesting to me if I am taking risks that challenge the whole system,” she tells us at the start of “?Culture,” and adds that if she doesn’t, her work becomes weaker and weaker.

But for all its attempts to be risky, it already seems weak. Ms. Noworol, who lives in New York, is hardly the next Pina Bausch or Ann Liv Young, the provocative performance artist. Yet “?Culture” signals that she is aiming in that direction.

Four male hip-hop dancers join Ms. Noworol, who, in the work, talks about how she had originally hoped to make a piece addressing homosexuality in hip-hop culture. The moments between her pontifications, when dancing actually occurs among the men, are the most compelling.

The dancers have skill. Shawndrick D. Hallman performs head spins without using his hands, but power moves aside, his mastery and control are marvelous. The acrobatic Sefa Erdik instills his tricks with a silky fluidity, and Patrick Williams Seebacher lends his popping a rubbery resilience. We eventually learn that the fourth dancer, Dodzi Dougban, is deaf, which makes the stark, silent solo he performs near the start all the more haunting.

Toward the end, Ms. Noworol requests feedback from audience members, asking them questions. In the final segment she is at her most conventional and repetitive: dancers run circles around the stage, stomp their feet and pull their elbows into their chests with loud howls. After several laps, it peters out, and she kisses each dancer on the cheek. That gesture, tender and a bit awkward, is the most startling of the night.
358 2013-06-15 “The type of acquisition that raises the most concern under the antitrust law is when a dominant firm acquires a potential rival,” said the lawyer, David A. Balto, a former policy director of the Federal Trade Commission who now calls himself a public interest antitrust lawyer.

But Steve Cartt, the chief operating officer of Questcor, disagreed. He said Questcor did not have to report the transaction to antitrust regulators because Novartis, the licenser, would retain some manufacturing rights to Synacthen.

The Federal Trade Commission is now proposing new rules to end such exemptions from notification.

A spokesman said the trade commission did not comment on whether it was reviewing particular transactions but said it could even when that was not required.

Questcor, based in Anaheim, Calif., has achieved huge success with Acthar, a hormone purified from pig pituitary glands that was selling for only about $40 a vial when the company acquired the drug in 2001.

Questcor began increasing the price. In 2007, it was raised to about $23,000 a vial from $1,650, provoking howls from some doctors and patients, and has continued to raise the price since then.

The company initially said the high price was necessary because the main use of the drug was to treat a very rare condition that causes spasms in babies. But the company has aggressively marketed the drug for more common immune-related disorders like multiple sclerosis and nephrotic syndrome. Sales reached $509 million in 2012, and the price of the company’s stock has soared since 2007.

But insurers are now making sure that Acthar is used only when far cheaper steroids cannot be. The federal government is investigating Questcor’s marketing practices. And many short-sellers have been betting Questcor’s stock will fall.

The most obvious threat to Questcor’s business was the possibility of someone bringing Synacthen to the United States. Synacthen is a synthetic fragment of the hormone in Acthar.

Questcor eliminated that competitor by licensing the exclusive rights to the drug in the United States and various other countries, excluding 13 in Europe, according to a company regulatory filing.

Its initial payment of $60 million to Novartis greatly exceeded the $16 million Retrophin was offering, according to a summary of the tentative deal terms that Retrophin was circulating to investors in an effort to raise money to buy Synacthen. Retrophin, however, was offering Novartis a 20 percent royalty on sales, which is likely to be far higher than what Questcor agreed to pay.

Retrophin, which went public through a reverse merger with a shell company, is based in New York and is run by Martin Shkreli, a former biotechnology hedge fund manager. He declined to comment for this article.

It is not clear if there were other bidders. Novartis declined to comment.

Novartis can revoke the rights if Questcor does not meet deadlines in terms of testing Synacthen in clinical trials and seeking approval to market it in the United States, according to a regulatory filing by Questcor. The deadlines are not being made public.

Mr. Cartt of Questcor said the company would spend millions of dollars testing Synacthen to see if it could help American patients. “That is the essence of discovery and competition, not their elimination,” he said in an e-mail.

In the past Questcor executives have disparaged Synacthen.

“We believe it is unlikely to be a competitor to Acthar,” David Young, Questcor’s chief scientific officer, said in a call with analysts last July. He said it was not a protein produced by the body like Acthar was and added, “Synacthen contains benzyl alcohol, which is toxic to children and can potentially cause gasping syndrome, which can be fatal.”

But in a news release this week, Dr. Young said that Questcor intended to test the drug “not only in conditions different than Acthar but also in conditions where Synacthen would potentially provide a clinical benefit over Acthar.”
359 2013-06-15 ISTANBUL — After days of being the target of tear gas and police water cannons, protesters in Gezi Park, in Taksim Square here, were tense on Wednesday night, girded for conflict. Instead they got a piano performance.

Davide Martello, a German musician in the new age, Paul Winter mold, arrived with a three-man team, hauling a grand piano in a trailer. After unloading the instrument and placing it inside the entry to the park, he began to play.

People stopped to listen. The restless crowd began to calm and organize around Mr. Martello. Soon photos and videos of the performance were zinging around the globe, ending up on blogs, online news sites and Facebook pages.

By the time Thursday night rolled round, word had gotten out, and according to estimates from those there, 1,500 people gathered in the park to hear this unknown 31-year-old pianist play again.

Speaking during a pause in the performance, Mr. Martello explained that he was on a self-directed world tour, hoping to play in major cities across the globe. He had been in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Wednesday morning and wanted to stop by Istanbul to witness the protests, which started as an effort to save Gezi Park from destruction and morphed into a broader expression of dissatisfaction with the authoritarian tactics of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

“The idea is to inspire politicians through music,” Mr. Martello said, wearing a fedora and dressed in red in honor of the Turkish flag.
360 2013-06-15 The winners of the open trial in Orlando, Fla., this month for the Bermuda Bowl world championship were young. Kevin Dwyer is 24; John Kranyak, 29; Gavin Wolpert, 30; and Kevin Bathurst, 34. They have added two “old-timers” for the championship in September in Bali, Indonesia: Steve Weinstein, 49, and Bobby Levin, 55.

When you have a two-suiter, showing it as quickly as possible allows partner to evaluate his or her hand accurately. However, if the opponents win the auction, you have given the declarer a road map for the play. This was highlighted by the diagramed deal, Board 87 of the winners’ final match against the team that has become USA-2: Martin Fleisher, Michael Kamil, Zia Mahmood, Chip Martel, Michael Rosenberg and Chris Willenken.

At the other table, Dwyer (West) overcalled one club with one spade; North responded two diamonds; South rebid three no-trump; and North passed.

West now produced a surprise attack — he led the heart ten, promising the jack and perhaps a higher nontouching honor. Bathurst (East) won with the king and returned his eight, the higher of two remaining cards. Now the defenders took the first five tricks for down one.

In the given auction, West used a Michaels Cue-Bid to show at least 5-5 in the majors. Wolpert (North) cue-bid two spades, promising at least game-invitational values with a long diamond suit. Then, when East advanced with three hearts, Kranyak (South) knew that his partner had at most a singleton heart. Placing North with a probable king-queen of diamonds and ace-queen of clubs, South jumped to six diamonds.

West led the heart ace and continued with the heart jack. After ruffing in the dummy, how did Kranyak plan the play?
361 2013-06-15 Aides to Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain said he would discuss the issue with Mr. Obama in a telephone conversation on Friday.

“We have made no decision to arm the opposition, but it was right to lift the arms embargo,” Mr. Cameron said in a news conference.

The French president, François Hollande, avoided specifics, saying at a news conference: “We must exert pressure on the regime of Bashar Assad. We must get him to understand that there is no other solution than a political solution.”

The Assad government, emboldened by its conquest of the contested city of Qusayr, near the border with Lebanon, has stepped up its offensive with an assault on Aleppo. On Friday, it fiercely denied that it has used chemical weapons.

“The White House has issued a statement full of lies about the use of chemical weapons in Syria based on fabricated information,” the Syrian Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “The United States is using cheap tactics to justify President Barack Obama’s decision to arm the Syrian opposition.”

The rebels are already getting arms from Qatar and Saudi Arabia. But they have said that they need sophisticated weaponry, like antitank and antiaircraft missiles, much more than they need small arms. But the West has been reluctant to supply more advanced weapons, or to authorize their supply, because of the strong influence of more radical Islamist fighters in the opposition and the difficulty of ensuring that weapons go only to more moderate rebels.

The rebels want to stop the Syrian Air Force, which has no opposition as it bombs and strafes rebel positions. American officials are said to be considering imposing a no-fly zone over some rebel-held territory, especially as the Syrian Army is pressing its advantage, aided by Hezbollah, and moving on to Aleppo.

Russia has been supplying the Syrian government with weapons and has a longstanding contract to sell an advanced air-defense system it has chosen not to ship for now.

On Friday, the Russians reminded the United States of American intelligence failings that preceded the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

Yury Ushakov, a Putin adviser, said that the evidence of chemical weapons use recently presented to Moscow by Washington “does not look convincing to us.” He then warned Washington not to repeat its mistakes in Iraq.

Alexei Pushkov, a former journalist who is chairman of the Russian Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said on Twitter that “information about Assad’s use of chemical weapons has been fabricated in the same place as the lies about Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction.” He said that it “makes no sense” for Mr. Assad to use sarin gas “in small amounts.”

Mr. Ushakov said that chances for peace talks on Syria would be hurt by large-scale assistance to the rebels. But the Americans believe that Mr. Assad will come to the table in Geneva for serious talks only if the Syrian opposition is strengthened. That was also the rationale Britain and France used in letting the European Union’s arms embargo lapse.

The American chemical weapons assessment was embraced by countries that have pushed for a stronger course of action to end the violence, including a no-fly zone. But they also invoked Iraq, notably the 1988 chemical attack on the Kurdish city of Halabja, which killed an estimated 5,000 people.

“These are very serious assessments,” Turkey’s president, Abdullah Gul, told reporters. “Using chemical weapons is like a small nuclear weapon. The dimension of this is very dangerous. We know what has been experienced in Halabja. I am sure all diplomats and analysts are evaluating these claims. If this finding has been proved precisely, then it is certain that all things will enter another phase.”

Turkey, which shares a border with Syria, has strongly backed the opposition.

The 1925 Geneva Protocol and several later international agreements ban the use of chemical weapons.

While many details about where and when the American government believes Syrian forces used chemical weapons, Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said intelligence officials believe 100 to 150 people were killed by a nerve agent.

“The president has said that the use of chemical weapons would change his calculus, and it has,” he said.

NATO’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told reporters in Brussels that Syria should immediately grant access to United Nations investigators and allow them to look into all reports of chemical weapons use.

“This is indeed a matter of great concern,” he said. “The international community has made clear that any use of chemical weapons is completely unacceptable and a clear breach of international law.”

Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations said that any action that escalated the armed conflict would set back any chance for peace, and he expressed concern about the conflict having a rippling effect across the region. In particular, he noted the danger posed by the recent decision of Hezbollah, the Shiite militia based in Lebanon that is backed by Iran, to enter the fray on the side of the Assad government.

“The open engagement of Hezbollah into this Syria crisis is very, very worrisome,” he said at the united Nations headquarters in New York.

Since Hezbollah made common cause with the Assad forces, the government has scored several key victories, including the capture of Qusayr.

The leader of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah, reaffirmed his support of the Assad government on Friday. “We took a decision, although late, to intervene on the ground,” he said during a ceremony commemorating wounded members of the resistance group. “We entered in order to confront the project that was under way in Syria.”

“This was not a spur-of-the moment decision,” he said.

Some American lawmakers favor far greater intervention, and have called on the Obama administration to go even further.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, called Thursday for the establishment of a no-fly zone, but it appeared unlikely that such action would be approved anytime soon.

A spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry, Philippe Lalliot, said that France would insist on a Chapter 7 Security Council resolution authorizing the use of military force before supporting any no-fly zone. The intervention in Libya that brought down Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was sanctioned by such a resolution, but Russia, which abstained at the time, said that it felt the resolution was deliberately misused by the West, and it has promised to veto any similar resolution concerning Syria.

China, which is also a permanent member of the Security Council, said only that it looked forward to a more thorough investigation into the claims that chemical weapons were used.

“China’s position on the use of chemical weapons is consistent and clear,” Hua Chunying, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said at a news briefing. “No matter who uses chemical weapons, we will firmly oppose the action.”
362 2013-06-15 Disappointing reports about the economy helped push the stock market lower on Friday.

Concern that the Federal Reserve could announce plans to cut back its stimulus program next week also weighed on the mood of investors.

Americans’ confidence in the economy weakened in June and was lower than economists had estimated, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey released on Friday. Another report said factories were not as busy as expected.

The International Monetary Fund, a global lender, offered no help. The I.M.F. said Friday in its annual report on the American economy that spending cuts by the United States government that kicked in March 1 were “ill designed” and slowed the economy. Though in a statment, the fund’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said, “There are signs that the U.S. recovery is gaining ground and becoming more durable.”

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index sank 9.63 points, or 0.59 percent, to 1,626.73. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 105.90 points, or 0.7 percent, to 15,070.18. The Nasdaq composite index lost 21.81 points, or 0.63 percent, to 3,423.56.

American Express led the Dow lower, losing $2.24, or 3 percent, to $72.97. The media company Gannett fell the most, dropping 6 percent, or $1.61, to $24.99.
363 2013-06-15 THE total wealth of American households has recovered from the financial crisis and Great Recession, according to the Federal Reserve Board. But that recovery has not been enough to keep up with inflation, and many Americans, particularly younger adults who took on heavy debt to acquire homes before the housing bubble collapsed, are lagging.

The Fed said last week that household wealth rose by $3 trillion in the first quarter, to $70.3 trillion. It was the first time the total exceeded the $68.1 trillion total posted in the third quarter of 2007, before the recession began, and was the largest quarterly increase since 1999, when the stock market was rising rapidly.

In the first quarter, a third of the gain in wealth came directly from rising values of corporate stocks owned by households. That was a little more than the gain attributed to rising real estate values.

The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pointed out that there are more households now than there were in 2007, and that there has been inflation as well. As can be seen in an accompanying chart, the average household wealth at the end of the quarter was $613,635, a figure that is 11 percent below the peak of $689,996 (in 2013 dollars) set in the first quarter of 2007.

Those averages are deceptive, in that they are raised by the high wealth of a relatively small number of households. A very different picture emerges from looking at the median — the level at which half the households are richer and half poorer. That statistic can be calculated from the Fed’s triennial survey of consumer finances. In the studies conducted in the 1990s, the median net wealth was about one-quarter of the average. In the 2000s, the median fell to about one-fifth of the average, and in 2010, it was down to about one-sixth of the average.

During the housing boom, said William R. Emmons, the chief economist of the Center for Household Financial Stability at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, “exactly the people you would think need to act conservatively were doing the opposite.” Homeownership rates, and mortgage debt levels, rose for younger households, as well as for less educated and minority ones. Those groups suffered more during the crisis, he said, and have been slower to recover.

Mr. Emmons compiled average wealth figures for different groups from the triennial surveys, and estimated how they have changed since the 2010 survey. The charts also show the results based on age. While all age groups have yet to recover to their 2007 wealth, when adjusted for inflation, older households are down just 3 percent on average, while those headed by middle-age people are down about 10 percent. But the decline is nearly 40 percent for the younger group.
364 2013-06-15 And this year’s show may be relatively subdued in terms of new commercial jet order announcements as well, given the uncertain near-term outlook for airline profits and economic growth, particularly in emerging markets.

But on Friday the spotlight was on Toulouse-Blagnac Airport, about a 90-minute flight south of Paris, where, precisely at 10 a.m., the A350 lifted effortlessly from the sun-dappled runway. The purr of the plane’s two Rolls-Royce engines was momentarily drowned out by the cheers and whistles of a throng of Airbus employees, well-wishers and members of the news media who had gathered — camera phones at the ready — to capture the moment.

The distinctive curled tips of the carbon-fiber wings glinted briefly before the jet slipped into the clouds.

Judith Lindner, a 36-year-old quality control technician from an Airbus factory in Stade, Germany, whooped as the jet sailed past, jabbing her thumb in the air.

“What a tremendous thrill — fantastic,” Ms. Lindner said, adding that she had helped inspect the vertical stabilizer on the plane’s tail. “I feel such a mix of pride and relief.”

Analysts said the value of a well-timed and well-executed A350 debut could not be overestimated. Some said they still expected Airbus to try to maintain the public relations momentum by staging an A350 flyby sometime during the weeklong show in Paris.

It would be hard for Airbus to find a bigger stage. Show organizers said they expected the chalets and exhibition halls of the air show to be filled with more than 2,200 companies from more than 40 countries. As many as 350,000 visitors from the aerospace industry, as well as the public, are expected over the course of the week.

Even Boeing executives acknowledged that the timing of the A350 flight was likely to steal much of the American company’s thunder at the event.

“I know they work hard to keep the home fans entertained,” Randy Tinseth, Boeing’s head of marketing, said at a briefing on Tuesday in Paris.

Not so long ago, Airbus’s prospects did not look nearly as bright. It was struggling to roll out its last big-bet plane: the twin-deck A380. Miscommunication in the design, manufacturing and installation of electrical cables resulted in a series of missteps in the mid-2000s that delayed the A380’s first delivery by three years. The debacle prompted a management reshuffle in 2006 and more than $6 billion in losses.

Airbus executives say they are determined not to repeat the experience.

For the new A350, the company has changed its internal design systems and decision-making, even involving major suppliers in the process from the start. While in the past Airbus engineers in France and Germany operated independently, in some cases using incompatible tools and software, they now collaborate on shared digital blueprints.

So far, analysts said, Airbus has managed to keep the A350’s development hiccups to a relative minimum. Friday’s flight took place about a year later than the company had envisioned when it began marketing the plane in 2007 — not all that significant a delay in aerospace terms.

Airbus, of course, is not the only jet maker that has had trouble with new products. Boeing rolled out its 787 Dreamliner three years late, and early this year was forced to ground the plane for three months after its lightweight but volatile lithium-ion batteries proved prone to overheating.

“This is quickly coming down to a battle of credibility” between Airbus and Boeing, said Richard Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group, an aerospace consulting firm in Fairfax, Va. “Signaling that you are a reliable provider sends a great message.”

That is especially crucial because orders for commercial jets have slowed after several years of record purchases.

This month, the International Air Transport Association, a trade group based in Geneva and Montreal, predicted that its 240 member airlines would report a combined profit of $12.7 billion in 2013, up from $7.6 billion last year. But those expected gains are largely the result of falling fuel prices and efforts to pack more customers onto fewer planes, rather than a jump in travel demand.

While new jet sales may be slowing, there is still a big backlog of plane orders. Both Boeing and Airbus, as well as smaller jet makers like Bombardier of Canada and Embraer of Brazil, have been steadily increasing output. That has increased short-term demand for components, posing a quandary for parts suppliers. Many are reluctant to invest too heavily in new production capacity for fear that they will later be saddled with redundant plants and equipment — and debt.

“I hear concerns everywhere in commercial markets about the reliability and resilience of the supply chain when they are increasing production everywhere,” said Damien Lasou, a managing director and aerospace analyst at Accenture in Paris. “It is a big distraction to management, particularly in terms of capital investment.”

In recent years, the battle for commercial jet sales has focused on shorter-range, single-aisle models like the Airbus A320 and the Boeing 737, particularly after the two companies introduced new versions of those planes with more fuel-efficient engines. But airlines have also begun to show renewed interest in the latest wide-body jets, which can offer significantly greater range and more seats than previous models — promising bigger profit margins on long-distance routes.

Several flag carriers, including Ethiopian Airlines, Japan Airlines, Lufthansa of Germany and Malaysia Airlines, say they are considering multibillion-dollar orders for the larger jets, including the A350 and the 787.

Despite the battery hazards that were revealed on the 787 this year, airlines remain keenly interested in the plane, which is built extensively from lightweight composite materials.

“The shelf life of new jetliner controversy is slightly less than fresh oysters,” Mr. Aboulafia of Teal Group said of the Boeing 787’s troubles. “It goes away incredibly fast.”
365 2013-06-15 SEOUL, South Korea — Nine agents from South Korea’s National Intelligence Service wrote more than 5,000 posts on the Internet in a psychological warfare campaign against North Korea since 2009, using some of them to attack domestic opposition parties and their candidates ahead of South Korea’s presidential election last December, state prosecutors said on Friday.

The agents’ top supervisor, Won Sei-hoon, the former director of the intelligence agency, was accused of overseeing the online operation and was indicted on Friday. Prosecutors said they did not indict the nine agents because they were simply obeying Mr. Won’s instructions — a decision that the political opposition called a whitewash on Friday.

Mr. Won, who was not arrested, faces trial on charges of breaking the national election law, which bars government officials from using their influence to affect a vote, and of violating a separate law that prohibits government intelligence officials from meddling in domestic politics.

While announcing the results of their two-month investigation, prosecutors did not comment on whether or how the operation affected the Dec. 19 election. President Park Geun-hye, the governing party’s candidate, won one million more votes than her chief rival, Moon Jae-in, the candidate of the main opposition Democratic Party and a major target of the online criticism.

The agents used hundreds of Internet IDs to upload comments as part of what the intelligence authorities have called a normal psychological campaign against North Korea. The intelligence agency has accused North Korea of using the Internet to try to spread Communist propaganda and spawn antigovernment sentiment in South Korea, one of the world’s most Internet-connected countries.
366 2013-06-16 A First, and Yet Another Second, at the U.S. Open
367 2013-06-16 At the Boston Early Music Festival a concert by the Hilliard Ensemble disappoints but Convivium Musicum saves the (next) day....
368 2013-06-16 “The beauty of what we do, and the pleasure people take in looking at it, is what brings me joy,” said Raymond Schopfer, 60, who makes watches for the company.

Brigitte Geoffroy, who came from Quebec with three friends and colleagues especially for the occasion, said, “It’s a wonderful opportunity to unveil all the jobs that are hidden within the fashion world.”

Marie-Mathilde Robert has one of those jobs. The 23-year-old does embroidery for Vermont, a small company based in Paris that was acquired by Dior last year. She smiled when she saw a group of visitors come toward her, saying, “I love the interaction with people who didn’t know my job still existed.”

Sitting next to her was Jean-Eudes Neton, 43, another Vermont empolyee, who said that events like Les Journées bolstered craftsmanship, especially in troubled economic times like those in Europe today. “Since the beginning of the crisis, people are looking for work, or new ways to make a living, and they are rediscovering all these rare jobs that are rooted in our history and they are opening their minds to our artistry,” he said.

In the city’s chic Eighth Arrondissement, a group of 12 people started their visit outside the Rue Marbeuf store of Berluti, the men’s shoe and accessory brand that expanded into men’s wear last year. They were taken across the street, into a building and up three floors to a workshop where shoemakers create custom-made footwear — some incised with initials or a drawing of the owner’s dog, some made of beaver’s tail — using techniques that haven’t changed in nearly a century. One pair takes six months to complete.

“Our craft is very old — people have no idea how complex it is,” said Anthony Delos, a bootmaker who won the honor of Meilleur Ouvrier de France, or “best worker in France,” in a national competition.

Initially trained as a cobbler, Carlos Fernando, 45, has been with the company since 1995. “These open days don’t just show people what we do, they also shows them how we do it,” he said, stressing that Berluti does not use machinery for its custom orders.

And that is just what struck Charles Guillaumot, 18, an apprentice with Chanel, who usually works on handbags but came with his father to Berluti to see other kinds of leatherwork. “What shocked me was the fact that their job hasn’t changed in decades,” he said.

As he greeted another group of visitors, Anthony Delos, whose own bespoke footwear company was acquired by Berluti last year, said: “At the end of the day, whether we’re independent shoemakers or part of a huge group, we still work the same way. Our work is made of experience, perseverance and passion.”
369 2013-06-16 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
370 2013-06-16 Mississippi State took the lead on Wes Rea’s two-run double in the eighth, closer Jonathan Holder turned back two Oregon State threats, and the Bulldogs beat the Beavers, 5-4, in the opening game of the College World Series in Omaha. The Bulldogs (49-18) advanced to a game Monday against Indiana, which defeated Louisville, 2-0. The Beavers (50-12) are one loss from elimination.
371 2013-06-16 Still, Ginobili said those were just a few of his many concerns.

“It’s not about scoring,” he said. “It’s about making better decisions, being more aggressive, being more of a threat and being more active defensively, too.”

Heat guard Dwyane Wade has received plenty of attention for failing to meet expectations this postseason, but an ineffective Ginobili has at times had the same kind of negative impact on San Antonio.

The Spurs will especially need Ginobili in Game 5 on Sunday because guard Tony Parker, who did not score in the second half of Thursday’s Game 4, said his injured right hamstring was still an issue.

Popovich, who for years has put his trust in an aging core of Duncan, Parker and Ginobili, said Ginobili was one of the most emotional players on the Spurs. He added that he could not do much at this point to help Ginobili except play him.

“He’s having a tough playoffs, and he hasn’t really found a rhythm or found his game yet,” Popovich said in a conference call. He added: “I think that he’s obviously not as confident as usual, and he knows full well that he hasn’t performed the way he would like and the way he’s used to. But it’s simplistic to say, ‘What are we going to do to get him going?’ He’s going to get himself going, or he won’t. He knows that he’s got to play better for us to be successful.”

Ginobili averaged 14.4 points last postseason, his lowest playoff mark since 2004. He is averaging 10.6 through 18 games in these playoffs.

If his play continues to deteriorate, role players like Danny Green, Gary Neal and Kawhi Leonard will have to do more on both ends of the court.

Parker remembers how Ginobili made a dramatic 3-pointer at the end of regulation in the first game of the Spurs’ second-round series against the Golden State Warriors, a play that allowed the Spurs to win in double overtime. Parker said that the shot might have saved the Spurs’ season and that he expected Ginobili to have at least one memorable moment in the finals.

“He came through for us all those years, and I just have confidence in him,” Parker said. “You have to have faith he’s going to have a big game. So me, I just trust him because I’ve been playing with him for so long.”

Sunday would be a perfect time for Ginobili to have a breakthrough. A loss would put the Spurs behind, 3-2, in the series and require them to win two games in Miami to win the championship.

Reflecting on his season, Ginobili, who will be a free agent this summer, said he had considered the possibility that his retirement might come sooner than he once expected. But he knows his teammates need him right now.

“It’s impossible not to put pressure on yourself,” he said. “You’ve been here. You know you are not going to have many other opportunities. It’s part of the job, and dealing with pressure is what we do.

“I trust the system; I trust my teammates. I will try to force a little less and find my teammates.”
372 2013-06-16 BRASILIA, Brazil — Neymar started to live up to the huge expectations of a demanding public only three minutes into the Confederations Cup on Saturday, scoring an early goal to help Brazil beat Japan, 3-0, in the opening match of the tournament.

Neymar scored with a firm shot from outside the penalty area, connecting with the ball after Fred controlled a long cross from Marcelo with his chest. The ball bounced only once before Neymar fired it into the top corner.

For the next two minutes, most of the 67,432 fans at the National Stadium chanted Neymar’s name, relishing the knowledge that their poster boy was starting to deliver for the national team with one year to go before the World Cup.

Paulinho added the second goal for Brazil in the 48th minute, deftly controlling a cross from Dani Alves before turning inside and shooting. Japan goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima got his hands to the ball, but it was too powerful for him to stop. Jo scored Brazil’s third, latching on to a through ball from Oscar and sliding it past Kawashima in injury time.

The win puts Brazil at the top of Group A with three points. Italy and Mexico will play in the other group match on Sunday.

Neymar entered Saturday’s match facing a minor wave of criticism. He has become something of an idol in Brazil, but a nine-match scoreless streak had heaped pressure on the 21-year-old striker heading into the Confederations Cup. With his hair long on top and short on the sides, Neymar has already started to transcend the game in Brazil, the way David Beckham has nearly everywhere else. His picture is plastered around the country in underwear and phone ads, to name just a few. He has also appeared on Brazilian TV, appearing as himself in one of the country’s biggest soap operas.
373 2013-06-16 At least one part of the labor force has expanded significantly since the recession hit: the low-wage part, made up of burger flippers, home health aides and the like.

Put simply, the recession took middle-class jobs, and the recovery has replaced them with low-income ones, a trend that has exacerbated income inequality. According to Labor Department data, about 1.7 million workers earned the minimum wage or less in 2007. By 2012, the total had surged to 3.6 million, with millions of others earning just a few cents or dollars more.

In his State of the Union address in February, President Obama made raising the federal minimum wage his banner economic proposal. The White House argued that increasing the wage to $9 an hour from its current $7.25 and indexing it to inflation would lift hundreds of thousands of families above the poverty line.

Combined with tax measures the administration has supported, Alan B. Krueger, the departing chairman of the White House’s Council of Economic Advisers, said that raising the minimum wage would undo “a lot of the rise in inequality we’ve seen over the last 20 years.”
374 2013-06-16 But the speeches have changed, and not just because a single topic, Watergate, dominated them in 1973. The speakers then were overwhelmingly white and male, addressing lofty matters in mostly impersonal terms.

The addresses of 2013 were much more personal, infused with self-deprecating humor, raunchy asides and references to the speakers’ own humble or distant origins. The looser tone fits a looser time, and some speakers now work with neither prepared texts nor fear of grammatical error.

In an era of less rigid career and life expectations, the speeches are peppered with exhortations to take risks. There are acknowledgments that making a living could be hard, as well as an embrace of failure as a learning experience, that would have been hard to imagine in 1973.

But one central message has not changed: Be engaged in the world around you, politically and otherwise, for there is much work to do.

“None of us at Twitter thought during the earthquake and ensuing tsunami in Fukushima, Japan, that our service would be a great alternative communication platform if the mobile networks in Japan were spotty in the aftermath. And certainly none of us even hoped, let alone considered, that our platform would be one of those used to organize protests across the Middle East, in Tunisia and Egypt during the Arab Spring.

Here’s the amazing thing about what I’ve observed when I’ve witnessed all those things. Not only can you not plan the impact you’re going to have, you often won’t recognize it even while you’re having it. ...

From here on out, you have to switch gears. You’re no longer meeting and exceeding expectations. There are no expectations. There’s no script. When you’re doing what you love to do, you become resilient, because that’s the habit you create for yourself. You create a habit of taking chances on yourself and making bold choices in service to doing what you love.

If, on the other hand, you do what’s expected of you, or what you’re supposed to do, and things go poor or chaos ensues — as it surely will — you will look to external sources for what to do next, because that will be the habit you’ve created for yourself. You’ll be standing there, frozen, on the stage of your own life.”

“My parents were aghast. They had been told Columbia was a hotbed of communism. To me, that was a selling point. It was 1956, and I was in full James Dean rebellion mode in Corpus Christi, Tex. ...

Freshman orientation week, my adviser told me that he expected my time at Columbia to be brief. He thought my Texas public schools background had ill prepared me for the rigors of a Columbia education and that I had only been given a scholarship in a, he thought, misguided effort on the college’s part to attract a more diverse student body and mitigate Columbia’s reputation as the Jewish commuter college in the Ivy League. ...

We here today are so overprivileged it hurts. If we don’t take advantage of the opportunity we have been given, we are true fools — and callous ones at that. Columbia is a gift. It’s so easy to matter, to make a difference. It’s even easier not to do either. But then we have failed ourselves and this institution.”

“It’s O.K. to fail, as long as you give it your best, fail fast and move on quickly. Now you ask: ‘How do you do that? How do you fail fast? And efficiently?’ You think about the problem, and you work on the most critical and essential part of the challenge first — don’t do the easy stuff. ...

Over the course of my scientific career, I would say that roughly three-quarters of the things I tried either failed or morphed into something oftentimes better.”

“If you’re constantly pushing yourself higher, higher, the law of averages — not to mention the myth of Icarus — predicts that you will at some point fall. And when you do, I want you to know this, remember this: There is no such thing as failure. Failure is just life trying to move us in another direction.

Now, when you’re down there in the hole, it looks like failure. So this past year I had to spoon-feed those words to myself. And when you’re down in the hole, when that moment comes, it’s really O.K. to feel bad for a little while. Give yourself time to mourn what you think you may have lost, but then here’s the key: Learn from every mistake because every experience, encounter and particularly your mistakes are there to teach you and force you into being more who you are. And then figure out what is the next right move. And the key to life is to develop an internal moral, emotional GPS that can tell you which way to go.”

“A meritocracy is a system in which the people who are the luckiest in their health and genetic endowment; luckiest in terms of family support, encouragement and, probably, income; luckiest in their educational and career opportunities; and luckiest in so many other ways difficult to enumerate — these are the folks who reap the largest rewards.

The only way for even a putative meritocracy to hope to pass ethical muster, to be considered fair, is if those who are the luckiest in all of those respects also have the greatest responsibility to work hard, to contribute to the betterment of the world and to share their luck with others.”

“There was a group of kids that used to hang in the lobby of my building. ... One in particular, he reminded me of my dad. He had that quick wit, that great swagger. ...

One month into my time as mayor, I got another call for a shooting. It was on Court Street in our city, and I go down there and I do the same thing. I’m going to people, telling them about our plans, telling them that we had to pull together, that we were going to fight through this crime, that we were going to drive down the violence. I barely paid attention to the dead body on the sidewalk and another one being rolled into an ambulance.

After that night of being important, of being mayor of New Jersey’s biggest city, I went back to my home in the high-rises of Brick Towers. I sat there with my BlackBerry reviewing the incident reports of the day, and then it came to that shooting on Court Street. And I looked at that BlackBerry, and I saw the name of the murder victim. It was the kid from my lobby. It was the young man who was my father. It was this smart and charismatic young man who God had put in front of me every single day.

I looked at my BlackBerry praying that the name would somehow change, praying that it was a mistake or maybe not the same young man, but it was him. ... How could we all crowd a funeral home for his death? Where were we for his life? God had put him right in front of my face, but I was charging off, to do important things. I could not see what was right in front of me.”

OWNER OF THE NEW REPUBLIC

“All too often, those big ideas run up against the challenge of the everyday: in particular, how to find work that pays the bills. A lot of the time, meaningful work becomes necessary work, and passions are forced to fade. The easy part is knowing that you should follow your heart and do something important; the hard part is coping with the world as it is today at the same time as you invent how it should be in the future.

But inventing the future — in spite of the greatest recession since the Great Depression — is exactly what our generation does. If there’s any core attribute that connects you to me to everyone else of our age, it’s this conviction that we do not have to take the world as it is; in fact, it’s up to us to make it what it should be. ...

If there’s one thing you do after graduating today, create some habit that makes it easier for you to get out of your bubble. Follow someone you disagree with on Twitter. Buy a subscription to a newspaper or a magazine that will tell you the most important news of the day. Install an app on your phone that doesn’t just filter the news by your social network, but by what you need to read. Not only will these habits make you a better citizen, they’ll make you a more interesting husband or wife, and certainly a more informed job applicant.”

“I am not saying that the big issues are going to be settled easily, that greenhouse gases will soon be curbed or that inequality will be quickly reversed. But I do affirm, based on my experience, that people can exercise power wherever they are in society. Certainly not on every occasion but, at crucial moments, imaginative and bold people make a difference. ... You have the intellect. Make sure you have the will.”

“Of course, all the hype about how connected you are has contributed to a counternarrative — that, in fact, your generation is increasingly disconnected from the things that matter. The arguments go something like this: Instead of spending time with friends, you spend it alone, collecting friend requests. Rather than savoring your food, you take pictures of it and post them on Facebook.

I want to encourage you to reject the cynics who say technology is flattening your experience of the world. ...

Technology is just a tool. It’s a powerful tool, but it’s just a tool. Deep human connection is very different. It’s not a tool. It’s not a means to an end. It is the end — the purpose and the result of a meaningful life — and it will inspire the most amazing acts of love, generosity and humanity. ...

I want you to connect because I believe it will inspire you to do something, to make a difference in the world. Humanity in the abstract will never inspire you in the same way as the human beings you meet. Poverty is not going to motivate you. But people will motivate you.”

“We need your leadership in transforming a public school system where less than half acquire a college or vocational degree and the rest are left behind. We need your help in rebuilding a middle class in this country so that people can find jobs, feed their families and look after themselves without asking for outside help.

We need your help in closing the yawning gaps in inequality so that your lot in life is not determined by what you inherit but by what you earn. We need you to change our culture so that we no longer accept so many men and women having children out of wedlock — dads as well as moms must step up and end this epidemic.

In the Civil War, the sons of affluent merchants fought alongside field hands who had left their plows. Together, they became brothers. We must restore that sense that we are all one family — that we are in this together. And yours is the generation that can get us there.”

“All of you are moving into a world ever ready to remind that you aren’t in school anymore, a world that demands results quickly and cares very little about how you produce them. It’s true, you are not in school anymore. But now, the school is in you. ...

I wish you perspective when situations or people seem more important than they really are, and the ability to detect those people or events who have much to offer but don’t inherently draw your attention. In other words, charisma is not character. This is also very good dating advice.

I hope you never give anyone the power to tell anyone how to feel about your own work. That is your responsibility alone. Critics are in a different profession than we are. Don’t look to them for your truth.”

“This is an incredibly cheerful and celebratory day, and you’ve picked as your speaker someone whose most famous book has the title ‘The End of Nature.’ There are moments when I think my role in the world is essentially to be a professional bummer-outer. ...

We’re here at the 50th Eckerd commencement — if we don’t get it right, the 100th commencement won’t be right here because this will be underwater.”

“On the one hand, in Jefferson’s public life as a founding father, we often see him as the embodiment of the white male patriarchy. But in his private life, he was known for, shall we say, embracing diversity — very affirmative in his actions. ... You are his intellectual heirs. In fact, some of you may be his actual heirs — we’re still testing the DNA.

If you must find your own path, and we have left you no easy path, then decide now to choose the hard path that leads to the life and the world you want. And don’t worry if we don’t approve of your choices. In our benign self-absorption, I believe we have given you a gift, a particular form of independence, because you do not owe the previous generation anything. Thanks to us, you owe it to the Chinese.”
375 2013-06-16 “I feel more equipped to tackle the U.S. Open setup than I ever have,” Mickelson said. “My ball striking’s better than it’s ever been. My putter feels terrific.”

The pace-of-play campaign initiated by the United States Golf Association — and ignored in Saturday’s rounds, which were closer to six hours than five — is called While We’re Young, and that could also be the mantra of the four amateurs who survived the 73-man cut. They were led by Michael Kim, the University of California standout who was named the Pacific-12 men’s golfer of the year this past season as a sophomore.

At 19, Kim is a year younger than the amateur Francis Ouimet was when he won the 1913 United States Open. With a third-round 71, he gave himself an outside chance to mark the 100th anniversary of Ouimet’s victory by matching it.

Playing in his first United States Open, Kim arrived at the 16th hole two strokes off the lead. He was at even par for the tournament and three under for his round. In the scoring area, Webb Simpson, the defending United States Open champion, who signed for a second consecutive 75 to give him a 54-hole total of 11 over, said: “If it was his first tournament on tour on an easy golf course, it would be remarkable. To do it here on this golf course under this pressure is great.”

Kim stumbled down the stretch, closing with a bogey, a double bogey and a bogey to finish at four-over 214. He need not beat himself up: the top seven players covered the final two holes in a combined nine over.

“At the start of the week, I thought making the cut would be good,” said Kim, who admitted to taking several peeks at the scoreboards during his round. He added, “I thought it was supercool to see my name on that big leader board next to names like Schwartzel, Mickelson, all those guys.”

Justin Rose was two years younger in 1998 than Kim is now when he tied for fourth at the British Open as an amateur. He turned professional the next day — a move that Jack Nicklaus recently counseled Kim not to make — and experienced failure before finding his way.

A four-time PGA Tour winner, Rose, 32, is well positioned to win his first major championship in 37 starts. After a 71, he was tied for fifth at one-over 211 with Luke Donald (71).

“The next thing missing from the résumé is a major now, if you look at it,” Rose said, adding: “I feel like this week’s been a good learning curve for me. I’ve not stumbled, but I’ve worked.”

Sergio García, 33, who finished second at the 1999 P.G.A. Championship as a teenager, saw his championship hopes take a nose dive at the par-4 15th hole when he hit three balls out of bounds on his way to a 10. García played the other 17 holes in one under, posting a 75 and a three-day total of 11 over. “Funny enough,” García said ruefully, “I only hit one bad shot today, and I made a 10.”

Mickelson knows what it is like to have his United States Open title hopes buried by a bad hole. In 2004, he briefly held a one-stroke lead with two holes to play, but he three-putted from 5 feet on the second-to-last hole for a double bogey and finished behind Retief Goosen.

In 2006, he had a one-stroke lead with one hole to play but hit a wild drive and a worse second shot on his way to a double bogey and a one-stroke loss to Geoff Ogilvy.

In 2009, he was tied for the lead with Lucas Glover with five holes to play but made two bogeys on the way in.

In 2013, Mickelson can finally close out the victory he desires more than any other. He has Donald, Mahan, Schwartzel and Stricker nipping at his heels, but Mickelson’s steepest challenge could come from the memory loop in his head.

“I don’t think I feel any more pressure than anybody else who wants to win the tournament, a major championship, the U.S. Open,” Mickelson said. “But it would certainly mean a lot to me that this is a tournament for years I’ve had opportunities, I’ve come close to, and it would mean a lot tomorrow if I could play some of my best golf.”
376 2013-06-16 After two frustrating seasons with Minnesota, Gomez moved on to the Brewers in a trade for shortstop J. J. Hardy before the 2010 season. Gomez said that the Twins, who then played on artificial turf at the Metrodome, had wanted him to use his speed on the fast surface.

That was not exactly the kind of player Gomez wanted to be, but even after the trade, he seemed typecast.

“Everybody always asked me to put the ball on the ground, bunt, run, because that’s the ability I have in the moment,” Gomez said. “But they don’t realize how strong I am. They don’t let me swing hard, because they think, ‘No, you’ve got to put the ball on the ground and run.’

“Two years ago I told my manager, ‘I’m tired of this; it’s time to change.’ He said, ‘What do you mean?’ I said: ‘I want to be like me. I want to show the ability that I have.’ The last year and a half, I’ve been doing really good.”

Gomez smacked three triples in a three-game series in Miami last week, and the Brewers lead the majors in the category. They are on pace for 70 triples this season, which would easily break the team record of 57, set in 1983.

Gomez also takes away triples in center field. According to research by Mark Simon of ESPN, the average major league center fielder catches 78 percent of fly balls to straightaway center traveling at least 365 feet. Through Friday’s games, Gomez had caught 34 of 35 such balls this season, helping explain his high ranking in defensive metrics and his league-leading 4.5 wins above replacement, an all-encompassing statistic measured by Baseball-Reference.com.

“He’s really taken another step forward as a baseball player,” Brewers left fielder Ryan Braun said. “He had a great year for us last year, and he’s been incredible for us this year.”

When Edward Mujica joined the St. Louis Cardinals in a trade last July 31, the team was playing the Rockies in Colorado. Mujica, who had a 4.38 earned run average in 41 games for the Miami Marlins, asked a coach for the scouting report on the Rockies.

“He told me, ‘I’ve got the sheet right here, but Yadi’s very smart about it — just try to go with him,’ ” Mujica said. “I said, ‘O.K.’ I gave the paper back and I went right with him. I’m not going to shake him off.”

Mujica thus became the latest Cardinals pitcher to benefit from the guidance of catcher Yadier Molina. Mujica finished last season with a 1.03 E.R.A. for the Cardinals, and he took over as the closer in April after a season-ending elbow injury to Jason Motte. Mujica has converted his first 19 save opportunities, with a 1.82 E.R.A.

Mujica had only four saves in 316 games before this season, but he is thriving as a closer largely because Molina calls for so many splitter/changeups. The pitch is hard to classify, but Mujica has thrown it more than 60 percent of the time, more often than he did before this season.

“Sometimes it moves like a circle changeup; sometimes it goes like a split-finger,” Mujica, 29, said. “I just try to get my same release point, like a fastball, and that pitch has a lot of movement.”

Mujica said he first threw the pitch with a traditional splitter grip — index and middle fingers spread wide — while coming up with the Cleveland Indians. He altered the grip one off-season, putting three fingers on top of the ball, and in 2009, with the San Diego Padres, catcher Henry Blanco encouraged him to use it in games.

The adjustment transformed Mujica, who had a 6.04 E.R.A. in parts of three seasons for Cleveland, into a legitimate major leaguer. If his fingers stay behind the ball, Mujica said, it stays flat and can be hit. But as long as he stays top of it, Mujica said, he can generate downward, fading movement — hard for a changeup, but different enough from his fastball to baffle hitters.

Molina’s belief in the pitch, and Mujica’s execution of it, has been crucial to the Cardinals’ success.

“For him to come in and do what he’s done in that ninth-inning role has been enormous in terms of importance,” said General Manager John Mozeliak, who traded a Class AA third baseman, Zack Cox, to the Marlins for Mujica.

“To say that last year we were thinking he might be a ninth-inning guy, no, that’s not how we were thinking about it. But what you’re seeing with someone like him, five years under his belt, he has a lot of confidence in what he’s doing. He saw an opportunity here and took advantage of it.”

When Major League Baseball released the latest All-Star voting results for the National League, only Buster Posey, the catcher for the San Francisco Giants, had more votes than Colorado shortstop Troy Tulowitzki. Posey was the N.L. most valuable player last season, and until Thursday, Tulowitzki had been making a strong early case for this season’s M.V.P.

Tulowitzki, a two-time Gold Glove winner with one error all season, was hitting .347 with 16 homers, 51 runs batted in and a league-high 1.048 on-base plus slugging percentage when he left Thursday’s game against Washington after diving for a grounder in the eighth inning. He left for a hospital and confirmed the bad news in a text message to Troy Renck of The Denver Post: he has a broken rib.

“I’m just really upset,” Tulowitzki wrote. “I worked so hard. I’m in a lot of pain right now; I’m not sure how long.”

Tulowitzki vowed to come back and be “even better,” but his expected four-to-six-week absence deals a significant blow to the Rockies, who have been surprise contenders in the N.L. West after a franchise-worst 98 losses last season. It is Tulowitzki’s second season in a row with a significant injury; he missed four months last year with a groin problem that required surgery.

As for the All-Star Game, there are at least a few good choices to replace Tulowitzki. The Giants’ Brandon Crawford ranked second in votes after Tulowitzki and has had a good season; the Brewers’ Jean Segura led the league in hits through Friday; and the Padres’ Everth Cabrera led the league in steals.
377 2013-06-16 Shear keys and bearings allow limited and controlled movement at the joints of different sections of the bridge during seismic events.

The shear keys are embedded in concrete, thus they cannot be replaced.

Sets of steel cables under high tension will be used to clamp the shear keys in place. The ends of the cables will be anchored to an additional concrete casing. Engineers call this solution a saddle.

Three-inch-wide bolts holding down the shear keys have proved brittle, and many have snapped under their load.

Thirty-two bolts anchoring seismic devices called shear keys to a concrete crossbeam under the roadway have failed. Now, a new way of fastening the shear keys has to be designed, possibly delaying the bridge’s opening.
378 2013-06-16 Before mortgage securities were undone by troubled loans, trustee inaction was not an issue. Trustees collected their fees at minimal effort and investors were satisfied.

But because trustees are hired by the big banks that package and sell the securities, their allegiances are divided. Sure, investors are paying the fees, but if a trustee wants to be hired by sellers of securities in the future, being combative on problematic loan pools may be unwise.

Trustee practices are under the microscope in Justice Kapnick’s courtroom because Bank of New York Mellon is the trustee overseeing all 530 Countrywide mortgage deals covered by the proposed $8.5 billion settlement. The trustee is supporting the deal between Bank of America and the 22 investors that include BlackRock, Pimco and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Losses by all investors in the securities are projected at $100 billion.

While lawyers for BlackRock and Pimco were negotiating this deal, other investors in the securities were not at the bargaining table. Nevertheless, they must abide by the settlement’s terms.

Some outside investors, including the American International Group, have objected, saying $8.5 billion is inadequate given the mountain of problem loans it covers. Lawyers for A.I.G. contend that Bank of New York put its interests ahead of other investors outside the settlement process. Had the trustee been more aggressive with Bank of America, the servicer administering the troubled securities, investors would have received more money in a settlement, A.I.G.’s lawyers say.

Bank of New York Mellon argues that the settlement is reasonable and that it has always acted in the best interests of all investors.

But over the last two weeks, arguments and testimony have shed light on behind-the-scenes dealings during the settlement negotiations with Bank of America. Some of these details raise questions about the trustee’s assertiveness on behalf of all investors.

A crucial issue: the trustee didn’t request individual loan files from Bank of America to help determine how many mortgages had problems and, therefore, whether $8.5 billion was a reasonable recovery. A trustee has the right to request those files for investors who cannot get them on their own.

When loan files have been examined, recoveries have been far greater. Last year, for example, Deutsche Bank agreed to reimburse Assured Guaranty, a bond insurer, for 80 percent of losses on eight residential mortgage securities it had insured.

Asked about the basis for the $8.5 billion settlement, Kent Smith, a Pimco executive with experience in loan servicing, testified on June 7 that it came in part from an estimated percentage of problematic loans that was provided to the investors by Bank of America. But on cross-examination, he said the estimate was far lower than it would have been if Bank of New York Mellon had examined specific loan files.

The estimate, 36 percent, meant that just over one-third of the loans had violated underwriting representations and warranties made to investors. But a review of the loan files would have pushed the figure as high as 65 percent, he testified.

Additional testimony raised questions about fairness during the settlement talks. The 22 investors who struck the deal held at least 25 percent — a required threshold for taking action — in only 215 trusts, less than half the 530 covered by the settlement. No other investors had an advocate at the bargaining table. Asked who was representing investors outside the negotiating group, an in-house lawyer for Bank of New York Mellon said he did not know.

Then there’s an e-mail from Jason H. P. Kravitt, Bank of New York Mellon’s outside counsel, recounting how he told Bank of America that on one important point its and the trustee’s “self-interest” were aligned — neither wanted the Countrywide securities to go into default. If they did default, the trustee would have been forced to increase its oversight of Bank of America, adding to its costs. If the trustee did not sue the bank, investors could.

Referring to a default, Mr. Kravitt said he told a Bank of America lawyer, “We don’t want it either, Chris.”

Asked about these matters, Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York Mellon spokesman, said, “We believe an $8.5 billion bird-in-the-hand settlement with significant servicing improvements is a far better result for all investors than the likely outcome following years of costly litigation.”

Trustees argue that they do not make enough money overseeing these loan pools to act on investors’ behalf. But this could be resolved if the Securities and Exchange Commission allowed or encouraged trustees to use trust assets to pay for loan reviews or litigation.

Justice Kapnick’s decision is not expected for months, and will affect only this settlement. But the revelations in her courtroom send a message to investors who might have expected trustees to protect their interests with more vigor.
379 2013-06-16 ARDMORE, Pa. — Merion Golf Club has a history of crowning notable champions. But in the 2013 United States Open, 13 major winners did not make the cut when the rain-delayed second round was completed Saturday morning. The excluded group included Ángel Cabrera, a former winner of the event and the runner-up at the Masters in April, and Graeme McDowell, another former Open champion who was second last year and considered a favorite heading into this event.

Some of the other major winners eliminated were not surprises because they have not played well lately (Darren Clarke, José María Olazábal, Keegan Bradley, Michael Campbell, Y. E. Yang, Stewart Cink, Lucas Glover and David Toms), but others were significant surprises (Zach Johnson and Jim Furyk). Neither Johnson nor Furyk was particularly close to making the cut, which eliminated everyone with a two-round score of more than 148, eight over par. Johnson was at 151 and Furyk at 156.

Johnson said Merion’s setup was manipulated, and he criticized the United States Golf Association. Furyk praised Merion.

“I think it’s a testament to a golf course that it doesn’t have to be 7,800 yards to be a great golf course,” Furyk said. “Merion will always stand the test of time.”

Another surprising name on the cut list was that of Tim Clark, who was near the lead when he shot a par 70 Thursday, then a second-round 79. The 2010 British Open champion, Louis Oosthuizen, who shot an opening 75, withdrew citing health issues.

It took about three hours Saturday for some in the field to play 2 to 12 holes to complete the second round and establish the cut line.
380 2013-06-16 The name says it all. But even if you didn’t know what Farm to Table Bistro was called, you could see immediately that this Fishkill restaurant fits right into the movement for locally sourced eating.

Huge apple bins filled with flowers line the entrance while a vintage tractor sits sentinel, welcoming guests. Inside, the quirky and charming décor includes an authentic wooden windmill mounted high on a wall. And the menu proudly lists the nearby origins of Farm to Table’s mostly organic fare: fruits and vegetables from Taliaferro Farms and Meadowbrook Farms, cheese from Sprout Creek Farm, bread from the All You Knead bakery.

Diners are increasingly used to the pleasures of fresh produce, but few restaurants offer additive- and nitrate-free poultry, meat and fish. Farm to Table does, and the results are impressive. A special of whole rainbow trout stuffed with clams, mussels, oysters and herbs, and pan-roasted in a butter sauce, tasted as if it had just been plucked from a stream out back. On another night, the rib-eye special was a lesson in the appeal of grass-fed beef raised without antibiotics. The steak, from a farm in nearby LaGrange, was darker and cut a bit thinner than you usually see, and the flavor was so rich it startled my companion. “This almost tastes weird,” he said, when he took his first bite. By the end of the meal, he was a convert.

The restaurant’s kitchen, led by Claude Guermont, a French chef, doesn’t just rely on good ingredients, it comes up with wonderful taste combinations. An already phenomenal crispy pork belly appetizer, a special, was raised several levels by a fresh cherry jam. Pork and duck pâté, another special, came with house-pickled hot peppers and carrots, a grainy mustard and lovely little cornichons. Steamed clams in white wine and garlic got a bracing kick from delicious homemade chorizo.

The escargots are prepared with Pernod for a slight spin on the classic, and the outstanding baby back ribs are dry-rubbed with spices, slow-smoked for hours, steamed with pineapple juice and finished on the grill. A good homemade barbecue sauce came on the side, but the meat was so delicious on its own that I barely sampled the sauce. The chicken breast, sautéed in white wine and garlic, also has kalamata olives, thin soppressata and provolone, giving it a briny bite.

Even the drinks and desserts include the unexpected. Whole litchis gave the sangria a perfumed sweetness. Puréed mango tempered the salty rim of a margarita. And the chocolate peanut butter tart was creamy but somehow also light and airy.
381 2013-06-16 THE DEATH AND LIFE OF CHICAGO

In this article, two very different reformers (Rahm Emanuel and J. R., of the Anti-Eviction Campaign) are interacting with a changing Chicago. Both men come off as ironic figures, incapable of fully grasping all the facets of the problems they’re facing but addicted to doing something and trying to make their mark. There’s a bit of tragedy inherent to this, but we also see the vivacity of the two characters, and of the pleasure they each get out of their work. JOHN F. ROWLAND, Hanoi, Vietnam, posted on nytimes.com

Ben Austen’s article barelynods at the long history of the housing problem in Chicago, suggesting that Chicago is just now starting to look like a ring city. No mention of the sociologist Ernest Burgess and his concentric-zone model? Austen would do well to remind his readers that this understanding of Chicago’s spatial segregation of rich and poor dates back at least to 1923. The historical nature of the problem only underscores the gravity of the current situation. SARAH DEWITT, Ann Arbor, Mich., posted on nytimes.com

There is a difference between housing as a “human right” and owning a home. Public housing should always have been temporary — a way for people to save money and move to a nicer place. When it became permanent housing for the poor, it went downhill. Then somewhere along the line came the belief that everyone had to have their own home — whether they could afford it or not. If responsible people can fix these abandoned houses, pay taxes and stay there for the long haul, fine. Anything else will merely be a replay of our current disaster. SHARON A. FLOOD, Schenectady, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

Banks are not the main issue here. It is the revitalization of industries that will create jobs and foster the pride and community that will determine the fate of this region. The opportunity space here is so great — large, open areas close to good roads and Lake Michigan, upon which to build industries. Why isn’t that occurring? JOYCE SPINDLER, Philadelphia, posted on nytimes.com

I wish that Stalker Sarah’s father would also provide the adult perspective that celebrities are just humans, rather than encouraging her constant hounding of them (which leads to the possibility that she could profit from her photographs). NADIA EL-BADRY, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

What’s weirder? That 17-yr-old paparazzo Stalker Sarah calls herself a stalker? Or that her dad encourages her hobby? @youngna
382 2013-06-16 Of the 63 percent who said they planned to move within the next five years, nearly 40 percent expect to live in some type of multifamily housing.

Ms. Ross said the findings didn’t necessarily mean this generation would move en masse to city locations. These young buyers may also be drawn to compact development in downtown suburban locations.

More than half of the young adults surveyed by the institute are renting, but they haven’t given up on the American dream. In fact, nearly 70 percent said they expected to buy within five years.

While that may sound reassuring to real estate and mortgage professionals, it may also be overly optimistic. This generation is heavily saddled with student-loan debt — in a recent Wells Fargo survey, 54 percent of adults 22 to 32 cited debt as their biggest financial concern, with 42 percent referring to it as “overwhelming.”

Young adults are financially stymied in other ways as well. Unemployment remains a problem, credit is hard to access, and parents hurt by the recession or victim to foreclosure are less able to help out, Ms. Ross said.

“This generation has been through an incredibly difficult time,” she said, “and I think it is ultimately going to operate very similarly to the generation that went through the Great Depression.”

Mr. Kolko agrees that this generation faces some high financial hurdles, as demonstrated by a falling rate of homeownership. (His research puts that rate around 37 percent for people under 35, down from 42 percent before the housing bubble burst.) But he said that didn’t mean that once they were able to buy, they wouldn’t follow their parents’ example and move to a grassy subdivision.

Mr. Kolko noted that although people surveyed by Trulia often say they want walkability and proximity to mass transit, property searches on Trulia.com are more often conducted by city people looking in the suburbs than vice versa. “Gen Y may turn out to have unrealistic expectations about what they can afford,” he said, “but that doesn’t mean they want something radically different. It’s too soon to tell whether there is a permanent shift.”
383 2013-06-16 From Seedy to Stylish in a Stockholm Neighborhood
384 2013-06-16 But when Ms. McCarthy is given the ball and allowed to run with it, she will take it to the end zone, the stadium parking lot and the next town over.

Her total commitment and lack of self-consciousness have defined some of her best known performances, like the man-hungry, gun-loving gal pal she played in “Bridesmaids” (which earned her an Oscar nomination); similar qualities also come through in the standoffish but highly capable detective she plays in “The Heat,” which Fox will release on June 28.

In her unassuming way, Ms. McCarthy has quickly earned a freedom to play a wider range of characters than her female peers, and to play them as hard, crude and over-the-top as her male counterparts. Her rising celebrity means she can have roles rewritten for her and movies green-lighted by signing onto them; it has also made her a target for some unexpected and shockingly personal criticism.

But Ms. McCarthy isn’t looking to be a pioneer any more than she wishes to be a punching bag: What she wants from her comedy is the chance to play in a world without consequences.

“You push so far past the normal boundaries of what’s O.K. in society,” Ms. McCarthy said excitedly over a lunch in April, on a trip to New York to host “Saturday Night Live.” “I’m always fully aware of, ‘You can’t do this.’ ”

“When someone really believes in what they’re saying, but it’s crazy,” she added, “it’s like my favorite thing on earth.”

A few days later, Ms. McCarthy was rehearsing on the “Saturday Night Live” stages at NBC’s Rockefeller Center studios, gingerly trying to figure out how best to get her head stuck in a piece of scenery for a sketch that, alas, would be cut before the live broadcast.

For someone who much of America has seen spout R-rated innuendos and douse herself in ranch dressing, Ms. McCarthy could still sometimes seem like a giggly fangirl, laughing at cast members like Taran Killam and Vanessa Bayer instead of playing the sketch with them. But by Saturday night, she’d be teetering around the studio in too-tall high heels like a pro.

Backstage, Ben Falcone, Ms. McCarthy’s husband and frequent collaborator (he plays the soft-spoken air marshal her character falls hard for in “Bridesmaids”) was explaining how, while his wife’s career prospects had changed dramatically since that 2011 film became a $288 million worldwide hit, her approach to her work had not.

“We’re not very far removed from having to take any job that we can find, to get a job, because you want to be working,” Mr. Falcone said. “Someone sends you a script for the craziest idea ever — it could be about, like, the Abominable Snow-Woman — and you could be like, ‘I don’t know, maybe we should consider it?’ ”

Before her surging stardom, Ms. McCarthy, 42, was a tennis-crazed teenager growing up in Plainfield, Ill., and a 20-something New Yorker paying her dues in stand-up comedy and in what she described as “very dramatic plays, very far off Broadway.”

At a turning point in the late 1990s, she moved to Los Angeles and joined the influential comedy troupe the Groundlings. There, Ms. McCarthy learned the difference between characters who were eccentric and those who were flat-out crazy.

“Crazy’s just crazy and there’s nowhere to go,” she said. “You can have a point of view, it can be very strange, but we have to know your reasoning.”

Training with future stars like Kristen Wiig and Maya Rudolph, Ms. McCarthy also met Mr. Falcone, who busted her in a Groundlings class for improvising a monologue she’d pretended to write on paper.

While her “Groundlings” classmates went off to “Saturday Night Live,” Ms. McCarthy became a supporting player on “Gilmore Girls,” as the embarrassment-prone Sookie St. James, and, in 2010, landed her lead role on “Mike & Molly.”

The following year, Paul Feig, the director of “Bridesmaids,” and its producer Judd Apatow were struggling to cast the character of a goofy friend to Ms. Wiig (who wrote the film with Annie Mumolo).

Mr. Feig said this character was written “to be very nervous and high strung, that friend who’s always falling apart, or at least just high maintenance.” But when Ms. McCarthy came in, wearing Guy Fieri-style bowling shirts and playing her rough and overconfident, Mr. Feig said, “It’s the funniest take on it I’ve ever seen.”

The success of “Bridesmaids” allowed Ms. McCarthy to write her own ticket: a male character in the comedy “Identity Thief” was made female so she could star in this film with Jason Bateman.

Then as she was wrapping “Identity Thief” in Atlanta last summer, Ms. McCarthy signed on for “The Heat” — barely two weeks before it started production in Boston, when it was called “Untitled Female Buddy Cop Movie” — knowing that Mr. Feig and Ms. Bullock had signed on.

“Identity Thief” became another box-office hit in February, but a particularly scathing review of the film drew national attention. Writing about the movie for The New York Observer, Rex Reed described Ms. McCarthy as “tractor-sized” and called her “a gimmick comedian who has devoted her short career to being obese and obnoxious with equal success.” Though this review was widely pilloried for its excessive cruelty, Ms. McCarthy did not immediately respond to it.

When Ms. McCarthy was asked about the review over lunch in April, her characteristically cheerful tone evaporated. In a softer voice, she said her initial reaction to reading it had been “Really?” and then, she said, “Why would someone O.K. that?”

Without mentioning the name of its author, Ms. McCarthy said: “I felt really bad for someone who is swimming in so much hate. I just thought, that’s someone who’s in a really bad spot, and I am in such a happy spot. I laugh my head off every day with my husband and my kids who are mooning me and singing me songs.”

Had this occurred when she was 20, Ms. McCarthy said, “it may have crushed me.” But now, as a mother raising two young daughters in “a strange epidemic of body image and body dysmorphia,” she said articles like that “just add to all those younger girls, that are not in a place in their life where they can say, ‘That doesn’t reflect on me.’ ”

“That makes it more true,” she said. “It means you don’t actually look good enough.”

Ms. McCarthy was about to say more when the restaurant began a long and very loud test of its fire alarm.

“I imagine that’s my publicist,” she said after a tension-breaking laugh. “The gods didn’t want us discussing this.”

For Ms. McCarthy, “The Heat” was, like “Bridesmaids,” an opportunity to build a character from the ground up, to give her frazzled, Patti Smith-style hair and an out-of-date wardrobe, and to get to shoot what she called “a crazy machine gun.”

For Ms. Bullock, who plays a strait-laced F.B.I. agent, it was important that “The Heat” be a movie where women played roles that could just as easily have gone to men, and could be a rare female-led film during the film industry’s period of peak testosterone.

“You don’t really see lady-times taking on the summer schedule,” she said.

But the greatest challenge they faced on “The Heat” was a ticking clock and what Ms. Bullock called the “Wild West mentality” of its hectic production.

“You didn’t have time to let any insecurity creep in,” said Ms. Bullock, an Oscar winner for “The Blind Side.” “The first day was like, ‘O.K., we’re not saying anything that’s on the page.’ Then we get into a slap fight.”

In these comic confrontations, Ms. Bullock said of Ms. McCarthy: “She will go for the jugular and, if you’re delicate about it, you’re going to sink. So you fire back — you go for the carotid artery.”

Mr. Feig said of Ms. McCarthy that it was “fun to watch her abuse America’s sweetheart,” but also to see how much more confident of a performer she’d become since “Bridesmaids.”

On that earlier film, Mr. Feig said, “she came in with all this inventiveness and creativity, but she was one of the players.” What she now shares with other movie stars, he said, is that they “know how to shine — they know what they want to do and don’t want to do, and they know how to take something that isn’t in their personality and do it better.”

Given the fickleness of the film industry, Ms. McCarthy said this could be her “only time to really pick things that I 100 percent connect with.” If her hot streak should fade, she said she was prepared. “I’ve been trying to play old-lady parts since I was in my 20s,” she said, “so I look forward to all of that.”

For now, Ms. McCarthy has enough clout to spend part of her summer break making “Tammy,” a comedy she wrote with Mr. Falcone and which he is directing, in which she plays an irresponsible woman on a road trip with her tough-as-nails grandmother (Susan Sarandon). Then she goes right onto another film, “St. Vincent De Van Nuys,” which pits her against Bill Murray, one of her comedy idols.

Ms. McCarthy previously got to work with another personal hero, Jane Curtin, who plays her mother in “The Heat,” and who, as a founding cast member of “Saturday Night Live,” taught her that female performers need not depend on others to create their material.

Watching Ms. Curtin with her “S.N.L.” co-stars, Ms. McCarthy realized, she said: “They’re the ones making it. They’re not just saying funny things — they’re actually funny.”

Ms. McCarthy tried to communicate something like this to Ms. Curtin on what she believed was their last day of filming together, but instead she unexpectedly burst into tears.

“I was like, get it together,” Ms. McCarthy recalled. “Don’t always be weird.”

Ms. Curtin then reminded Ms. McCarthy that she still had one more day of work.

“She was really nice about it,” Ms. McCarthy said. “But I was like, I can’t get out cool. I can’t do it.”
385 2013-06-16 Credit: Michael Lewis for The New York Times
386 2013-06-17 An antipoverty plan intended to help poor Alaskans by offering guaranteed shares of the pollock catch has had uneven benefits....
387 2013-06-17 Shareholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are relying on a constitutional argument against the government rescue of the two to try to recover money from the government, the author writes....
388 2013-06-17 Reviews are mixed for the new musical ‘King Kong,’ which may be the next big-budget spectacle to arrive on Broadway....
389 2013-06-17 How an Indiana governor overcame a near-rebellion in his own state....
390 2013-06-17 A remarkable performance....
391 2013-06-17 After reports of technology companies cooperating with government surveillance efforts, Apple disclosed information about how it uses data from its online services....
392 2013-06-17 ESPN, the nation’s largest sports network and an early adopter of 3-D technology, said that it would discontinue its 3-D channel....
393 2013-06-17 Twitter introduces analytics and Facebook introduces hashtags. Old Spock battles the new Spock (in a well-received new commercial). Do you think the cloud is more secure than your own environment?...
394 2013-06-17 Rui Costa of Portugal kept his Tour de Suisse title after winning the final stage by 21 seconds. Costa, who rides for Movistar, finished the 16.7-mile time trial in 51 minutes 56 seconds.
395 2013-06-17 North Carolina State’s Carlos Rodon pitched eight shutout innings, and the Wolfpack knocked North Carolina starter Kent Emanuel out of the game early in an 8-1 victory in the College World Series in Omaha. The Tar Heels are the No. 1 national seed.

■ Adam Plutko and two relievers limited Louisiana State to five hits, and U.C.L.A. turned both of the Tigers’ errors into runs in a tense 2-1 victory.
396 2013-06-17 KUWAIT CITY — Kuwait’s Constitutional Court dissolved Parliament on Sunday and called for new elections under a voting system that was rejected by the opposition, a move that could increase political volatility.

Kuwait’s ruler made a televised plea for citizens to accept the changes to the voting rules, asking them to reject “the voices of chaos.”

Saying that he accepted the Constitutional Court’s decision “regardless of its content,” the emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, called on Kuwaitis “to respect it and abide by it.”

The opposition lost its legal fight to undo voting system changes that it views as making it more difficult to form alliances in a country that bans political parties.

Those changes set off last year’s demonstrations by liberals, Islamists, nationalists and youth activists that were unusual both for their size and for the direct challenge to the emir’s policies.
397 2013-06-17 PARIS — Prime Minister Petr Necas of the Czech Republic said Sunday that he would resign, following a corruption scandal involving a senior aide. The resignation, which he said he would submit Monday, plunged the country into a period of political uncertainty.

Speaking at a news conference in Prague, the Czech capital, Mr. Necas said he would also resign as chairman of his party, the center-right Civic Democrats.

On Friday, Czech prosecutors said they had charged several people, including Jana Nagyova, the prime minister’s chief of staff, and the current and former heads of military intelligence, in the most extensive anticorruption operation since the end of Communism. Ms. Nagyova was charged with abuse of power and bribery after prosecutors said she ordered a military intelligence agency to spy on three people. The Czech news media reported that they included Mr. Necas’s wife, Radka Necasova. Mr. Necas said last week that he and his wife were divorcing.

Mr. Necas had initially reacted to the scandal with defiance, saying that he had nothing to do with any illegal surveillance operation and that he would not step down. But analysts said that having so close an aide ensnared in the scandal made it untenable for him to stay on. The opposition planned a vote of no confidence in Parliament on Tuesday, and it was unclear whether he could retain the backing of his coalition partners.

Mr. Necas said his party would try to form a new government, with a new prime minister, to serve until elections next year. It was not clear whether President Milos Zeman, a political rival of Mr. Necas who has the power to choose who will try to form the next government, would agree to that course.

After the Velvet Revolution of 1989 and the peaceful division of the former Czechoslovakia into separate Czech and Slovak states in 1993, the Czech Republic and its first president, Vaclav Havel, were seen as a potent symbol of the triumph of democracy and freedom in the face of authoritarianism. But since then the country has been plagued by a culture of graft and lawlessness, the legacy of decades of Communist rule. Crony capitalism also took root during the privatizations of state assets in the 1990s, when the lines between government and corporate interests became blurred.

Miroslav Mares, a security expert at Masaryk University in Brno, said the latest scandal threatened to erode the confidence that important allies, including the United States, have in the Czechs.
398 2013-06-17 The university insists that Mr. Chen’s law school fellowship was always meant to be for one year, and those who have worked closely with him in recent months said he understood the time limitations of a financial arrangement that even Mr. Chen acknowledged was extremely generous. The fellowship’s end, Mr. Beckman said, “had nothing to do with the Chinese government — all fellowships come to an end.”

Mr. Chen said the school had given him until the end of June to vacate the faculty apartment in Greenwich Village where he and his family have lived since arriving in the United States in May 2012.

A self-taught lawyer who is blind, Mr. Chen, 41, was well known in China for his legal fight against the country’s coercive family-planning policies. After arriving in the United States, he became something of a media sensation, giving interviews and testifying before Congress.

His claims that university officials tried to discourage his activism raise questions about the extent to which American academic institutions are susceptible to pressure from a government that has grown increasingly self-confident and assertive in its dealings with the rest of the world.

That pressure, he said, began to reveal itself less than four months after his escape from the heavily guarded house where he had been confined for 18 months after his release from prison on what legal experts say were trumped-up charges.

In the United States, many colleges have grown increasingly reliant on the tuition from the 194,000 Chinese students who enrolled at American universities last year, a 23 percent increase over the previous year. A number of universities, including Johns Hopkins, Yale and Duke, have programs or satellite campuses in China or are planning them. Mr. Chen’s statement did not include details about how he might have been pressed by N.Y.U., and he declined an interview request on Sunday. But friends said he had been quietly stewing in recent months over what he believed were the university’s efforts to stage-manage his public activism, which included an appearance in April on Capitol Hill to speak about the Chinese government’s persecution of relatives he left behind.

In August, he told friends that N.Y.U. was trying to dissuade him from traveling to Washington to meet members of Congress. As he was returning to New York that day, two N.Y.U. interpreters who were accompanying Mr. Chen refused to allow a reporter from Radio Free Asia to interview him at Union Station. The reporter, Zhang Min, said in an interview that Mr. Chen was so angry that he threatened to remain behind in Washington.

Matt Dorf, a Washington-based media strategist who was there that day and who worked closely with Mr. Chen after his arrival in the United States, offered another view of the incident, saying that one of the translators was eight months pregnant and anxious to catch the train to New York, which the group eventually missed. Writing in an e-mail, Mr. Dorf noted that Mr. Chen had hours earlier spoken to dozens of reporters at a Capitol Hill news conference and he dismissed suggestions that Mr. Chen’s ability to speak to the news media was discouraged by N.Y.U.

Mr. Beckman, the university spokesman, said in the statement on Sunday that N.Y.U. had provided “opportunities for Mr. Chen to pursue his advocacy.”

Bob Fu, president of ChinaAid, a Christian group in Texas, recounted a conversation in which Mr. Chen lamented what he perceived to be the Chinese government’s growing influence in the United States. “He felt a tremendous sadness knowing how academia was kowtowing to the Chinese government,” Mr. Fu said.

But in recent days, other associates of Mr. Chen’s have questioned the notion that N.Y.U. was forcing him to leave. Jerome A. Cohen, a law professor who helped arrange his fellowship and who considers himself a confidant, said the school had been exceedingly generous, providing him with transportation, security and private lessons in law and English. He added that Mr. Chen had at least two enviable job options, including one at Fordham University and another at the Witherspoon Institute, a think tank in Princeton, N.J.

“They have done more than imaginable, but I don’t know how anyone could stay here at N.Y.U. on a continual basis,” Mr. Cohen said Thursday. “No political refugee, not even Albert Einstein, has received better treatment.”
399 2013-06-17 “For me, it’s very heartbreaking,” said Mickelson, a six-time runner-up in this championship.

Of all his near misses, Mickelson said, this possibly was the toughest to swallow. He turned 43 on Sunday, so he knows his opportunities are dwindling.

“I think this was my best chance,” he said.

Rose, 32, became the first Englishman since Tony Jacklin in 1970 to win the United States Open. And in securing his first major championship, Rose completed a loop on his roller-coaster career, one that saw him turn professional at 17 after finishing fourth in the 1998 British Open and miss the cut in his first 21 events before gradually developing into the star everyone expected him to be.

“It feels absolutely amazing,” Rose said. “Going forward, it gives me a lot of confidence.”

Rose weathered five bogeys Sunday, following the philosophy of Olin Dutra, the winner here of the 1934 United States Open who said: “Nobody ever changed history. Just hit the next one better.”

Hitting the next one better proved a tall task for the other players who began the day with the trophy in their sights.

Steve Stricker, who started the day one stroke out of the lead, had been sniffing Merion’s small greens like a bloodhound all week. In the first three rounds, he hit 78 percent. On the second hole, he shanked his approach after hitting his drive out of bounds on his way to a triple-bogey 8. Stricker, 46, never recovered, recording a 76 to finish tied with Luke Donald at six over.

Donald began the fourth round two strokes back. On the third hole, a par 3, he knocked down a volunteer with his tee shot and was so shaken by her pain he compounded his agony by making a bogey on the hole and then going bogey, bogey, double bogey.

Jason Dufner, who started in the 25th group out of 37, made the charge that the day’s early finishers predicted was there for the really intrepid. Eight-over at the round’s start, Dufner reeled off five birdies, with no bogeys, in the first 14 holes. He was at three over when he arrived at 15 and six over when he left after hitting his drive out of bounds to set up his triple bogey.

Dufner rebounded with a birdie on No. 16 and posted a 67, one of six sub-70 scores, for a 72-hole total of five over, to finish tied for fourth with Ernie Els (69), Billy Horschel (74) and Hunter Mahan (75).

The course, with its shaggy rough and turtle shell greens, was not everybody’s idea of a thrill ride. Martin Laird, a Scot who carded a 68, one of the lower rounds of the day, to finish at plus-11, said: “I enjoy it now that it’s over and I have shot two-under but to be honest I do not like the setup. I think that they try to push the envelope a little too far in the first few rounds.”

Noting that the United States Open was held here for the first time in 32 years, Rory McIlroy, the world No. 2, said: “Yeah, I mean, some guys want to keep that 30-year gap going. I’m not too sure just because it’s beaten up on us so much. But I think it would be great to have it back here.”

McIlroy, who won the United States Open at Congressional Country Club two years ago with a score of 16 under, closed with a 76 to finish at 14 over. Never mind the ghosts of Bobby Jones and Ben Hogan that reside in Merion’s attic archive room, McIlroy will be haunted by his scores of “other” on Sunday: a double bogey 6 at five and a quadruple bogey 8 at 11.

In the scramble to make pars, it was easy for players to forget that they were sullying the hallowed ground where Jones completed his grand slam in 1930 and Hogan completed his comeback from a career-threatening car accident in 1950.

“When you’re out there, you’re just trying to think about playing and thinking about trying not to make bogeys,” McIlroy said.

Finishing one stroke ahead of McIlroy, at 13 over, was the world No. 1, Tiger Woods, a three-time champion who closed with a 74. It was his second-highest total in relation to par in a United States Open, and his worst since turning pro in 1996.

“I did a lot of things right,” he said. “Unfortunately I did a few things wrong, as well.”
400 2013-06-17 The company subsequently marshaled more than 250 engineers from across various civil and military aircraft programs to develop a permanent fix to the problem, which involved a redesign of the lightweight, but highly volatile, batteries and encasing them in a steel box to eliminate the risk that a battery fire could spread and damage critical flight systems.

The Dreamliner began returning to the skies in April after safety regulators in the United States, Japan and other countries approved Boeing’s modifications to the battery. The company has so far delivered 60 of the planes, with 830 more on order.

Despite the diversion of engineering resources to fixing the battery problems, Mr. Conner said Boeing remained on track in the development of a planned stretched version of the 787, known as the 787-10, as well as a new version of the 777, called the 777X, that would be fitted with carbon-composite wings and more fuel-efficient engines.

Speculation has been mounting in recent weeks that Boeing could reveal its first airline customer for the larger 787 during the weeklong air show, which is taking place at Le Bourget Airport, north of the French capital.

Mr. Conner declined to comment on news media reports that a handful of airlines, including British Airways, were poised to announce orders for the new 787, which is expected to seat 320 passengers compared with 210 to 290 seats on the Dreamliner models currently in production.

Singapore Airlines announced last month that it was prepared to order as many as 30 of the stretched 787s as well as an equal number of Airbus’s coming A350-XWB, a rival wide-body jet that made its inaugural flight on Friday.

Mr. Conner said Boeing intended to compete aggressively against Airbus to lure airline customers to choose its twin-engine wide-body planes like the 787 and the 777 over the three variants of the A350, which can seat 250 to 350 passengers.

But Mr. Conner rejected speculation that the two companies might be tempted to enter into a price war for the sake of capturing market share.

“The bigger thing is the value proposition,” Mr. Conner said. “It is going to be a healthy competition.”
401 2013-06-18 MELNIKER--J. Harry. The officers, directors and employees of New York Design Center, Inc., formerly The New York Furniture Exchange deeply mourn the passing of our friend and fellow director, Harry Melniker. We will miss his wise counsel and encyc...
402 2013-06-18 MELNIKER--J. Harry, 92, Ben Jacob. Beloved and wonderful husband for 56 years of Margot, devoted father of Jill Roslyn and Lawrence Aron, loving PopPop of Brian Stuart and Haley Rose. A Graduate of the Columbia School of Business, he served in the...
403 2013-06-18 MELNIKER--J. Harry. We mourn the death of our cherished member and extend deepest sympathies to his family. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York...
404 2013-06-18 MELNIKER--J. Harry. The Women's Auxiliary of Congregation Emanu-El mourns the passing of Harry, beloved husband of Margot, our dear long-time Board member. His memory is a blessing to all who knew and loved him....
405 2013-06-18 Richard Mausser plays the Monopoly banker....
406 2013-06-18 As part of a 600-page report, the British parliamentary commission on banking standards is urging new laws that would make it a criminal offense to recklessly mismanage local financial institutions....
407 2013-06-18 Google escalated its pressure on the government to permit it to publish more detailed data about the requests it receives for the information of foreign users....
408 2013-06-18 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Tuesday’s selections include a survey that says staying overnight with Airbnb is cheaper than getting a hotel room, and slow streaming for...
409 2013-06-18 More than a month has passed since home care workers were to have been given minimum-wage protections....
410 2013-06-18 Carl Icahn and Southeastern remain allied in their bid to defeat the takeover offer by Michael Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake....
411 2013-06-18 This time isn’t all that different....
412 2013-06-18 Maggie Gyllenhaal will star in a sexually charged British drama, “The Village Bike.”...
413 2013-06-18 Britain’s Serious Fraud Office said on Tuesday that it had filed eight fraud charges against a former UBS trader in connection with the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate....
414 2013-06-18 Mr. Obama said he had directed intelligence agencies to examine whether more information about the surveillance programs could be declassified to satisfy Americans that they were conducted within legal bounds and were far less intrusive into personal privacy than critics assume. He said that the intelligence agencies were only collecting data like telephone numbers called and the duration of calls. An Internet monitoring program, he added, was directed at foreigners with ties to terrorism, cyberhacking and the spread of dangerous weapons or technology.

In his first public remarks about his shift on Syria, Mr. Obama said he wanted to bolster the opposition to President Bashar al-Assad “so there’s a counterweight that can potentially lead to political negotiations.” But he rejected more assertive measures like establishing a no-fly zone or a humanitarian corridor to help refugees. He said that “90 percent of the deaths” had not been caused by airstrikes and warned against anything that would “slip-slide your way into deeper and deeper commitments.”

Mr. Obama said it was important to understand “if you set up a no-fly zone, that you may not be actually solving the problem on the zone.”

“Or if you set up a humanitarian corridor, are you in fact committed not only to stopping aircraft from going that corridor but also missiles?” he continued. “And if so, does that mean that you then have to take out the armaments in Damascus and are you prepared then to bomb Damascus? And what happens if there’s civilian casualties?”

Noting extensive deliberations in the Situation Room, he added, “Unless you’ve been involved in those conversations, then it’s kind of hard for you to understand that the complexity of the situation and how we have to not rush into one more war in the Middle East.”

He rejected critics who said he should have intervened more aggressively and earlier in a civil war that has cost more than 90,000 lives. “This argument that somehow we had gone in earlier, or heavier in some fashion, that the tragedy and chaos taking place in Syria wouldn’t be taking place, I think is wrong,” he said.

He said that his team “had to sort out and figure out exactly who it is that is in the opposition” and that arming the rebels “willy-nilly is not a good recipe for meeting American interests over the long term,” given that some of the most effective fighters are with Al Nusra Front, an Al Qaeda affiliate.

Mr. Obama also reached out to Iran’s newly elected president, holding out hope for a rapprochement that would prevent the Iranian government from developing nuclear weapons and ultimately “normalize the relationship between Iran and the world.”

Mr. Obama said the election of Hassan Rowhani over a field of more hard-line candidates signaled that the Iranian public was eager to end its international isolation and could presage a new chapter in the fitful negotiations over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program. But he cautioned that the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was still calling the shots.

“Clearly you have a hunger within Iran to engage with the international community in a more positive way,” Mr. Obama said. “I do think that there’s a possibility that they decide, the Iranians decide to take us up on our offer to engage in a more serious, substantive way.”

Mr. Obama also addressed speculation about whether Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, would remain beyond Jan. 31, 2014, when his term expires.

“Ben Bernanke’s done an outstanding job,” Mr. Obama said about nominating him to another term. “He’s already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to.”

Mr. Bernanke, who convenes a two-day policy meeting of the Fed on Tuesday, is in his second four-year term.
415 2013-06-18 “Tiny Patients, Major Goals” (June 11) described new “mouse hospitals” which are “at the forefront” in studying human cancers. Mice are injected with mutated genes that often cause cancer in humans, then tumors and attempted cures are studied with modern lab equipment. The term “hospital” puts a rosy gloss on procedures that introduce illnesses in the mice. While many people may believe that such research is ethically justified, we should not overlook what it does to the animals.
416 2013-06-18 Re: “ ‘Tummy Time’ Benefit Unclear” (In Brief, June 11): We were disappointed by this article’s online headline, “ ‘Tummy Time’ May Not Be Needed.” The study under review aimed to determine if the “Back to Sleep” campaign was associated with delays in the age at which infants roll over. The main result was no difference between a cohort born just before the campaign and another 20 years later. This is good news, contrary to that suggested by the online headline. More important, there was no measure of “tummy time.”

The writers are affiliated with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
417 2013-06-18 Stroller-pushing parents, tourists and harried traders in search of coffee were not to be seen at this year’s Bang on a Can marathon. Construction in the World Financial Center’s Winter Garden forced this annual new-music extravaganza to decamp on Sunday to the Schimmel Center for the Arts at Pace University, where there was none of the random walk-through business that has added touches of surrealism to the proceedings at the Winter Garden.

Then again, this year’s audience was entirely made up of people who wanted to be there — and it was sizable, tenacious and welcoming to the broad spectrum of contemporary music on offer. By the time I arrived at 7 p.m., in the midst of the Talea Ensemble’s performance of Hans Abrahamsen’s quietly intense “Schnee,” a substantial contingent had been there since kickoff at 1 p.m.

Twenty-six years ago, when Bang on a Can was founded as a composers’ collective by Julia Wolfe, Michael Gordon and David Lang, its mix of amplified acoustic and electronic instruments was groundbreaking. As I listened to a half-dozen performances over a three-hour period, it occurred to me that that aesthetic has become the new normal, while generating wildly different kinds of music.

Three members of Hotel Elefant performed Angélica Negrón’s airy “Drawings for Meyoko,” blending the sounds of acoustic instruments including harp, mandolin and flute with prerecorded ambient noise. In another, untitled performance, Cabaret Contemporain, a five-member group from France, created a deeply rhythmic and texturally intricate sound that might best be characterized as improvised acoustic techno.

The Bang on a Can All-Stars took to the stage alongside the singer-composer Shara Worden with a new arrangement of Mr. Lang’s “Death Speaks,” a quiet and eerie song cycle set to texts from Schubert songs in which Death speaks in the first person. The work was originally scored for voice, violin, electric guitar and piano, and though the expanded arrangement still has a somewhat anemic quality, the sensitive dabs of color provided particularly by the ensemble’s new clarinetist, Ken Thomson, made the sonic landscape a little less bleak.

In Annea Lockwood’s “Vortex,” the All-Stars created a dark and atmospheric sound world that included heavy use of gongs.
418 2013-06-18 Just days after Apple introduced the iPad and opened an e-bookstore, the biggest player in the e-book market, Amazon, changed the way it sold digital titles. Steven P. Jobs shot off an e-mail to the Apple executive who had negotiated deals with the publishers.

“Wow, we have really lit the fuse on a powder keg,” Mr. Jobs wrote in the e-mail dated Jan. 30, 2010, to Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet software and services.

The e-mail was brought up as evidence during the second half of Mr. Cue’s testimony in a Manhattan courtroom on Monday, where much of the discussion focused on whether Apple intended to help the publishers raise Amazon’s prices.

Mr. Cue testified on Monday that Mr. Jobs’s e-mail was not a memo congratulating him about how Apple’s entry into the e-book market affected Amazon, causing it to switch to a business model called agency pricing, where the publishers, not the retailer, set the price of the books. Mr. Cue said Mr. Jobs was remarking on the company’s ability to “cause ripples” in the e-book industry, which was then largely dominated by Amazon.

While Mr. Cue conceded that some e-book prices had gone up as a result of agency pricing, he noted that many titles might not have become available in any digital store at all if Apple had not introduced agency pricing to the market. He said he had learned from his meetings with publishers that they were unhappy with Amazon’s uniform $9.99 pricing for e-books and that they were planning to use a tactic known as windowing — delaying the release of an e-book until after the more expensive hardcover had been in stores for a while.
419 2013-06-18 Doug Lockwood, branch president of Hefty Wealth Partners in Auburn, Ind., said it was not rational for the stock market to regard bad news as good, and to be yanked back and forth more by the actions of a central bank than the underlying fundamentals of the economy.

The market has been in flux since May 22, when Mr. Bernanke said that the Fed would consider pulling back on its bond-buying program if measures of the economy, especially hiring, improve. The comment, made in response to a question from the Joint Economic Committee in Congress, was not expected. In the 17 trading days since then, the Dow Jones industrial average has swung by triple digits 11 times.

On Monday, the Dow rose 109.67 points, or 0.7 percent, to 15,179.85. The Nasdaq composite rose 28.58, or 0.8 percent, to 3,452.13.

The price of crude oil rose throughout the day but ended 4 cents lower at $98.03 a barrel in New York. Gold edged down $4.50 to $1,383.10 an ounce.

In the market for government bonds, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 13/32 to 96 7/32, bringing the yield up to 2.18 percent from 2.13 percent late Friday.

Jim McDonald, chief investment strategist at Northern Trust in Chicago, said Mr. Bernanke would seek to “walk back” on some of his previous comments, and reassure investors that the Fed will not pull back on stimulus until it is sure the economy is ready. The surprise factor, more than the substance of Mr. Bernanke’s comments, might have been what unnerved investors, McDonald said.

The fact that Mr. Bernanke is now expected to regard the economy as still weak enough to need stimulus stems from a jobs report and low inflation since his testimony, analysts said.

This month, the government reported that the United States added 175,000 jobs in May — not enough to cut into the unemployment rate. And on Friday, the government said that a crucial measure of inflation — the producer price index, which measures wholesale prices — rose just 0.1 percent after stripping out the volatile costs of food and gas. That is important because the Fed knows that its stimulus measures can stoke inflation; if inflation is low, the central bank has more flexibility to keep pumping money into the economy.

Two measures of economic data released on Monday were positive, though both are considered less important gauges of the economy. A report on manufacturing in New York State showed a pickup, and a survey of American home builders said they were more optimistic about sales than they had been in seven years.
420 2013-06-18 LOS ANGELES — DreamWorks Animation, trying to lessen its dependence on the volatile movie business by aggressively expanding into TV programming, has decided to forgo cable television in favor of Netflix.

In a multiyear deal announced early Monday, DreamWorks Animation will supply a flood of new episodic TV programs to the Internet streaming service. The partnership calls for 300 hours of original programming, perhaps the biggest commitment yet to bring Hollywood-caliber content to the Web first.

The new programs will be “inspired” by characters from past DreamWorks Animation franchises, which include “Shrek” and “The Croods,” and its coming feature films. Series will also come from Classic Media, which the studio bought last year. Classic Media’s holdings include characters like Casper the Friendly Ghost, Lassie, She-Ra and Mr. Magoo.

The agreement is the latest in the hotly competitive market for streaming content, with major services like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon vying to capture viewers who are gravitating to the Web, especially younger ones.

Until now, DreamWorks Animation’s primary focus has been the release of about two costly movies a year. Its success record is strong, but one miss can send its stock price plummeting, as was the case late last year, when “Rise of the Guardians” severely underperformed expectations; the company eventually took an $87 million write-down tied to the film.
421 2013-06-18 However, with national legislative elections scheduled for April 2014 and a presidential election three months later, fuel subsidies are a hot-button political issue.

‘'They have to increase the prices because we are bleeding in our budget,'’ said Didik Rachbini, a prominent economist and member of Mr. Yudhoyono’s National Economic Council, which comprises economists and leading businessmen and advises the president on economic policy. ‘‘But this is political, a very political issue.'’

Indonesian lawmakers may have to put politics aside, however, if they want to avoid harming one of Asia’s best-performing economies.

Hand-wringing on the fuel subsidy issue dating to April has caused foreign investors to abandon Indonesia’s capital and debt markets in recent days and has created growing trade and current account deficits. The rupiah, meanwhile, has fallen to nearly 10,000 against the dollar.

Although Indonesia has plenty of oil production fields and is among the top 25 oil-producing nations in the world, it is a net importer of petroleum. Gasoline is so heavily subsidized that at the end of 2012, the country had the lowest fuel prices of any net oil-consuming nation in the world, according to the World Bank. The second-lowest was the United States, where a gallon sold for $3.29 on Dec. 31 — nearly twice as much as in Indonesia.

The Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, or P.D.I.P., the country’s largest opposition party, has rejected any plan to raise gasoline prices, saying there are other ways to plug holes in the state budget.

‘'My party has done calculations and we suggest the government instead work on improving cost recovery in the oil and gas sector by about 153 trillion rupiah,’’ said Eva Sundari, a P.D.I.P. lawmaker. ‘‘At the same time we recommend improvements in the taxation collection process. There is more potential revenue if we intensify efforts.'’

She said she continued to support artificially low gasoline prices ‘'because I am a leftist.'’

Most members of Mr. Yudhoyono’s governing coalition have agreed to support the plan, which would also increase diesel prices 1,000 rupiah. The government also reached an agreement with House Commission XI, which oversees financial issues, on raising both fuel prices and the state budget purchase quota for subsidized fuel, as well as increasing the budget deficit target from 1.6 percent to 2.4 percent.

A final vote was expected Monday night, yet the outcome remained far from certain.

In March 2012, Mr. Yudhoyono proposed raising fuel prices, but even members of his own governing coalition revolted at the last minute, quashing his plan at a raucous House session as student and labor groups outside clashed with police officers on live national television.

The revised state budget includes the renewal of a cash compensation program for poor Indonesian families to cushion the blow from the subsidy decision and a resulting increase in inflation, as was done when gasoline prices were raised in 2008.

However, many working class Indonesians have said that any increase in the price of gasoline automatically creates higher costs for numerous items, including food staples, clothing and public transportation.
422 2013-06-19 BioMosaic, which tracks foreign-borne disease threats in the United States, works by merging three separate data tools into a single app for guiding decisions at the time of an outbreak....
423 2013-06-19 Many people are getting movies and TV shows over the Internet. By some measures, Apple is No. 1 in online video, but by others, Netflix leads the way....
424 2013-06-19 General Electric has rolled out more of its plan for the so-called Industrial Internet, and it’s a telling example of a future rich in sensors and data and perhaps far more efficient....
425 2013-06-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
426 2013-06-19 Political news from today’s Times and a look at the latest happenings in Washington....
427 2013-06-19 BC Partners has agreed to buy the academic publishing company Springer Science & Business Media from EQT Partners and the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation....
428 2013-06-19 On Friday, the Philippines plans to crush its ivory stock, in a gesture against the illegal trade that wildlife activists say has claimed more than 32,000 elephant lives since early 2012....
429 2013-06-19 Concerned about fines, taxes and regulation in New York, a new coalition of small-business owners is organizing to try to influence legislation and city policy.

Brought together under the aegis of the Partnership for New York City, a group better known for supporting the city’s major financial firms, the coalition, to be called GoBizNYC, will seek to amplify the voice of small businesses in the city’s political process, said Stu Loeser, the group’s spokesman and a former press secretary for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

The group, which will include the chambers of commerce for each borough, will push for the formation of a small-business caucus in the City Council and will seek to become a source for elected officials and candidates on small business concerns.

The formation of the group reflects a frustration among small-business owners that has become an issue in the mayoral campaign, where many candidates are pledging to address concerns about fines and regulation.

One coalition member, John Park, a Korean immigrant who runs a business selling medical uniforms in Jackson Heights, Queens, said the number of fines issued by the city in recent years had skyrocketed. He said that the city was still the best place in the world to open a small business, but that there needed to be more dialogue between small-business owners and the city.

“I’m not crying, I’m happy, but still we need a voice,” he said.

Another coalition member, Carol DiMarco, whose firm, Blue Label Design, is based on Staten Island, said the city’s policies had hurt more often than they helped. She said she was motivated to join the coalition because she had watched many small businesses in the borough close during the economic downturn, and then after Hurricane Sandy.

“I know a lot of my friends that are in the restaurant business have really been hit over the head with violations and little things,” she said.
430 2013-06-19 “We had nothing to do with it,” said Sgt. Jim Young, an Orlando police spokesman. “It’s a federal matter, and we’re deferring everything to the F.B.I.”

Occasionally, the F.B.I. does discipline an agent. Out of 289 deliberate shootings covered by the documents, many of which left no one wounded, five were deemed to be “bad shoots,” in agents’ parlance — encounters that did not comply with the bureau’s policy, which allows deadly force if agents fear that their lives or those of fellow agents are in danger. A typical punishment involved adding letters of censure to agents’ files. But in none of the five cases did a bullet hit anyone.

Critics say the fact that for at least two decades no agent has been disciplined for any instance of deliberately shooting someone raises questions about the credibility of the bureau’s internal investigations. Samuel Walker, a professor of criminal justice at the who studies internal law enforcement investigations, called the bureau’s conclusions about cases of improper shootings “suspiciously low.”

Current and former F.B.I. officials defended the bureau’s handling of shootings, arguing that the scant findings of improper behavior were attributable to several factors. Agents tend to be older, more experienced and better trained than city police officers. And they generally are involved only in planned operations and tend to go in with “overwhelming presence,” minimizing the chaos that can lead to shooting the wrong people, said Tim Murphy, a former deputy director of the F.B.I. who conducted some investigations of shootings over his 23-year career.

The F.B.I.’s shootings range from episodes so obscure that they attract no news media attention to high-profile cases like the 2009 killing of an imam in a -area warehouse that is the subject of a lawsuit alleging a cover-up, and a 2002 shooting in in which the bureau paid $1.3 million to a victim and yet, the records show, deemed the shooting to have been justified.

With rare exceptions — like suicides — whenever an agent fires his weapon outside of training, a team of agents from the F.B.I.’s Inspection Division, sometimes with a liaison from the local police, compiles a report reconstructing what happened. This “shooting incident review team” interviews witnesses and studies medical, ballistics and autopsy reports, eventually producing a narrative. Such reports typically do not include whether an agent had been involved in any previous shootings, because they focus only on the episode in question, officials said.

That narrative, along with binders of supporting information, is then submitted to a “shooting incident review group” — a panel of high-level F.B.I. officials in . The panel produces its own narrative as part of a report saying whether the shooting complied with bureau policy — and recommends what discipline to mete out if it did not — along with any broader observations about “lessons learned” to change training or procedures.

F.B.I. officials stressed that their shooting reviews were carried out under the oversight of both the Justice Department’s inspector general and the Civil Rights Division, and that local prosecutors have the authority to bring charges.

The 2,200 pages of records obtained by The Times include an internal F.B.I. study that compiled shooting episode statistics over a 17-year period, as well as a collection of individual narratives of intentional shootings from 1993 to early 2011. Gunfire was exchanged in 58 such episodes; 9 law enforcement officials died, and 38 were wounded.

The five “bad shoots” included cases in which an agent fired a warning shot after feeling threatened by a group of men, an agent fired at a weapon lying on the ground to disable it during an arrest, and two agents fired their weapons while chasing fugitives but hit no one. In another case, an agent fired at a safe during a demonstration, and ricocheting material caused minor cuts in a crowd of onlookers.

Four of the cases were in the mid-1990s, and the fifth was in 2003.

In many cases, the accuracy of the F.B.I. narrative is difficult to evaluate because no independent alternative report has been produced. As part of the reporting for this article, the F.B.I. voluntarily made available a list of shootings since 2007 that gave rise to lawsuits, but it was rare for any such case to have led to a full report by an independent authority.

Occasionally, however, there were alternative reviews. One, involving a March 2002 episode in which an agent shot an innocent Maryland man in the head after mistaking him for a bank robbery suspect, offers a case study in how the nuances of an F.B.I. official narrative can come under scrutiny.

In that episode, agents thought that the suspect would be riding in a car driven by his sister and wearing a white baseball cap. An innocent man, Joseph Schultz, then 20, happened to cross their path, wearing a white cap and being driven by his girlfriend. Moments after F.B.I. agents carrying rifles pulled their car over and surrounded it, Agent Christopher Braga shot Mr. Schultz in the jaw. He later underwent facial reconstruction surgery, and in 2007 the bureau paid $1.3 million to settle a lawsuit.

The internal review, however, deemed it a good shoot. In the F.B.I.’s narrative, Agent Braga says that he shouted “show me your hands,” but that Mr. Schultz instead reached toward his waist, so Agent Braga fired “to eliminate the threat.” While one member of the review group said that “after reading the materials provided, he could not visualize the presence of ‘imminent danger’ to law enforcement officers,” the rest of the group voted to find the shooting justified, citing the “totality of the circumstances surrounding the incident,” including that it involved a “high-risk stop.”

But an Anne Arundel County police detective prepared an independent report about the episode, and a lawyer for Mr. Schultz, Arnold Weiner, conducted a further investigation for the lawsuit. Both raised several subtle but important differences.

For example, the F.B.I. narrative describes a lengthy chase of Mr. Schultz’s car after agents turned on their siren at an intersection, bolstering an impression that it was reasonable for Agent Braga to fear that Mr. Schultz was a dangerous fugitive. The narrative spends a full page describing this moment in great detail, saying that the car “rapidly accelerated” and that one agent shouted for it to stop “over and over again.” It cites another agent as estimating that the car stopped “approximately 100 yards” from the intersection.

By contrast, the police report describes this moment in a short, skeptical paragraph. Noting that agents said they had thought the car was fleeing, it points out that the car “was, however, in a merge lane and would need to accelerate to enter traffic.” Moreover, a crash reconstruction specialist hired for the lawsuit estimated that the car had reached a maximum speed of 12 miles per hour, and an F.B.I. sketch, obtained in the lawsuit, put broken glass from a car window 142 feet 8 inches from the intersection.

The F.B.I. narrative does not cite Mr. Schultz’s statement and omits that a crucial fact was disputed: how Mr. Schultz had moved in the car. In a 2003 sworn statement, Agent Braga said that Mr. Schultz “turned to his left, towards the middle of the car, and reached down.” But Mr. Schultz insisted that he had instead reached toward the car door on his right because he had been listening to another agent who was simultaneously shouting “open the door.”

A former F.B.I. agent, hired to write a report analyzing the episode for the plaintiffs, concluded that “no reasonable F.B.I. agent in Braga’s position would reasonably have believed that deadly force was justified.” He also noted pointedly that Agent Braga had been involved in a previous shooting episode in 2000 that he portrayed as questionable, although it had been found to be justified by the F.B.I.’s internal review process.

Asked to comment on the case, a lawyer for Agent Braga, Andrew White, noted last week that a grand jury had declined to indict his client in the shooting.

In some cases, alternative official accounts for several other shootings dovetailed with internal F.B.I. narratives.

One involved the October 2009 death of Luqman Ameen Abdullah, a prayer leader at a Detroit-area mosque who was suspected of conspiring to sell stolen goods and was shot during a raid on a warehouse. The F.B.I. report says that Mr. Abdullah got down on the ground but kept his hands hidden, so a dog was unleashed to pull his arms into view. He then pulled out a gun and shot the dog, the report says, and he was in turn shot by four agents.

The chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations filed a lawsuit against the F.B.I. The group was concerned in part because the handgun had no recoverable fingerprints and because of facial injuries to Mr. Abdullah. It also contends that the dog may have been shot instead by the F.B.I. agents and the gun thrown down in a cover-up.

A report by the Michigan attorney general’s office, however, detailed an array of evidence that it says “corroborates the statements of the agents as to the sequence of events,” including that bullet fragments in the dog’s corpse were consistent with the handgun, not the rifles used by the F.B.I. agents. Such an independent account of an F.B.I. shooting is rare. After the recent killing of Mr. Todashev in Orlando, both the chapter of the same group and his father have called for investigators outside the F.B.I. to scrutinize the episode.

James J. Wedick, who spent 34 years at the bureau, said the F.B.I. should change its procedures for its own good.

“At the least, it is a perception issue, and over the years the bureau has had a deaf ear to it,” he said. “But if you have a shooting that has a few more complicated factors and an ethnic issue, the bureau’s image goes down the toilet if it doesn’t investigate itself properly.”
431 2013-06-19 Money, of course, is a significant factor. Food advertising on Nickelodeon has fallen 45 percent since 2008, according to the company, partly because of its own efforts to cut back on ads for certain sugary drinks and fatty foods, and partly because of self-regulation by food companies.

But food remains Nickelodeon’s third biggest advertising category (behind movies and toys), accounting for roughly 18 percent of annual sales. At a recent meeting on Capitol Hill, according to legislative aides, Viacom lobbyists reiterated this point and emphasized that their children’s networks — Nick, Nick Jr. and TeenNick — are more reliant on advertising than Disney’s flagship Disney Channel, which accepts limited sponsorships but does not accept 30-second spots.

Advertisers spend roughly $950 million annually on television tailored to children under 12, according to industry estimates. Across all the children’s cable channels tracked by Nielsen, the number of food ads was up 16 percent in the first quarter of the year versus the same quarter a year earlier, far outpacing the increase in all advertising, which was 6 percent.

Nickelodeon, which declined to comment for this article, is dug in for other reasons. Its executives ardently believe that critics, in particular the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest, have ignored its many efforts to cut down on junk food ads and promote healthy lifestyles to its viewers.

For years, for instance, Nickelodeon has dedicated 10 percent of its promotional airtime to health and wellness messaging. It has also restricted the licensing of characters like SpongeBob SquarePants on certain junk foods and sent millions of dollars to communities to buy equipment like swing sets, among other initiatives. Once a year, Nickelodeon suspends programming on all of its channels and Web sites for three hours as part of a program called Worldwide Day of Play.

Against that backdrop, analysts say, some critics are having a harder time painting Nickelodeon as an uncaring corporation peddling junk food to children.

“Nickelodeon is not above reproach by any means,” said Dade Hayes, executive editor at the trade publication Broadcasting & Cable, and author of “Anytime Playdate: Inside the Preschool Entertainment Boom.” “But they certainly can’t be depicted as an evil Philip Morris-type cabal, either.”

Nevertheless, the pressure on Nickelodeon to take stronger measures has persisted. Last week, four Democratic senators — Richard Blumenthal, Richard J. Durbin, Tom Harkin and John D. Rockefeller IV— prodded by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, asked Nickelodeon in a letter to “promptly take similar action” to Disney and “implement strong nutrition standards.”

But it was hardly a fire-breathing missive. “We applaud the initiatives that Nickelodeon has taken to promote healthy lifestyles for children,” the letter said.

Senator Blumenthal said the letter’s gentle tone was intentional. “We want to reason with them,” he said. “We want this to be voluntary, even enthusiastic on their part.”

Margo Wootan, director of nutrition policy at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, conceded that the volume of food ads on Nickelodeon had gone down.

“Things are moving in the right direction,” she said. “They’re just moving way too slowly.” A study by the center last year found that 69 percent of the food ads on Nickelodeon were for foods deemed unhealthy by the center. In 2005, it was 90 percent.

She dismissed Nickelodeon’s assertion that entertainment companies — particularly ones that do not serve food at theme parks and on cruise ships — have no business deciding nutritional standards.

“They can’t tell that Airheads candy are unhealthy without having a Ph.D. in nutrition?” she asked.

“We’re not expecting perfect standards, but we’re expecting some standards,” she added.

Ms. Wootan has shown no interest in letting up, even if some of her rhetoric has seemed excessive at times. In March, for instance, she put out a news release that charged Nickelodeon with “recklessly throwing gasoline on the fire” when it comes to childhood obesity.

At the same time, her organization, in partnership with other advocacy groups, took out a full-page ad in The Hollywood Reporter in the form of an Old West wanted poster. It featured mug shots of a slovenly SpongeBob SquarePants and included the words “Approach with caution! SpongeBob may be armed with nutritionally dangerous foods.”
432 2013-06-19 Meanwhile, a lopsided division of spoils among the groups has festered into a conflict that some Alaskans fear could unravel the catch-share project itself, which has done much good, they say, despite its flaws. In 2011, according to the most recent figures, one group with a small population got nearly 22 times more revenue per resident than another, larger group, based on allocation formulas locked in by Congress in 2006.

The fate of places like Akiak, a village of 350 people about 400 miles west of Anchorage, was dictated by a political compromise two decades ago, when a line was drawn 50 miles from the Bering Sea. Villages inside the line got pollock money. Akiak’s rutted dirt roads and 80 percent unemployment rate, residents said, bespeak its outsider status, 20 miles from that border.

Residents of Napaskiak, by contrast, a village of similar size 24 miles away, get scholarships, free firewood, free tax assistance and subsidized boat motors, all courtesy of the local catch-share group, the Coastal Villages Region Fund, which also buys halibut and herring from local fishermen.

The rules were hard but necessary, said Dick Tremaine, an economist who was a consultant to the state in the early 1990s. “This was a social engineering experiment that had not yet existed,” he said.

But even communities within the line have seen uneven development.

The federal health clinic in the village of Teller, for example, in Alaska’s northwest corner, went months without toilets last year after its septic system failed. Doctors and patients used five-gallon buckets instead, then stacked them in the street. Worse still, there were often not enough buckets to go around. Cardboard boxes, lined with plastic bags, then had to suffice.

Teller is not unique: 10 of 15 villages dotting the tundra along the Bering Sea outside of Nome — all within the catch-share system — do not have complete sewer service or running water.

“I can understand how C.D.Q.’s, in the early years, focused on the development of businesses,” said Ed Backus, vice president for fisheries at Ecotrust, an economic development group in Portland, Ore., that works in Alaska, referring to the Community Development Quota Program. “But over time as those revenue streams really bulked up, which they have, I think it’s important to remember the main mission of C.D.Q.’s is to really improve life in the villages.”

Spokesmen for the nonprofit groups agreed that not every village has seen the same benefits.

Part of the problem is geography, said Simon Kinneen, vice president and chief operating officer of the Norton Sound Economic Development Corporation, which covers the northern corner of the catch-share region, including Teller. “Developing fisheries and economies in our member communities that do not have reasonable access to commercially viable fish species is difficult at best,” he said in an e-mail.

A spokesman for the Coastal Villages Region Fund, Dawson Hoover, conceded that much more work should be done.

Under that guise, Coastal Villages, the largest of the groups by population, with about 9,300 residents, began an effort last year to get Congress to change how pollock and other fish are apportioned in western Alaska — to a formula based on population.

The shift would greatly increase Coastal’s clout and income, and the effort is creating sharp conflict with other groups that could get less. “The groups with the largest amount of people receive less fish per person,” Mr. Hoover said. “It’s just not fair.”

Many native subsistence fishermen, meanwhile, say the pollock trawlers inadvertently catch too many salmon. Dozens were cited by state game wardens last summer — and faced emotional legal proceedings this spring — for setting their nets on the Kuskokwim River in violation of an emergency fishing ban.

Joe Garnie, a former mayor of Teller, and a board member of the Norton Sound group, said fairness depends on where you look. Imagine what might happen, he said, if a lack of plumbing had led to similar unsanitary conditions in a clinic in, say, Detroit. “In 15 minutes there would be a federal investigation,” he said. “Why isn’t there one here?”

Part of the answer to Mr. Garnie’s question, is that the program grew up without a yardstick, according to people who were involved in its early years. And as each nonprofit group went its way, one-size-fits all measurements no longer applied.

Coastal Villages became a vertically integrated seafood company. The Aleutian Pribilof Island Community Development Association, another catch-share group, developed a separate economic plan for each village. In Norton Sound, benefits were delivered mostly in the form of community grants and scholarships, sending hundreds of Alaskans to college every year and helping villages operate.

Federal rules are loose, requiring only that the groups spend 80 percent of their money in fisheries. And in 2006, Congress stepped back even further, allowing the groups to regulate themselves, with reviews from Washington every decade. But in the first 10-year review, even the self-regulating catch-share oversight board in Alaska said the data measuring changes in poverty and quality of life in the villages was not meaningful.

But there is no doubt that guaranteed pollock shares — later extended to include, crab, pacific cod, halibut and other fish — created a new empire. Coastal Villages now owns an entire fishing fleet based in Seattle and Alaska. The Bristol Bay group owns half of the seafood giant Ocean Beauty. The Glacier Fish Company, based in Seattle, is partly owned by fish-quota groups. Four groups also invested in publicly traded securities, totaling $134 million in 2011, or 28.8 percent of their net assets. Salaries for top executives, meanwhile, have ranged in recent years from $69,503 to $832,367.

The oversight board said in a recent report that in its first 19 years, the program distributed $521 million in wages, training and benefits. But the region’s troubles drag on. Of 65 communities within the 50-mile boundary, including Teller, 38 are still listed as “distressed” at the Denali Commission, a federal agency that focuses on Alaska’s remote communities.

Joel Neimeyer, co-chairman of the Denali Commission, said it would be impossible for one program to solve Alaska’s rural problems. The process of giving people training for jobs, for example can, in a perverse way, create a brain drain that leaves communities ever more locked in struggle. People leave and get a taste of the outside world. “A lot of them just never go back,” Mr. Neimeyer said.
433 2013-06-19 A regional province of the Capuchin religious order that had fought allegations of sexual abuse for decades decided last year to open its files dating to the 19th century to three independent auditors, in what the order claimed to be a first in the long-running Roman Catholic Church abuse scandal in the United States.

The auditors’ report, released on Tuesday, found that sexual abuse by friars in the St. Joseph Province of the Capuchin Order was discussed at meetings as far back as 1932, the first year for which minutes of meetings were available.

After more than a dozen students at the province’s St. Lawrence Seminary in Wisconsin accused nine friars of abuse in 1992, it cost the province’s insurer nearly a million dollars — but 89 percent of that went to lawyers to defend the Capuchins and only 11 percent to victims for settlements and therapy, the report said.

“One of the very sobering findings,” the Rev. John Celichowski, the Capuchins’ provincial minister, said Tuesday in a conference call with reporters, “is through much of our history as a province, we have failed victims and survivors.”

The audit is unusual because the Capuchin province commissioned it voluntarily, claimed to allow the investigators unfettered access to original files and documents, and included on the panel the Rev. Thomas Doyle, a prominent whistle-blower who has often testified against the church in court cases.
434 2013-06-19 WASHINGTON — “The days of Rambo are over,” the two-star general in charge of personnel policy for Special Operations Command said on Tuesday in explaining the changes in military culture that led to opening front-line combat positions to women.

The officer, Maj. Gen. Bennet Sacolick, director of force management for Special Operations Command, which trains elite Rangers, Green Berets and SEAL units, said the military today required as much intellectual power as firepower.

“We’re looking for young men that can speak and learn a foreign language and understand culture, who can work with indigenous populations,” he said at a Pentagon briefing about moving women into combat jobs. “When people fail in the Special Forces qualification course, predominantly they fail because they’re not doing their homework.”

He said that female troops already deploy effectively in combat zones as members of Special Operations cultural support teams carrying out counterinsurgency missions at the village level. “I was encouraged by just the physical performance of some of the young girls that aspire to go into the cultural support teams,” General Sacolick said. “They very well may provide a foundation for ultimate integration.”

Even so, as the individual armed services unveiled their plans on Tuesday for carrying out the order to integrate women into hazardous and demanding combat positions, General Sacolick and others said that it might be as difficult for women to fit into male-dominated combat units as to meet physical requirements likes loading heavy tank shells.
435 2013-06-19 Russia had announced that it would not renew the program, called the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, which was set to expire, because it gave the United States too big a role in Russia’s military affairs. In recent talks, the countries agreed to limit the program’s scope in Russia but expand it to try to eliminate similar weapons elsewhere.

“This will allow us to continue to work with Russia to secure nuclear materials not just in our countries, but also in third countries,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said in a briefing after the meeting.

Mr. Rhodes said that Mr. Obama raised the issue of human rights privately with Mr. Putin, but mainly to refute the allegation that the United States was somehow working against Mr. Putin or Russia.

“What you see in the public back-and-forth on these issues is the sense that our concern about human rights is intended to undermine the Russian government in some way,” Mr. Rhodes said. “The president’s point that he made is simply that the United States speaks out for certain things as a matter of principle; it’s not targeted at any political agenda. And that’s something we do all over the world, it’s not unique to Russia.”

The Obama administration’s decision to focus on clinching deals rather than delivering messages was perhaps most evident in the announcement by Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin that they would create a working group on improving trade and investment to be led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev.

When Congress acted in December to grant Russia full status as a trading partner, an effort that was decades in the making, the announcement was overshadowed by another component of the legislation seeking to punish human rights abuses in Russia, and by the Russian retaliation, which included a ban on adoptions of Russian orphans by Americans.

Despite heavy pressure from members of Congress and prospective parents who had been in the middle of the adoption process when the ban took hold on Jan. 1, Mr. Obama made no mention of the adoption issue, stressing only the push for closer economic ties.

“We had extensive discussions about how we can further deepen our economic and commercial relationships,” Mr. Obama said, adding, “I think we’re poised to increase both trade and investment between our two countries. And that can create jobs and business opportunities, both for Russians and Americans.”

The leaders also announced that they had reached a deal for greater cooperation on cybersecurity threats, including an exchange of practical and technical information on risks to critical computer systems. The agreement will include the establishment of a direct secure voice communications line between the United States cybersecurity coordinator in Washington and the deputy secretary of Russia’s Security Council in Moscow.

Mr. Obama quickly came under criticism from human rights advocates who want to see the Kremlin pressured about a recent crackdown on political dissent and civil society groups.

David J. Kramer, the president of Freedom House, an advocacy group in Washington, said that Mr. Obama had sent a demoralizing message to rights advocates in Russia. “He hasn’t uttered a single word about the worst deterioration in Russia’s human rights situation since the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Mr. Kramer said in a telephone interview. “I find that very troubling.

In this sense, the more transactional relationship is a victory for Mr. Putin, who has stressed that he will not tolerate meddling in Russia’s domestic affairs.

But the decision by the White House also reflected a realpolitik understanding that attempts by others, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and former President George W. Bush, to put pressure on Mr. Putin have not resulted in any change.

“Think about it from the perspective of what your objective is and how you can accomplish that,” said Samuel Charap, a senior fellow and Russia expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “We don’t condition security cooperation on human rights and democracy,” he said. “Does engaging extensively on these issues get you anywhere with Putin? I think we have a pretty strong track record that it usually gets you nowhere.”

Mr. Obama has also made clear that he views further reductions in the American and Russian nuclear arsenals as a potential legacy issue, and one that should not fall victim to shorter-term political considerations.

Relations between the countries had soured significantly over the past 18 months, beginning with a torrent of anti-American rhetoric during Mr. Putin’s 2012 presidential campaign. In an interview just last week with the Russia Today news network here, Mr. Putin repeated his assertion that the State Department had been supporting his political opponents, an allegation that Washington denies.

Cooperation on the investigation into the Boston Marathon bombing, including scrutiny of the two suspects, who had roots in Russia’s Caucasus region, helped improve relations.

And though the two sides continue to disagree fiercely over Syria, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and Secretary of State John Kerry appear to be developing a relatively strong working relationship.

It was Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov, during a meeting in Moscow, who announced the effort to hold an international conference on Syria and to bring all sides to the negotiating table. Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin, while citing their differences, said Monday that remained their shared goal.

“Of course our opinions do not coincide,” Mr. Putin said of the Syria issue. But he added, “We agreed to push the parties to the negotiating table.”

Still, hints of continuing tensions were evident. Near the end of their appearance, Mr. Obama joked that they had discussed judo, one of Mr. Putin’s favorite sports, and Mr. Obama’s declining basketball skills, and had agreed that they were getting older. Mr. Putin quickly replied that Mr. Obama was trying to hustle him “with his statement that he is getting weaker.”
436 2013-06-19 This thinking extends beyond desserts. Vegetables and whole grains are at the core of my cooking and my eating, but if you take me to a really great steakhouse I am not going to order the vegetarian plate.

Even when I actually was a strict vegetarian, or close to it, I never wore a hair shirt or sought out converts. Quite the opposite: when an updated edition of my second cookbook, “Fast Vegetarian Feasts,” was released in 1986 after I had lived in for five years, I had added a fish chapter to it. (Soon after publication I got a letter from an angry reader who accused me of straying from the cause. “Oy,” my editor and I collectively responded.)

I’ve always loved a good croissant (during my years in Paris it would never occur to me not to eat one with my café noisette on the way to the market), but my real pastry life began a little over 10 years ago, when Sherry Yard, then the executive pastry chef at Spago and Worldwide, approached me about working with her on her first cookbook, “The Secrets of Baking.”

I realized right away that I was the ideal ghost writer for a pastry chef: I knew how to write a cookbook; I knew how to test, edit and write a recipe so that it worked, and I knew nothing about pastry. I had nothing against it, but I had never made caramel or ganache, let alone truffles and croissants. Who better, then, to try to follow Sherry’s recipes?

So I went to the big-box supermarket to buy ingredients, filling my shopping cart with Plugrà butter, which is 82 percent fat, and 10-pound bags of sugar, all-purpose flour and cake flour, powdered sugar, quarts of heavy cream and Valrhona chocolate. My friends laughed when they saw what was in my refrigerator. Some fans might have gasped had they known, but I was unabashed.

I don’t feel a disconnect when I go from working on my healthy recipes early in the week to testing croissants and mille-feuilles over the weekend, as I did over the course of a year for a forthcoming book called “The Art of French Pastry,” which I wrote with the pastry chef Jacquy Pfeiffer, who founded the French Pastry School in . In fact, learning the craft of pastry has made my healthy cooking better, in the same way that living in for 12 years made my cooking in general better. France lightened my touch, refined my palate and broadened my repertory.

Likewise, I’ve been able to incorporate some of the techniques I’ve learned testing and writing pastry recipes into my savory cooking. Anything I make that has a crust now has a better crust, no matter what type of flour I use. My whole-grain breads have a moister crumb. I’m more adept at baking in general, whether I’m making a Black Forest cake or a savory cabbage galette.

Pastry making has also made me a more mindful cook. It’s a meditative process, and I love the detached state of mind it requires, which is completely different from what I experience in my normal cooking life. When I test my recipes I’m more emotional; my heart beats faster. I can feel spent after a day in the kitchen developing and testing five different recipes for farro pilaf or summer bean salads.

But when it comes to pastry, I don’t think too much as I weigh ingredients and follow the method. (Forget about cups and measuring spoons if you want to succeed in pastry; get a scale and set it to metric, which enables you to get the most exacting measurements.) I’m working with what are essentially chemical formulas that experienced pastry chefs have worked out through much trial and error. If I fiddle, as I do with the cumin, salt, garlic or vinegar I’m going to use to season those summer bean salads, I might upset the chemical balance of the ingredients, and the success of my pastry will be in jeopardy.

And I can’t taste as I go along. I can’t even open the oven door to see how things are going. (Or rather, I shouldn’t. As Jacquy says, “Curiosity kills the cake.”)

This doesn’t mean that there’s no art involved, that I can’t substitute cherries or strawberries for the raspberries in my tart, or almond flour for the hazelnut flour. But I will be precise in my substitutions.

As for the health implications of having all of those pastries around, I don’t find myself eating a significantly greater amount of sweets when I’m working on a pastry book; I haven’t gained any weight during my testing phases. And most of the pastry chefs I’ve met are thin, too. It’s not that they (and I) don’t eat what they make. They love good pastry; they just don’t overeat it. It all goes back to balance.

Liam is certainly very happy when I’m working on a pastry book. He eats all the healthy stuff I make, but for a teenager whose way of rebelling is going to the corner store and bringing back as much junk food as he can afford, chocolate croissant recipe tests will always trump kale.

When a book project is over, we miss our desserts, so I try to find the time to get out the Plugrà and bake every now and again — to keep up my pastry chops, fill our cookie jars with Sherry’s iconic, incredibly chocolaty chocolate-chip cookies, and make a great tart (not just fruit) for a dinner party.

In fact, when I’m planning a dinner party I tend to decide on the dessert first. I hear echoes of my mother, who was right when she said to me with a wink a long time ago, “The men especially will remember the dessert.” For my most recent one, I made a couple of Jacquy’s raspberry hazelnut tarts, whose delicate sablée crust alone is to die for, not to mention the layers of baked hazelnut cream and raspberry jam topped with fresh raspberries and roasted hazelnuts.

Friends who have been eating my food for years were astounded. It wasn’t just the men whose eyes grew wide. It was everybody, including me, who would never forget that dessert.
437 2013-06-19 In response to questions, Mr. Wheeler said that any merger review must consider the facts before the commission and not deal with theoretical questions of the sort he raised in the blog post.

“In a hypothetical musing, it is possible to do that,” Mr. Wheeler said. But in a merger review, he added, “I am guided by precedent, the statute and the facts before me.”

Most of the other questions posed to Mr. Wheeler were friendly, and several Republican senators expressed confidence that he would be confirmed by inviting him to visit their states once he took office.

Mr. Wheeler also said that his experience as a lobbyist would not prejudice him in regulating the industries he formerly championed. “I was an advocate for specific points of view, and I hope I was a pretty good advocate,” Mr. Wheeler said. “If I am fortunate enough to be confirmed, my client will be the American public, and I hope I can be as effective an advocate for them as humanly possible.”

Nevertheless, Mr. Wheeler also said it was his experience in the wireless and cable industries — which, he acknowledged, are much changed today from when he worked for them — rather than as a regulator that provides his primary strengths.

As chief executive of what is now the National Cable and Telecommunications Association in the 1980s, “I fought against the F.C.C.’s rules limiting cable’s ability to compete with new video services,” Mr. Wheeler said. “I worked for the ability of competitors to bring services into the home.”

Similarly, Mr. Wheeler said that his tenure in the 1990s as head of the cellular phone trade group now known as CTIA-The Wireless Association, was one in which start-up and rapidly growing cellphone competitors were at the forefront of wholesale changes in communications.

“During my tenure, that competition was expanded by the auctions of 1994, wireless was increasingly used in place of wire line, and wireless data turned the phone into a pocket computer,” Mr. Wheeler said.

“All of these developments brought with them new policy challenges,” he added, challenges that are no smaller now as wireless becomes the primary method of broadband and voice communication for millions of Americans.

Mr. Wheeler also promised to look into the favorite topics of most of the lawmakers on the committee. Those topics include continuing the E-Rate program, which provides subsidies for broadband connections at schools and libraries; raising revenue from the spectrum incentive auctions to help finance a public service communications network; and figuring out how to address consumer frustration over disputes between broadcasters and cable providers that often leave cable subscribers with blackouts of certain channels.

Mr. Wheeler also addressed television decency standards, something that the F.C.C. has wrestled with for decades. He said the bully pulpit might have more influence than any regulations the agency could write.

“I do believe it is possible to call upon our better angels with some leadership,” Mr. Wheeler said. He recalled that the “vast wasteland” speech of Newton N. Minow, the former F.C.C. chairman, “caught people’s attention.” He added: “Maybe it’s time to do the same type of thing today.”
438 2013-06-19 So, the scene was set. America’s horse was going to take on one of the oldest and most elegant events in all of horse racing. The morning-coated, top-hatted throngs and the bookies standing on their boxes before the odds boards were all O.K. with it. They were happy the first Kentucky Derby winner in more than 75 years had made the trip and graced them with his presence.

And then the gates opened. Dreams are not official until your horse crosses the finish line ahead of the others, which is why they run the races in the first place. For nearly a half of the mile climb, Animal Kingdom looked like the horse most people thought he was. John Velazquez glided him outside, letting him loom easily in fourth place, looking ready at any moment to push the button that would ignite the colt’s thunderous turn of foot.

But as the race progressed, Velazquez became uneasy. The colt had wrestled with him early, expending valuable energy. Now, Velazquez felt Animal Kingdom tugging at the bit, felt his legs wobble as they headed up the hill. Still, he asked Animal Kingdom for one last burst from what has been a storybook career. The colt lunged, but then surrendered.

No matter how lovely the dresses and morning suits, no matter how much the crowd of more than 40,000 might have wanted Animal Kingdom to win, it was suddenly clear it was not going to happen. Instead of cheers, there was a collective groan of disappointment.

“He didn’t put much effort in — that’s not him,” Velazquez said. “He was flat.”

The horse who ended up scooting away from the field was Declaration of War. He was ridden by Joseph O’Brien, whose father, Aidan, is among the most decorated trainers in the world. And in the Queen Anne, he had given his son a machine to climb on to and bring home a winner.

“It got a little tight, but I was going exceptionally well,” O’Brien said.

Still, he had plenty to hold off Aljamaaheer and the fast-closing Gregorian. Far behind him, Velazquez and Animal Kingdom were fortunate to beat two horses and finish 11th.

It was a gut-wrenching defeat for Motion, who had said unequivocally that the colt was a once-in-a-lifetime performer and understood that he would probably never see another one like him. Bringing him here had been a throwback gesture, summoning memories of the iron horses of other eras. And for Motion, born and reared in England, it was the type of homecoming he dreamed about.

“I’m sorry it did not work out — it’s disappointing for everyone,” Motion said. “There was such a good reception for him.”

Animal Kingdom’s next stop is Australia and Arrowfield farm, where Arrowfield, Team Valor and Darley Stud, which is owned by the ruler of Dubai, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, hope that he passes on the genes that powered him to five victories, five runner-up finishes and more than $8.5 million in earnings.

But that is the future. On Tuesday, there were nothing but glum faces — on Motion; on Barry Irwin, Team Valor’s managing partner; and on 20 others in the partnership who made the trip from Texas, Arizona, Connecticut and all points between. They came, they rented their morning suits, but they failed to conquer.

Not that there was any shame in that. Omaha, the 1935 Triple Crown champion, could not get the best of Royal Ascot, either. And if nothing else, Animal Kingdom had provided everyone connected to him with a memorable experience in this classy cradle of the sport of kings, and queens.

“If I ever have the opportunity to do it again, then I would,” Motion said. “Absolutely.”
439 2013-06-19 Stocks climbed on Tuesday, helped by reports showing low inflation and an increase in home building.

But the Federal Reserve loomed large, with investors trying to guess what the central bank will say on Wednesday about how long it plans to keep its stimulus programs in place.

The market’s gains were steady and broad. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 12.77 points, or 0.78 percent, to 1,651.81. All 10 of its sectors rose, led by industrial and telecommunications companies.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 138.38 points, or 0.91 percent, to 15,318.23. The Nasdaq composite index rose 30.05 points, or 0.87 percent, to 3,482.18.

The wait-and-see atmosphere had a familiar template. The Fed has had an outsize effect on the stock market in recent weeks, with the major indexes seesawing as investors try to guess how long the central bank will keep supporting the economy.

Some investors say it is troubling that the market is relying more on the central bank for direction than on economic fundamentals. The latest turning point was May 22, when Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, startled markets by announcing that the Fed could soon pull back on its bond-buying program if the economy improves.

“Here we are again,” said Gregg S. Fisher, chief investment officer of Gerstein Fisher, a financial advisory firm in New York. “We don’t know what the actions will be. We’re all trying to figure that out.”
440 2013-06-19 GE Capital Aviation Services, another lessor, firmed up a previously announced commitment for 10 planes and Singapore Airlines for 30. British Airways said it would buy 12 planes, subject to the approval of its shareholders.

Such a large initial order book for the 787-10 suggested that a bigger Dreamliner was overdue, analysts said.

“This is a highly unusual example of the market launching a plane rather than the company,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. “This plane is off to a very solid start.”

Boeing said it planned to begin deliveries of the 787-10 in 2018, just after Airbus says it expects to deliver the first 350-seat version of its A350, in 2017.

The competition between Boeing and Airbus in the market for wide-body jets in the 300-to-400-seat category has intensified as the nascent global economic recovery encourages airlines to invest in larger, longer-range aircraft after several years of brisk purchases of single-aisle jets like the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737.

With oil prices remaining stubbornly high, airlines are hoping to both replace older fuel-guzzling planes with newer models and maximize the number of passengers who can be carried on lucrative long-distance routes. “That means getting the most you can get in terms of aircraft length and number of seats,” Mr. Aboulafia said.

With a range of 7,000 nautical miles, or 13,000 kilometers, the larger 787 will not be able to fly as far as the A350 on a single tank of fuel; Airbus says the A350 will have a range of as many as 8,400 nautical miles. But Boeing argues that its plane will cost less to operate.

“The 787-10 is 25 percent more efficient than airplanes of its size today and more than 10 percent better than anything being offered by the competition for the future,” said Raymond L. Conner, the chief executive of Boeing’s commercial aircraft division.

Boeing also reached a deal on Tuesday to sell five more passenger versions of its revamped 747 jumbo jet to Korean Air, as well as six long-range 777s, in a deal valued at around $3.6 billion at list prices. The new version of the 747, known as the 747-8, entered service in 2011, but it has faced tepid interest from airlines, with only around 100 orders so far. Korean Air already had orders for five passenger versions and seven freighter versions of the 747-8.
441 2013-06-19 But it underscored various trends in the nature of piracy that troubled seafarers, making them particularly fearful of being seized in West African waters, where five hostages were killed in 2012, compared with no fatalities from Somali pirate attacks.

In West Africa, the report said, hostages were held for an average of four days, while the average period of captivity involving Somali pirates was 11 months. Some of the 589 hostages held in 2012 had been in captivity for more than two years.

The report said its findings indicated that fewer pirate groups were operating from bases in Somalia because of increased patrols by international navies and more effective security measures on ships.

“Other factors may include better organized shore-based policing and advances by the new Somali federal government and its supporters, which are driving pirates out of their traditional operating areas,” the report said.

But, the report said, those Somali pirates still in business were more effective in boarding vessels, so that the success rate of pirate attacks improved even though the total number dropped.

“These statistics may also indicate that pirates have learned to fire upon and attack only the more vulnerable vessels; for example, vessels that do not carry armed guards” or take other antipiracy measures, the report said.

Off West Africa, it said, there is a much higher boarding rate than off the coast of Somalia, partly because vessels tend to be attacked “while at anchor, drifting or conducting ship-to-ship transfers of refined products cargo.”

Only one-third of attacks in the Gulf of Guinea were directed at ships “actively in transit,” the report said. “In contrast, attacks off Somalia almost always occur while they are under way.”

Kaija Hurlburt, the lead author of the report, said in a telephone interview that she believed that the shifting pattern of attacks would become more marked as assaults decreased further in Somalia and increased in West Africa.

She attributed the growing number of attacks in the Gulf of Guinea in part to legal difficulties limiting the presence of armed guards on ships in territorial waters, where most piracy and armed robbery of ships takes place. By contrast, Somali pirates tend to strike on the high seas, where the combination of armed guards and other onboard security measures and the presence of international navies is a more forceful deterrent.
442 2013-06-19 Credit: Robert Caplin for The New York Times
443 2013-06-20 Lawmakers have let the slightly better news on the economy lull them into inaction....
444 2013-06-20 A large review of studies concludes that taking iron supplements during pregnancy reduces the risk for maternal anemia and for having a baby with low birth weight....
445 2013-06-20 Oracle, one of the most prominent technology companies listed on the Nasdaq, is defecting to the New York Stock Exchange....
446 2013-06-20 Congress, five years after the government take over of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is debating what to do with the mortgage giants. Options are out there, but the political paralysis may not be surprising, given that there is no consensus about a fundamental question: Should the federal government even be in the mortgage business?
447 2013-06-20 Mille-feuille, a French pastry shop in Greenwich Village, makes its version of the croissant-doughnut, but don’t call it a Cronut....
448 2013-06-20 Tom A.W. Hayes, a former trader at UBS and Citigroup who is facing fraud charges, made his first appearance in a London court on Thursday....
449 2013-06-20 How many hours of sleep do you usually get at night?...
450 2013-06-20 For his going-away party last month, Second Lt. Travis Doyle’s young nieces and nephews wrote out some messages for him:

“Travis, eat a lot of bacon and kill people,” Lieutenant Doyle recalled reading in a child’s handwriting. Other messages included, “It’s OK if you die,” “We really loved you when you were alive,” and “Kill lots of people.”

The children also asked whether he had killed anyone on his way over to the party.

Like most soldiers, he is used to the uncomfortable question, “Have you ever killed anyone?” But for Lieutenant Doyle and other soldiers in his New York Army National Guard unit, the answer is almost always no, for battle is not part of their job description. They are the 27th Financial Management Company, based in Whitestone, Queens, and one of the least heralded segments of a military operation so large it is like a major multinational corporation unto itself.

“A lot of people forget that checks still have to get cashed in the battlefield,” said Lieutenant Doyle, 26,who lives in Manhattan and, for the past year worked at Deloitte, the accounting firm, helping people through bankruptcies. “Financial transactions do occur.”

As all branches of the military face tighter budgets, the finance soldiers are responsible for making sure the armed forces spend money wisely and appropriately. “We are stewards of public taxpayer funds.”

Lieutenant Doyle spent four and a half years in the Air Force National Guard and has been in the Army National Guard for two years, but when the unit shipped out last weekend for a nine-month stay in Kuwait, it was his first deployment. “I want to say I went over there and served my country,” he said.
451 2013-06-20 Hudson River Park, the five-mile green space and bicycle path on the West Side of Manhattan that has struggled financially in recent years, may have a new source of money as a result of a deal reached in Albany.

Rather than allowing housing on Pier 40, as some advocates had wanted, the bill would allow the Hudson River Park Trust, the public benefit corporation overseeing development and operations of the park, to sell air rights up to one block east of the park’s boundaries, across the West Side Highway. In the case of Pier 40, one of the park’s revenue-generating sites, the money would help the trust pay for the more than $100 million in needed repair work on its deteriorated pilings and roof.

The bill, which would amend the act that established the park, has the support of both the Assembly and Senate and is expected to be approved this week. It would expand some of the allowable commercial uses at Pier 40, at Houston Street, as well as others designated for development along the park. In addition to entertainment and retail, developers would be able to build film and television studios, schools, amusement rides and performing arts spaces.

The park, an unusual state-city hybrid, was meant to be self-supporting through such development, but proposals for Pier 40 have faltered amid community opposition.

Richard N. Gottfried, the author of the 1998 Hudson River Park Act, said the ability to transfer air rights could reap tremendous new revenue for the park. It was unclear how much the sale of development rights from the park would increase building heights in neighborhoods like TriBeCa, Chelsea and Clinton opposite the park. “Whether we’re talking tens of millions or hundreds of millions, I couldn’t say,” he said on Wednesday. “But the potential is massive.”
452 2013-06-20 The Detroit Historical Society manages a collection of classic cars that could be placed on the block if Detroit winds up in bankruptcy court....
453 2013-06-20 He “apprehended her foot, and held her” until the officers could handcuff her, Officer Tieniber added.

If the misdemeanors three of the women were charged with were not the usual stuff of New York crime headlines, the dog’s involvement captured the imagination of reporters and the police, who issued a detailed rundown of the events and Bear’s service history.

“Bear and his handler have been in tough spots before,” the department’s chief spokesman, Paul J. Browne, wrote in an article-length dispatch late Tuesday that described earlier arrests — for robbery and assault — as well as evidence searches aided by “the combination of Officer Tieniber’s handling skills and Bear’s olfactory prowess.”

The episode almost overshadowed a fatal police shooting in Brooklyn early Wednesday. The police said an officer, responding to a robbery in progress, returned fire when a gunman, identified as Thomas Robinson, 50, shot at him and his partner with a .357 Magnum revolver. “It’s a big gun,” Mr. Browne said.

Just before, the officer and his partner saw two men “engaged in a life or death struggle” for the gun in the middle of Hinsdale Street in Brownsville. Officers yelled to the victim to run from the man; as he did so, the gunman fired toward the officers, Mr. Browne said; one officer fired, striking the gunman.

Detectives later found that Mr. Robinson had been shot twice, once by the officer and once during the struggle; he was pronounced dead shortly afterward. “We believe one of those bullets is going to come back to his own gun,” Mr. Browne said.

The name of the police officer who fired his weapon, a 26-year-old with about five years on the force, was not released. The shooting, like all involving the police, is being investigated by the department.

For Officer Tieniber, meanwhile, the media attention he and Bear received Wednesday was unexpected and a bit overwhelming: five television appearances, several radio interviews and a throng of reporters’ notebooks filling with his every word. “I was just doing my job,” he said, later confiding that he had thought the police shooting would divert attention from his story.

For his part, Bear stoically bore the regular tugs at his jowls as camera operators and inquisitive fellow officers leaned down to get a look at his cracked canine teeth. “It’s a little sensitive,” the officer said, inspecting his companion. The dog was expected to get caps for his broken teeth — four in all — next week.

“Everybody’s worried about his teeth; how’s your hand?” a lieutenant asked the officer, whose wrist, sprained during the confrontation, was wrapped in an elastic bandage under his dress blue jacket. (Bear wore his usual uniform: a badge, No. TK-27, dangling from his collar.)

“They’ll take it off in a few days,” the officer responded.

“Does he bite?” a man joked in the elevator.

On the job, Bear’s jaws are akin to an officer’s service revolver, Mr. Browne said, and Bear used them “tactically” on Tuesday; his teeth did not penetrate the woman’s shoe.

“It was like he pulled his gun but didn’t fire,” Mr. Browne said. “He did what he’s trained to do, to hold on but not to bite.”

Officer Tieniber said his partner knew the difference well. “At home he’s just like any other dog, hangs around, chews his toy, plays with kids,” said Officer Tieniber, who, like most handlers, takes his dog home in the off-hours. “But at work,” the officer said, “he watches my back, and I watch his. That’s pretty much the same with any K-9 handler around the world.”

He said it had been upsetting to see his partner kicked in the face, his mouth bloodied. “He was barking because she was very loud,” Officer Tieniber said. “When an individual escalates, a dog will escalate with her. They pretty much go on autopilot when there is a threatening situation. They handle it themselves.”

As the pair stood near the entrance to Police Headquarters, an officer came up, cellphone out. “May I take a picture, please?” she asked. Bear obliged.
454 2013-06-20 If rates continue to rise, it could crimp lending and eventually hurt the broader economy and stock markets. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended the day down 1.39 percent, or 22.88 points, to 1,628.93 — its worst performance this month. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 206.04 points, or 1.35 percent, to 15,112.19, while the Nasdaq fell 38.98 points, or 1.12 percent, to 3,443.20.

Many strategists said the investors who sent the markets down on Wednesday were panicking and overlooking the nuances of Mr. Bernanke’s words. Mr. Bernanke emphasized repeatedly that the Fed was not likely to pull back on the stimulus until it was clear the economy could handle it and could step right back in if there were signs of faltering.

“Nobody is listening,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a rates strategist at TD Securities. “As soon as you give the market anything to chew on, they are going to tear the limb off.”

Like many economists, Mr. Bernanke said that it would ultimately be healthy for interest rates to rise from the unnaturally low levels of the last few years.

“If interest rates go up for the right reasons — that is, both optimism about the economy and an accurate assessment of monetary policy — that’s a good thing; that’s not a bad thing,” he said.

What the Fed is hoping to see is gradually rising interest rates alongside a continuing rally in the stock markets.

But Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that he had been caught off guard by the extent of the market’s reaction to indications that the Fed may consider slowing down its asset purchases.

“We were a little puzzled by that,” he said of the sharp jump in interest rates.

It is the Fed’s apparent difficulty in predicting and managing the markets’ reaction that represents one of the most disconcerting threats to the economic recovery. Investors could decide that Mr. Bernanke is losing his ability to influence interest rates and continue to sell bonds despite the Fed’s efforts to calm the markets. A sudden surge in selling would most likely ripple violently through global markets.

“If bond traders succeed (like bond vigilantes from another era), what does that mean for the economy?” Jonathan Lewis, the chief investment officer at Samson Capital Advisors, wrote in a note to clients.

Most investors consider a disorderly market plunge to be a distant possibility, but there are more widespread concerns about the economy’s ability to continue growing without the Fed’s help.

The Fed has played a particularly instrumental role in supporting the recovery of the housing market by buying mortgage-backed bonds. These purchases have pushed down mortgage rates and encouraged home buying, which has lifted home prices.

Since Mr. Bernanke first indicated in May that he might step back from the bond purchases, investors have sold mortgage bonds and pushed mortgage rates up. The Mortgage Bankers Association said on Wednesday that the number of new mortgage applications fell 3.3 percent from the previous week.

Steven Ricchiuto, the chief economist at Mizuho Securities, said the housing market and the broader market were more sensitive to rising interest rates than many investors have assumed.

“I don’t think this economy is resistant to interest rates,” he said.

It appears that the Fed is not ignoring the possible threats to the housing market. Mr. Bernanke said that when the Fed did begin slowing down its bond purchases, it would begin with government bonds, while maintaining the current level of support for mortgage-backed bonds.

Even with Wednesday’s market declines, the leading American stock indexes are still up more than 10 percent for the year. The question is whether the confidence that has driven markets up will be sustainable as the date of the Fed’s exit draws nearer.

“Investors have been willing to invest because they knew they had the safety net of the Fed,” said Larry Peruzzi, a trader at Cabrera Capital Markets. “Now investors are going to have to think harder about taking risks.”
455 2013-06-20 Turks were joined by many Europeans and Americans, including President Obama, who embraced the democratic reforms that Mr. Erdogan implemented. Now, many of those onetime supporters say Mr. Erdogan and his party have taken a decisive turn toward authoritarianism, leaving them to face a period of self-reflection.

“I was one of the European liberals who supported A.K.P. policies,” said Joost Lagendijk, a former member of the European Parliament and columnist who lives in Turkey, referring to the Turkish initials of Mr. Erdogan’s party. “There was a lot of sympathy for the reforms they were implementing.”

Mr. Lagendijk said that he was never an ideological bedfellow of the A.K.P., but that he was attracted by Mr. Erdogan’s early pragmatism and by his support for constitutional changes to secure individual liberties and advances in rights for Turkey’s Kurdish minority.

“I’m a Green, I’m a liberal,” he said. “I’m not conservative or religious, but it didn’t matter.”

These days, Mr. Lagendijk has had to fend off critics from his own liberal flank, who have been sending him Twitter messages and e-mails that all conveyed the same message: We told you so.

Over the past few years, Mr. Erdogan had begun alienating his liberal supporters by intimidating the news media and pursuing large urban development projects without public feedback. Then in recent weeks a group of protesters trying to save a city park from demolition were met with a fierce police response, setting off the larger antigovernment street movement that challenged Mr. Erdogan, whose response to the crisis confirmed for many of his former supporters that he had taken a path they could no longer support.

Beyond his democratic promises, many experts say Mr. Erdogan’s charisma won over many liberals years ago.

Jenny B. White, an anthropologist at Boston University, spent time in Turkey in the 1990s researching the rise of Islamist movements, and followed Mr. Erdogan around while he was mayor of Istanbul.

“He would ignore a table of bearded mayors after an event and talk to me like I was the only person in the world,” she said. “There is that aspect of it that really captured people.”

She added, “The liberals voted for him because when he was elected in 2002 he did all these things liberals only dreamed of.”

Not all on the left have broken with Mr. Erdogan. Nursuna Memecan, a member of Parliament from the A.K.P. who is close to Mr. Erdogan and identifies herself as a liberal, said she helped arrange meetings between some of the protest leaders and Mr. Erdogan in hope of brokering a compromise, and winning back some of his former supporters. That did not happen, though, as a tentative deal to save the park was disavowed by most protesters, and Mr. Erdogan ordered a decisive police raid on Saturday to clear the park.

Referring to Mr. Erdogan’s rise to power, Ms. Memecan said: “The real liberals supported him. They had no prejudices against him or his religion or what class he came from. His piousness did not bother them.”

Another paradox of Turkey’s uprising is that many of those now critical of his position — a cross section of urban, secular, mostly middle-class Turks — have benefited from the growing economy that Mr. Erdogan’s liberalizing policies created.

Merve Alici, 26, works in advertising and participated in the protests. She comes from a secular, upper-middle-class family, but voted for Mr. Erdogan’s party in the last election despite warnings from her family that the prime minister was becoming too powerful.

She said her choice was “mainly pragmatic.”

“First, there was no opposition, and I liked how the A.K.P. challenged the army’s power,” she said. “Then there is the economy. Everyone wants stability and economic prosperity, and this was a campaign promise.”

She said she took part in the Taksim Square demonstrations every day, and because of that she could never vote for Mr. Erdogan again, especially after he called the protesters terrorists and unleashed riot police officers on the crowds.

“He is a political mastermind and is manipulating the truth on purpose to keep his voters,” Ms. Alici said. “He antagonizes the protesters on purpose with his harsh words. I don’t know what he is thinking.”

Another former Erdogan supporter who joined in the protests was Esen Guler, 39, a guitarist whose band played in the square.

“I voted for Erdogan in the past two elections because I thought he would lead us to democracy,” he said. “But power has gone to his head. He is no longer moderate, but a brutal dictator attacking his own flesh and blood.”

Workers have been planting flowers in Taksim Square and scrubbing away the spray-painted epithets against Mr. Erdogan. When the square was filled with thousands of protesters, many of them young and expressing themselves politically for the first time, a common refrain among analysts was that Turkish politics would never be the same. Now that the square has been emptied by the strong hand of the police, the significance of what happened feels less certain.

“The wounds are still fresh,” Mr. Candar said. “The lessons to be interpreted are still at an early stage. It’s hard to say how it will be different, but for sure it will be different.”
456 2013-06-20 Switzerland’s Parliament on Wednesday scuttled an information-sharing agreement with the United States that the Swiss government had hailed just weeks ago as a breakthrough in a dispute over banking secrecy, but left open the possibility for another solution.

The Swiss government said in late May that it would let banks hand over data on American clients’ hidden accounts without violating the country’s bank secrecy laws. The move was meant to help Swiss banks head off the possibility of criminal prosecution for helping Americans evade taxes.

But the proposal proved contentious in a country that has long prided itself on the discretion of its bankers, and it failed to gain the necessary support.

Some members of Parliament raised concerns about the precedent that any such agreement might set at a time when Switzerland’s banking secrecy is also under attack from the European Union — of which the country is not a member. They also complained that the terms were not fully revealed and that the Swiss federal authorities were pushing Parliament to pass the deal by Friday, to go into effect July 1.

The Parliament did signal its willingness to find an alternative. Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, the Swiss finance minister and president of the governing Federal Council, said in a statement that the government “will do all it can within the scope of its legal powers to allow the banks to resolve the tax dispute.”
457 2013-06-20 And now it gets you this app for iPhone (iPhone 4 and later) and iPod Touch (5 or later). That’s why its impressively clunky full name is Office Mobile for Office 365 Subscribers. (Office Mobile is already available on Windows Phones, and doesn’t require any subscription.)

You can run the app on up to five iPhones. If you ever stop paying for your Office 365 membership, the app stops working. Your documents are safe in that case, however. They’re both on your phone (until you delete the app) and on your free SkyDrive.

To use the app, you enter your Office 365 name and password. Once you’ve signed in, you see a list of all the Word, Excel and PowerPoint files that you’ve stashed on your SkyDrive. When you select a document’s name, it rapidly downloads to your phone, and you can work on it without an Internet connection. Next time you’re online, the changes get sent back to the SkyDrive original. You can also use Office Mobile to edit documents that people sent to you as attachments in the iPhone’s Mail app.

But once you tap a document to open it, you quickly discover that this app isn’t anything like the full Microsoft Office — it’s more like the Microsoft Vestibule. It’s extremely stripped down. It offers only the features Microsoft thinks you’ll realistically use on a bus or in the doctor’s office with nothing but your phone in hand.

The miniature Word module, for example, offers comments, outline view, bold/italic/underline/strikethrough styles, font and background colors and highlighting. You type, cut, copy and paste using variations on the iPhone’s standard finger gestures. And when you open a Word document, it jumps to the spot where you were last reading on your computer. Slick.

Notably absent: style sheets (normal, heading 1 and so on). Spelling checker. An undo command. The ability to change the font or insert a graphic. You can make the type bigger or smaller, but you can’t specify a size by number. Layout-intensive documents — lots of boxes, embedded graphics and so on — sometimes don’t come through to the phone fully intact.

The Excel module is by far the most fully featured app. It displays most elements of a spreadsheet, including charts and graphics. You can scroll around with your finger, zoom in or out with two fingers, lock a row or a column so it doesn’t scroll, rotate the phone for a wider view, edit comments, flip into outline view, edit formulas, create graphs, change numbers, sort, find, filter and format text and numbers. If the sheet has multiple pages, you can switch among using bottom edge tabs, exactly as on a computer. There’s an undo command. (Why here, and not in Word?)

Notably absent: you can’t rearrange rows or columns (although you can adjust row heights and column widths), and you can’t insert new ones.

Then there’s the PowerPoint module, which is only a shadow of an echo of a memory of the real thing. You can’t even create PowerPoint documents in Office Mobile; you can only open existing ones. Even then, you can’t add new slides or duplicate existing ones.

You can move slides, hide them, edit the text on them, edit your speaker notes or run the slide show for practice. (Your notes are visible when you hold the phone upright. When you turn it sideways, the notes disappear and the slide fills the screen.)

Notably absent: everything else. Microsoft seems to believe that nobody will do much creative work on a slide show on the tiny phone screen and that the only work that’s practical there is fine-tuning and rehearsing your talk.

Here’s something notably absent from all three modules: the ability to edit .doc, .xls and .ppt files, the kind everybody on earth used until Microsoft introduced newer file formats a few years ago. Office Mobile works only with the new formats, whose file names end with the suffixes .docx, .xlsx and .pptx. If someone sends you files of the more common older type, you can open them but you can’t make changes.

Also missing from all of the app modules: change tracking. Macros. An Android version. An iPad version. (You can run Office Mobile for iPhone on an iPad, but without the benefit of the bigger screen area.)

Office Mobile is a nice perk for Office 365 subscribers. It’s simply and fluidly designed. And it’s a cinch to learn. You’d never guess that it’s the distant relative of a software suite that’s about as svelte and lovely as Jabba the Hutt. But as an iPhone version of Microsoft Office, it’s almost ridiculously limited.

Surprisingly enough, the Internet is teeming with Office apps for the iPhone — made by non-Microsoft companies. Better ones, more complete ones, no-subscription-required ones.

For example, Apple’s own Pages, Numbers and Keynote apps ($10 each) can edit Office documents, as can the free Google Drive app (text and spreadsheet documents only).

More serious apps, like Documents to Go Premium ($16), Polaris Office ($13) and QuickOffice Pro ($15), can create and edit all kinds of Office documents, including PowerPoint files and the older file formats.

And they don’t restrict you to SkyDrive. These apps can access more popular online disks like Dropbox, SugarSync, Box.net and Google Drive.

They’re far more complete, too. Their Word apps, for example, offer find/replace, bulleted and numbered lists, line spacing and paragraph alignment controls (but still only limited style sheets and no change tracking). All of this, moreover, adds surprisingly little clutter to the design.

Finally, you can always use the online versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint — no charge — courtesy of the Office Web Apps. They’re a little awkward to use on a tiny phone screen, but at least they’re free.

And you don’t need any extra software to open and read, but not edit, Office documents. The iPhone can do that all by its little self.

In the end, then, Office Mobile for iPhone is very little, very late. Its non-Microsoft competitors are already far more useful. Unless you want to sign up for Office 365 anyway, the other apps are a much better value, too.

That’s right, anticlimax fans, the wait is over. The question is, Why were we waiting?
458 2013-06-20 Ms. Zichal said none of the initiatives being considered by the administration required legislative action or new financing from Congress.

In a speech in Berlin on Wednesday, Mr. Obama echoed his assertive talk on climate policy since his re-election, talk that some climate advocates have criticized as going beyond his actions.  He said the United States and the world had a moral imperative to take “bold action” to slow the warming of the planet.

“The grim alternative affects all nations — more severe storms, more famine and floods, new waves of refugees, coastlines that vanish, oceans that rise,” Mr. Obama said. “This is the global threat of our time.”

He added, “We have to get to work.”

Republicans criticize Mr. Obama’s climate policy as government overreach that is holding back the economy. Some Democrats, including those hawkish about climate action, also worry that tough new standards on power plants could slow job growth and raise energy costs, particularly in places like the industrial Midwest that depend on cheap power from coal.

But administration officials signaled that Mr. Obama had decided the risks from climate change outweighed the potential economic and political costs from taking steps to address it.

“He is serious about making it a second-term priority,” Ms. Zichal said at a forum Wednesday in Washington sponsored by The New Republic magazine. “He knows this is a legacy issue.”

Ms. Zichal suggested that a central part of the administration’s approach to dealing with climate change would be to use the authority given to the Environmental Protection Agency to address climate-altering pollutants from power plants under the Clean Air Act.

“The E.P.A. has been working very hard on rules that focus specifically on greenhouse gases from the coal sector,” she said. “They’re doing a lot of important work in that space.”

She did not specifically mention standards for existing power plants, but other senior officials have said in recent days that Mr. Obama has decided to start work on such regulations.

A 2007 Supreme Court decision gave the E.P.A. authority to regulate greenhouse gases, and it has already done so for vehicles. Environmental advocates said that addressing power plant pollution must be the centerpiece of any serious climate policy.

“To paraphrase Joe Biden, this is a big deal,” said Daniel F. Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an advocacy organization. “Nothing he can do will cut greenhouse gases more.”

Last year, the E.P.A. proposed greenhouse gas regulations for new power plants that would essentially ban the construction of any additional coal-fired plants. The administration was required to complete that regulation by mid-April, but it missed the deadline in a sign of the pitfalls of such complex rule making. The E.P.A. has not said when it expects to complete the rules.

The timing of the new policy on existing power plants is driven in large part by the timetables the Clean Air Act sets for a major rule-making. The law requires the agency to publish proposed guidelines. States are then required to submit plans for meeting the guidelines, which the agency must review and which the public must be allowed time to comment on.

“All of that takes time, and we’re in a race against time,” said Vickie Patton, general counsel at the Environmental Defense Fund.

Regulation of existing power plants is further complicated by the pending nomination of Gina McCarthy to become E.P.A. administrator. Ms. McCarthy has for the past four years run the agency’s office responsible for enforcing the Clean Air Act.

Senate Republicans are holding up her nomination over unrelated issues. Republicans and industry leaders also worry about her intentions on power plant regulation. In a carefully worded statement, she told committee members during her confirmation proceedings that the agency “is not currently developing” any such regulations.

The administration has been quietly stitching together a suite of global warming policy measures for the president to unveil this summer to make good on promises in his election night acceptance speech, his second Inaugural address and his State of the Union address.

Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, and his deputy, Rob Nabors, have regularly met with cabinet secretaries and their deputies to adapt to a changing climate and to propose new measures that do not require Congressional action.

Mr. Obama’s coming speech is also expected to highlight measures that the Department of Energy can take to make appliances and industrial equipment more efficient and to reduce the energy wasted in public and private buildings.
459 2013-06-20 When they started RJMetrics in late 2008, Mr. Moore and Mr. Stein invested $10,000 of their own money. Mr. Moore wrote the first version of the company’s software in his attic in Collingswood, N.J. They did not hire their first employee until 2010, and they moved to an office in Philadelphia, where costs are far less than in New York or San Francisco.

By the time they did raise some money, in early 2012, they had 100 customers and annual revenue of about $1 million. “That put us in excellent negotiating position, because we had a proof point that other companies at our stage didn’t have,” Mr. Moore said. The owners raised $1.2 million, almost all from RJMetrics customers.

The two approaches have created very different companies. RJMetrics signed its first paying customer to a rudimentary prototype just three months after it started. To build revenue, it had to hope for good word of mouth (which it got) because it did not have a sales staff. But bootstrapping, or self-financing, did allow the founders to keep a large percentage of the company’s equity and to avoid the distortion that can come from having money and the demanding investors who supply it.

The venture capital industry views bootstrapping in the face of a big market opportunity as false economy. John O’Farrell, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, said that it generally took an investment of $75 million to take a software company from start-up to initial public offering. “If you want to capture a big open market, you want to bring in money to grab land,” he said. “If you bootstrap, the tendency is to try to get profitable early so you don’t need to put in more money, but you end up missing a big opportunity.”

GoodData’s war chest allowed Mr. Stanek to staff up for the land grab. The company now has about 250 employees, half dedicated to the product and half charged with sales and marketing. RJMetrics, on the other hand, has 26 employees, more than half of them working in product development and only four on sales and marketing. The company’s first director of marketing started in February.

Inevitably, the companies have gravitated toward different markets. While RJMetrics has gone after small and midsize companies, GoodData has pursued Fortune 2000 clients that demand robust products and have the money to pay for them. RJMetrics had about $1 million in revenue in 2011 and about $2 million in 2012, according to Mr. Moore. Mr. Stanek declined to specify his company’s revenue, but he noted that last year GoodData signed 42 contracts that were each worth more than $100,000 a year, which would suggest an annual run rate of at least $4 million.

The founders also see their customers differently. Mr. Stanek said that multiple customers had come to GoodData from RJMetrics because RJMetrics was too small. “We have large customers who would not go to RJMetrics, who need 24/7 software, and special security, privacy and so on,” he said.

Mr. Moore, on the other hand, said his lack of financing allowed his company to pursue its vision without rushing after customers that did not fit. “Our vision is that there is as large or more opportunity in the small-to-midsize market, and we have the flexibility to pursue that and be a disruptive player,” he added, a luxury he said GoodData has not had. “To scale the business, they have to make very big investments in getting very big contracts.”

Ultimately, the question is whether it is better to hold equity or trade it for growth. Mr. Moore noted that RJMetrics’ founders and employees continued to hold more than 80 percent of the company even after taking seed financing. That meant, he said, that if RJMetrics were to sell for, say, $50 million, the founders would be set for life financially.

If GoodData were to sell for $50 million, it would be a disaster. “The personal upside for someone who owns 5 percent of a company that sells for $100 million and the person who owns 50 percent of one that sells for $10 million is the same,” Mr. Moore said. “And a lot more companies sell for $10 million than for $100 million.”

Mr. Stanek said the higher expectations he faces were worth it because he and his investors expected the company to be worth at least $1 billion. “I would not interpret it as pressure,” he said. “Life is short and we shouldn’t waste it on opportunities that aren’t worth it.” He declined to say what percentage of the company he still owns: “I am no longer the majority holder, but I have enough to keep me interested.” Last week, his company announced that it had raised another $22 million in venture capital, bringing its total to $75.5 million.

Neither Mr. Stanek nor Mr. Moore sees this as a black-and-white issue. Mr. Stanek said he was a “big believer” in bootstrapping and that getting too much capital too early could be dangerous. And the RJMetrics founders recently decided that, after five years of bootstrapping, it was time to raise money to compete with GoodData and others. In May, they announced a $6.25 million investment led by a California venture firm, Trinity Ventures. “The timing was right to put the pedal to the metal,” Mr. Moore said. “Whereas in the past we’d been growing at 100 percent a year, we see a path to substantially increasing that rate.”

Like Mr. Stanek, Mr. Moore declined to specify what percentage of the company the founders retained. “It is an atypically large percentage compared to others in our position,” he said.
460 2013-06-20 America’s political polarization has of course gathered force for decades; Mr. Obama merely inherited it. His aides note, accurately, that he has faced concerted, implacable Republican opposition — like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who declared his goal of ensuring a one-term Obama presidency. While a president’s destinations carry symbolic weight, the entire country sees him through news coverage wherever he goes.

But Mr. Obama burst onto the national stage as a bridge-builder whose biracial ancestry spanned the white Kansas heartland and emerging minority communities. His 2004 Democratic convention speech gained moral force by scorning the fact that “pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue states.”

“There’s not a liberal America and a conservative America,” Mr. Obama said then. “There’s not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America — there’s the United States of America.”

As Mr. Obama’s travel shows, his White House has sliced and diced as finely as any. According to figures compiled by Mark Knoller of CBS News, an unofficial White House historian, Mr. Obama has visited the swing states of Colorado 19 times, Florida 30 times, Iowa 18 times, Nevada 17 times and Ohio 39 times.

That precision targeting paid off last November when Mr. Obama defeated Mitt Romney in every swing state but North Carolina. His winning formula: higher margins than John Kerry racked up against President George W. Bush in 2004 among blacks, Hispanics, Asians, city-dwellers and young voters, even as he suffered larger deficits among whites, rural residents and older voters.

It was a practical adaptation to what Mr. Obama faced while pursuing policy goals on economic recovery and health care. Resistance ranged from traditional Republican foes in Washington, to the Tea Party movement, to the “birthers” on the political fringe who refused to accept the legitimacy of his citizenship.

“I think that he was genuinely startled by the intensity of the polarization he encountered,” said William Galston, domestic policy director in President Bill Clinton’s White House. “He reacted to that in effect by saying, ‘Never mind — I’m not going to beat my head against the wall.’ ”

Mr. Bush traced a similar arc. He ran in 2000 as “a uniter, not a divider,” but later subordinated that priority to his divisive prosecution of the Iraq war.

That ultimately helped drive away Mr. Bush’s campaign strategist Matthew Dowd. After breaking with the president, Mr. Dowd met with the candidate Barack Obama and told him, Mr. Dowd said, “I hope you’re going to be the president of the country, not just leader of your party.”

Mr. Dowd says Mr. Obama’s engagement with adversaries in and out of Washington has been too narrowly focused, “about a transaction and not about a relationship.” He chided Mr. Obama as giving short shrift to bridge-building when the president summoned him for advice after Democrats’ midterm election defeat in 2010. “Why haven’t you used the social power of the presidency to do that?” Mr. Dowd recalled asking Mr. Obama. “He didn’t push back all that strongly, because he acknowledged he could have done a better job.”

David Axelrod, who has advised Mr. Obama from the start of his career, says the criticism overlooks the inflexibility of Republicans’ determination to block his objectives on economic recovery and almost anything else.

“I don’t think he’ll ever stop making those points he made at the 2004 Democratic convention,” Mr. Axelrod said. “At the same time, he has responsibilities as president to get things done. A lot of where the president goes has to do with where he can influence the public to influence the people in Congress who are potential votes,” he said. “It’d be great for him, if he had the time, to barnstorm the red states and meet people. I don’t know how fundamentally that would change things.”

The sense of disappointment some feel extends beyond inattention to staunch opponents. Mr. Obama has not, for instance, traveled as president to the overwhelmingly poor, black Mississippi Delta, either.

Ms. Brazile sees the White House stuck “in this postracial box,” determined to present Mr. Obama as a leader who does not reflexively promote the concerns of fellow African-Americans over others. On substance, Mr. Axelrod countered, places like the Mississippi Delta have benefited substantially from his economic and health care policies.

Just months into his second term, Mr. Obama has time to elevate the unifying themes that propelled his initial emergence. Mr. Clinton, who valued presidential travel as a symbol of outreach, did not touch every state until he visited Nebraska six weeks before leaving office.

The historic fact that an African-American even made it to the White House was a pathbreaking leap across the country’s divisions. But Ms. Brazile hopes Mr. Obama will do more. “There will be a chapter on reconciliation” in books assessing his legacy, she said. But so far, “that chapter doesn’t have many paragraphs.”
461 2013-06-21 The theater’s 2013-14 season features new plays by Charles Fuller, Craig Lucas, Samuel D. Hunter and Halley Feiffer, among others....
462 2013-06-21 Shortly after Tesla unveiled its new battery-swapping technology, the company caught wind of an effort in the New York State legislature to ban the sale of cars without franchised dealerships....
463 2013-06-21 With the rise of artisan distilling and craft brewing, bespoke selections are now the toast of hotel bars around the world....
464 2013-06-21 Paula Deen issued apologies Friday in video statements posted to YouTube....
465 2013-06-21 In some settlement cases, the Securities and Exchange Commission will now demand that defendants go beyond the current “neither admit nor deny” standard.
466 2013-06-21 Suzuki faces a possible recall over air bag malfunctions, but having filed for bankruptcy and saying it would stop selling cars in the United States, its ability to cover for any needed repairs becomes uncertain....
467 2013-06-21 If you see Shrek wandering a resort in Macao, the Las Vegas of Asia, don’t be surprised....
468 2013-06-21 Morgan Stanley said on Friday that it had received government approval to buy the remaining stake in the wealth management joint venture it formed with Citigroup in 2009....
469 2013-06-21 A moody track from Mr. Stetson’s latest solo album, “New History Warfare Vol. 3: To See More Light,” gets a video to match....
470 2013-06-21 If the company is found liable for conspiring with publishers to raise e-book prices, Apple’s lawyer argued on Thursday, healthy competition and business practices in general would be affected, Brian X. Chen reports in The New York Times....
471 2013-06-21 The basic Netflix monthly plan allows video streaming to two devices at once, but an upgrade for a few dollars more allows streaming to four screens....
472 2013-06-21 Political news from today’s Times, plus a look at what’s happening in Washington....
473 2013-06-21 Changing systems of health insurance that will take effect later this year under the Affordable Care Act will benefit many people, but lead to higher premiums for some....
474 2013-06-21 The son of poor tenant farmers from Hunt County, in northeast Texas, Mr. Murphy dropped out of school as a teenager to help his family make ends meet. After the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, Mr. Murphy tried to enlist in the Marines but was rejected because at about 5 feet 7 inches tall and 130 pounds, he was deemed underweight.

A sister helped him alter his birth record so he could enlist at age 17, and in June 1942 he was inducted into the United States Army, according to published biographies.

Mr. Murphy’s daring exploits seem almost like a video game caricature. He is said to have killed more than 200 Nazis.

One of his most heralded acts of bravery, cited when he received the Medal of Honor, occurred in January 1945 near Holtzwihr, France. Under withering attack, Mr. Murphy climbed atop a burning tank destroyer, commandeered a .50-caliber machine gun and held off an entire German infantry company as it desperately tried to take him out.

Asked over a field telephone how close the Nazis were to him, he is said to have replied, “Just hold the phone and I’ll let you talk to one of the bastards.”

Mr. Murphy killed about 50 Nazis in that battle and ultimately forced the company to withdraw.

An eyewitness, Pfc. Anthony Abramski, later said: “I expected to see the whole damn tank destroyer blow up under him any minute. For an hour he held off the enemy force single-handed, fighting against impossible odds.”

Private Abramski called it the “greatest display of guts and courage I have ever seen.”

After the war, Mr. Murphy became an actor and produced or starred in dozens of movies, including “To Hell and Back” (1955), based on his best-selling autobiography.

Mr. Murphy was one of the first veterans to speak openly about “battle fatigue,” now known as post-traumatic stress disorder, from which he suffered until he died in the crash of a small plane at age 45.

Mr. Murphy had kept a foot in the military after World War II by joining the Texas Army National Guard. It was this final piece of his military career that made him eligible for the Texas Legislative Medal of Honor, an award that state lawmakers began presenting in 1997.

A drive to win home-state recognition for Mr. Murphy, led by his family and fans, took off in 2011. But that year the medal was awarded, posthumously, to Roy Cisneros, a Marine corporal, for his bravery on the battlefield in Vietnam.

At the time, state law allowed only one medal to be awarded every odd-numbered year — while the Legislature was gathered for its regular session — leading to a backlog of candidates in a state with an oversize military presence.

This year, a bill allowing two people to receive the medal sailed through the Legislature. The legislation sets aside one award for actions that occurred between 1956 and the present, and another for actions before 1956.

In May, the nominating committee that decides who can receive the award chose Mr. Murphy for the award set aside for older conflicts.

“He is in a class all by himself,” said Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Democrat of San Antonio, author of the bill creating the two award opportunities and vice chairwoman of the committee that entered Mr. Murphy’s name into nomination last month. “When you read about Audie Murphy, you’re like — was he human?”

But the opportunity to recognize Mr. Murphy fell through the cracks at the chaotic end of the regular session.

Mr. Perry received the bill in his office on May 20, seven days before the Legislature adjourned. That meant there was time for Mr. Murphy to get the award, at least in theory. But that would have required Mr. Perry’s immediate signature of the bill creating two awards, plus a separate legislative resolution giving the second one to Mr. Murphy.

Neither action was taken.

Mr. Perry’s aides said he was never notified about the urgency of signing the bill, one of more than 1,200 he received this year. His signature came on June 14, more than two weeks after the session ended.

“Awarding Audie Murphy the Legislative Medal of Honor is long overdue, and the governor was proud to sign this important legislation,” said Allison Castle, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry. “Had we been notified about the urgency, we would have gladly expedited it.”

Mr. Murphy is sure to be a strong contender to receive the award in the 2015 session, but Ms. Lokey, who recently had stents placed in her heart, is afraid she may not be around to see Texas honor her brother.

“We don’t know about tomorrow,” said Ms. Lokey, who lives in Farmersville, a small town northeast of Dallas. “If I’m not here, somebody else will carry on.”
475 2013-06-21 Charley Hoffman missed the course record by a stroke but shot a 61 to take the first-round lead at the Travelers Championship in Cromwell, Conn. The round comes a year after he blew a two-stroke advantage on the tournament’s final two holes. Justin Rose, the United States Open winner, shot a 67.

■ Ernie Els shot a nine-under 63 to hold the clubhouse lead in the opening round of the B.M.W. International Open in Munich.
476 2013-06-21 Jamie Hampton became the first American since Jennifer Capriati and Chanda Rubin in 2003 to reach the Eastbourne semifinals after rallying past Lucie Safarova, 3-6, 7-6 (1), 6-4. She will play Caroline Wozniacki, who beat Ekaterina Makarova, 4-6, 6-0, 6-3.
477 2013-06-21 Re “As U.S. Plugs Border in Arizona, Crossings Shift to South Texas” (front page, June 17), about a Congressional bill that would provide $4.5 billion to “plug” the United States-Mexico border:

Both Democrats and Republicans are focused on immigration enforcement, arguing about degrees. What’s missing is why migrants risk their lives to come to the United States.

Just as migration from Mexico spiked in the wake of the North American Free Trade Agreement (1994), which enabled the dumping of subsidized American corn and the loss of livelihoods for millions of Mexican farmers, the Central American Free Trade Agreement (2004) is a key factor in increased migration from Central America.

These trade agreements have opened the way for international investors through deals that are displacing communities and undermining livelihoods. Meanwhile, many American businesses continue to seek cheap, vulnerable immigrant workers rather than pay both immigrant and American workers a living wage.

Throwing money at border enforcement will never stem the tide. The real issue is America’s trade, investment and labor policy — an “immigration” debate we need to have.

The writer is coordinator of the Immigrant and Civil Rights Initiative for United Methodist Women.

“As U.S. Plugs Border in Arizona, Crossings Shift to South Texas” reports on the increase in Central Americans crossing the Mexico-Texas border. We, too, have noticed the increase. Almost all of the young people are coming here for one of two reasons: to escape rampant uncontrolled gang violence in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala or to join parents who themselves had to flee political violence in the 1980s.

It is unfortunate in this current debate over immigration that so little time is spent understanding why people cross. Our immigration problem will never be resolved until we understand the reasons that force people to leave home. It is seldom just to better themselves; in the case of the young Central Americans, it is often to avoid being killed. The current wave of young immigrants is the fruit of past United States government support of repressive military regimes in Central America.
478 2013-06-21 The goal of the ministers’ talks was to develop policies that “finally close the vicious circle between the banking crises and sovereign crises” and to “definitively put behind us the financial crisis that has weighed on Europe since 2008,” said Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister.

The meetings could also allow the leaders of the Union’s 27 member states to endorse reform efforts ahead of their meeting next week in Brussels, their last scheduled session before the summer. Still, the meetings are likely to result in incremental steps, rather than transformative ones like creating a lender of last resort to guarantee government or bank debt. The meeting of the 17 ministers from the euro zone, called the Eurogroup, focused on determining the conditions under which countries could draw on a shared bailout fund to inject money directly into troubled banks.

Even though European Union leaders agreed to push forward that initiative a year ago, the ministers confirmed on Thursday night that this tool will not be available until the European Central Bank takes over the supervision of some of the bloc’s largest banks in the second half of 2014. But ministers agreed that up to 60 billion euros, or about $80 billion, could be drawn from the fund to rescue banks whose failure could have broad impact on the financial system.

The ministers also left open the possibility of recapitalizing banks that are already in trouble. “The potential retroactive application of the instrument will be decided on a case-by-case basis,” Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the Eurogroup, said at a news conference.

That option is important for Ireland, which invested more than 30 billion euros, or about $40 billion, to rescue its banks during the crisis. The country is lobbying to use the bailout fund, called the European Stability Mechanism, to recapitalize the banks and relieve its debt.

“We’ve always argued that Ireland was an exceptional case,” Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, said at the meeting earlier on Thursday. “We’re not arguing this case for all our colleagues in the euro zone.”

The ministers decided to oblige countries to contribute 20 percent of any capital increase as a way to encourage governments to prevent mismanagement or losses at banks, a demand made by countries like Germany. When the meetings continue Friday, the finance ministers from all countries in the European Union will try to hash out a plan for shutting down troubled banks.

A central issue is the rules for imposing losses on a bank’s creditors, rather than putting the burden on taxpayers. Some countries, including Britain, are pushing to ensure that governments retain some flexibility. The worry is that automatic losses for some creditors could set off fears of losses at other institutions, which could start bank runs.

But for some countries, like Spain, where government finances are under severe strain, having a single rule book has become an important competitive consideration. Spain wants to ensure that bank investors do not flee to more prosperous countries like Germany, where mechanisms for resolving bank problems might be better capitalized and could be used to shield creditors from losses.
479 2013-06-21 Over the years, the United States has invoked the law to bar assistance to troops of major allies like Pakistan and Indonesia, and dozens of other nations. Human rights advocates have hailed the law as instrumental in preventing human rights violators from receiving American taxpayer-financed assistance.

“It’s a really important tool, but it’s not a panacea,” said Stephen Rickard, Washington director of the Open Society Foundations.

Admiral McRaven and other top officers say that they support the spirit of the Leahy amendment, but that changes in the law two years ago aimed at strengthening its enforcement have complicated their ability to train and equip foreign security forces, many of which are now front-line units fighting Al Qaeda and its affiliates.

The revised law emphasizes that the United States must suspend aid to an entire unit even if only one or two members are implicated in human rights violations. Assistance to the unit is suspended while the allegation is investigated. Aid cannot be restored until the home country deals with the culprits, a process that can take weeks or months, if it happens at all, critics say.

“We absolutely want to ensure that the forces we’re working with understand and appreciate their requirement to maintain appropriate human rights,” Admiral McRaven told Congress in March, the first of several public comments he has made on the law’s impact in recent months. “Unfortunately, it has restricted us in a number of countries across the globe in our ability to train units that we think need to be trained.”

In 2011, 1,766 individuals and units from 46 countries, out of a total of about 200,000 cases, were denied assistance because of human rights concerns, according to the State Department. It is a significant figure, proponents say, even though it represented less than 1 percent of all candidates for assistance. The figures are roughly the same for 2012 and so far this year, officials said.

But military commanders looking at the same cases say valuable training has been suspended for hundreds of troops not implicated, training that could prevent future abuses.

“We’re always going to comply with Leahy vetting, but the conundrum it presents us is that the nations whose militaries have had human rights violations perhaps are the ones that need U.S. engagement the most,” said Vice Adm. Charles J. Leidig Jr., the Africa Command’s military deputy.

The officers also say the vetting process can be slow, sometimes taking weeks or months, and the path to rehabilitation for a wayward unit is vague.

Assistance to some Jamaican security forces, for example, has been suspended while the State Department examines human rights allegations stemming from an operation in 2010 to arrest the drug lord Christopher Coke, whom the United States had requested for extradition.

“It is a complication,” said Gen. John F. Kelly, the head of the military’s Southern Command, which oversees most of Latin America.  “I wait until the State Department sorts these things out before I can send people in.”

Officials at American embassies worldwide take a first step at vetting the roughly 200,000 individuals and units identified for training or assistance each year, using consular databases, news media reports and other sources to find any “credible information” about possible abuses. Embassies then transmit the files to the State Department.

Some diplomats say that while the law is well intentioned, it does not provide a strong enough incentive for improving human rights in foreign militaries, because American officials are constrained in what they can say about specific units or individuals to protect sources and methods, like electronic eavesdropping.

Mr. Leahy is dismissive of such complaints. “This is a law that works, if it is enforced,” he said in a statement. “We can help reform foreign security forces, but they need to show they are serious about accountability. If not, we are wasting American taxpayers’ money and risk prolonging the abusive conduct that we seek to prevent.”

State Department officials, who are working with Pentagon counterparts to streamline the vetting process, say the law is changing how foreign countries address abuses.

In 2011, the Guatemalan government convicted and sentenced to long prison terms four members of the Kabiles, a security unit deeply implicated in human rights abuses during that country’s four-decade civil war. Based on those efforts and the government’s commitment to reorganize the Special Forces unit, the United States resumed aid to the unit, the State Department said.

A State Department inspector general report in February found that of 1,377 Nigerian soldiers vetted last year to receive American training, 211 were rejected or suspended because of human rights concerns. Indeed, a Nigerian Army battalion now operating in Mali as part of an African force to help combat Al Qaeda’s affiliate there is restricted from receiving nonlethal American equipment like helmets and communications equipment.

But the Nigerian battalion that is scheduled to replace that unit in the coming weeks has received American training and is under no such restrictions.
480 2013-06-21 Much of the debate at the trial has centered on a condition, known as the “most-favored-nation” clause, that Apple made in its contracts with publishers. It guarantees that if a publisher offers an e-book at a lower price to one retailer, the book will cost the same in Apple’s e-book store. The Justice Department argues that Apple and the publishers used the most-favored-nation clause to defeat price competition and pressure Amazon to change the way it sold books and raise its prices as well.

On Thursday, as the lawyers wrapped up their arguments, Judge Cote peppered both Apple and the government with questions.

Several of her questions to the government revolved around one thought: why would Apple want to change the industry’s business model? Mark W. Ryan, a lawyer for the Justice Department, argued that Apple believed its iPad hardware was so ahead of anyone else’s, it wanted to eliminate price competition in the e-book market so that the iPad could compete with the Amazon’s Kindle solely on hardware, not book prices.

Mr. Ryan noted that the government’s concern was not solely the most-favored-nation clause, but the way that Apple and the publishers deliberately used the clause to force Amazon’s hand. “It’s the collusion to move the market to the place where competition would not otherwise take it,” he said.

If Amazon had continued the way it sold books under what is called the wholesale model — where publishers charged retailers about half the cover price for a book and Amazon sold the books for $9.99 — then the retailers would have lost a substantial amount of money selling the books for $9.99 to Apple because Apple takes a 30 percent cut.

That, Mr. Ryan said, is why the publishers understood they had to collectively force Amazon into the agency model, where the publishers, not the retailers, set the price of the books. They could use the most-favored-nation clause to put pressure on Amazon while also threatening to delay the release of their e-books until after the more expensive hardcover versions had been on the market for a while, he said.

Judge Cote challenged the government’s interpretation that Apple was deliberately scheming to help the publishers raise prices. Allowing them to raise their prices in Apple’s e-book store could be viewed as a “sales pitch” to get the publishers to agree to sign on with Apple in the month and a half leading up to the iPad introduction, she said.

In Apple’s closing statements, Mr. Snyder spent most of his time trying to illustrate that Apple fought “tooth and nail” with the publishers before cementing the contracts. He showed e-mails between Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet software and services, and the chief executives of the big publishers that demonstrated they were negotiating rather than cooperating.

Judge Cote asked Mr. Snyder whether Apple took the position that it had not understood that the publishers were forming a collective effort to raise prices industrywide, when the fact they were working together seemed obvious from articles published by The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Those articles said a group of publishers had announced plans to “window,” or delay, the release of e-books.

Mr. Snyder said that the articles just showed how business was done, and that they did not prove that the publishers were already conspiring. “When one company does one thing, the other companies take notice and do the same thing,” he said.

The big question surrounding the trial is whether there will be a change to the way businesses negotiate if Apple loses, as Mr. Snyder suggested. Charles E. Elder, an antitrust lawyer at Irell & Manella, which is not involved in the case, said that most-favored-nation clauses present unusual challenges under antitrust laws. While they ensure a customer gets the best deal, they can discourage price-cutting because the consequence of lowering prices for one retailer will be lowering prices for other retailers protected by the clause.

Mr. Elder said that he “would be very surprised” if the judge found Apple’s most-favored-nation clause illegal, and that he was not aware of any case where such a thing has happened. He said this antitrust case was based on the theory that the most-favored-nation clause resulted from a price-fixing conspiracy among the publishers that was furthered by Apple. If the judge holds Apple liable, he said, this case will be unlikely to have a “revolutionary impact” on businesses.

“Horizontal conspiracies to fix prices have always been illegal,” Mr. Elder said.

Judge Cote is expected to write her decision in the coming weeks.
481 2013-06-21 One lesson from recent economic troubles has been the usefulness of history. Just as the crisis was unfolding, the Harvard economists and — who unfortunately became famous for their worst work — published a brilliant book with the sarcastic title “This Time Is Different.” Their point, of course, was that there is a strong family resemblance among crises. Indeed, historical parallels — not just to the 1930s, but to in the 1990s, in the 1920s, and more — have been vital guides to the present.

Yet economies do change over time, and sometimes in fundamental ways. So what’s really different about America in the 21st century?

The most significant answer, I’d suggest, is the growing importance of monopoly rents: profits that don’t represent returns on investment, but instead reflect the value of market dominance. Sometimes that dominance seems deserved, sometimes not; but, either way, the growing importance of rents is producing a new disconnect between profits and production and may be a factor prolonging the slump.

To see what I’m talking about, consider the differences between the iconic companies of two different eras: in the 1950s and 1960s, and today.

Obviously, G.M. in its heyday had a lot of market power. Nonetheless, the company’s value came largely from its productive capacity: it owned hundreds of factories and employed around 1 percent of the total nonfarm work force.

Apple, by contrast, seems barely tethered to the material world. Depending on the vagaries of its stock price, it’s either the highest-valued or the second-highest-valued company in America, but it employs less than 0.05 percent of our workers. To some extent, that’s because it has outsourced almost all its production overseas. But the truth is that the Chinese aren’t making that much money from Apple sales either. To a large extent, the price you pay for an iWhatever is disconnected from the cost of producing the gadget. Apple simply charges what the traffic will bear, and given the strength of its market position, the traffic will bear a lot.
482 2013-06-21 The Agriculture Department has approved a label for meat and liquid egg products that includes a claim about the absence of genetically engineered products.

It is the first time that the department, which regulates meat and poultry processing, has approved a non-G.M.O. label claim, which attests that meat certified by the Non-GMO Project came from animals that never ate feed containing genetically engineered ingredients like corn, soy and alfalfa.

The U.S.D.A.’s Food Safety Inspection Service “allows companies to demonstrate on their labels that they meet a third-party certifying organization’s standards, provided that the third-party organization and the company can show that the claims are truthful, accurate and not misleading,” Cathy Cochran, a U.S.D.A. spokeswoman, said in a statement.

Ms. Cochran said the approval for labeling meats did not signal “any new policy regarding non-G.E. or non-G.M.O. products.”

Labeling foods to indicate the absence or presence of genetically engineered ingredients is one of the most contentious issues in the food business today, with about two dozen states mulling labeling requirements and the biotech industry fighting back with intense lobbying.
483 2013-06-21 Yet after Emanuel’s relief stint against Florida Atlantic on June 3, the ESPN studio analyst Kyle Peterson, a former major league pitcher who retired after three shoulder operations, was critical of how North Carolina used of Emanuel.

That revived talk of heavy workloads in past tournaments, notably the Texas reliever Austin Wood, who threw 169 pitches over 121/3 innings against Boston College in a 2009 regional the day after a 30-pitch appearance. A borderline prospect, Wood needed left shoulder surgery in the minors and retired last year at 25.

Peterson, who pitched at Stanford, wants the N.C.A.A. to adopt pitch-count limits and mandatory rest periods between appearances. “I’m not trying to trash anybody,” he said. “But it’s time to protect kids, and I think this will do it.”

Forbes, who has mentored Matt Harvey of the Mets and three other first-round picks since 2006, opposes regulation. Coaches know their pitchers, he said, and the 6-foot-4, 225-pound Emanuel was never at risk because of his body type, strength and good mechanics.

“I’ve done it long enough, honestly, that you know internally how you do things,” Forbes said. “That stuff is just part of it. When you bring a guy off short rest, people are going to talk about it, especially if it fails.”

Emanuel succeeded Harvey as North Carolina’s most reliable starter, working 340 innings in three seasons, a team record for a junior, while going 28-9. College starters usually pitch once a week. Forbes kept Emanuel on that schedule in the regular season, except for a two-inning relief appearance on four days’ rest May 1 against the Citadel.

But Fox, with his bullpen overworked in the Chapel Hill regional, turned to Emanuel to protect a 6-2 lead in the eighth against Florida Atlantic.

After escaping a two-on, no-out jam, Emanuel returned for the ninth and allowed a leadoff homer, a single and three walks, the last forcing in a run. “We might have let him go a batter or two too long,” Forbes said. Another starter, Benton Moss, then gave up a go-ahead grand slam to Tyler Rocklein.

The Tar Heels won in 13 innings, 12-11. But Emanuel’s next two starts were his shortest of the season — two and a third innings against South Carolina in a super regional, and two and two-thirds here against the Wolfpack.

In between he relieved again, a two-pitch, two-out save to eliminate the Gamecocks and send the Tar Heels to their sixth College World Series in eight years. North Carolina has never won the C.W.S. under Fox, losing twice in the championship series.

“If I come into that F.A.U. game and get those three outs, 1-2-3, I don’t think anyone even notices,” Emanuel said. “I think it was just one of those things where I didn’t perform, people saw something that was unusual with my routine, and kind of blamed it on that. I really don’t think that’s the case.”

Forbes said: “His last six or seven outings, he hasn’t been great. I think he’s struggling because he hasn’t located his off-speed pitches like he has his whole career. It has nothing to do with him being tired.”

Do pitchers need protection from overzealous coaches? Fox said no, and North Carolina State Coach Elliott Avent backed him. “As college coaches, we know what we’re doing,” he said. “It may not always seem like that.”

Lately, coaches seem to be paying more attention. Boyd Nation, a college baseball blogger based in Birmingham, Ala., who has tracked N.C.A.A. pitching since 2002, said in an e-mail that high pitch counts are trending downward. In 2003, Nation’s database listed 281 outings of 133 pitches or more. This season, he found 77.

In 2003, one of those high pitch counts belonged to Mike Elias, a sophomore from Yale. After that season, Elias needed surgery for a torn labrum. He moved on to baseball management after graduation and is now, at 30, the scouting director for the Astros, the team that drafted Emanuel.
484 2013-06-21 Last week, after a series of nationwide raids, prosecutors charged seven people — including the prime minister’s chief of staff and the current and former heads of military intelligence — in the most extensive anticorruption crackdown since the overthrow of Communism in 1989.

The prime minister’s chief of staff, Jana Nagyova, a close confidante, was charged with abuse of power and bribery after prosecutors said she ordered a military intelligence agency to spy on three people, including Mr. Necas’s wife. Prosecutors said she had also offered posts in state-owned companies to three rebellious members of Parliament in return for their agreeing to leave their parliamentary seats. Ms. Nagyova, through her lawyer, has denied some of the accusations, saying she acted in good faith.

Ms. Nemcova, a native of Vysocina, in the southeastern, predominantly agricultural part of the country, has been speaker of the House since 2010. She is a longstanding member of the Civic Democrats, the party that presided over the country’s transition to a market economy in the aftermath of Communism. She became a lawmaker in 1998 and is viewed as dutiful party loyalist. She is the mother of one adult son.

Her appointment is far from assured, as she needs the approval of President Milos Zeman, who has the power to appoint the prime minister. She also needs the support of the Civic Democrats’ coalition partners and would be subject to a vote of confidence in Parliament.

If there is no agreement on a new government, early elections will be called. The next parliamentary elections are scheduled for June 2014.

“When there is a big crisis, one has to rise to the occasion,” she said Wednesday in an interview with the online version of the newspaper Mlada fronta DNES.

Ms. Nemcova is the country’s fourth most trusted politician, according to a poll by the Public Opinion Research Center, a polling institute. The poll, in which 1,049 people were interviewed by phone, had a margin of sampling error of three percentage points. The most trusted politician, according to the poll, was Karel Schwarzenberg, the pipe-smoking foreign minister, whose conservative TOP09 Party was in coalition with the Civic Democratic Party and whose support is deemed vital for her to ascend to the top job.

Mr. Schwarzenberg was quoted Thursday in Mlada fronta DNES as praising Ms. Nemcova as a “wonderful lady.” But he said that her nomination also showed that the governing party did not have many qualified candidates for the job.

Mr. Sidlo, of Hospodarske Noviny, said that her reputation for incorruptibility was her best asset at a time of public outcry over graft and lawlessness. She has not been linked to special interests or lobbyists. But he cautioned that she had a low profile and was largely untested.
485 2013-06-21 The British composer Michael Nyman, who participated in the first performance of Paragraph 2, called it “one of those rare works of such power and freshness that it seems to reinvent music from its very sources by somersaulting musical history.”

Cardew (1936-81), also British, was an apprentice to the German electronic composer Karlheinz Stockhausen in the late 1950s and an admirer of the American experimentalist John Cage. His music combines elements of serialism, indeterminacy and minimalism with his own brand of left-wing politics. These became increasingly radical: after 1972 he renounced Modernism, published a book-length diatribe, “Stockhausen Serves Imperialism,” and churned out folk songs to texts like “Smash the Social Contract.”

Cardew wrote “The Great Learning” between 1968-70 for his newly formed Scratch Orchestra, a group designed to incorporate and exploit the talents of both untrained and trained musicians. In the group’s founding manifesto Cardew laid down detailed instructions on improvisation rituals and rehearsal procedures, notation — verbal, graphic, musical, collage — and the process by which a work is admitted into a canon of “popular classics.” Once it is, “adherence to the original terms of composition is waived,” he wrote. That is, as a piece becomes established, the interpreter’s freedom grows and the composer’s control diminishes.

“Cardew didn’t want experimental music to be exclusive,” said Nick Hennies, a percussionist with the Austin New Music Co-Op who organized a performance of the work in that city in 2011 and will play (and sing, shout and whistle) in the New York performance on Friday.

Within the work, the balance between specificity and freedom shifts constantly. In both the music and the movements, Cardew’s detailed handwritten instructions always leave room for interpretation. The structure of individual Paragraphs is determined, but the musical outcome in each performance is unique. Where other composers were concerned with organizing sound, Cardew was interested in organizing the production of sound.

In one instance, Mr. Hennies said, singers are instructed to begin singing any note of their choosing. The next note has to be selected from one of the notes sung by a neighboring performer. “Over the course of an hour the number of available notes gradually decreases,” Mr. Hennies said. “The piece goes from totally dissonant to much more tonal and dronelike. It’s very pretty.”

Paragraph 1, which will be performed in St Paul’s Chapel on Broadway, features organ music, speakers and whistling on a variety of found objects and instruments. “There’s a large group of people, divided into people who speak and people who whistle,” Mr. Hennies explained. “They take turns reading the text and whistling until all the whistlers have taken a solo. Then the organist finishes the piece.”

The learning aspect of “The Great Learning” is most visible in Paragraph 5, which will be performed at South Street Seaport with members of the Shakedown Dance Collective. It begins with a single performer “teaching” another performer the first sentence, or movement sequence. The “student” then teaches another performer, while the first continues through the sequences, until all students have become teachers and all sentences have been performed in full. The musicians then begin an hourlong improvisation.

“It is difficult to have a through-composed piece that incorporates untrained musicians,” Michael McCurdy, a member of Mantra Percussion, said. “It’s like an art installation and it works really well outdoors. At each of the sites we will have a description of what’s going on so you can go along. It’s like in church: there is a choir who knows the music, but everyone else just follows along. There is an element of teaching built in.”
486 2013-06-21 LONDON — Gary Hume’s paintings don’t give much away. When he depicts a person, it is often little more than an outline; a plant is only a shape rendered in rich colors and varied textures. It’s as if he wants viewers to create their own narrative. Yet walking through the galleries at Tate Britain, where a midcareer survey of his paintings recently opened, Mr. Hume, 51, isn’t nearly as mysterious as his work suggests.

Dressed in jeans, sneakers and a baseball cap, he talked about how putting together the show dredged up “memories of what I was thinking at the time.” On one wall is “Birdsong,” an all-green canvas from 1998 that looks vaguely like the X-ray of a thorax. “My studio used to be in Hoxton,” Mr. Hume said, referring to a neighborhood in London’s East End, “and there was this blackbird in the yard that was so overwhelming I started imagining what was going on in its throat. I like the fact that the painting’s silent although it refers to sound.”

Mr. Hume is often called the quiet one among a group of celebrated artists who studied at Goldsmiths College in London in the 1980s. The group included Damien Hirst, Sarah Lucas and Fiona Rae, and Mr. Hume’s work was first featured in Mr. Hirst’s “Freeze” exhibition, held in a dingy warehouse in the Docklands district of London in 1998. Over the years Mr. Hume has become known for depicting everyday subjects using high-gloss industrial paints because, he said, “they are ordinary and I like to take things that are mundane and make them beautiful.”

Soft-spoken and somewhat shy, he appears to be the last artist who would tackle political subjects. But he does, in oblique ways. A painting from 2011 called “Anxiety and the Horse. Angela Merkel” depicts Ms. Merkel, the German chancellor, as a yellow blob, a bit like a lemon. “It’s all about leaders who suck on lemons for politics,” he said.

Why not show her face? “I’m not good at faces,” he explained with a chuckle.

Even ordinary objects have meaning. “Yellow Window,” from 2000, a black canvas with bright yellow outlining the window panes, is “about van Gogh and Duchamp,” he said, “because I like to look at the world through their eyes.” Then there’s “Baby,” from 1994-95, in which red eyes and a white mouth peek out from an otherwise dark canvas. He made it that way because, “When they arrive they’re real and totally alien,” he said, recalling when his son, who is now 26, was born. “I’m drawn to vulnerability and ugliness,” Mr. Hume went on. “As a kid growing up in Kent I was the ugly duckling.”
487 2013-06-21 Mr. Kerry is expected in the region later this month for a fifth visit in his quest to revive peace talks. Differences within the Israeli government over the Palestinian question have been on stark display in recent days, adding to a sense that Mr. Kerry’s mission is approaching a decision point. But any breakthrough between the Israeli and Palestinian sides has so far remained elusive, with each side blaming the other.

International confidence in the Palestinian Authority was already shaken when the previous prime minister, Salam Fayyad, an internationally respected economist, resigned in April. Mr. Fayyad remained in office as a caretaker while Mr. Abbas worked to find a replacement.

Mr. Hamdallah, a professor of linguistics who ran a large West Bank university, was sworn in on June 6. He had no previous experience in government. An official in the prime minister’s press office said that Mr. Hamdallah had resigned because of a conflict over his authority and responsibilities.

Palestinians with knowledge of the situation said the resignation might have been prompted by power struggles between Mr. Hamdallah and the two deputy prime ministers that Mr. Abbas appointed at the same time: Mohammad Mustafa, the former chairman of the Palestine Investment Fund, who was given special responsibility for the economy; and Ziad Abu Amr, a legislator and former foreign minister, who was to focus on the political arena. Both men are seen as close to the president.

“The troika did not work in the Soviet Union,” Mr. Qaq said, “and it won’t work in Palestine.”

Still, the resignation came as a surprise. One of Mr. Hamdallah’s close friends said that he had spoken on the phone with the prime minister on Thursday morning and that he had “sounded confident” and did not mention any plans to give up his post.

Ghassan Khatib, vice president of Bir Zeit University in the West Bank and a former Palestinian government spokesman, said that Mr. Fayyad’s resignation and his replacement had been accepted by the outside world. “But to have this resignation so soon,” he added, “is very bad for stability, and consequently for the ability of the Palestinian Authority to continue getting the necessary financial and political support for the peace process in the international arena.”

The Palestinian Authority has been in a financial crisis for about two years; Mr. Fayyad had difficulty paying the tens of thousands of government employees their salaries on time.

“It was easier when Fayyad was there,” said Michael Herzog, an Israel-based fellow of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former military official and negotiator. Now, he said, some may be even more reluctant to provide assistance.

But for many Palestinians, Mr. Hamdallah’s resignation offer was a symbol of a much deeper political malaise and exposed the inherent weakness and limitations of an authority that ultimately operates under Israeli occupation.

Increasingly, Palestinians in the West Bank seem to be dismissing their government as a sham. “There is no system,” said Basem Zubeidi, a political science professor at Bir Zeit University. “Everyone knows that there are no ministers, no ministries and no government because they have no real mandate to do anything. There is no authority, there is no money, there is nothing.”
488 2013-06-21 The Welsh pub in Brooklyn that got in trouble for a want ad offering British applicants a leg up has given up its fight against the New York City Human Rights Commission.

The owners of Longbow Pub and Pantry in Bay Ridge agreed to pay a $2,500 settlement and undergo antidiscrimination training, one of the owners, Jennifer Colbert, said on Thursday.

Longbow landed in trouble after a spotter for the Human Rights Commission saw its ad for a bartender on Craigslist last year.

“Energetic and enthusiastic men and women with an appreciation of craft beer, good food, whisky and real football (a k a soccer),” the ad read in part. “Being British definitely works in your favor.”

Ms. Colbert and her husband, Michael Colbert, had said they were perfectly willing to hire a qualified non-British bartender, but the commission had said that was not the point, citing a provision of the city administrative code prohibiting employers from circulating any advertisement that expresses any specification as to national origin.

Ms. Colbert said she and her husband decided to settle on Thursday morning, on the day of a scheduled “conciliation meeting” before an administrative law judge, after her lawyer advised that the commission routinely rejected judges’ recommendations in such cases.
489 2013-06-21 Q. As the company grew, were there certain break points you noticed when the culture shifted?

A. At around 50 employees, you get to the point where you can’t see what’s going on all the time. So you start to have weekly check-ins, and you have days that go by without knowing exactly what’s going on. But you need to be sure that everyone is kind of moving in the right direction and thinking about things the right way.

Q. So what’s different or unusual about your culture today?

A. We have a bunch of agile teams that work on different components of the company. At the end of every two-week period, they show everyone else what’s been done. It’s a good way for the whole company to see how we’re progressing.

We also do daily stand-ups for each team. People quickly say what they’ve done and what they’re going to do next. And by keeping these teams small, they can also be self-starting and entrepreneurial.

The whole thing is designed so that meetings are minimized and people can get back to work and push stuff out quickly and then report back to the team. It’s like this daily heartbeat of updates to make sure everybody’s moving forward.

Q. What else do you do in terms of culture?

A. We have hackathons, which are pretty fun. A lot of people get really excited about them, and they can build whatever they want for the company — it could be crazy, practical, whatever. We actually wind up implementing a lot of those things throughout the year. It pushes a lot of thinking. It’s pretty amazing what people can get done in 24 hours. Sometimes we talk about a new product feature and it can take three months to build. Then someone will prototype it overnight.

Q. And why is that?

A. Sometimes as a company you tend to overthink things. If you just sit down and try to do it, it turns out to maybe be easier than setting up meeting after meeting to get it done. So it’s a good reset point for us every year to remind us, “Yeah, we can just get things done quickly.”

Q. How do you hire? What are you looking for?

A. We look for people who are entrepreneurial, who can think in ways that will extend the product in the right direction. We look for people who are “growth hackers.” I’m not sure who came up with that term, but it makes sense to us. It’s the kind of person who can build features and products that market themselves.

Q. So how do you find growth hackers?

A. It’s difficult. I’ll usually show them something that we’ve built and ask them what they can do to improve on it. I’m looking for what their thinking patterns are in terms of whether they can figure out a way to make a particular feature grow in a way that it perpetuates itself.

They also have to be able to mesh with others in the organization. You want people who will push the thinking but not cause trouble. It’s hard to explain, but it’s a feeling you get. It’s easy to find people who will be disruptive thinkers who are reckless, but it’s hard to find disruptive thinkers who are productive. We try every day to make each dollar we spend go one penny further than it did yesterday. That’s the kind of person I’m looking for.

Q. How do you tell if they’re going to fit in to the culture?

A. If you start to challenge them, what happens? Do they come back hard at you? They have to be open to having their thoughts challenged. They have to be open to the fact that maybe they’re not right.

Q. And if hiring were like speed dating and you only had like five minutes to ask one or two questions, what would they be?

A. In your day-to-day job functions, how will you take risk? Like I said before, we want to make that dollar go one penny further every day. I’m not looking for you to double the dollar. I don’t even want a 25 percent return because on a day-to-day basis that’s too much volatility. I want a 1 percent return daily. If the risks are small enough, they can kind of do them on their own without getting themselves into too much trouble. If they are taking fewer but bigger risks, that’s a problem. So I would be looking for how they do that.

A. If you were going to start your own company right now, and you had to go make one dollar on the Web, what would you do?
490 2013-06-21 Ashin Wirathu denies any role in the riots. But his critics say that at the very least his anti-Muslim preaching is helping to inspire the violence.

What began last year on the fringes of Burmese society has grown into a nationwide movement whose agenda now includes boycotts of Muslim-made goods. Its message is spreading through regular sermons across the country that draw thousands of people and through widely distributed DVDs of those talks. Buddhist monasteries associated with the movement are also opening community centers and a Sunday school program for 60,000 Buddhist children nationwide.

The hate-filled speeches and violence have endangered Myanmar’s path to democracy, raising questions about the government’s ability to keep the country’s towns and cities safe and its willingness to crack down or prosecute Buddhists in a Buddhist-majority country. The killings have also reverberated in Muslim countries across the region, tarnishing what was almost universally seen abroad as a remarkable and rare peaceful transition from military rule to democracy. In May, the Indonesian authorities foiled what they said was a plot to bomb the Myanmar Embassy in Jakarta in retaliation for the assaults on Muslims.

Ashin Wirathu, the spiritual leader of the radical movement, skates a thin line between free speech and incitement, taking advantage of loosened restrictions on expression during a fragile time of transition. He was himself jailed for eight years by the now-defunct military junta for inciting hatred. Last year, as part of a release of hundreds of political prisoners, he was freed.

In his recent sermon, he described the reported massacre of schoolchildren and other Muslim inhabitants in the central city of Meiktila in March, documented by a human rights group, as a show of strength.

“If we are weak,” he said, “our land will become Muslim.”

Buddhism would seem to have a secure place in Myanmar. Nine in 10 people are Buddhist, as are nearly all the top leaders in the business world, the government, the military and the police. Estimates of the Muslim minority range from 4 percent to 8 percent of Myanmar’s roughly 55 million people while the rest are mostly Christian or Hindu.

But Ashin Wirathu, who describes himself as a nationalist, says Buddhism is under siege by Muslims who are having more children than Buddhists and buying up Buddhist-owned land. In part, he is tapping into historical grievances that date from British colonial days when Indians, many of them Muslims, were brought into the country as civil servants and soldiers.

The muscular and nationalist messages he has spread have alarmed Buddhists in other countries.

The Dalai Lama, after the riots in March, said killing in the name of religion was “unthinkable” and urged Myanmar’s Buddhists to contemplate the face of the Buddha for guidance.

Phra Paisal Visalo, a Buddhist scholar and prominent monk in neighboring Thailand, says the notion of “us and them” promoted by Myanmar’s radical monks is anathema to Buddhism. But he lamented that his criticism and that of other leading Buddhists outside the country have had “very little impact.”

“Myanmar monks are quite isolated and have a thin relationship with Buddhists in other parts of the world,” Phra Paisal said. One exception is Sri Lanka, another country historically bedeviled by ethnic strife. Burmese monks have been inspired by the assertive political role played by monks from Sri Lanka’s Sinhalese majority.

As Myanmar has grown more polarized, there have been nascent signs of a backlash against the anti-Muslim preaching.

Among the most disappointed with the outbreaks of violence and hateful rhetoric are some of the leaders of the 2007 Saffron Revolution, a peaceful uprising led by Buddhist monks against military rule.

“We were not expecting this violence when we chanted for peace and reconciliation in 2007,” said the abbot of Pauk Jadi monastery, Ashin Nyana Nika, 55, who attended a meeting earlier this month sponsored by Muslim groups to discuss the issue. (Ashin is the honorific for Burmese monks.) Ashin Sanda Wara, the head of a monastic school in Yangon, says the monks in the country are divided nearly equally between moderates and extremists.

He considers himself in the moderate camp. But as a measure of the deeply ingrained suspicions toward Muslims in the society, he said he was “afraid of Muslims because their population is increasing so rapidly.”

Ashin Wirathu has tapped into that anxiety, which some describe as the “demographic pressures” coming from neighboring Bangladesh. There is wide disdain in Myanmar for a group of about one million stateless Muslims, who call themselves Rohingya, some of whom migrated from Bangladesh. Clashes between the Rohingya and Buddhists last year in western Myanmar roiled the Buddhist community and appear to have played a role in later outbreaks of violence throughout the country. Ashin Wirathu said they served as his inspiration to spread his teachings.

The theme song to Ashin Wirathu’s movement speaks of people who “live in our land, drink our water, and are ungrateful to us.”

“We will build a fence with our bones if necessary,” runs the song’s refrain. Muslims are not explicitly mentioned in the song but Ashin Wirathu said the lyrics refer to them. Pamphlets handed out at his sermon demonizing Muslims said that “Myanmar is currently facing a most dangerous and fearful poison that is severe enough to eradicate all civilization.”

Many in Myanmar speculate, without offering proof, that Ashin Wirathu is allied with hard-line Buddhist elements in the country who want to harness the nationalism of his movement to rally support ahead of elections in 2015. Ashin Wirathu denies any such links.

But the government has done little to rein him in. During Ashin Wirathu’s visit here in Taunggyi, traffic policemen cleared intersections for his motorcade.

Once inside the monastery, as part of a highly choreographed visit, his followers led a procession through crowds of followers who prostrated themselves as he passed.

Ashin Wirathu’s movement calls itself 969, three digits that monks say symbolize the virtues of the Buddha, Buddhist practices and the Buddhist community.

Stickers with the movement’s logo are now ubiquitous nationwide on cars, motorcycles and shops. The movement has also begun a signature campaign calling for a ban on interfaith marriages, and pamphlets are distributed at sermons listing Muslim brands and shops to be avoided.

In Mawlamyine, a multicultural city southeast of Yangon, a monastery linked to the 969 movement has established the courses of Buddhist instruction for children, which it calls “Sunday dhamma schools.” Leaders of the monasteries there seek to portray their campaign as a sort of Buddhist revivalist movement.

“The main thing is that our religion and our nationality don’t disappear,” said Ashin Zadila, a senior monk at the Myazedi Nanoo monastery outside the city.

Yet despite efforts at describing the movement as nonthreatening, many Muslims are worried.

Two hours before Ashin Wirathu rolled into Taunggyi in a motorcade that included 60 honking motorcycles, Tun Tun Naing, a Muslim vendor in the city’s central market, spoke of the visit in a whisper.

“I’m really frightened,” he said, stopping in midsentence when customers entered his shop. “We tell the children not to go outside unless absolutely necessary.”
491 2013-06-21 It was, as NBC’s voice-of-hockey Mike Emrick likes to call it, “fire wagon hockey.” If you saw the score of Game 4 of the Stanley Cup finals and thought it was a typo, you were not alone. Yes, there were 11 goals. There were 90 shots on goal. And yes, it was the kind of freewheeling, back-and-forth play that was banned from the N.H.L. in the mid-90s when it was decreed that all games, particularly in the playoffs, must resemble the battle scene from “Braveheart.” The Boston Bruins and the Chicago Blackhawks pitched all that in the Charles River and decided this game would be a race to six goals. The Blackhawks won. In overtime. Naturally.

Most coaches, you see, would rather undergo dental surgery without anesthesia than watch their teams involved in a game like this. The notable exception is Chicago’s Joel Quenneville, who knows that style is his team’s best, maybe only, chance to win this series. And it comes with the added bonus that he may get to watch Boston Coach Claude Julien’s head fly off. Julien spent Game 4 looking like he was having dental surgery without anesthesia.

The rest of us? It was goal-a-palooza. Fun crashed the N.H.L.'s party.

You can watch all 11 goals in the NBC compilation here, but some of them are worth enjoying all on their own, some for their sheer ridiculousness, some for the skill involved, others just because watching pucks hit the back of the net is such a rare thrill.

Start with Brent Seabrook’s overtime winner, that rare bird in the playoffs: a slap shot that travels straight into the net without three ricochets and a trip to the concession stand. It was also a rare shot that Boston goalie Tuukka Rask could see all the way and still could not stop:

This was another great shot, by Boston’s Patrice Bergeron. It tied the score, 4-4, in the third period, but the hardest work was done by 41-year-old Jaromir Jagr in the corner. Seems as if he should get more than an assist for this:

And then you can move onto the forehead-slappers, the first coming off the stick of the Bruins’ Rich Peverley in the first period but credited entirely to the Blackhawks’ Brandon Saad falling on his face at the worst possible moment:

The real blooper, however, was provided by Bergeron on a second-period power play, when a shot by defenseman Zdeno Chara hit the boards behind the goal, flew high into the air, bouncing on top of the net, down into the crease in front of Chicago goalie Corey Crawford, right onto Bergeron’s stick:

Filed into the nifty play category was Patrick Kane’s backhanded rebound — also in that five-goal flurry that was the second period — which gave Chicago a 3-1 lead in what seemed at the time like a routine game:

A big factor in this game was Quenneville’s move to put Kane and center Jonathan Toews back on a line together along with Bryan Bickell. Here is Toews scoring his first goal of the finals in the magic threesome, who were also on the ice for two more goals, including the game winner. Toews has been almost totally stymied in this series by Boston’s defense, but got loose enough for a classic deflection, the kind you almost cannot believe players do on purpose:

And, naturally, somewhere in the mix, there was a short-handed goal. Of course there was. Chicago’s Michal Handzus had gotten things rolling in the first with this one:

The series, now tied, two games apiece, and heading to Chicago for Game 5 Saturday, might not be this fun from here on out — Julien’s sanity absolutely depends on that — but we can still hope, can’t we?
492 2013-06-21 The S.&P. 500 ended down 2.5 percent and the Dow fell 2.3 percent over concern about a credit crunch in China and the Federal Reserve’s plans for winding down its stimulus efforts....
493 2013-06-22 Pictures From the Week in Business
494 2013-06-22 A Drug Enforcement Administration agent was killed in what appeared to have been a robbery attempt in Colombia, the American ambassador, P. Michael McKinley, said Friday. Colombian authorities said the American agent, James Watson, 43, was stabbed four times. Mr. McKinley told local Radio Caracol that the robbery attempt occurred after Mr. Watson left a meeting with friends at a Bogotá restaurant and got into a taxi. Col. Camilo Cabana of the National Police said that the taxi Mr. Watson was riding in was intercepted by another taxi near the restaurant. Two men got out and tried to pull Mr. Watson out of the vehicle, stabbing him three times in the chest and once in the leg, Colonel Cabana said. Mr. Watson was taken to a clinic several blocks away, but was pronounced dead on arrival. The D.E.A. said Mr. Watson was on a temporary assignment in Bogotá.
495 2013-06-22 President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority asked his prime minister to reconsider his decision to step down after just two weeks in office, two Abbas aides said Friday. The aides said Mr. Abbas met with Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah on Friday, a day after Mr. Hamdallah submitted his resignation because he felt his deputy was overstepping his authority. The aides, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk publicly about the matter, said Mr. Abbas asked Mr. Hamdallah to give him an answer by Saturday. Before his appointment, Mr. Hamdallah, a political novice, was a university dean.
496 2013-06-22 Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has tried to undermine the state’s commitment to affordable housing at every turn. In addition to trying to dismantle the independent state agency that oversees affordable housing development, he has sought to weaken the state law that prohibits local governments from using zoning to exclude housing for poor and working-class people.

The latest episode in the continuing dispute between Mr. Christie and fair housing advocates involved the state government’s effort to seize up to $165 million from housing trust funds held by municipalities and earmarked for affordable housing. A state appellate court recently ruled that the Christie administration could not seize the money unless local governments and nonprofit developers had been given an opportunity to challenge that action. The court also said that it expected the state’s affordable housing agency “to create and promote the development of affordable housing,” as the current law requires.

Earlier this year, housing advocates and Mr. Christie also clashed over the state’s federally financed Hurricane Sandy recovery plan, which included too little money for building and repairing rental properties, where lower-income residents typically live. The Christie administration increased this financing only after fair housing groups complained to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which could have moved to reject the plan.

His administration is also seeking to undermine the New Jersey Supreme Court’s 1983 landmark ruling in the Mount Laurel housing case — which limits the use of exclusionary zoning by wealthy communities and has led to the creation of tens of thousands of housing units in the state — in two cases now before the State Supreme Court. One case is about whether New Jersey can dismantle the affordable housing agency and move its function to the executive branch. The other deals with the use of a formula favored by the governor that would essentially allow localities to decide how much affordable housing would be built.

The court should reject both changes and strongly reaffirm the Mount Laurel decision.
497 2013-06-22 And the approach is on the verge of becoming more widespread. A week ago, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas signed legislation that would allow more commercial and industrial projects to go forward. Texas joins seven other states that are amending their laws this year to allow the financing, while several local and state governments, including Connecticut, Sacramento, Miami and Atlanta, either have new districts with loan programs or soon will.

“It’s an idea that resonates and is catching on,” said David Gabrielson, the PACENow executive director. “I see encouraging signs in the build-out of a whole new approach to funding energy efficiency.”

Despite the program’s growth among businesses, the group it was originally intended for — homeowners — is still largely left out. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees financing for two-thirds of new residential mortgages through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, does not allow those agencies to buy mortgages for properties with liens that have a higher priority for payback, as PACE loans often do.

Local governments have long used special taxing districts to finance improvements to private property that benefit the public. The idea behind PACE was to turn that idea toward upgrades like new windows and insulation or solar arrays that often cost more than property owners could pay upfront but less than they would save on electricity bills over time. Berkeley, Calif., pioneered the concept in 2008, and it quickly expanded, sometimes with the help of grants from the Department of Energy to pilot projects in several towns and states across the country.

But the program hit a snag in 2010 when the F.H.F.A., under pressure to improve its balance sheet during the housing crisis, derailed the program largely because in most cases the PACE loans would have to be repaid before the mortgages during a foreclosure.

Congressional and legal challenges to the agency’s rulings have failed to overturn them, but advocates remain hopeful that a federal policy change could open up the loans to more homeowners.

“What’s frustrating is when there’s something which is an obvious win — it’s not even contentious — and it doesn’t go forward,” said Dan Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, who helped design and study early PACE programs.

F.H.F.A. officials have maintained that their legal obligation is to manage the risk of loss that Fannie and Freddie take on in guaranteeing mortgages, which also backs an enormous securities market. Some of the early programs approved by state lawmakers, for instance, allowed homeowners to borrow as much as 40 percent of their home values, raising concerns that, as in the subprime loan crisis, borrowers would push past their ability to repay.

“We’re not averse to energy retrofitting,” Alfred M. Pollard, the F.H.F.A. general counsel, said in an interview, adding that the agency remained concerned with how the loans would be repaid.

In any case, the market may have found other ways for homeowners to finance solar power systems, including traditional leasing and bank loans for purchase and installation.

“A few years ago, there weren’t banks doing that kind of thing,” said Toni Bouchard, vice president of SmartPower, a nonprofit clean energy marketing consultant. “Now there are.”

For the moment, the momentum is on the commercial side. In Texas, for instance, the new law will allow special districts for commercial and industrial property owners, a large segment of the energy users in the state.

“What worked in progressive areas like Berkeley and Sonoma, what they were able to put up there, we couldn’t just lift that and put it in a place like Texas,” said Kate Zerrenner, climate and energy project manager of the Texas regional office of the Environmental Defense Fund.

So they worked closely with national lenders, she said, to create an approach allowing for flexible public-private partnerships and including water conservation projects and the industrial sector, a huge part of the state economy, to build support.

“Environment doesn’t really sell here,” she said. “Climate change doesn’t really sell here. But what does sell is anything that’s good for business and job creation.”

In Connecticut, the PACE program is nonresidential as well, administered through the state’s green bank, the Clean Energy Finance and Investment Authority, which originates the loans but then sells them individually or in bundles to investors.
498 2013-06-22 CASABLANCA, Morocco — Human Rights Watch on Friday accused Moroccan courts of convicting defendants based on confessions they say were obtained through torture and coercion.

In a 100-page report titled “ 'Just Sign Here’: Unfair Trials Based on Confessions to the Police in Morocco,” the organization said it had examined five trials of 77 people, including pro-democracy demonstrators, activists in Western Sahara and terrorism suspects, from 2009 to the present.

“Once the Moroccan police have your statement in hand, you are not at the start of an evenhanded process to reach the truth,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East and North Africa director of Human Rights Watch, said in a statement accompanying the report. “You are on an express train to a guilty verdict.”

In 2011, in response to street protests demanding more democracy and accountability, King Mohammed VI pledged reforms and a free and fair justice system. That same year, judges formed an association to seek independence from the executive branch and to protest judicial corruption. The king appointed a commission last year to review requests for reforms.

“The justice system is part of the security apparatus instead of being independent,” Eric Goldstein, a deputy director of Human Rights Watch, said in a phone interview. “The court becomes central to repressing opponents to the regime who have gone too far.”
499 2013-06-22 THE Dow Jones industrial average has nose-dived more than 500 points, or over 3 percent, since the Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s somewhat upbeat, if ambiguous, statement on the economy on Wednesday. Hurrah!

Many interpreted his remarks — which followed a two-day meeting of the Fed’s policy-making committee and which noted, among other things, that the Fed expected the unemployment rate to decline to around 7 percent next summer, from its current perch of 7.6 percent — as signaling the beginning of the end for the controversial program known as quantitative easing, or Q.E., now in its third round. That program, in which the Fed has purchased tens of billions of dollars of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities a month, has kept interest rates at rock bottom since 2008, and helped propel stock and bond prices to their recent heights.

But since Mr. Bernanke’s remarks, the dominant market sentiment hasn’t been euphoria, but fear.

What happened to change the mood so dramatically, so quickly? Is the panic selling justified — or is it just the first glimmer of hope that the Fed will finally take the metaphorical morphine drip out of the arm of the capital markets and allow the forces of supply and demand to set long-term interest rates?

Before answering those questions, it might be useful to review what exactly Mr. Bernanke said. First, he said that there should be no immediate change to the stimulus program. He said the economy looked as if it was slowly improving, that Fed officials saw signs that employment was picking up and that the inflation rate was hovering below the Fed’s target of 2 percent.

Good news, right? He said that if these encouraging economic trends continued, then it might be appropriate to begin easing up a bit on the Fed’s $85 billion monthly bond purchases. He said that nothing was set in stone and that all depended on what the economic data revealed in the months to come. He made the analogy to driving a car. “Any slowing in the pace of purchases will be akin to letting up a bit on the gas pedal as the car picks up speed, not to beginning to apply the brakes,” he said.
500 2013-06-22 That fanfare carried over to Rose’s round on Thursday, when simply hearing his name called as the Open champion at the first tee box was exhilarating.

“It was really a wonderful sort of occasion on the first tee,” Rose said Thursday. “Sort of a large crowd had gathered. When I was announced that way, I couldn’t help but have a little smile come across my face. I really enjoyed that moment.”

Then he bogeyed three of the first six holes before recovering with four birdies on the back nine to finish with a 67.

“I’m happy with that, especially after the start,” he said. “I wanted to try to get in under par and shoot 68. It was nice to be shooting 67.”

After declaring at a Wednesday news conference that he needed rest, and playing an afternoon round Thursday, Rose had to tee off at 7:40 a.m. on Friday.

“The night definitely went quickly,” Rose said. “I kind of ran a little behind this morning; I only had about 30 minutes to warm up.”

Still, Rose came out hot, with four birdies and only one bogey in his first 10 holes. After one more bogey, Rose parred out, finishing with a 68.

“I put a decent round together,” he said. “I felt good out there, I was three under through 10 and thought I was getting into my zone. Unfortunately, I hit a poor tee shot on my 11th hole.”

With his win at Merion, Rose moved up to third in the world rankings behind Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy and sixth in FedEx Cup points, making him the highest-rated player on each list to compete in the Travelers this week.

Should he rally to win, Rose would become the first golfer to win both the United States Open and Connecticut’s tournament since Ken Venturi won the Open at Congressional and won the Insurance Open Invitational in 1964.

While few taste success in both tournaments in one year, that did not keep Rose from returning to Cromwell for the eighth time in his 15-year career. Rose has never won the Travelers but has three top-10 finishes, including a tie for ninth in his last appearance in 2010. Rose led after 54 holes that year but shot 75 on Sunday.

The tournament director, Nathan Grube, said he appreciated the value of Rose’s commitment to the Travelers.

“Having our tournament the week after the Open is perfect” if the Open winner plays, Grube said. “All the momentum carries over into the event.”

Rose also said he intends to keep his commitment to next weekend’s AT&T National outside Washington even if he wins in Cromwell. In fact, he believes playing all three weeks is essential as he gears up for next month’s British Open.

“I think it’s important for me to play this week and next week and get some competitive rounds under my belt as the U.S. Open champion,” Rose said, “so when I get to the next major I’m absolutely ready. The novelty in a sense has worn off, and I can try to accomplish the next one.”
501 2013-06-22 Hunter Renfroe hit a three-run homer, and Mississippi State (51-8) advanced to the College World Series finals in Omaha with a 4-1 victory over Oregon State. It will face North Carolina or U.C.L.A.
502 2013-06-22 The New Jersey State Police said a mechanical problem was to blame for the dirt-track crash that killed the Nascar driver Jason Leffler. The state police released findings from a not-yet-complete report on the June 12 crash at Bridgeport Speedway.
503 2013-06-22 School officials and associates of Mr. Chen, who is blind, have vehemently rejected such assertions and insisted that his fellowship at N.Y.U. was always meant to last one year.

Mr. Chen has declined to provide evidence backing up his assertions, issued in a brief statement last Sunday, that Beijing pressured N.Y.U. to terminate what he acknowledged was a generous arrangement that included tutors, security and housing for him, his wife, and their two children.

With Mr. Chen silent in recent days, Mr. Fu has become one of his more vocal advocates, eagerly telling reporters what Mr. Fu said were instances in which N.Y.U. tried to limit Mr. Chen’s access to conservative political figures and advocates who opposed abortion. Representative Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey, who frequently confers with Mr. Fu on human rights issues in China, has threatened to convene a Congressional hearing on Mr. Chen’s time at N.Y.U.

According to people with knowledge of the episode, Mr. Fu’s wife presented the Apple devices to an assistant of Jerome Cohen, the N.Y.U. law professor who was instrumental in arranging Mr. Chen’s exit from the American Embassy in Beijing, where he had sought refuge after escaping house arrest.

The gifts, along with at least two other phones that were handed to the assistant, arrived on the chaotic day Mr. Chen and his family landed in New York. After an examination by N.Y.U. technicians, all the devices were found to be compromised with spyware, said an associate, who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to speak to the news media.

The spyware included global positioning software that allowed a third party to track the whereabouts of the device, and presumably its owner, and another program that copied its contents to a remote server. After removing the spyware, technicians returned the Apple devices to the Chens, who were told about what had happened. The two other phones, their provenance a mystery, were not given to Mr. Chen.

“He was upset, but he was more concerned about the relatives he left behind who were being mistreated by the authorities,” the associate said.

Mr. Fu was not informed about the spyware on the items, and by all accounts, his relationship with the family deepened in the months that followed.

John H. Beckman, an N.Y.U. spokesman, confirmed the broad outlines of the episode but said he had no further information. Professor Cohen told Reuters he thought the compromised devices were an attempt to keep tabs on Mr. Chen remotely. “These people supposedly were out to help him, and they give him a kind of Trojan horse that would have enabled them to monitor his communications secretly,” he said.

Professor Cohen was traveling in Asia on Friday and could not be reached for comment.

In an interview, Mr. Fu said he learned on Thursday from Reuters that the items his wife had bought at an AT&T store in Texas were compromised. He said a technician he employs had activated the devices and added Skype but nothing else.

He suggested that the spyware could have been installed after his wife dropped off the items but before they were given to the Chens, a gap of at least a day.

“More than anyone else, we want to get to the bottom of this,” he said, adding that he had asked the F.B.I. to look into the matter. “We will fully cooperate with any investigation and hope N.Y.U. will do the same.”
504 2013-06-22 Nippon Professional Baseball has received hundreds of phone calls and thousands of e-mails since the league’s disclosure, many of them expressing contempt for Kato. A growing chorus is calling for him to step down.

“He should resign because his responsibility is so serious,” said Takuya Yamazaki, a lawyer who represents the Japan Professional Baseball Players Association. “Now is the time for us to have a new commissioner who can revolutionize Japanese baseball.”

The revelation has angered a nation tired of leaders who try to sweep bad news under the rug to, according to a popular euphemism, “avoid confusion.” In recent years, executives at Olympus, the camera and medical equipment maker that hid massive losses from shareholders, and Tokyo Electric Power Company, whose shattered nuclear reactors have endangered millions of people, have been pilloried after their transgressions were unearthed, to name two prominent examples.

No one equates Japan’s ball controversy with those examples of corporate malfeasance. But it is fresh evidence that the country’s hidebound baseball world is still the province of owners who treat their teams primarily as marketing vehicles for their parent companies. The commissioner has tried to empower his office, yet he remains a figurehead who essentially owes his power to the Tokyo Yomiuri Giants, the league’s most powerful team.

To bring Nippon Professional Baseball more in line with Major League Baseball and other international sports organizations, Yamazaki said, management standards must be improved to include more transparency, more democratic decision-making and an impartial dispute resolution process.

Kato, who declined requests for comment, has said he plans to stay at his post so he can institute those reforms. The 12 owners may have other plans. On July 10, they will hear from a newly appointed panel of experts about how the controversy unfolded. Kato could take the fall for neglecting to tell the players and fans about the new ball.

The boardroom intrigue has an extra dimension. After years of kowtowing to the Giants and their titular head, Tsuneo Watanabe, the owners of the other teams may want to challenge his authority by tossing out Kato.

“This is a proxy war over the Giants,” said a baseball executive who requested anonymity because negotiations were continuing. “Kato is viewed as Watanabe’s choice. This could have been avoided.”

Alarmed by the decline in home runs, the teams discussed how to change the composition of the ball late last season, a Japanese team executive said. When they failed to reach a consensus, they asked the league to settle the issue.

“We left it up to officials at the N.P.B.,” he said. But “they should have told everyone.”

Most fans would have accepted the new ball because high-scoring games are often popular. The players union, too, would have gone along with the change if it were part of a goal that both pitchers and batters could get behind, like introducing a new ball to help the national team. That, after all, was one of the justifications for introducing a unified ball three years ago.
505 2013-06-22 Within a week, angry Episcopalians — yes, that could be an Updike title — took to the Web with outrage. Articles in Anglican Ink, The Christian Post, and other conservative publications questioned the presiding bishop’s exegetical acumen, even her standing as a Christian.

Disdain for Bishop Jefferts Schori is common among church conservatives. She is supportive of marriage and ordination for gay men and lesbians, and she has taken a very hard line against dissenting dioceses, many of whose members hold more traditional views. Under her leadership, the Episcopal Church has spent millions of dollars in legal fights to keep the church buildings of congregations whose members have voted to leave the Episcopal Church, often to affiliate with more traditionalist organizations.

No presiding bishop could be truly popular right now. Bishop Jefferts Schori assumed her post at a time when, on issues of sexuality and theology, it would be impossible not to make enemies in the church. That said, her rereading of Paul’s actions toward the slave girl are indeed provocative.

“Bishop Jefferts Schori simply ignores what the text says, in order to give a reading that portrays Paul as a patriarchal oppressor who fails to recognize the voice of God in a low-status young girl,” said Jordan Hylden, who writes for Christian publications and will soon be ordained an Episcopal priest. The bishop’s interpretation is “so obviously wrong,” Mr. Hylden continued, in an e-mail, “that the deeper question is: Why does she feel at liberty to give a reading of Scripture that doesn’t even try to understand and explain what the text is saying?”

Fidelity to the Bible text is obviously never trivial for Christians, but it is especially sensitive for Episcopalians right now. Conservatives believe that the church leadership, which now consecrates gay and lesbian bishops and permits its priests to perform same-sex marriage ceremonies, ignores biblical teachings about sexuality, in both the Old and New Testaments. Although a spokesman for the Episcopal Church said the exact number of members who have departed during Bishop Jefferts Schori’s tenure is not available, to take one example, the Anglican Church in North America, which was founded in 2009 and claims to have 1,000 congregations representing 100,000 worshipers, includes many ex-Episcopalians. Their departure has a lot to do with disagreements over how one reads the Bible.

Mikeal C. Parsons, a Baylor University professor and author of a book about Acts, wrote in an e-mail that Bishop Jefferts Schori’s critics are probably right that “she interprets the text in a direction” that the original author would not recognize. “That is to say,” Dr. Parsons wrote, “I do not think the author of Acts is criticizing Paul’s actions in any way, certainly not for failing to recognize her ‘gift of spiritual awareness.’ ”

On the other hand, Dr. Parsons continued, “there is nothing in the text to suggest” that the spirit in the woman was “evil.” The story is not necessarily about an “exorcism” of demonic powers. Rather, after driving the spirit out, Paul is thrown in prison, because “her owners are incensed that their financial exploitation of the girl’s divining powers have ended” — they can no longer profit from her fortunetelling. In that sense, Paul is definitely her liberator, in a literal as well as spiritual sense.

But Bishop Jefferts Schori pointed out, in an interview on Friday, that elsewhere in the Bible, Paul appears to condone slavery. Her sermon was thus part of a necessary, continuing tradition of interpretation.

“If the church had never reinterpreted Scripture,” the bishop said, “we would still have slavery — legal slavery.” Scripture must be read “in our own time and our own context,” because prior generations had “a limited view,” she said.

“They had to have a limited view, because none of us is God.”
506 2013-06-22 The Russian economy has been strong in recent years, functioning almost at full capacity, largely because of high energy prices, which helped build up the country’s reserve funds. But with nearly full employment, new government spending is more likely to cause wage inflation than to create new jobs, experts say. Instead, they add, Russia needs to review manufacturing, create new industries and attract foreign capital.

While not the headline measure in Mr. Putin’s plan, the amnesty proposal was by far the most surprising item. It was the brainchild of Mr. Putin’s business ombudsman, Boris Titov, who has championed it as a means to improve the business climate.

“The period that just passed was not the best for defenders of property rights,” Mr. Titov said last week in an interview.

In 2000, when Mr. Putin came to power, the government re-examined many of the early post-Soviet privatizations, which were widely regarded as fraudulent, and later imprisoned the richest man in Russia at the time, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, on charges of tax evasion and fraud that many critics said were trumped up.

Taking a cue, police and Federal Security Service officers set about seizing businesses large and small throughout Russia from unpopular or unlucky businessmen, and often, in an Orwellian manner, emerging as the owners themselves.

In fact, police officers who seize businesses are common enough in Russia to have earned the nickname “werewolves in epaulets.”

The intention of the amnesty plan is to free thousands of run-of-the-mill businessmen caught up in this turmoil, while avoiding the high-profile and politically tinged cases, like those of Mr. Khodorkovsky, who is not expected to be freed.

Mr. Titov said that 110,000 people were serving prison time for economic crimes, and that 2,500 others were in pretrial detention. The draft of the amnesty bill, Mr. Titov said, covers 13,000 of them.

“This initiative will on the whole strengthen the trust of citizens” in the business community, Mr. Putin said in his speech. “I am certain the development of the state is possible only under conditions of respect for private property, to the values of economic freedom and the work and success of entrepreneurs.”

More broadly, though, the intention of Mr. Putin’s amnesty, Mr. Titov said, is to signal to the business community an easing police pressure. It is, he said, “a very positive, a very good signal for Russia, and that is important as in Russia. We don’t often have good signals.”

Yet, in a sign of the unsettled and unpredictable legal and political situation, on Friday the Russian authorities raided the Moscow headquarters of a nonprofit group, For Human Rights, in what was described as eviction proceedings, local news agencies reported. The group’s director acknowledged a lease dispute with the city, which owns the offices, but said the raid was illegal.

The stimulus plan was questioned by one of Russia’s leading economic authorities, Aleksei L. Kudrin, who said it would unnecessarily put pension funds at risk and, in the immediate term, would not create much growth.

“I would prefer that such infrastructure projects sold their bonds on the market, then we wouldn’t have to involve the Welfare Fund,” he said. “We are lowering our insurance just at the time when the pension fund needs it most.”

As for any economic jolt, he said it would be minimal. “These are big projects, but not gigantic,” he said. “We won’t have any economic growth for them.”

Igor I. Shuvalov, a first deputy prime minister, said the government was acting on expert advice. “Any advice we are receiving from international financial organizations or independent experts, they all say we need to invest in the infrastructure,” Mr. Shuvalov said. “Physical infrastructure is what is required for speeding up, for growth.”

In his speech, Mr. Putin outlined several other steps to spur Russia’s economy, including a plan to limit increases in tariffs on electricity and other utilities, and to encourage lower interest rates on commercial loans.

Mr. Putin also said Russia would continue efforts to curb inflation. Economists have cited Russia’s low growth and high inflation as evidence of structural flaws in the economy.

Mr. Putin was joined on stage by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who said, “Germany wishes to support Russia in the process of opening its economy, diversifying its economy.”

But the amicable appearance on stage belied a series of recent tensions, the latest involving a long-simmering dispute over the spoils of World War II.

In a joint visit to the Hermitage State Museum, Ms. Merkel directly challenged Mr. Putin by reiterating Germany’s demand that Russia return a collection of artwork that was taken from German museums by retreating Soviet soldiers at the end of the war. The disputed art, including several gold bangles and objects known as the Eberswalde Treasure, is part of a new exhibit at the Hermitage on the Bronze Age.

Earlier on Friday, officials said the museum visit had been called off, apparently as a result of the dispute. But at a joint news conference at the economic forum, Ms. Merkel said they would go together after all.

Mr. Putin said the focus should be on the exhibit, not on the dispute. “It’s a very sensitive issue,” he said. “We should look for solutions.”

But once at the museum, Ms. Merkel insisted that Russia return the art. Mr. Putin refused.
507 2013-06-23 MELNIKER--J. Harry, 92, Ben Jacob. Beloved and wonderful husband for 56 years of Margot, devoted father of Jill Roslyn and Lawrence Aron, loving PopPop of Brian Stuart and Haley Rose. A Graduate of the Columbia School of Business, he served in the...
508 2013-06-23 Rabbi Baht Yameem Weiss and Todd Maynard Cohen are to be married Sunday. Rabbi Joshua L. Caruso, the brother of the bride, is to officiate at the Hotel Monaco in Washington.

The bride, 34, will continue to use her name professionally. She is the associate rabbi at Temple Beth Ami in Rockville, Md. She graduated from Brandeis University and received a master’s degree in Hebrew literature from the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.

She is the daughter of Sondra A. Weiss of New York and the late Aaron J. Weiss. The bride’s father was a clinical psychologist with a private practice in New York. Her mother is a field specialist at the Fordham University School of Education. She supervises new teachers, who are in the master’s program at Fordham, in their classrooms.

Mr. Cohen, 37, is the environmental health and safety compliance officer at MedStar Montgomery Medical Center in Olney, Md. He graduated from the University of Maryland and received both a master’s degree in health services administration and a master’s degree in health information technology from George Washington University.

He is a son of Lucy L. Cohen and Dr. Lawrence F. Cohen of Rockville. The groom’s mother is a program specialist at the Maddux School, a private elementary school program in Rockville. His father, a pediatrician, is a partner in Discovery Pediatrics, a group medical practice in Silver Spring, Md.
509 2013-06-23 Alisson Bridget Browne and Brandon Richard Kiss were married Saturday at the Church of St. Joseph’s in Bronxville, N.Y. The Rev. Dawson J. Ambosta, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Kiss, 29, works at the New York law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, where she helps coordinate and prepare the first-year associates. She is also pursuing a master’s degree in industrial and organizational psychology at New York University. She graduated from Lafayette College.

She is a daughter of Bridget Salmonese Browne and John Paul Browne of Bronxville, N.Y. The bride’s father works in Melville, N.Y., as a vice president and the general counsel at the United States division of Nikon, the Japanese camera and imaging company. Her mother is the principal of St. Theresa School, a Catholic school in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

Mr. Kiss, 30, is a vice president of the Snow Phipps Group, an investment firm in New York, where he manages investments and evaluates opportunities. He graduated from Colgate.

He is a son of Sharon Fehrs Kiss and Robert E. Kiss of Chatham, N.J. The groom’s mother, who is retired, taught in the fourth and fifth grade at Lafayette Elementary School there . His father is a managing director in the investment management division of JPMorgan Chase in New York.
510 2013-06-23 Bonnie Alice Barsamian and Daniel Jeremiah Dunn Jr. were married Saturday at the St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral in Manhattan. Archbishop Khajag Barsamian, a cousin of the bride and the primate of the Eastern Diocese of the Armenian Church of America, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 49, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a partner in the New York office of the Houston law firm Baker Botts. She graduated from Amherst College and received a law degree from the University of Chicago.

She is a daughter of Alice Missirlian Barsamian and J. Albert Barsamian of Albany, N.Y.

The groom, 50, is an independent financial adviser in New York. He also graduated from Amherst and received an M.B.A from Yale.

He is the son of Margaret Boyce Dunn and the late Mr. Dunn Sr.
511 2013-06-23 Tonya Vachirasomboon and Isaac Jon Thompson were married Saturday. The Rev. Nathan J. Thompson, the father of the groom and a Lutheran minister, performed the ceremony at North Shore Presbyterian Church in Shorewood, Wis.

Ms. Vachirasomboon, 30, is keeping her name. She is an associate at Quarles & Brady, a Milwaukee law firm. She graduated with distinction and received a law degree cum laude from Indiana University.

She is a daughter of Chantanathip Vachirasomboon and Dr. Thongchai Vachirasomboon of Crown Point, Ind. The bride’s father, an anesthesiologist, is a partner in Anesthesia Consultants of Indiana, a group practice in Crown Point.

Mr. Thompson, 27, is the artistic administrator of the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Cincinnati and received a master’s in violin performance from the University of Texas.

He is also a son of Kim L. Thompson; the groom’s parents live in Shoreview, Minn. His father is the pastor at Messiah Lutheran Church in Hoffman, Minn.
512 2013-06-23 CROMWELL, Conn. — Charley Hoffman lost his chance to win last year’s Travelers Championship on the 71st hole.

His tee shot on the difficult par-4 17th at the T.P.C. River Highlands course found the pond that runs along the fairway, and he finished second, failing to post his third PGA Tour win.

This year, Hoffman is in a three-way tie for the lead heading into Sunday’s final round, and he expects a different outcome if he still leads at No. 17.

“Obviously if I get on 17 tee, I’d be lying to say I’m not going to think about that tee shot,” Hoffman said Saturday after his four-under-par 66 left him tied with Bubba Watson and Graham DeLaet at 10-under 200.

“But I’m a much more mature, better player than I was a year ago and don’t feel uncomfortable on that tee shot.”
513 2013-06-23 On Sept. 5, 2003, Beijing passed the overall regulation on dog breeding. The rule, which took effect on Oct. 15 that year, stipulated among other things that “large and vicious dogs” were not allowed in “key management areas” in Beijing. The rule defined those areas — the districts that make up the heart of the capital — but not the dog breeds.

Then, on Oct. 13, two days before the rule was set to take effect, the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Agriculture, the authority in charge of husbandry and veterinary affairs, issued the definitive explanation notice on the banned breeds. “In key management areas, vicious dogs as well as dogs of maturity height over 35 centimeters are not allowed,” the announcement said. The notice excluded guide dogs for the blind and other similar helper dogs from the height restriction. The notice listed the following dogs as examples of those that were banned:
514 2013-06-23 SAN DIEGO — A federal judge has sentenced two former Border Patrol agents to at least 30 years in prison for running a ring that smuggled hundreds of illegal immigrants into the United States.

Judge John A. Houston of Federal District Court on Friday sentenced Raul Villarreal to 35 years for being the ringleader and ordered him to pay a $250,000 fine. Fidel Villarreal, his brother, was sentenced to 30 years for managing the illicit business.

Judge Houston said he gave the severe sentences to deter other agents who were entrusted with protecting the border. The judge called their smuggling operation “disgusting” and a threat to national security.

Prosecutors said Raul Villarreal, who had made television appearances as an agency spokesman and once played the role of a smuggler in a public service advertisement, recruited his brother into his ring. The men worked with a corrupt police officer in Tijuana, Mexico, and a network that included foot guides and drivers.

The two agents would abandon their duties to transport migrants in Border Patrol vehicles, sometimes several times a day, from Tijuana to a rugged area along the California border, federal officials said. Prosecutors said they had smuggled as many as 1,000 Mexicans and Brazilians in groups of 10 and had charged them about $10,000 per group. Prosecutors said the brothers made more than $1 million from the scheme.

The investigation of the Villarreal brothers began in May 2005 when an informer gave a tip to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. Prosecutors said that when the brothers learned in June 2006 that they were being investigated, they quit their jobs and fled to Tijuana. Two years later, the brothers were arrested there and extradited to the United States, where they were charged with human smuggling, witness tampering and bribery.
515 2013-06-23 What it did not do is change Mr. Obama’s response to the biggest atrocity of the day, the Syrian civil war. He has steadfastly resisted deeper involvement, even as the death toll has surpassed 90,000. That has made the board an easy target for conservatives, as well as some genocide scholars, who condemn it as toothless.

“This is the first time you’ve had a point person to prevent atrocities in the U.S. government,” said Mark Schneider, a senior vice president at the International Crisis Group, a research organization. “But sometimes you fail; sometimes you’re not able to come up with alternative policies.”

Current and former administration officials said it was naïve to think that an interagency board could shift American policy on Syria, given the enormity and strategic sensitivity of the crisis and that it was already raging when the board was formed.

“It is unrealistic for a new entity that has no real authority to galvanize the government on Syria,” said Lanny A. Breuer, a former assistant attorney general who represented the Justice Department on the board until earlier this year. “But what it can do is to raise awareness.”

Ms. Power, Mr. Breuer said, brought a “boldness and level of commitment that was impressive.” She handpicked the board’s members from 11 agencies including the Treasury Department and the C.I.A., and she led meetings that were unusually well attended, another member said, thanks to her intensity.

With ties to Mr. Obama dating to his 2008 campaign, Ms. Power also got him to put his personal imprimatur on the effort. The president, announcing the creation of the board at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in April 2012, declared that preventing mass atrocities and genocide was a “core national security interest.”

“This is not an afterthought,” he added. “This is not a sideline in our foreign policy.”

Friends of Ms. Power’s say that as a senior director on the National Security Council, she argued for a more robust response to Syria — an argument that finally gained traction, months after she left, with Mr. Obama’s recent decision to begin supplying small arms and ammunition to the rebels.

For Ms. Power, the experience illustrates the frustrations that human rights advocates have long encountered in government. In her 2002 book, “A Problem From Hell,” she noted that during the three months of genocide in Rwanda, the Clinton administration never held a top-level meeting devoted to it.

“You expect to lose these fights,” said Gary J. Bass, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, who is a friend of Ms. Power’s. “If public opinion doesn’t stop you, a reluctant president will. If the bureaucracy doesn’t stop you, the Pentagon will.”

Ms. Power has had one notable success, which predated the board: allying with Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, and Susan E. Rice, who is leaving her job as ambassador to the United Nations to be national security adviser, to persuade Mr. Obama to back a NATO-led military intervention in Libya. By all accounts, it halted a potential slaughter of rebels by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

Ms. Power did not respond to a request for comment, and she has been careful not to air her views on Syria. Her friends say that she does not reflexively argue for military force. Much of the board’s work has focused on other ways of pressuring abusive governments, including financial sanctions, export controls and travel bans on foreign officials.

To do this, it has pulled in agencies not known for attention to human rights. The Treasury, for example, has placed on blacklists people suspected of human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other countries; the Justice Department has begun training prosecutors to work on human rights cases.

Perhaps most important, the board scans the horizon for the next Syria. The administration is completing the first National Intelligence Estimate on the risks of mass atrocities, a report that will reflect the consensus of the nation’s 16 intelligence agencies.

Focusing the government’s attention early is where “the board is able to be a game changer,” said Stephen Pomper, who succeeded Ms. Power as senior director for multilateral affairs and human rights at the National Security Council and took her seat as the chairman of the board.

But the board has kept an extremely low profile, largely because of the shadow of Syria. It has not made public its annual report to the president or, until recently, briefed Congress. Even some former administration officials involved in foreign policy say they are not familiar with its work. That has drawn criticism from outsiders, who say its near invisibility has undermined its credibility.

“Treating atrocity prevention with a level of secrecy similar to that accorded to national intelligence reviews seems misguided,” John Norris and Annie Malknecht wrote in a report on the board published by the liberal Center for American Progress.

For some critics, secrecy is the least of its problems. Genocide scholars say it did nothing to prevent Sudan from bombing people in the Nuba Mountains. The conservative columnist George Will cited it as the kind of empty gesture at which the administration excels.

“What do they do? They convene around a table, and they say, a quorum being present, let’s prevent an atrocity,” Mr. Will said this month on the ABC News program “This Week,” shortly after Ms. Power was nominated. “There’s a kind of right-mindedness and feel-goodness about this that I don’t think translates into policy.”

Human rights advocates are more generous. They say that it is too soon to judge the board, and that its early-warning function is useful since the time to prevent atrocities is before they metastasize.

“This is a very significant board with very significant people on it,” said Michael J. Abramowitz, director of the Center for the Prevention of Genocide at the Holocaust Museum. “Obviously, the question is, will they make a difference on these key policy issues?”
516 2013-06-23 “Considering the ‘culture’ of the state’s attitude toward its citizens, something similar could happen to anyone in our homeland,” he wrote.

Mr. Ponomaryov, a former member of Parliament whose activism dates to the Soviet period, has been vocally defiant in recent months as President Vladimir V. Putin has taken steps to uproot organizations like For Human Rights that receive financial support from the West. Mr. Putin has said Western governments tried to stir up antigovernment protests with the help of Russian nonprofit groups.

Mr. Ponomaryov said he believed that the raid had been approved by Putin administration officials. He said he had never received official notice that his lease was to be terminated and had expected Moscow to extend it, as in previous years.

“I think there is a purge going on, Putin has untied his hands, and there is no reaction at all from the West to the fact that he is behaving this way,” said Mr. Ponomaryov, adding that the use of force in the raid was unusual because it occurred in public.

“Usually, if they beat us, it happens inside, like in the back of a paddy wagon,” he said. “It is secret — no one knows, no one sees. And here, there were 20 people standing in the room. These people beat me publicly, and they were employees of the mayor’s office.”

The United States ambassador, Michael A. McFaul, criticized the eviction in a Twitter comment, calling it “another case of intimidation of civil society.” Freedom House, a democracy watchdog organization, released a statement describing the raid’s “thuggish tactics.” It said, “People were thrown to the ground and violently beaten” but the police refused to intervene.

Russia’s human rights commissioner, Vladimir Lukin, told Interfax that he was “saddened and alarmed” by the episode, and that he was denied access to the building on the night of the raid, which he called “a gross violation of federal constitutional law.”

“Officials from the Moscow administration, the Interior Ministry and apparently some other organizations were trying to settle a dispute between the two bodies unilaterally, without judicial bodies, and therefore arbitrarily,” Mr. Lukin said. The Kremlin’s Human Rights Council has called a special meeting next week to discuss the episode.

Several dozen journalists and activists picketed during the day, displaying signs that read, “We will not give up” and “Riot police are morons.”

Mr. Ponomaryov was the victim of a beating in 2009, when a group of men ambushed him outside his home.
517 2013-06-23 As those of us who had to defend the 1971 publication of the secret Pentagon Papers about the Vietnam War have been arguing ever since, there can be no mature discussion of national security policies without the disclosure — authorized or not — of the government’s hoard of secrets.

HOW many thousands have access to these storage bins? Who decides to open any individual file and who then gains access to its content? Is there ever a chance to challenge the necessity of opening a file? And what happens to gleaned information that has no bearing whatsoever on terrorism?

Given the history of misused “secrets” in Washington, such questions are by no means paranoid. J. Edgar Hoover used F.B.I. investigations and files to smear the reputations of individuals — even to the point of intimidating presidents. Throughout the government, “security” monitors leaked personnel files to Congressional demagogues like Senator Joseph R. McCarthy to wreck the careers of officials and blacklisted citizens with claims of disloyalty. President Lyndon B. Johnson and other officials used secret files from the Internal Revenue Service to harass and intimidate political opponents. President Richard M. Nixon tried to use the C.I.A. to cover up his Watergate crimes.

Information that is gathered and managed in secret is a potent weapon — and the temptation to use it in political combat or the pursuit of crimes far removed from terrorism can be irresistible.

President Obama and other defenders of the amassing of data insist that no individual conversation or transaction is ever examined without “court” approval, meaning a warrant from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. But the court authorizes the scrutiny of more Americans than foreigners, and it is no court in the customary sense: it operates entirely in secret. Its members are federal judges from around the country, any one of whom may authorize the opening of files. Lacking any real challenge to the evidence, they function more as grand jury than court. Mr. Obama has conceded that only a handful of warrant requests have ever been turned down (a few have been modified), a success rate he attributes to government restraint.

Yet most federal judges are predisposed to defer to executive claims of national security. They are generalists with little experience in evaluating intelligence, and they are reluctant to hamper government operatives sworn to defend the nation. The same reluctance is evident among members of Congress, who pose as watchdogs but melt when they hear appeals to patriotism from the managers of the intelligence services.

In theory, Americans are in the habit of resisting government intrusions on their rights of free speech and association. Accordingly we should be skeptical of such overweening exertions. But the data-hauling has gone on for years without real challenge. When asked whether the government could not simply log individual suspicious calls without amassing a national database, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the head of the National Security Agency, said he was open to discussing that approach, though it might delay work in a crisis. A delay of hours? Days? Weeks? Did President George W. Bush or Mr. Obama ever ask the question?

What ought to compound our skepticism is the news that there is money to be made in the mass approach. We are learning that much of the snooping is farmed out to profit-seeking corporations that have great appetites for government contracts, secured through executives who enrich themselves by shuttling between agency jobs and the contractors’ board rooms. We have privatized what should be a most solemn government activity, guaranteeing bloat and also the inevitable and ironic employ of rebellious hackers like Mr. Snowden.

Where then can we find the skeptical oversight that such a radical challenge to our freedom demands? Presidents beholden to their own bureaucracies seem disinclined to play the skeptic or even to create an elite independent commission, like the Warren Commission, which examined the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, to assess the conflict between liberty and security and point the way to reasonable balance.

Despite the predilections of federal judges to defer to the executive branch, I think in the long run we have no choice but to entrust our freedom to them. But the secret world of intelligence demands its own special, permanent court, like the United States Tax Court, whose members are confirmed by the Senate for terms that allow them to become real experts in the subject. Such a court should inform the public about the nature of its cases and its record of approvals and denials. Most important, it should summon special attorneys to test the government’s secret evidence in every case, so that a full court hears a genuine adversarial debate before intruding on a citizen’s civil rights. That, too, might cost a little time in some crisis. There’s no escaping the fact that freedom is expensive.
518 2013-06-23 WIDER ECONOMIC GAPS Another barrier is the difficulty of sustaining a cultural vision for catching up economically. South Korea was a poor nation in the 1960s, and its economic rise required sacrifices from millions of people in work hours, savings and investment in education. But within 20 years or so, one could see that South Korea would most likely join the ranks of economically developed nations. Indeed it has, so these sacrifices yielded satisfaction within a reasonable time. Many of today’s poorer nations seem to be more than 20 years away from competing with the global leaders, which are now themselves more advanced, and that slower and longer path to the top may discourage some countries from even trying.

AGING POPULATIONS Finally, many lower-income countries will be old before they are rich. China’s population, for example, is aging rapidly, given the government’s one-child policy and the decline in birthrates that accompanies rising income. It is less well known that fertility rates in much of the Middle East and North Africa are also falling rapidly. In Iran, for example, it is now estimated at 1.86 per woman, which over time would mean that families are not replenishing themselves. And shrinking and older populations, of course, limit future economic growth.

BY no means do these arguments mean that the living standards of poorer nations must stagnate. A country can improve the lot of at least some of its citizens by selling services, as seen in the relative prosperity of Bangalore, India, which, among other activities, runs call centers and sells many programming services online. Many African nations are marketing their resource wealth, and may also improve productivity in local agriculture. Virtually all poor nations eventually benefit from the innovations of wealthy nations, which they often receive at much lower prices, as seen with cellphones and medications, for example.

So the chances for progress remain, but those poorer nations might never “become like us.” There was something special about the 20th-century mix of widespread, well-paying manufacturing jobs, which enabled the rise of a middle class that would take significant control of government, through its roles as voters and taxpayers. Those manufacturing jobs also created strong incentives for many people to pursue traditional education, whether in Toronto or Tokyo.

The best guess is that the idea of economic catch-up has changed, which means that politics in developing nations could change, too. Just as inequality in income and wealth has been rising in the United States, newly growing nations find themselves in a more stratified world, without developing their own strong egalitarian histories to undergird political institutions or economic expectations. Many of the wealthy may produce their public goods — like secure streets and clean, beautiful parks — in gated communities.

In some countries, there may be a de facto “rule by consent” from abroad — if, for instance, you are an African working in a Chinese-owned mine and living in a company town, while receiving your vaccines from a Western nonprofit organization. Those phenomena might not fit our current notions of national pride very well — and might mean further splits within developing nations.

Indeed, the future path of developing countries could be much different from that of recent, high-growth success stories. The next set of emerging-market winners, for example, may retain very large pockets of poverty. And as the expectation of a single, common path for economic development fades, governments may need to rethink what they can accomplish — and how.

In any case, we should be prepared for the possibility that, while Seoul now looks a fair amount like Los Angeles, perhaps La Paz, Accra and Dhaka will never look much like Seoul.
519 2013-06-23 Cutting through the noise — statistical and partisan — to offer an objective reading of the fight over judges....
520 2013-06-23 Covered since 1965 Section 5 was first applied to places that had voter registration or turnout rates below 50 percent in 1964 and also “devices” to discourage voting, like literacy tests.

Added in 1970 or 1975 On renewal, the law used data from 1968 and 1972 and defined a “device” to include English-only ballots in places where at least 5 percent of voting-age citizens spoke a single language other than English.

Places that had been free of any voting discrimination for 10 years could be released from coverage by a court.
521 2013-06-23 Rose, playing River Highlands for the eighth time in his 15-year career and the first time since 2010, said he decided to return to Connecticut after his Open victory because of fond memories.

“I think the tournament’s treated me well,” he said.

Although thunderstorms are common at this tournament, recent dry weather and warm temperatures have left River Highlands in ideal shape.

“The greens are very good,” Rose said.

Bubba Watson, the 2012 Masters champion, said he appreciated the differences between the Open and the Travelers.

“There are generous fairways, and it is playable from the rough, unlike last week,” said Watson, who is tied with Graham DeLaet and Charley Hoffman for the third-round lead at 10 under par. “The rough doesn’t scare anybody.”

Still, Rose, who is three shots back, warned that if players were too confident, they would pay.

“This course is tricky enough where, if you get too aggressive or too greedy out there, you can get into trouble,” he said.

The tournament director Nathan Grube said he was determined to have his awkwardly timed event succeed without easy drawing cards like Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson. Woods has never played the event in 16 years on the PGA Tour, and Mickelson has not played at River Highlands since Travelers became the title sponsor in 2007.

“The date makes sense for us,” Grube said. “It’s before people go on vacation. I love it where we are with N.C.A.A.’s and some of those young kids are looking to turn pro. If you told me that we could switch dates and have Tiger or Phil, I don’t know that I’d do it.”

The tournament, formerly known as the Insurance City Open, the Greater Hartford Open and the Buick Championship, had struggled with sponsorship and finding a home on the tour calendar. When Travelers became the title sponsor, the event became a fixture the week after the Open.

“Having an identity is something important,” Grube said. “The week after the Open is our week.”

But that timing has forced Grube to be creative in his recruiting. He annually seeks out younger players and has become widely known for his use of sponsors’ exemptions. The Travelers used one on Webb Simpson in 2008, and he has returned every year, including last year after winning the Open.

“When guys are young, it’s the only time they’re asking the tournaments for anything,” Grube said. “It’s our one chance to build a relationship that they remember.”

Grube’s method also places strong emphasis on the players and their support groups.

“We really built relationships with these guys, and we like to show them that we care,” Grube said. “We care about their caddies; we care about their wives and girlfriends.”

While Grube does the recruiting, J. J. Henry, a native of Fairfield, Conn., gladly advocates for the event. Henry, a 15-year pro who won the tournament when it was the Buick Championship in 2006, is a fixture at the lone PGA event in his home state.

“This tournament means so much,” Henry said. “I played here as an amateur in ’98, and obviously to win here in 2006, it brings back a lot of neat memories.”
522 2013-06-23 A. Let’s start by noting that the two packages — the former eight-ounce version and the new four-ouncer — should not be priced the same, according to Kraft. A spokeswoman for the company, Mary Anne McAndrew, wrote in an e-mail that the suggested retail price for the four-ounce package is $2.89, while the suggested retail price for the old eight-ounce package was $3.89.

Upon seeing these numbers, the Haggler, who is nothing if not a mathematical genius, went to his calculator — and crunched the numbers five times to make sure he got them right. In the larger container, Kraft was grossing 49 cents an ounce. With the new, smaller one, it’s 72 cents an ounce. That’s an increase of 47 percent.

So, Ms. McAndrew, isn’t this just a price increase in semi-clever disguise?

As if, she wrote, though she didn’t actually use those words. She used these:

“The change was consumer-driven. Our consumers have told us that they prefer this size over the larger size because the majority of our Baker’s recipes call for four ounces or less. The easy-break bar makes it faster to melt and easier to break apart. And they can buy only what they need for a recipe, so the product is fresher.”

Bakers of America, Kraft is doing you a favor!

Once you’re done with a hearty chorus of “thank you,” let’s ask Ms. McAndrew the obvious follow-up question: Why didn’t the company keep the price per ounce the same?

“Our packaging change for Baker’s Chocolate was driven by consumer research,” she wrote. “Our consumers have told us that they prefer this size over the larger size because the majority of our Baker’s recipes call for four ounces or less.”

Indeed. You mentioned that. Did your consumer research also tell you that shoppers want to pay more per ounce?

There was a pause in communication and then:

“Our new four-ounce size of Baker’s Chocolate is competitively priced with other brands,” she wrote.

Ms. MacKnight, our reader in Princeton Junction, confirmed that this was true. The reality is that for many items, production costs — like the price of commodities, labor and energy — have been rising. Given these circumstances, a price increase is perfectly understandable and arguably inevitable.

What’s odd is that few manufacturers, it seems, ever level with consumers about what might be valid reasons for higher prices. You seldom hear explanations like: “Hey, our costs have soared by 50 percent since we last touched the price of these pickles. This isn’t a charity, kiddies. The price is going up.”

Instead, for some products, there is all manner of sneaky tweaks to the packaging. Tod Marks has tracked some of the more creative ones for Consumer Reports. With tip-offs from readers, he found Tropicana cartons that slimmed down to 59 ounces from 64 ounces, containers of Häagen-Dazs that went to 14 ounces from 16, and a brand of Costco paper towels that went to 80 sheets from 90.

As with Baker’s Chocolate, these reductions did not come with commensurate reductions in price. That said, in most cases, when asked by Mr. Marks, the companies had reasonable explanations for the alterations, usually related to the costs of raw materials.

The exception was Costco, which promised to look into the matter, then went silent. All of these manufacturers seem to have calculated that a bit of packaging subterfuge is more palatable to consumers than a higher price tag.

“It’s the masking that is the sin,” he said. “Nobody begrudges these folks their living. But nobody wants to find that the new giant size is actually smaller than the old giant size.”

Then again, if manufacturers played it straight, the whole spot-the-shenanigans side of shopping would disappear, as would the pleasure of listening to companies find creative explanations for their handiwork. The Haggler’s favorite cereal, Barbara’s Bakery Puffins, was downsized two years ago, according to the company. Why?

“The density of the cereal changed,” said Federico Meade, a spokesman for the brand’s owner, Weetabix North America, in a recent telephone interview.

Wait. You mean it became more dense? Or less dense? And either way, how does a change in density justify a smaller box?

Mr. Meade promised to look into the matter. Then he went silent.
523 2013-06-23 After reading “Six Faces of the Minimum Wage” (Backdrop, June 16), it would have been easy to believe that raising the minimum wage could solve the problems of many workers.

But if you had published some other faces, we would have seen that millions of Americans can’t get work of any kind because the minimum wage, along with many other government mandates, is preventing job creation. We also would have seen the faces of small-business owners who are trying to save enough to expand their operations — capital accumulation would be much more difficult if the minimum wage were raised.

You also could have shown Americans whose first job was at minimum wage, but who then received skills that allowed them to move up the wage scale. Business growth is what enables upward mobility for many workers.
524 2013-06-23 Robert Frank’s ideas about the exportability of Swedish health care to the United States are fine, from an economist’s perspective (“What Sweden Can Tell Us About Obamacare,” Economic View, June 16). But they are not plausible politically.

Health policies in Sweden and in most Western countries reflect rational approaches to a collective problem affecting society. These require a political culture of collaboration over political partisanship. The political culture of the United States, however, rewards partisan distinctions and increasingly penalizes cooperation and precludes collaboration. So does the adversarial style that characterizes relationships between providers and public interest groups speaking for consumers.

Obamacare doesn’t make much of a dent in the problem because it puts providers’ interests ahead of economic rationality and a comprehensive approach to society’s needs. This is particularly evident in continuing fee-for-service incentives and a failure to effect serious cost containment.

As a political scientist often skeptical of economists’ approaches, I surprise myself by wishing that the views of Professor Frank and his economist colleagues could prevail. But, alas, that is not likely in my grandchildren’s lifetime.

The writer is a professor emeritus in the department of government and politics at the University of Maryland.
525 2013-06-23 Jurors will not hear from experts about whether a distraught voice on a 911 call is George Zimmerman, the community watchman, or Trayvon Martin, the 17-year-old who was killed....
526 2013-06-23 Credit: Piotr Redlinski for The New York Times
527 2013-06-23 “YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN” at the Gateway Playhouse in Bellport becomes truly hilarious toward the end, when Dr. Frederick Frankenstein and his creation, a giant, green-faced Monster, pair up for a glittery soft-shoe to Irving Berlin’s “Puttin’ on the Ritz.” But even before then, the production is delightfully entertaining — not what one might expect given the critical drubbing the musical received after its 2007 Broadway opening.

At Gateway, the show (the full title of which is “The New Mel Brooks Musical Young Frankenstein”) hews to the Broadway version, with the original direction and choreography by Susan Stroman recreated by Jeff Whiting, who was her assistant choreographer on Broadway and directed the national touring production. It also uses the impressive Broadway set designed by Robin Wagner and the colorful costumes by William Ivey Long.

Fortunately, it arrives without the heavy baggage of the Broadway production, which included ticket prices of up to $450 a seat, and lofty expectations following Mr. Brooks’s previous success with “The Producers.” Those elements contributed to the disappointed tone of many of the reviews. Still, the show (based on Mr. Brooks’s 1974 movie starring Gene Wilder, who also helped write the film’s script) stayed open for more than a year, later at lower prices.

At Gateway, where the top ticket costs $69, the show proves to be — no, not a great musical, but an amusing diversion, especially for people not averse to hearing age-old gags that Mr. Brooks gleefully recycles in nearly all his work. Though Mr. Whiting may only be recreating Ms. Stroman’s dance steps and other staging, he does it with an airy, joyous touch. He is aided by a lively orchestra under the musical direction of Jonathan Parks, and deft lighting by Jose Santiago.

Set mostly in Transylvania in 1934, the story revolves around Frederick, the grandson of Victor Frankenstein, the mad scientist who discovered how to breathe life into dead flesh. Visiting the family castle to settle his grandfather’s estate, Frederick — who insists that people pronounce his last name “Fronk-en-steen” — becomes intrigued by his ancestor’s experiments and decides to “join the family business,” as one of the songs puts it.

Mr. Brooks wrote the show’s music and lyrics by himself and collaborated with Thomas Meehan on the book, which includes such outrageous but beloved elements from the movie as a hunchback’s shifting hump — right shoulder in one scene, left in another.
528 2013-06-23 “To see and be seen doing some good,” wrote Mr. Levy, the former president of Lincoln Center, “is a form of public recognition most people cherish.”

But that visibility comes at a cost, not just in the hours spent wrangling invitations and planning one’s entrance, but also in a splash-out of cash that could rival that of a modest Internet start-up.

“Being social is definitely an expensive proposition if you want to go full boat,” said Alexandra Lebenthal, the chief executive of a wealth management company.

The question is: Just how expensive?

Few women contacted for this article spoke for attribution. But based on interviews with over two dozen members of the benefit circuit, many of whom go to two or three events each week, and at least five big-ticket parties a season — at places like the Waldorf-Astoria or Cipriani 42nd Street — those affairs demand a drop-dead gown ($3,500 to $20,000) and as much as $5,000 for a ticket (or $100,000 for a desirable table), bringing the tally to more than six figures during the season from September through its frenetic close in early June.

In a single week this month, the Botanical Garden, the Wildlife Conservation Society, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Gordon Parks Foundation, the Battery Park Conservancy, International House and the New York Public Library all staged events in New York, with three of them on the same Tuesday night.

Men rarely spend great sums on their formal wear. “But I see women who have at least three or five new gowns a year,” Ms. Lebenthal said, estimating the annual tab for their evening wardrobe at $100,000.

That’s to say nothing of personal maintenance — $240 to $500 for a private hair and makeup session with Vênsette or Alexa Rodulfo; as much as $450 a week for a personal trainer at AKT in Motion, a gym popular with the Park Avenue set; and the flurry of minor cosmetic procedures that often precede such events.

Then there is the companion. “Most of the time it’s the women, not the husbands who want to go out, so you need to pay for the walker,” said Jill Kargman, a frequent guest at Manhattan’s showier affairs who has lampooned the foibles of her class in books like “The Ex-Mrs. Hedgefund.”

Factor in the price of a car service, the private thank-yous in the form of flowers and luncheons, and a personal publicist or two, and the total can be dizzying.

What does she spend on her forays into the social arena? Natalie Leeds Leventhal, who supports the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the Museum of the City of New York, smiled. “Ignorance is bliss,” she said.

These days “society” encompasses not only social figures like Ms. Leeds Leventhal, whose lineage, she said, dates back to Colonial times, and self-made magnates with a philanthropic bent, but a service meritocracy of hairdressers, designers and dermatologists who are eager to cement bonds with their clients.

Gervaise Gerstner, a Park Avenue dermatologist, attends several fund-raising parties a year. “It’s good for friendship to network and see your patients,” she said, “and it’s certainly good for business.”

Just as visible are models whose names increasingly turn up on benefit committees — women like Hilary Rhoda, who supports the Apollo Circle of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which raises funds for art conservation, and Jessica Hart, who was on the committee of the Un Ballo in Maschera, a benefit for Save Venice — and a score of well-connected, if mostly ornamental, young women about town.

The chance of being snapped by party photographers like Mr. McMullan or one of Mr. Farrell’s minions spurs plenty of women to pay full retail for their gowns, as did Sarah Irby, an Estée Lauder executive, who went to Bloomingdale’s for the Badgley Mischka gown she wore to the Conservatory Ball; Kimberly Putzer, who had her Alice Temperley frock flown in for the affair from Los Angeles; and Katie Krause, a YouTube host and producer, who picked up her Lanvin at Barneys New York.

But others cut corners, stopping off at department store counters for a $50 makeup sessions, replacing $400 lash extensions with generous swipes of mascara, and swapping limousines for taxis. Often they borrow their dresses — a privilege of the young and comely.

“The beautiful Cinderellas, I call them — we love to see them in our gowns,” said Boaz Mazur, an executive of Oscar de la Renta, a firm that otherwise discourages borrowing. “At midnight they have to go home, and return the dress the next day.”

The practice is frowned upon as tasteless, if not as excessive as that of retaining a publicist, at $5,000 to $10,000 a month. “We tee-hee about those girls behind their backs,” Ms. Leeds Leventhal said.

Still, a social profile isn’t something that just comes along. “Public relations is a secret part of it,” said David Patrick Columbia, the editor of New York Social Diary, which chronicles the movements of the rich and famous. “It’s a way people have of telling whatever world they want to get into that they’ve arrived.”

Pragmatically speaking, “it’s important that when you ask for money that people know who you are,” said the publicist R. Couri Hay. ““Otherwise they hesitate.”’ Mr. Hay has been credited with introducing Amanda Hearst and the much-photographed Ms. Shafiroff to the philanthropic scene. (Ms. Shafiroff is also represented by Norah Lawlor.)

It doesn’t hurt, he added, if you’re slender, attractive and wearing Chanel.

Ms. Shafiroff has been known to wear frocks from Zara and J. C. Penney but is more closely identified with Carolina Herrera and Mr. de la Renta, whose showrooms she frequents. She and her gowns were seen at events including the American Ballet Theater opening night in May and the New Yorkers for Children 10th anniversary spring dinner dance, the Save Venice Black and White Ball and the Henry Street Settlement dinner dance, all in April. “When I chair an event, I buy a table,” she said, “and if I worked hard on an event, that’s when I would like to wear something new.”

Her motives aren’t frivolous, she said, quickly reeling off the charities she represents or on whose boards she serves, among them the Lighthouse International, the French Heritage Society and the Southampton Hospital, whose annual gala she has organized. As chairwoman of the hospital’s next big benefit, in August, she expects to raise $2 million.

The glamour of such women “can create a lot of buzz, and buzz sells tickets,” said Diana Petroff, a publicist who has groomed several New Yorkers for the society circuit.

About 15 years ago, Jennifer Creel, a supporter of the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, noticed a change at fund-raising parties. “People started getting photographed more and more.” All good,” she said. “I thought maybe it would get us more attention.”

That strategy has its rewards. “In a typical year,” Mr. Levy wrote, “Lincoln Center will hold no fewer than 10 galas that range in size from 250 to 1,200 guests and in gross proceeds from $250,000 to $5.5 million. They are critical to all aspects of our fund-raising operation.”

They also can be advantageous on a personal level. Attending parties is a boon to her business, said Ms. Creel, who sells cuffs and dainty pendants on her Web site. “If I’m seen or photographed wearing one of my pieces of jewelry, that’s visual branding.”

For others, there is an emotional payoff. “I think a lot of unhappy marriages are supported by charity galas,” Ms. Kargman said. “They provide a backdrop, theatrics and people you can laugh at together.”

New York, she added, is “the third partner in this ménage à trois of marriage. A lot of people would die of boredom without it.”

There are innocent pleasures, like the emotional charge of reviving a childhood game of dress-up.

“When I put on a gown, I feel like a fairy princess,” said Ms. Lebenthal, who was photographed at the Conservatory Ball in June, at the American Ballet Theater opening-night party in May, and in April at the Society of Sloan-Kettering ball, and dinners for New Yorkers for Children and the Henry Street Settlement.

“Leaving the stress of the day behind,” she added, “there’s a very specific happiness that brings me.” Truly ambitious types may aspire to become the next Babe Paley. “For these ladies,” said Daisy Prince, the editor of Avenue, a society magazine, “being photographed is a way of being immortalized.”

Whatever their motive, some women vie for the spotlight with ferret-like energy. “They are fully aware of the step-and-repeat,” said Mr. Davis of Scene, referring to the end of the red carpet and backdrop where photographers gather. “They wait in line until the publicist screams their name, get their picture taken, say hi to two people, then get in the car, change dresses and they’re off.”

Just where are they headed? “To the next party, of course.”
529 2013-06-23 Doing good work doesn’t come cheap. Here is a sampling of what it would cost to attend a benefit for some of New York’s most prominent social and charitable institutions. (One mitigating factor: a portion of the ticket’s face value is usually tax deductible.)

New York Botanical Garden Conservatory Ball Tickets from $1,500; tables from $10,000.

Tickets from $1,000 to $5,000; tables from $12,500 to $50,000.

Tickets from $1,500 to $10,000; tables from $15,000 to $100,000.

Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Spring BallTickets from $2,000 to $7,500; Tables from $15,000 to $100,000.

The Concert for the Rainforest Fund

Tickets from $600 to $2,500; tables from $25,000 to $50,000. (Concert only: $150-$600.)

Tickets from $3,000; tables from $30,000 to $250,000.
530 2013-06-23 From locations to inanimate objects to names that scream swagger, musicians and their partners are known for extending their creativity to naming their children....
531 2013-06-23 The New York Times Magazine digs into the history of recent (and not-so-recent) innovations like money, sleep-away camp and the guitar solo. Throughout, an underlying question looms, asking whether the Internet and the global supply chain have really accelerated ingenuity or merely sent us scurrying to build negligible novelties, soon to be forgotten. JEFF BLAGDON, posted on theverge.com

While reading about the origins of brunch, I suddenly found myself recalling a day back in the early 1950s when my friend Paul and I were walking from my house to his. We were about 6, and the walk was about a mile distance, which we did unaccompanied. Along the way we decided to get his mother to make us something to eat but wondered what we should ask for. It was 10:30 a.m., so it was too late for breakfast and too early for lunch. We then started playing with all sorts of combinations of the words (“BreLunch,” “BreakLunch,” “BreLun,” “BreakUn” and other even sillier ones) and speculating on what sort of food would be appropriate. We were nearly to his house when we hit on the word “brunch.” . . . Of course, when we announced we wanted brunch, Paul’s mom just smiled and said sure, as if the word “brunch” were old news. JIM MURPHY, on inkrethink.blogspot.com

Hugo Lindgren’s essay, in which he mentions the Booty Pop as a recently perfected invention, took me back at least 20 years, when stores like Frederick’s of Hollywood sold foam-padded underpants. I was given a pair as a humorous gift following my projection in class of a satirical image of a late-18th-century etching of the Italian composer Colla di Parma fitting his wife with false buttocks. The padded enhancers were made of cork; they tied around the waist and around each upper thigh. Under the wearer’s dress or gown, this innovation provided a secret roundness to any flat or saggy bottom. ROBERT BLACKEY, Professor of History, California State University, San Bernardino

I had to share this about the salad spinner (and it really does make your salad better). @trundlebedtales



MY GRANDFATHER INVENTED THE REUBEN SANDWICH. RIGHT?

Elizabeth Weil’s Lives essay was a welcome addition to the Reuben canon (how’s that for elevating sauerkraut and Russian dressing?). As newlyweds from South Dakota, my wife and I moved to Omaha in 1962, and our idea of exotic cuisine was the Reuben at the Blackstone, then the city’s grande dame of hotels. We carried from there the pride in knowing that it was a local invention, although we were unaware of the poker-game origins. TOM BROKAW, New York

My research as a culinary historian has led me to locate what I believe to be the first recipe for the “Ruben Junior” sandwich, published in 1941 by Joseph Oliver Dahl, who lived in New York at the time. The sandwich consisted of “Rye Bread, Switzerland Cheese, Sliced Corn Beef, Sauerkraut, Dressing.” This standardized the formula for the Reuben sandwich, which thereafter became a staple in New York restaurants and elsewhere. I believe the Reuben sandwich is a New York invention, and that it’s time to put the Nebraska origin myth to bed. ANDREW F. SMITH, Brooklyn
532 2013-06-23 Yet the past two years have made clear that those fears were not completely unfounded, and it did not take much to provoke them. Syria’s Sunnis and Alawites were at odds for hundreds of years, and the current war has revived the worst of that history. Radical jihadis among the rebels now openly call for the extermination or exile of Syria’s religious minorities. Most outsiders agree that Assad cynically manipulated the fears of his kinsmen for political survival, but few have asked — or had the opportunity to ask — how the Alawites themselves feel about Assad, and what kind of future they imagine now that the Sunni Arab world has effectively declared war on them.

“What is horrible is that everyone is now protecting his existence,” Sayyid Abdullah Nizam, a prominent cleric in Damascus, told me. “For all of the minorities, it is as if we have entered a long corridor with no light.”

On the day I arrived in Syria, in late April, I was startled by the seeming normality of the capital. There was fresh fruit in the market stalls and crowds of shoppers in the Old City; sweet apple-flavored tobacco smoke drifted from the cafes. But checkpoints were everywhere, and I could not walk 10 yards without a plainclothes member of the new National Defense Forces demanding my ID. Behind the comforting bustle of street sounds, the dull thump of artillery could be heard, day and night, like intermittent thunder. No one ever remarked on it, and in the spring sunlight it was hard to imagine that people were fighting and dying only a few miles away.

Only after taking the highway north out of Damascus did I see the war — houses reduced to rubble or burned beyond recognition, posters bearing the faces of Assad and his clan shot to pieces. As we drove past the suburb of Harasta, where some of the worst fighting has raged in recent months, a huge column of black smoke rose from a cluster of houses a few hundred yards away. My driver, a disheveled young man named Ahmad, glanced anxiously back and forth. The speedometer needle pushed past 90 miles per hour, and I wondered how our worn-out Hyundai would hold up. “This is a very dangerous area,” Ahmad said. “We must go fast.”

Beyond the suburbs, the highway skirts the embattled city of Homs and then turns west, toward the mountainous Alawite heartland along the Mediterranean. This is the route Bashar and his loyalists would take if, in the fantasy embraced by their enemies, they ever abandon the capital and try to forge a rump state in the land of their ancestors. The landscape along the highway grows greener the farther north you go, and the signs of war slowly fade. Magnificent snow-capped mountains rise to the west, and later the glittering blue plane of the sea comes into view. The hills are dotted with olive and fruit trees, and the smell of eucalyptus mingles with the sea breeze. Latakia, the capital city of Syria’s Alawite region, is a sleepy seaside town with a tattered charm. The hills around it have long provided refuge for Syria’s minorities, and once briefly formed part of an Alawite state under French protection, just after the First World War. This gives its people a different view of the country and its history, one that Western journalists have not often been permitted to see. It was in Latakia that I met a devoted regime supporter named Aliaa Ali, the 27-year-old daughter of a retired Alawite military officer and a French teacher. Aliaa has a broad, pretty face and knitted brows that convey a mix of petulance and determination. She is intelligent and fully aware, thanks in part to a year spent studying in England, of how the West views the conflict. Unlike many loyalists, she was willing to acknowledge the brutalities of her own side, and at times seemed embarrassed by the Syrian police state. “I was pro-revolution at first,” she said. “There is a lot that needs to change here, I know that. But the fact is that it turned sectarian and violent much sooner than people think.”

In early April 2011, Aliaa told me, she was in traffic on a coastal road when she heard loud explosions and gunfire that lasted for several minutes. Only after returning home to Jableh, where she lives, did she learn that nine Syrian soldiers had been ambushed and killed nearby. Early reports described them as would-be defectors killed by their superiors, but no evidence for that claim has ever emerged, and amateur video taken at the scene suggests the killers were rebel gunmen. For Aliaa and her friends, it fit a pattern: the Western media were refusing to acknowledge the violence of the uprising and ignoring the losses on the government side.

That spring, despite the protesters’ insistence on an inclusive movement, sectarian rhetoric began creeping in. One popular slogan was “We don’t want Iran, we don’t want Hezbollah, we want someone who fears God.” This may sound harmless to outsiders, but in Syria it was a clear call to Sunnis to rally against their enemies. During the summer of 2011, a bizarre rumor spread that if rebels banged on metal after midnight and uttered the right prayer during the holy month of Ramadan, Alawites would disappear. When I visited Aliaa’s home, she led me out to the balcony and showed me a terrace on the neighboring building. “You see that terrace?” she said. “They were banging on metal in the middle of the night. My father got out of bed and shouted: ‘Shut up! We’re not going to disappear!’ ” Later, as we were walking down the stairwell, she pointed out a circle with an X in it drawn on the wall. “That was a symbol the opposition used to mark their targets,” she said. “The guy who lives there is the brother of a high official.”

Aliaa’s younger brother Abdulhameed described for me his own sectarian shock. He is a 23-year-old amateur boxer who was studying in Egypt last November, living with five Syrian friends in a house in Alexandria. One night a young man with an Iraqi accent knocked on their door and asked if he was Syrian. Abdulhameed said yes, and the Iraqi walked off. Late that night, a group of men tried to break down the door, while shouting sectarian abuse. Abdulhameed and his friends fought the attackers off and drove them away. “But the worst part came after,” he said. “A few days later there was a posting on Facebook, with our exact address, saying, ‘These guys are Syrians, funded by Iran and Hezbollah to spread Shiism in Egypt, and you must kill them.’ ” Three of the Syrians gave up their studies and went home.

Aliaa and her friends did not even pretend to be impartial witnesses to the uprising. They shut their eyes to most of what happened in their country after the demonstrations began: the mass arrests and jailings, the torture, the unprovoked killings of hundreds and then thousands of peaceful protesters. In their talks with me, they scoffed at the word shabiha, saying it was a myth, and they seemed unwilling to believe the regime was responsible for the sectarian rumors that accompanied the first protests. Still, there was an emotional truth at the core of their case. They had sensed a pent-up anger directed at them as Alawites, and the unleashing of that anger felt like a revelation, a sign that they had been living a lie.

Aliaa’s own best friend — or the girl who used to be her best friend — was a Sunni named Noura. They lived just a block apart and went to school together and helped raise each other’s younger siblings. The difference of sect meant nothing, Aliaa said; most of her friends are Sunni. “Noura once told me she would name her first daughter Aliaa, and that she’d bring jasmine to my house after she was born.” In a photograph she showed me, Noura has a plump, babyish face and wears a loose head scarf; Aliaa is standing next to her with an arm wrapped around her shoulder. In 2010, Noura was engaged to a very religious man who told her she must stop going to movies and wearing short dresses, and said he would not tolerate her having any non-Sunni friends, Aliaa told me. Noura went straight to Aliaa’s house to tell her, and the two of them lay on Aliaa’s bed talking about what she could do. She soon broke off the engagement. “She told me: ‘I can’t live with a man who thinks Alawites are forbidden,’ ” Aliaa said.

Soon after the first protests broke out, Aliaa told Noura about some of the sectarian protest chants she had heard. Noura refused to believe it. The next month, when the army cracked down in Jableh, Noura was desperate, saying innocent protesters had been killed. Aliaa told Noura it was “not logical” for a government to kill its own people. Noura backed down. “Maybe we just heard different stories,” she said. As she and her family moved deeper into the opposition camp, however, the friendship began to fray. Once, after they had gone for a drive along the seafront, Noura suddenly said: “If Sunnis ever attacked you, I’d protect you. And vice versa.” Both of them laughed. “At the time, it seemed like a joke,” Aliaa told me. “We couldn’t really imagine that happening.” Aliaa traveled to England at the end of the summer, and shortly after, when Noura’s mother was arrested, the two friends stopped speaking. In October, Aliaa told me, she was half-asleep one night when she heard a buzzing on her laptop: Noura was calling to video chat. It was 4 a.m., but they spent an hour talking and laughing as if nothing had changed. “When we hung up, I burst into tears,” Aliaa told me. “I felt so happy that we were still friends, that none of the differences mattered.”

Soon afterward, Noura and her family fled to Turkey. In December, Noura unfriended Aliaa on Facebook, but Aliaa continued to check Noura’s Facebook page every day. The postings were passionately anti-Assad, and included sectarian slurs against Alawites. Noura married a Sunni man from Jableh, whose Facebook photo showed the black banner used by Al Qaeda. In mid-May, Noura posted a long passage praising Saddam Hussein, followed by this sentence: “How many ‘likes’ for the conqueror of the Shia and other heathens?” Aliaa showed me the Facebook page of Noura’s teenage brother Kamal, with an image of him clutching a Kalashnikov. “I used to carry him on my shoulders and feed him crackers,” she said.

Noura now lives in Turkey. I reached her by phone at the Syrian school that her aunt runs near the border. She acknowledged her friendship with Aliaa, but her religious zeal soon became apparent. She said her husband did not permit her to talk by phone to foreign journalists. I then spoke to her aunt Maha, the director of the school, who confirmed the outlines of Aliaa’s account of the friendship and the uprising in Jableh. Her voice rose almost to a shout as she told me only the regime was sectarian. “Before the uprising, we lived together with no problems,” she said. “They felt reassured about us, because ever since the events of Hama, they felt we would not rise up against them. But as soon as we chose the path of revolution, they felt it was directed against them, not against Assad. We told them: We only want freedom. But they shut the door in our faces; they would not talk to us.” Maha struck me as a reasonable woman who regretted the rupture, much as Aliaa did.

But when I asked her about the Alawite religion, I was startled by her response. “Aliaa is a nice girl,” she said. “But the Alawites don’t have a religion. They are a traitor sect. They collaborated with the crusaders; during the French occupation they sided with the French.”

For the Alawites, these familiar accusations have the sting of a racist epithet. The Alawite faith, developed a millennium ago, is a strange, mystic blend of Neoplatonism, Christianity, Islam and Zoroastrianism. It included a belief in reincarnation and a deification of Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of the Prophet Muhammad. These unorthodox tenets may have led the crusaders and other outsiders to favor them, seeing them as potential allies against Muslims. The theologian Ibn Taymiyya — the ancestor of today’s hard-line Islamists — proclaimed in the early 1300s that the Alawites were “more infidel than Jews and Christians, even more infidel than many polytheists,” and urged good Muslims to slaughter and rob them. The Alawites sought shelter in the mountains, and rarely dared to come even to Latakia. Many of them were slaughtered by Ottoman armies, and parts of the community stood close to extinction at some points in their history. According to the historian Joshua Landis, as late as the 1870s, supposed Alawite bandits were impaled on spikes and left on crossroads as a warning. They lived in desperate poverty on the margins of Syria’s feudal economy, often sending their daughters into indentured servitude as maids to wealthy Sunni families.

In 1936, when the French were poised to merge the newly formed Alawite coastal state into a larger Syrian republic, six Alawite notables sent a petition begging them to reconsider. “The spirit of hatred and fanaticism embedded in the hearts of the Arab Muslims against everything that is non-Muslim has been perpetually nurtured by the Islamic religion,” they wrote. “There is no hope that the situation will ever change. Therefore, the abolition of the mandate will expose the minorities in Syria to the dangers of death and annihilation, irrespective of the fact that such abolition will annihilate the freedom of thought and belief.” One of the petition’s signers was Sulayman al-Assad, the grandfather of Syria’s current president. Later, after the French abandoned them, the Alawites rushed to embrace the cause of Syrian nationalism, and went to great lengths to make the rest of the country forget their separatist ambitions.

I thought of that petition when I entered Aliaa’s family home in Jableh, where a black-and-white portrait of her grandfather in a stiff collar and tie hangs on the living-room wall. “He studied in France in the 1930s,” Aliaa said brightly. Then she quickly added, “And later he took part in the struggle for independence — I think.”

I asked Aliaa what she thought of Alawites who joined the opposition, like the novelist Samar Yazbek, who is also from Jableh. She grew wary at the mention of Yazbek’s name. “I met her once,” Aliaa said. “She told me I had a bright future in front of me. But I don’t want a future like hers. I think Alawites who join the opposition don’t realize that they are being used as tools. Or they think they can turn this jihadi war into a democratic revolution. But they will never succeed.”

Yazbek was also in Syria during the early months of the revolution. In her diaries of the revolt’s first four months — later published in English under the title “A Woman in the Crossfire” — she describes the furious campaign conducted against her after she publicly backed the insurrection. Her family was forced to disavow her, and leaflets were passed out in Jableh denouncing her. At one point, she describes a terrifying encounter with the regime apparatus. After being driven from her house in Damascus to an interrogation center, she finds herself with a scowling officer who knocks her to the floor, spits on her and threatens to kill her. Guards then lead her blindfolded downstairs to one of the regime’s basement torture rooms, where she is forced to look at bloodied, half-dead protesters hanging from the ceiling. The officer tells her at one point that she is being duped by “Salafi Islamists” and that she must come back to the fold or die. “We’re honorable people,” he tells her. “We don’t harm our own blood. We’re not like you, traitors. You’re a black mark upon all Alawites.”

When I spoke to Yazbek, who is now living in Paris, she told me she believed that the Alawite community had been the Assad clan’s first victim, that they had been used as “human shields” to keep the regime in power. “They believe the regime’s rhetoric, that they would be massacred if Assad falls,” she said. “But this is not true. They are very afraid, and very confused.” Some Alawites inside Syria quietly make the same point, though it is far more dangerous for them to do so. But the ones I spoke to also argued that it does not matter whether the Alawites were duped or not, because their sectarian fears have been realized. In Latakia, I met an Alawite cartoonist named Issam Hassan, who told me that many Alawites who sympathized with the opposition have shifted to the other side. “The government knew it couldn’t fight peaceful protesters, so it pushed them to violence,” he said. “But now, the violence we have seen on the rebel side has frightened everyone. And look at the media: Al Jazeera and Syrian state television take different sides, but both are pushing toward the same end. They are promoting hatred.”

On a warm Thursday night in Damascus, I met on old friend at a club called Bar 808, one of the last holdouts for the city’s hipster youth and a popular spot among those who quietly sympathize with the opposition. I pushed through the crowds and entered a throbbing den of young Syrians dancing and drinking and making out. At the bar, my friend Khaled gave me a sweaty bear hug and bought me a beer. He is a novelist and a bohemian, with a massive head of steel-gray curls and a raucous laugh. But the past two years have aged him. We talked about mutual friends, most of them now scattered in Beirut or in Europe. “I can’t give up on the revolution,” Khaled said. “I won’t leave Damascus.” He put his arm around a young woman and introduced her as Rita. “Khaled is the only optimist left in Syria,” Rita said. When I asked her about the opposition, she said: “I am ashamed to say it, but the opposition has lost its meaning. Now it is only killing, nothing but killing. The jihadis are speaking of a caliphate, and the Christians are really frightened.” There was a pause, filled by the churn of Arab pop music. “I waited all my life for this revolution,” Rita said. “But now I think maybe it shouldn’t have happened. At least not this way.”

If the opposition has lost its meaning, so has the regime. The Assad clan has always defined its Syria as the “beating heart of Arabism,” the bulwark of the Palestinian cause. The Baath Party was meant to embody this spirit, and Syria’s minorities were eager to prove their loyalty as Arabs in a Muslim-majority society. This was the glue that would hold together the country’s fractious communities. But now Syria has been formally excommunicated by the Arab League, the reigning pan-Arab institution, and the old unifying ideologies — paid lip service until the crisis began — are openly mocked.

On a quiet side street in one of Damascus’s richest neighborhoods, a prominent lawyer invited me to join him and his friends in an opulent, booklined study. There were soft leather couches and European chocolates on the coffee table. A 16-frame video screen showed every approach to the house. One of the guests was the Rev. Gabriel Daoud, a Syriac Orthodox priest who sprawled on an armchair in his black robe. The subject of Syria’s minorities came up, and Father Daoud’s face registered his irritation. “Minorities — it’s a false name,” he said. “It should be the quality of the people, not the quantity. It gives you the idea that minorities are small and weak. But we are the original people of this country.” As for the protesters and their demands for freedom, Father Daoud smirked: “They don’t want hurriya, they want houriaat.” Hurriya is the Arabic word for “freedom,” and houriaat is the plural of houri, the dark-eyed virgins that suicide bombers are promised in the afterlife.

Daoud spoke bitterly about the kidnapping of two Christian bishops, whose fate was unknown. “They may have Syrian nationality, but not the mentality,” Daoud said of the rebels. “We are proud of our secularism. We cannot live with these barbarians.” When I raised the subject of Arab nationalism, one of the guests in the room winced. “We are Mesopotamian, not Arabic,” he said. “We don’t want to be Arabic.”

I heard this kind of talk everywhere in Syria. In Latakia, a young Alawite woman who had spent time in the United States spoke about the uprising in blatantly racist terms. “The protests started well, but after a while, the people participating were not educated,” she said. “It’s like your riots in Detroit in 1967. They are like losers — not good people. Like blacks in the U.S.A.” The “barbarians” these people were talking about — the rural poor, who are overwhelmingly Sunni and the backbone of the opposition — probably constitute half of Syria’s population.

Syria’s national myths may be fracturing, but it is hard to see how the map could be reconfigured in any stable way. There is some speculation that Assad may retreat to the coastal mountains if the war turns against him, which it has not done lately. That region is calm and quiet compared with Damascus, and relatively self-sufficient. But the population is said to have doubled there since the war started, thanks to a flood of refugees from other parts of Syria. Some are Alawites returning to their home villages. But tens of thousands of Sunnis have also resettled there, seeking refuge on the coast from Aleppo and other war-torn areas. The city’s hotels are packed with middle-class people toting heavy suitcases, and poorer exiles are camped out at a vast sports center, where they live in crowded tents amid a reek of urine. The local Information Ministry official warned me gruffly: “Be careful, many of them are with the Free Syrian Army. They do not say this, but we know.” The state of Alawistan, if it were to ever be formed, would be riddled with potential insurgents.

Bashar al-Assad’s father, Hafez, grew up in a two-room stone house in the mountains and helped out with the farmwork. As president, he loved to remind people of his origins. In the 1980s, when Syria’s socialist economy was at its nadir, he said in one speech: “Fellow peasants, no hand will after this day be above your hand. . . . You are the producers. Yours is the power.” Hafez’s children grew up in the palace and never understood or cared much about Syria’s poor. Bashar’s economic reforms in the early 2000s brought new restaurants and nightclubs to Damascus, but the countryside sank deeper into poverty. In late 2010, I drove through Syria’s agricultural belt and was amazed by the damage wrought by five years of drought and government neglect. Many peasants had abandoned their desiccated farms and moved to slums on the outskirts of the cities, where they became perfect tinder for the revolt.

But there is another reason for the unpolished face of the Syrian rebellion, a crueler one. One night in Damascus, I met a 33-year-old computer programmer named Amir who had been part of the nonviolent protest movement from the beginning. “We started the protests with three principles: nonviolence, no foreign interference and no sectarianism,” Amir said in English as we strolled in the cool night air. “The regime targeted the protesters until they were forced to abandon all three of them.”

I asked if he was still active in the rebellion. “They put me in prison for two days,” he said. “I was not tortured, no one even said a bad word to me. But for me it was — ” He stumbled for words, then turned toward me. “You know how Dante went to hell and was allowed to return? This cell was 10 meters square, with 152 people in it. It was two stories underground. There is no air, you feel constantly that you will choke. They had an undeclared system: for the first week, you stand, all day and all night. Then you get to lean against the wall for a few days. Then you get to sit. When you are standing, you are terrified to fall asleep, because you may never get up. Some people were there for only a few hours, some for days or weeks, and some had been tortured in ways I never imagined. For food, you get a bit of bread and some water, but that does not matter. You get about 30 seconds, once a day, in the bathroom, but trust me, you are not even worried about that. Because there are people in there who are literally asking for death.” He stopped talking, and after a pause, I asked him why he had been arrested.

“I lit a candle at a funeral vigil,” he said.

Did it have to happen this way? Just over a decade ago, many of the Syrians now fighting their government saw Bashar al-Assad as a kind of savior, a gentle figure who would lead them away from brutality. He was never meant for the presidency; his older brother, Basil, was the heir apparent. Only after Basil died in a car crash in 1994 was Bashar — long-necked, awkward, quiet — withdrawn from ophthalmology school in London and anointed. He has been an enigma since the day he became president in 2000, a man who seems to want to steer Syria on a different course but has never actually done so.

In April, I met Manaf Tlass, one of Bashar’s oldest friends, and asked him to narrate the conflict from Bashar’s perspective. Tlass, whose father served as Syria’s defense minister for three decades, was a general in Syria’s Republican Guard until he defected last July. He knew Bashar in childhood and was a member of his inner circle for years. We met at a cafe in Paris on a warm afternoon, and Tlass, who is sometimes mocked as a dandy, wore a blue silk shirt, unbuttoned to the middle of his chest, and aviator sunglasses.

On the day the crisis broke out, Tlass said, “Bashar called me and said, ‘What would you do?’ ” It was mid-March 2011, and the southern city of Dara’a was in uproar after the local security director — a cousin of Assad’s — ordered the imprisonment and torture of a group of boys who had scrawled antiregime graffiti on a wall. Tlass told me he urged Assad to visit Dara’a himself, and to order the arrest of the local security director. Others, including the leaders of Turkey and Qatar, have said they gave him similar advice.

Tlass said he continued to urge Assad to manage the crisis through negotiation rather than force, and with Assad’s permission, he began meeting with civic groups in towns where unrest had broken out, sometimes with as many as 300 people. He would hear their grievances and write down lists of possible fixes to local police corruption, lack of water or electricity and other problems. He would identify local leaders who could be trusted, then forward the list of issues and names to Bashar’s people. Each time, the leaders were promptly arrested.

Finally, Tlass told me, he confronted members of the Makhlouf family, Assad’s first cousins, who are now said to be his closest advisers. “There was a big disagreement,” Tlass said. “They wanted to handle the problem with security, the old way.” He decided to speak to Assad directly, but his old friend put him off for two weeks. When they finally met, Assad made clear that he was no longer interested in Tlass’s advice. “Bashar knew from the start that this was a big crisis,” Tlass said. “He decided to play on the instincts of the people.”

One morning in early May, I drove with Aliaa Ali and her brother to their ancestral town, Duraykish, in the Alawite mountain hinterland. The road climbs up from the coast along hairpin turns into a magnificent landscape of lush, terraced hills and orchards. We stopped briefly to look at a new monument to the town’s war dead, an imposing 25-foot marble plaque engraved with hundreds of names. We parked the car at the bottom of a narrow hillside street named for Aliaa’s grandfather and walked up to the family house, a 100-year-old stone building with ceramic tiles that had begun to wear away. Aliaa’s uncle, Amer Ali, stood waiting for us, a sturdy-looking man of about 50 with closely cropped, graying hair. He led us upstairs to a large, high-ceilinged room where sunlight splashed in through two open walls. Dozens of people waited inside.

Amer Ali had gathered them to tell their stories of relatives or spouses lost to the war. I listened to them, one by one. They were working-class people: soldiers, construction workers, police officers. All were Alawites, as far as I could tell. Some were probably shabiha, though none of them would have used that word. One of them, a middle-aged construction worker named Adib Sulayman, pulled out his cellphone and showed me the message he received after his son Yamin was kidnapped by rebels: “We have executed God’s will and killed your son. If you are still fighting with Bashar, we will come to your houses and cut you into pieces. Never fight against us.”

A 20-year-old man who had been shot twice in the head and had lost some of his memory and half his hearing told me he would go back to the front as soon as his wounds healed. His father stared at me and said: “I would be proud to have my son become a martyr. I am in my 50s, but I am ready to sacrifice my life, too. They thought we would be weak in this crisis, but we are strong.”

After lunch, Aliaa’s uncle showed me around the house. On the wall was a Sword of Ali, an important symbol for Alawites, with verses engraved on the blade. There were old farming tools, a stick for catching snakes, hunting knives and a century-old carbine — a kind of visual history of the Alawite people. There were ancient Phoenician amphorae and a framed photograph of Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah.

Later, Amer Ali led me to the roof, where we gazed out at the town where his family has lived for hundreds of years. The hills were lovely in the golden afternoon sunlight. You could see an ancient spring with a stone arch over it, and a mosque that was built by one of his ancestors 240 years ago. Aliaa stood next to me on the terrace, looking out at the town with an expression of rapturous pride. I asked her how it made her feel to know that Western human rights groups had documented repeated atrocities by the Syrian regime — some, perhaps, by people like the ones we had just talked to. Aliaa glanced downward. “Yes, there have been atrocities,” she said. “You can never deny that there have been atrocities. But you have to ask yourself: What will happen if Bashar falls? That’s why I believe victory is the only option. If Bashar falls, Syria falls. And then we, here, will all be in the niqab” — the full veil worn in conservative Muslim societies — “or we will be dead.”

Before we climbed back down, Aliaa’s uncle showed me a rusted white tripod, set in the center of the roof, under a gazebo. “It is for telescopes, for looking at the stars,” he said. He looked up at the cloudless evening sky, then down the mountain toward where the hills give way to the vast Syrian plain. “But we can use it to set up a sniper rifle and defend ourselves here.”
533 2013-06-24 A Chinese government crackdown on bank lending last week set off a credit squeeze that pushed the interest rate banks charge other banks to new highs. Investors reacted by fleeing Chinese company stocks.
534 2013-06-24 The W Hotels group has a new partnership program with the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for equal rights for lesbian, gay and transgender people....
535 2013-06-24 The French chef owns Citronelle in Washington, D.C....
536 2013-06-24 The agency has received 18 complaints about the Kawasaki Ninja 300 stalling, sometimes in moving traffic. The problem could affect about 10,000 motorcycles....
537 2013-06-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
538 2013-06-24 Justice Thomas says that he voted with the majority because he agreed that the lower court had not properly applied the strict scrutiny standard from earlier cases. But, he added, he would have overruled an earlier affirmative action case, Grutter v. Bollinger, and its support for racial preference in admissions because of the “insidious consequences” of the preferences.

While it does not, for constitutional purposes, matter whether the University’s racial discrimination is benign, I note that racial engineering does in fact have insidious consequences. There can be no doubt that the University’s discrimination injures white and Asian applicants who are denied admission because of their race. But I believe the injury to those admitted under the University’s discriminatory admissions program is even more harmful. Blacks and Hispanics admitted to the University as a result of racial discrimination are, on average, far less prepared than their white and Asian classmates. View Page 34
539 2013-06-24 A moment with history....
540 2013-06-24 As markets failed, programs to help those hardest hit had uneven results, but showed their value in keeping poverty from escalating, an economist writes....
541 2013-06-24 People have long been trying to figure out what the right amount of exercise is, but the focus lately is on the shortest period possible....
542 2013-06-24 How Minorities Have Fared in States With Affirmative Action Bans

The Supreme Court for the second time heard arguments on how race is used in admissions decisions by the University of Texas at Austin, with a majority of justices expressing doubts that the university's plan is constitutional. A ban on affirmative action could lead to fewer minority admissions, as it has in some states that have already outlawed it.
543 2013-06-24 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
544 2013-06-24 The Supreme Court ruled Monday that lower courts did not apply a sufficiently high level of scrutiny to the University of Texas’ use of race in admissions decisions and sent the case back to one of those lower courts.
545 2013-06-24 Google spawns start-ups in Kansas City — and also reinvents human resources. Why using social media well is harder than you think. And 10 ideas for marketing and advertising....
546 2013-06-24 Japan’s largest manufacturer of nonalcoholic drinks priced its offering at the lower end of the indicated range, but the deal still ranks as the biggest I.P.O. in Asia this year....
547 2013-06-24 After Chambliss’s home run, a horde of fans trampled the Yankee Stadium field — some of them imperiling his safety until he reached the dugout.

“I touched first and I touched second,” he said, “but not long after, I tripped, got to one knee and somebody tried to take my helmet.”

Third base was obliterated by fans and he could not locate home plate. He later returned to the field, escorted by two police officers, and said that by then home plate had been dug up and taken. So he touched the area where it had been, just to make sure.

Yet amid all the mayhem no one made off with his bat. Third baseman Graig Nettles made sure of that after he saw the first few fans leap over the fence near the Yankee dugout.

“I rushed home plate and was the first to get there,” he said by telephone from Lenoir City, Tenn. “Fans were starting to go after the equipment on the steps of our dugout, and I used Chris’s bat to fight them off.”

He added, lightheartedly, “I’ve done a lot of stupid things. I gave Goose Gossage the ball after I caught the last out in the Boston playoff game. I went into the clubhouse and said, ‘Here, Goose, it’s yours.’ ”

Chambliss’s ball landed between the outfield wall and the bleachers — out of reach of any fans who might have kept it — and it was given to Chambliss by a security guard.

“He didn’t ask for any money,” Chambliss said.

But now the bat and ball are for sale. Chambliss had not thought seriously about selling them until he learned that the All-Star Game will be at Citi Field next month and that a memorabilia auction will be part of the All-Star Fan Fest at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.

“I don’t know the next time an All-Star Game will be in New York,” he said. “I’ve enjoyed these pieces for a long time. This is a chance to let the fans enjoy them.”

There is not much of a guide to how much the ball and bat might sell for. Chambliss is not Babe Ruth or Mickey Mantle. Still, home runs that win postseason games, let alone series, are rare — as are the sale prices of the bats used, if they have been sold at all. David Hunt, the president of Hunt Auctions, which is selling the Chambliss bat and ball, said he was not aware that the bats used by Bill Mazeroski, Joe Carter or Bobby Thomson to hit their memorable home runs had ever come to market.

The bat that a gimpy Kirk Gibson swung to win Game 1 of the 1988 World Series for the Los Angeles Dodgers sold at auction in 2010 for $575,912.40. The jersey he wore was bought for $303,277.20.

Opening bids for the Chambliss bat and ball will be $10,000 to $11,000 each, but Hunt says he expects more.

“You can argue $50,000; you can argue $750,000,” he said. “That’s the fun and beauty of it.”

The jersey Chambliss wore that game never made it home with him. It was sent into the Yankees’ minor league system for players there to wear and has been sold twice at auction, once for $28,750 and then for $15,535.

Chambliss, 64, has worn numerous jerseys in his post-playing career. He has managed five minor league teams and has been the hitting coach for five major league teams, including the Yankees and the Mets. His last stop was in Seattle in 2011 and ’12 as the Mariners’ hitting coach.

“I’m at home pretty much,” he said. “I could call it retirement.”

Nearly 37 years after he swung his 35-inch, 32.8-ounce Louisville Slugger into history, he has one regret: that his impeded run around the bases deprived him of a celebration at home plate.

“It would have been a thrill to meet all my teammates at home plate,” he said, “and jump into their waiting arms.”
548 2013-06-24 There is but one startling conclusion to draw from the stock market’s extremely negative initial reaction to the announcement by Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the Fed might begin reducing the pace of stimulus toward the end of this year if the economy keeps improving: our market is now a dependent institution — dependent for its confidence upon handouts from the federal government.

A free market should rejoice in a strengthening economy and the reduction of artificial government support. Instead, it laments, disappoints and punishes those who still expect at least one bastion of free-market independence in this country.

The writer, a former corporate executive, is president of Dickinson College.
549 2013-06-24 ■ Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, part of Anheuser-Busch InBev, named Energy BBDO as lead agency for the Bud Light beer brand in the United States, assuming duties like strategic planning and creative development from Translation, New York, which will continue to create campaigns for Bud Light line extensions like Bud Light Platinum. Spending was estimated at more than $300 million. Energy BBDO is the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group; other BBDO Worldwide units create campaigns for Anheuser-Busch InBev beer brands that include Antarctica, in Brazil, and Beck’s, in Germany.

■ Sleepy’s, Hicksville, N.Y., the mattress and bedding retail chain, selected Publicis Kaplan Thaler, New York, as its creative agency, the first time that the company has used an outside agency for creative advertising work. Spending was estimated at $75 million. Horizon Media, New York, continues as the media agency for Sleepy’s. Publicis Kaplan Thaler is part of the Publicis Worldwide in the USA division of Publicis Worldwide, which is owned by the Publicis Groupe.

■ Regis University, Denver, named TDA_Boulder, Boulder, Colo., as agency of record, handling the creative and media parts of its account. Spending was not disclosed. Regis had previously worked with Mortar, San Francisco.

■ Brian Powley, president for North America at iCrossing, based in San Francisco, was promoted to a new post, global president, succeeding Don Scales, who had been president and chief executive. Mr. Scales is leaving, the company said; his departure comes three years after iCrossing was acquired by the Hearst Corporation, New York.

■ Connie Anne Phillips rejoined Condé Nast, New York, part of Advance Publications, as vice president and publisher of Glamour magazine, succeeding William Wackermann, who held the title of executive vice president and publishing director; Mr. Wackermann is becoming executive vice president and publishing director of Condé Nast Traveler magazine, assuming duties from Carolyn Kremins, vice president and publisher, who became senior vice president and general manager of the Epicurious unit of Condé Nast. Ms. Phillips had most recently been publisher of InStyle magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, and before that spent 14 years at Vogue magazine, part of Condé Nast, in posts that included associate publisher and managing director.
550 2013-06-24 President Obama is also expected to pledge to lead a global effort to reduce climate-altering emissions and help both the poorest nations and newly industrializing countries like India adapt to the inevitable costs of a warming planet.

India is one of the fastest-growing sources of greenhouse gases in the world, and it has consistently rejected efforts by developed countries to slow down its energy consumption, fearing that it would retard its economic growth and hamper its drive to reduce poverty. India now ranks third in the world in production of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent heat-trapping gas, behind China and the United States.

When Mr. Obama and Xi Jinping, China’s president, met in California two weeks ago, they agreed to take steps to cut back on global production and use of hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, a component in coolants in refrigerators and air-conditioners.

Experts said at the time that such an effort would not be successful without the participation of India, where the use of refrigeration and air-conditioning is growing rapidly.

Mr. Kerry, on his first trip to India as secretary of state, was joined here by Ernest Moniz, the secretary of energy, and other senior American officials.

In his speech, Mr. Kerry sought to make the case that protecting the environment could be consistent with India’s economic development by improving energy efficiency and spurring investment in green technology. The United States, he said, would announce an effort to improve the energy efficiency of India’s air-conditioners.

But Mr. Kerry appeared to stop short of committing India to some sort of negotiated international regime to phase out HFCs, though he alluded to the possibility.

“We can also work together to globally phase down hydrofluorocarbons,” he said, “and eliminate the equivalent of roughly two years’ worth of current global emissions by the year 2050.”

Mr. Kerry also pleaded with India to commit to working constructively on a global treaty to be negotiated under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. India has shown some reluctance to fully engage in the negotiations, out of fear that a global regime would impose the greatest cost on countries least able to afford them. The 190-plus signatories to the United Nations climate convention have agreed to complete a new treaty with binding legal force by the end of 2015.

Mr. Kerry tried to reassure India that any such pact would take its needs into account. “I am convinced that we can move toward a global agreement that puts us on track to avert the most dangerous climate change, that is sensitive to and respectful of the diversity of national circumstances and capabilities, and that is fair, pragmatic and can actually evolve with changing circumstances,” he said.

The visit comes at a time of some tension on trade in relations between the United States and India.

In a letter to Mr. Kerry this month, the leading Democrat and Republican on the Senate Finance Committee asserted that the Indian government and courts had violated intellectual property rights by allowing India’s pharmaceutical industry to make a generic copy of a patented drug.

The letter, signed by the committee’s chairman, Max Baucus of Montana, a Democrat, and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, a Republican, also asserted that India was establishing barriers to American investment. Mr. Kerry urged the completion of an investment treaty.
551 2013-06-24 TAIPEI, Taiwan — The activist Chen Guangcheng, who fled house arrest in China and later moved to the United States, arrived Sunday in Taiwan, where he is to give several speeches expected to attract the attention of Beijing.

Mr. Chen told reporters at Taipei’s airport that he was impressed with Taiwan’s democracy and its concern for the human rights situation in China. “Your support has been very important to us,” he said.

The 18-day trip is part of Mr. Chen’s efforts to enhance freedoms and human rights for his fellow Chinese, the organizer, the Taiwan Association for Human Rights, said in a statement.

Mr. Chen set off a diplomatic crisis between China and the United States last year when he fled to the United States Embassy in Beijing from house arrest. He was allowed to leave China for the United States, where he has been a special student at New York University’s U.S.-Asia Law Institute while working on a book scheduled to be published this year. Last week he suggested that the university was forcing him to leave because of pressure from China, an accusation the university denied.

Mr. Chen’s Taiwan visit offers a challenge to President Ma Ying-jeou, who has built his administration around better relations with China, from which Taiwan split amid civil war in 1949.

China claims Taiwan as its territory and resents any Taiwanese activity that embarrasses Beijing.

Mr. Chen will hold a news conference, address the island’s legislature, meet Speaker Wang Jin-pyng and speak at universities, organizers said.
552 2013-06-24 During kindergarten, Coy’s parents informed her school that their child identified as a girl and should be treated as one. Initially, the school, just south of Colorado Springs, agreed.

But a few months into first grade, the district barred Coy from using the girls’ bathroom, telling her parents that as she grew older and developed, some students and parents would likely become uncomfortable. It was best that Coy use staff bathrooms or a gender-neutral one in the school’s health office, the district officials decided.

Furious, the Mathises pulled Coy from school and lodged a complaint with the state’s civil rights division in February, claiming the district had violated Colorado’s 2008 antidiscrimination statute, which expanded provisions for transgender people.

After an investigation, the division, which enforces Colorado’s antidiscrimination laws, agreed. It noted that while Coy’s birth certificate stated she was male — an argument made by the school district — more recent medical and legal documents identified her as female.

It was clear, the state said, that Coy had completely integrated into society as a girl — wearing girls’ clothing, standing in the girls’ line at school and choosing to play with girls.

But the state’s ruling went even further, saying that evolving research on transgender development showed that “compartmentalizing a child as a boy or a girl solely based on their visible anatomy, is a simplistic approach to a difficult and complex issue.”

Depriving Coy of the acceptance that students need to succeed in school, Mr. Chavez wrote, “creates a barrier where none should exist, and entirely disregards the charging party’s gender identity.”

Michael D. Silverman, the executive director of the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, which filed the complaint on the Mathises’ behalf, hailed the decision as a momentous victory and hoped it would sway how other school districts treated transgender students.

According to the group, 17 states and the District of Columbia offer some form of legal protections for transgender people. And the issue of how schools treat transgender students has grown especially prominent in recent years.

“This is the first ruling in the nation that holds that transgender students be allowed to use bathrooms that match who they are,” he said. “There are thousands of families like the Mathises who are feeling relieved and vindicated that the commission ruled that Coy is a girl just like any other girl.”

A lawyer for the school district did not respond to requests for comment. The school district had argued it acted reasonably in the dispute, saying Coy was permitted to wear girls’ clothing to school and was referred to as female.

The Mathises have since moved to Aurora, Colo., and plan to enroll Coy in school there.

“We knew that this was discrimination. So it was validating to get the state to say ‘Yes, it is very clearly harassment,’ and they were doing something they shouldn’t have been doing,” said Kathryn Mathis, Coy’s mother.

“When I told Coy we won, she got this giant smile and her eyes bugged out. She said, ‘So I can go to school and make friends?’ ”
553 2013-06-24 With “Lake Music,” presented in collaboration with the Americas Society at the Central Park Lake on Friday, the festival made a day of Mr. Schafer. The 12 trombones of TILT Brass opened and closed it with Mr. Schafer’s two-part “Music for Wilderness Lake” (1979): “Dawn” at 7:30 a.m. (happily not at actual sunrise, 5:25-ish), when Central Park could still plausibly impersonate a wilderness, and “Dusk” at 8:15 p.m., when the players had to compete with hugely amplified music nearby. At 5 p.m. George Steel, the general manager and artistic director of the New York City Opera, conducted a large choir in “Credo,” from Mr. Schafer’s musical/theatrical work “Apocalypsis” (1977).

The trombone pieces, each about 10 minutes, were performed by three groups of four players, distantly stationed around the southern end of the lake, with coordination left partly to the clock, partly to someone wielding bright flags at the northernmost post. The music consisted mainly of bursts of melody or of burbles, buzzes and whoops exchanged among the groups, although “Dawn” rose to an especially nice moment of massed sonority.

“Credo,” for 12 choirs of 12 singers each, surrounding the audience, six double basses and recorded church bells, was intended not for the outdoors but for a cathedral or a similarly reverberant space. Mr. Steel led the 144 singers (from the Collegiate Chorale, the Manhattan Choral Ensemble, the Pro Arte Chorale and the Taghkanic Chorale), half of them spread on a hillside facing the water, the other half deployed in a dozen or so rowboats hugging the shore, behind Mr. Steel. Most listeners surrounded the performers on shore, though a few pulled up in boats.

Heard from one of those boats, the sound mostly failed to cohere. The layered held tones and the intricate counterpoint (said to outdo even Tallis’s 40-part “Spem in Alium,” though you could only take that on faith) floated off on the breeze except in the strongly repeated invocation “Lord God Is Universe.”

Though not always effective, the performance was certainly game, and you had the feeling that Mr. Schafer would have been the first to salute the experiment amid nature. JAMES R. OESTREICH

Few artists have courted chaos as diligently and scientifically as the percussionist and composer Eli Keszler, whose performance-installation works incorporate small, motorized beaters that patter and scuff, seemingly of their own accord, against elegant suspensions of amplified piano wire. Friday’s event gave Mr. Keszler a chance to make a city landmark a part of the performance.

For “Archway” — commissioned by NPR Music and mounted in collaboration with the New York City Department of Transportation, the Dumbo Improvement District, the PAN_ACT Festival and the Internet radio station Q2 — Mr. Keszler and a scissor-lift operator started work at dawn. They fastened wires running from two weighted boxes under a high-vaulted walkway beneath the Manhattan Bridge in Brooklyn’s Dumbo to the tops of lampposts across Adams Street and Anchorage Place. More wires stretched from the Anchorage Place lamppost up to the bridge itself.

After assembly and sound checks, Mr. Keszler activated the automated installation at 4 p.m. Arriving an hour later, I heard sounds familiar from previous encounters with Mr. Keszler’s work: complex, overtone-rich howls; juddering metallic twangs; grunts that could have come from a gigantic iron boar.

But the bridge, with its steady automotive din of cars and intermittent subway-train thunder, lent new elements, including haunting sustained moans with an almost choral quality. The piano-wire litany, played through loudspeakers, engulfed an audience seated under the resonant archway, and drew in curious passers-by.

Fascinating as “Archway” was on its own, it also accompanied a first-time collaboration by Mr. Keszler and the ingenious quartet So Percussion. Mustering just after 6:30 p.m. for a roughly 15-minute structured improvisation, the players started with ringing, chiming crotales (antique cymbals), scraped, beaten and stroked with violin bows, then switched to drums, Mr. Keszler’s fleet-handed, free-jazz flurries dancing across martial parade-drum cadences. STEVE SMITH

If there were 175 electronic keyboards and each had 61 keys, how many keys were played during “Broken Record” by the composer Jed Distler? Michael Sansonia pulled out his smartphone and did the arithmetic. “That’s 10,675,” said Mr. Sansonia, a composer and lyricist who took part in the mass performance of the piece on Friday. “Plus his 88,” he said, pointing to Mr. Distler’s grand piano. “So, 10,763.”

The 176 instruments filled most of a narrow block in Greenwich Village, Cornelia Street between Bleecker Street and West Fourth Streets. They were arranged in five groups with section leaders who cued the players — professional musicians, amateurs and a few first-timers. A lumber company truck added some unexpected harmony with a high-pitched beep-beep-beep as it backed into a parking space down the street.

Mr. Distler wandered among the keyboardists when he was not playing, and some players fretted about the open-air acoustics. “I could hear Jed when he played,” said Beata Moon, a pianist and composer who performed in a somewhat smaller mass performance in 2003. She said she could hear the group next to hers, but not the others. “Mostly,” she said, “I could hear me.”

Before they tried their hands at “Broken Record,” the group played Pachelbel’s “Canon,” setting a Guinness World Record as the largest electronic keyboard ensemble. Johanna Hessling, an adjudicator from Guinness, said the performance displaced one by 160 keyboard players in Sri Lanka in December. Yamaha provided the keyboards used on Friday and donated them after the performance to the Department of Education for public schools in New York City.

Kathleen Hughes, an assistant commissioner of the city’s Department of Cultural Affairs, joined in. She said she had given up the piano for the clarinet when she was 13 and had never played an electronic keyboard. “But I held my own,” she said. JAMES BARRON
554 2013-06-24 Jason Elm joined DDB California, San Francisco — part of the DDB North America unit of DDB Worldwide, a division of the Omnicom Group — as chief creative officer. He succeeds Lisa Bennett, who is now executive vice president for creative at DDB North America. Mr. Elm had been executive vice president and group creative director at Deutsch L.A., which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Henry Engleka joined Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, as a senior vice president in the global health and wellness practice. He had been chief executive at the P4 Strategy Group, New York.

Joanne Forster joined Bolt Public Relations, Irvine, Calif., a division of Bolt Enterprises, in a new post, general manager and public relations director of the Irvine office. She had been running her own boutique agency, the Forster Group.

Jason Gingold rejoined Creature, Seattle, in a new post, director for strategy. He had been a senior brand strategist at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy.

Patrick Glorieux, a copywriter, and Cecilia Azcarate Isturiz, an art director, who serve together as a creative team, joined Johannes Leonardo, New York, part of WPP. The pair had previously worked as a creative team at Happiness Brussels, where Mr. Glorieux was a copywriter and concept provider and Ms. Isturiz was the head of art.

Michael Greve joined the New York office of We Are Social in a new post, senior analyst. He had been consumer insights and strategy supervisor at J. D. Power & Associates.

Emmanuel Lallevé and Florent Imbert, a creative team, will join JWT New York, part of the JWT division of WPP, as executive creative directors. Their arrival, in August, will bring the total number of executive creative directors at JWT New York to seven. Mr. Lallevé and Mr. Imbert had been executive creative directors, serving as a team, at Marcel Worldwide, Paris, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Wolfgang Maasberg joined Turn, Redwood City, Calif., in a new global post, senior vice president for sales and field operations. He had previously held posts that included chief executive of Lyris and senior vice president for sales at Omniture, now part of Adobe Systems.

Paul Marobella, president at Havas Discovery, Chicago, was named to a new post, president of the Havas Chicago Group, adding responsibilities for Havas Impact and Palm & Havas while continuing to oversee Havas Discovery. Havas is part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas.

Erica Martinez joined the Gate, New York, in a new post, director for strategy. She had most recently been vice president and account director at BAV Consulting, New York.

Mono, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, hired four employees. Three are being hired as creatives: Jeremy Claud, Meg Farquhar and Joanne Torres. The fourth, Steve Sutherland, joins as digital production director.

Kristine Petrik joined Sparks & Honey, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, senior vice president and director for newsroom operations. She had been director for integrated promotion, responsible for CNN, HLN and cnn.com, at CNN, New York, part of the Turner Broadcasting System unit of Time Warner.

Suzanne Powers joined McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, as executive vice president and chief strategy officer. She succeeds Daryl Lee, who is now global chief executive at a sibling agency, Universal McCann. (Universal McCann is part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies and McCann Erickson is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of Interpublic.) Ms. Powers had been global strategy officer at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.

Rima Sinno joined Electric Pen, Seattle, in a new post, creative director, assuming duties from John Pletsch, who continues as president. Ms. Sinno had most recently been a freelancer and before that worked at agencies that included the Seattle office of Publicis Worldwide and Concept Soup.

Chan Suh joined the New York office of Prophet in a new post, senior partner and chief digital officer. He had been chief executive at Broome Crosby, New York, and before that was a founder of Agency.com, where he served in senior leadership posts before and after its acquisition by the Omnicom Group.
555 2013-06-25 An untitled 1982 painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat depicting two large figures surrounded by the artist’s graffiti-like scrawls sold at Christie’s in London on Tuesday night for $29 million....
556 2013-06-25 A theater and a large multipurpose room in the Julia de Burgos Cultural Center in East Harlem have been closed since late 2011, but a lease with a new operator is unfinished and repairs have not begun....
557 2013-06-25 There has been a lot of speculation about how the Supreme Court’s decision on the Voting Rights Act might affect the partisan composition of Congress, but most of it gets the story wrong....
558 2013-06-25 In voting rights cases, she wrote, the court should defer to Congress, which has been given sweeping powers under the Constitution, and especially in amendments passed after the Civil War, to protect such rights. Applying different rules to different states is nothing so unusual, she wrote, and the court should only ask if the methods used by Congress to address the problem are rational, and not subject them to a tougher test. "Congress approached the 2006 reauthorization of the VRA with great care and seriousness," she said. "The same cannot be said of the court’s opinion today."

McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 421. So when Congress acts to enforce the right to vote free from racial discrimination, we ask not whether Congress has chosen the means most wise, but whether Congress has rationally selected means appropriate to a legitimate end. “It is not for us to review the congressional resolution of [the need for its chosen remedy]. It is enough that we be able to perceive a basis upon which the Congress might resolve the conflict as it did.” Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384 U. S. 641, 653 (1966).



 Until today, in considering the constitutionality of the VRA, the Court has accorded Congress the full measure of respect its judgments in this domain should garner. The stated purpose of the Civil War Amendments was to arm Congress with the power and authority to protect all persons within the Nation from violations of their rights by the States. In exercising that power, then, Congress may use “all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted” to the constitutional ends declared by these Amendments.4 Wheat., at 421. So when Congress acts to enforce the right to vote free from racial discrimination, we ask not whether Congress has chosen the means most wise, but whether Congress has rationally selected means appropriate to a legitimate end. “It is not for us to review the congressional resolution of [the need for its chosen remedy]. It is enough that we be able to perceive a basis upon which the Congress might resolve the conflict as it did.”384 U. S. 641, 653 (1966).Until today, in considering the constitutionality of the VRA, the Court has accorded Congress the full measure of respect its judgments in this domain should garner. View Page 41
559 2013-06-25 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
560 2013-06-25 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
561 2013-06-25 Have a glass while shucking favas....
562 2013-06-25 The Times’s David Leonhardt talks about the implications of the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down a key part of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
563 2013-06-25 A group led by the Royal Bank of Canada announced plans to set up a rival to the Toronto Stock Exchange, with the aim of circumventing the high-frequency trading systems....
564 2013-06-25 Restrictions have eased and technology has improved, but is it simpler for Americans to get visas?...
565 2013-06-25 Betaworks, a technology incubator in New York, unveiled its latest product, a suite of sleek RSS readers for the Web and mobile devices....
566 2013-06-25 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
567 2013-06-25 Times reporters and editors analyzed the Supreme Court decision and its implications, as well as the public’s reaction to it....
568 2013-06-25 On Tuesday at Wimbledon Serena Williams will have a rare opportunity to do something she has never done before: beat someone from Luxembourg....
569 2013-06-25 What ruling did the Supreme Court make on Monday regarding affirmative action?...
570 2013-06-25 Experts without a strong stake in the case said that neither side should feel fully triumphant, and that the issue was far from resolved.

“For supporters of affirmative action, I’d put it in the category of disaster averted rather than victory achieved,” said David A. Strauss, a law professor at the . He said a trial, potentially followed by another round of appeals, could mean the case will remain in the spotlight for years.

“It looks like the case has to turn on the specific facts,” he said. “The court really wants the lower courts to get deep into it, and that suggests a trial.”

Major state universities reacted cautiously, with most either declining to comment or saying they were still trying to make sense of the ruling. Administrators said that the decision would have no effect for now, but that the case — and the issue — was not dead.

“Prior to this particular ruling, every university in the country was already thinking about all of the alternatives, depending on the outcome of the case, and about how to prove whether a policy is working,” said Joanne E. Berg, vice provost for enrollment at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. “I don’t think that should change, and I don’t think it will.”

How much has actually changed with Monday’s decision is questionable, said Erwin Chemerinsky, founding dean of the law school at the . While the tone of the opinion in the Fisher v. University of Texas case written by Justice is tougher than that of Justice ’s opinion in the 2003 Grutter case, “in terms of the law it always has been established that strict scrutiny requires proof that no less discriminatory alternative can suffice,” he said.

So while Mr. Chemerinsky expects to see more litigation against state universities, “I don’t think it will be a ‘floodgates’ because this case changed so little, and the real issue will be what happens on remand and when it gets back to the Supreme Court.”

The plan, however, may not survive, said Vinay Harpalani, a visiting assistant professor of law at the Chicago-Kent College of Law at the Illinois Institute of Technology. Because previous votes at the Court of Appeals were close, he noted, the tougher review could lead the district court or the Fifth Circuit to strike down the Texas policy.

Eight states have already banned consideration of race in admissions to their public colleges: , , , , , , and , though Michigan’s law has been suspended by a court ruling and will be weighed by the Supreme Court later this year.

Meanwhile, Abigail Fisher, the young woman who sued the , said, “I’m just very honored and grateful to have participated in this.” With a diffident smile, she spoke at the in Washington, alongside Mr. Blum and her parents. “I am very confident U.T. won’t be able to use race as a factor in admissions in the future,” she said.

The lesson Ms. Fisher learned from the experience of taking a case all the way to the Supreme Court? “Stick by your ideals, even if it means some personal sacrifice,” she said.

William Powers Jr., the president of the University of Texas at Austin, said that the university would continue to defend its policy, because a diverse student body “prepares young people for life in an increasingly global society.” The ruling, he said, “has no impact on admissions decisions we have already made or any immediate impact on our holistic admissions policy.”
571 2013-06-25 The commission said it would refer its findings regarding Navigant and the power authority to federal prosecutors in Brooklyn to determine whether criminal charges were warranted.

Those findings also spurred the inspection ordered at the Port Authority, where some staff members had become uneasy about how much Navigant was billing the agency as the consulting firm took on one assignment after another. Lately, Navigant has been analyzing the Port Authority’s capital spending and trying to help find tenants to replace the Condé Nast publishing company when it moves downtown to the 1 World Trade Center building.

Navigant was paid about $150,000 to analyze the problem of filling Condé Nast’s space at 4 Times Square, a building on 42nd Street owned by the Durst Organization. Durst is the Port Authority’s partner in building the trade center tower.

After that, Navigant was offered $200,000, plus additional incentives, to find tenants to replace Condé Nast. So far, none have been identified.

Given that real estate is not one of Navigant’s areas of expertise, the assignment raised eyebrows in commercial real estate circles as well as at the Port Authority, some officials there said. Navigant says it specializes in financial and management consulting, conducting investigations and sorting out disputes.

In 2011, the Port Authority hired Navigant to audit the agency’s spending on the reconstruction of the World Trade Center and other projects. That audit was ordered by the governors of New York and New Jersey, who jointly control the Port Authority, as a condition of imposing steep increases in the tolls collected at the agency’s bridges and tunnels.

Navigant concluded that the agency was “challenged and dysfunctional.” It also found that the cost of redeveloping the trade center site had exceeded the agency’s estimate of $11 billion by more than $3 billion.

On Monday, after reading news reports of the Moreland Commission’s findings about Navigant, some Port Authority officials wondered how the consulting firm had become so involved at the agency. That is a question the inspector general will have to answer.

Navigant, which is based in Chicago, was chosen from among a few consulting firms by a special committee of the Port Authority’s board, people briefed on the matter said. One member of the committee was the board’s vice chairman, Scott H. Rechler, a real estate executive appointed by Mr. Cuomo.

Mr. Rechler favored Navigant during the special committee’s deliberations, and he has continued to recommend the firm for subsequent assignments, these people said. But they said that not all of the other directors were aware that Mr. Rechler already had a connection to Dr. Edward R. Casas, the Navigant director who would become the project manager at the Port Authority.

In July 2006, when Mr. Rechler was chairman and chief executive of Reckson Associates Realty, Dr. Casas was named a director of the company. The company granted Dr. Casas 1,000 shares of restricted stock, according to a filing with the federal Securities and Exchange Commission. Six months later, Reckson was acquired for nearly $4 billion, or more than $43 a share.

Lisa MacSpadden, a spokeswoman for the Port Authority, said Navigant was chosen because it had offered the lowest bid and the best qualifications. “The Port Authority is continually reviewing all vendors’ bills, including Navigant’s,” she said, “but the fact is the work done under this audit has led to serious reform of the authority’s management and financial practices, contributing to effective control of costs at the World Trade Center and reform of compensation and benefit policies at the agency.”

A spokeswoman for Navigant said that the firm was “selected to provide services to the Port Authority via a robust” process known as a request for proposals, or R.F.P. She said that Dr. Casas’ involvement with Mr. Rechler’s company had been “fully disclosed in Navigant’s written response to the R.F.P. for the Port Authority work.”
572 2013-06-25 The Fourth Amendment’s protection of privacy — the right to be left alone from government snooping without a probable cause to believe that crime is afoot — will revive only if the American people return to cherishing liberty more than a risk-free existence.

Accordingly, every schoolchild should be required to recite daily the famous address of William Pitt the Elder to the British Parliament that laid the cornerstone of the amendment:

“The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the forces of the crown. It may be frail; its roof may shake; the wind may blow through it; the storm may enter; the rain may enter; but the King of England cannot enter, all his forces dare not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement.”

The writer, former associate deputy attorney general under President Reagan from 1981 to 1983, is the author of “American Empire Before the Fall.”

The short answer to the question “Where Did Our ‘Inalienable Rights’ Go?” is “nowhere,” because we never had any guarantee of such rights in the first place.

The reference to unalienable rights, including “life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,” appears not in the Constitution but in the Declaration of Independence, where it served as an aspirational statement rather than as a binding legal one.

The longer answer is that Americans have always struggled to define which rights are truly “inalienable,” and for whom. This has particularly been true in time of war; just ask the Japanese-Americans, more than 100,000 of whom — immigrants and citizens, native-born and not, men, women and children — were marched off to internment camps after Pearl Harbor, an action the Supreme Court later upheld.

Or one could ask this country’s original inhabitants, or those whose ancestors were brought here in chains from Africa.

Now in the age of the “war on terror” and the Internet, we face another crisis: our rights are battered not just by government but by private interests as well, private interests to which we have surrendered much of our privacy in exchange for convenient services.

The American people need to decide, as a people, where the limits lie. If they — we — don’t, others will, and although we may not care for the choices they make, we may find those choices very difficult to reverse.

The Obama administration has no choice but to prosecute Edward J. Snowden, lest leaking of government secrets become a national pastime. That said, bringing him to trial here would be a grievous error, because our country would be deeply divided, unable to decide if he is a traitor or a passionate defender of civil liberties.

Under such circumstances, the appropriate resolution of this nettlesome issue is banishment, not a media circus posing as a trial. Let Ecuador be his Elba.
573 2013-06-25 Pushed into action by growing public outrage over the New York Police Department’s abusive and constitutionally suspect stop-and-frisk program, the City Council is poised finally to vote on two bills that begin to address the problem. One establishes an enforceable ban on racial profiling. The other creates the position of inspector general, an official with sweeping powers to review Police Department policies. Both deserve to pass.

The Council began focusing on this issue legislatively as far back as 2001, when it required the Police Department to submit quarterly reports detailing its stop-and-frisk activity, including information about the race and gender of those who had been stopped. Then, in 2004, concerned about the program’s effect on minority residents, the Council prohibited the use of racial or ethnic profiling.

Neither measure has been effective. The stop-and-frisk program still disproportionately affects minority residents, and it has become the subject of three federal lawsuits. In Floyd v. the City of New York, plaintiffs argue that the Police Department is stopping and frisking people based on race rather than reasonable suspicion of criminal behavior. If a federal court rules against the city, it could potentially install a monitor to oversee reforms.

Unlike the 2004 bill, the new one would give people who believe they have been treated unfairly the right to sue for redress. It would not provide for monetary damages, but instead would allow a state court judge to declare the police behavior illegal and order the department to address the problem.

The second bill, long awaited, would create an inspector general similar to those in other cities and in federal agencies like the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. City Hall’s objection — that an inspector general would impinge law enforcement and make the city unsafe — is without merit. An inspector general would not run the department; he or she would scrutinize policies and recommend improvements. Given the Police Department’s long history of abusive conduct, that’s just what the doctor ordered.
574 2013-06-25 Mr. Barnett and four princeling developers joined the last year, spreading a thick green carpet of cash for politicians, at least $1.5 million. (To peruse their donation lists is to glory in nonpartisan giving: the governor, the attorney general, the state party organizations that have proved so corrupt of late, and any politician, Republican or Democrat, who possessed the simple wit to create a “Friends of ... ” committee — all are awash in the developers’ cash.)

This is known as fertilizing a field. Spread manure and, voilà!

The impossible proves porously possible. In January, State Senator , Republican of , and Assemblyman Keith Wright, Democrat of Manhattan, attached a gilded little 421-a “carve-out” to the underside of a much-needed housing bill for New York City. The vast majority of legislators voted for it. Just like that, Mr. Barnett’s development earned a property tax exemption worth at least $50 million, maybe much more, over the next 10 years.

Mr. Barnett’s fellow developers, including and (who tried hard to ruin Coney Island before selling his holdings and walking away with a golden pile) stand to make tens of millions of dollars in subsidies for their developments. The Metropolitan Council on Housing detailed this in its report “Tax Breaks for Billionaires”; New York also investigated the political giving; and The Daily News contributed fine reporting last week.

Cumulatively, the exempted property taxes could pay to keep the city’s libraries open for a sixth day.

State Senator watches such unneeded tax subsidies — for energy, , tobacco and luxury development — slip like barges down a darkened canal. She notes that the housing bill “was held hostage so a few well-connected developers could rob taxpayers to the tune of millions.”

Perhaps we should admire the gumption of our developers. They often argue that without tax breaks, the city would be a desert.

But in this case, the property tax exemption arrives as the Extell tower, a dull sheath of blue glass that spirals above the skyline like an exercise in ego architecture, is near completion. Mr. Barnett has been blessed with a retroactive tax break. “A tax incentive given retroactively is the stupidest thing in the world,” notes Senator Krueger, with a tone suggesting that she’s becoming expert in the stupidest things.

Assemblyman Wright, who represents , did not return a phone call. Several of his fellow legislators occupied themselves last week trying to pass another such tax break.

Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol, Democrat of Brooklyn, sponsored a bill to retroactively extend tax breaks to developers who had converted old factories into luxury lofts. That bill passed the State Senate. Alas, it foundered in the Assembly. And that, he noted, broke the hearts of a few developers.

“Was this proposed tax break for these properties a good thing or not? I can’t say,” Mr. Lentol said. “I don’t have enough knowledge to say it’s a good thing or bad thing.”

And if legislators don’t ask, why should anyone else?
575 2013-06-25 By a vote of 7 to 1 on Monday, the issued a narrow ruling about a public university’s use of race as a factor in admissions. The good news is that the court affirmed major precedents going back 35 years. It asserted that a more diverse student body — and an admission policy that helps produce one — serves a compelling interest of government by achieving educational and social benefits. Diversity, in turn, helps realize what the court has called “the dream of one nation, indivisible.”

At the same time, the court sent the case at hand — Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin — back for review by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which had upheld the university’s use of race in its admissions policy. The court did not say that race could not be used to achieve diversity. It did say, however, that the appeals court must closely reconsider the university’s admissions process to determine whether a race-neutral approach could achieve the level of diversity it seeks.

Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony Kennedy said, “Strict scrutiny must not be strict in theory but feeble in fact.” By this, he meant the court must do a better job of determining that the university needs to rely on race in admissions to achieve greater diversity, including why it wants to admit more minorities in the first place.

In its brief, the university explained that it was not able to admit “an adequate representation of minority students to assure educational benefits deriving from diversity” despite many years “of good-faith efforts to achieve racial diversity through facially race-neutral means.” That included, most prominently, the state’s Top Ten Percent program, which uses geography as a proxy for race by assuring every student who graduates in the top tenth of a high school class admission to a state university.

That program has resulted in increased minority admissions, but not enough to satisfy the University of Texas at Austin. It would be in the university’s interest for the appeals court to send the case back to the federal trial court to gather more evidence showing that race-neutral alternatives left the university with too few minorities to assure those benefits.

This is undeniably a tricky issue. Since Justice Lewis Powell wrote the controlling opinion for the Supreme Court in 1978 saying race-conscious admissions were constitutional but racial quotas were not, it has been necessary for any university justifying race as a factor in admissions not to do so on grounds that it would help the institution achieve a specific measure of diversity.
576 2013-06-25 In a written decision released on June 19, investigators ruled that the advertising with barbed wire should be discontinued because “while consumers may not literally believe that body wash is as harsh on skin as barbed wire, such imagery nonetheless communicates an unsupported and disparaging message that competing products can seriously damage the skin.”

The investigation also concluded that Dove lacked evidence “to support its unqualified claim” that competing body washes were harsher, and to assert in advertising and packaging that it had “proven best care,” and should discontinue both practices.

The brand also should withdraw the online videos in which competing washes produced more visibly faded test paper because the demonstrations were neither “sufficiently reliable to demonstrate real-life surfactant damage” nor “accurately reflect how body wash is used in real life,” according to the ruling.

Unilever is appealing the decision to the National Advertising Review Board, which also is administered by the Better Business Bureau. A five-member panel representing advertisers, advertising agencies and the public sector, usually academics, will review the decision.

“We respect the self-regulatory process, but we believe in our methodology and the quality of our science, which is why we’re appealing the N.A.D. decision,” said Rob Candelino, a marketing vice president at Unilever, who declined to discuss specifics of the case while the appeal was pending. “We disagree with the assessment of the evidence and the way it was interpreted.”

The campaign is primarily by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, owned by the WPP Group, with online videos by Evidently, an online content agency. It will continue to run online and offline while the decision is being appealed, Mr. Candelino said.

The Dial Corporation did not respond to a request for comment.

From 2010 through 2012, 19 of 339 decisions were appealed to the National Advertising Review Board, and none were overturned. The board upheld the decision 16 times (in one case ruling that the decision had not been critical enough) and in three cases upheld some aspects of the decision and overturned others.

“As an industry, we want people to believe that advertising is believable,” said Robin Hafitz, chief executive of Open Mind Strategy, a research company, who previously served on the National Advertising Review Board. She said that advertisers follow the precedents established by the rulings more closely than their advertising agencies, since it is the advertisers themselves that are held accountable.

“It resonates more within the businesses,” Ms. Hafitz said. “Agency work dies all the time because it’s not supported.”

David Vinjamuri, author of “Accidental Branding” and an adjunct professor of marketing at New York University, said that naming competitors in advertising was risky because consumers may perceive the advertiser as “meanspirited or petty.”

He added that barbed wire “is very troubling imagery for the category and very jarring to see in this context,” especially in light of the finding that Dove was not on firm footing to make the claims.

“It’s the kind of thing that even if you had all the evidence and you unequivocally knew it was true, you’d still hesitate to do it,” said Mr. Vinjamuri. “It’s like talking about a car’s safety in terms of showing deaths instead of showing healthy children.”

The Dove campaign singles out the Procter & Gamble brand Olay as being comparatively harsh.

Procter has traditionally not named competitors in ads, trumpeting brand benefits rather than “reacting to competitors,” wrote Laura Brinker, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mail message. Referring to the ruling against the campaign, Ms. Brinker wrote that Procter & Gamble was “pleased that N.A.D. has reviewed our competitor’s claims to help set the record straight.”

To the detriment of bar soap, the body wash category has been on the rise, growing 10 percent in the United States from 2010 to 2012, according to Mintel, a market research firm. Dove leads the category domestically, with a 13.2 share; followed by Bath & Body Works, from Limited Brands, with a 10.2 percent share; Suave, another Unilever brand, with a 7 percent share; and Dial, with a 6.9 percent share, according to year-end data for 2012 from Euromonitor International, a market research firm.

Dove spent $57.1 million on advertising in 2012, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP. Dial spent $2.6 million.
577 2013-06-25 The dancer-choreographer Jennifer Monson is a poet, a dramatist and an eccentric. Though an infrequent New York performer, she has been active for three decades; I’m sorry I did not see her work until this year. Over the weekend, as part of the La MaMa Moves! Dance Festival, she presented “Jennifer Monson and Friends/NY/Urbana,” a triple bill that included a duet that she danced and choreographed with Niall Jones. I watched that program on Sunday; on Saturday I watched a quadruple bill of work by three other choreographers. Ms. Monson’s dancing was by far the most striking.

Her manner is gentle, dreaming and authoritative; this is the movement of an experimenter who knows her own mind. She’s barefoot, and much of the time her style looks free-form, improvisatory — she seems to avoid academic technique. Yet the action of one firm thigh propels her around in what looks remarkably like what ballet people would call a fouetté turn. She hops fancifully around the stage with one arm and then the other curving softly above her head, like a follower of Isadora Duncan; then she holds a long, steady balance with a leg stretched behind her in arabesque. It’s this changeful quality that makes her so dramatic.

Her duet with Mr. Jones, “Foam,” is often intimate and, more often, surprising. Again and again they find themselves in one odd embrace or another: the images create a strange poetry. In one, his feet pedal on Ms. Monson’s hair. In another, she paws at him with alternating hands. In a third — the most startling event in the piece — she stands astride his shoulders as he kneels and stretches one arm upward and repeatedly slaps her breastbone, hard. Standing there and facing the audience, she lets out a calm vocal gasp to suggest rich satisfaction.

She wears a loose blue tunic over see-through orange tights; he wears a beautiful high-collared multicolored shirt over blue tights. He’s an alert, responsive, like-minded colleague, younger and handsome, but your eyes continually return to her. Vocal noises play a part throughout. At one point, while moving around the space, she emits a series of staccati on one note — “Ha, ha, ha” and then “He, he, he.”

You never know what will come next. Near the end, Ms. Monson and Mr. Jones rapidly move back and forth across the space together; she is the more elated, sometimes jumping. A moment later she walks forward, carrying him spread-eagled across her. She cries, sighs, crumbles and falls. They lie side by side, their feet tucked up; she strokes his face, and he strokes himself.

The first two pieces on the program were Renée Archibald’s “Shake shake,” a female dance quartet involving rolls of white paper and an electric fan, and Renée Wadleigh’s “Seven Scenes of Wanting,” a duet in which a man and a woman stay close to each other but do not touch, with a narrow range of idioms. Both have something of Ms. Monson’s imaginative eccentricity; they’re cool, curious and watchable without being intensely absorbing.
578 2013-06-25 Japan and Poland are both experiencing epidemics of rubella, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued travel warnings suggesting that women who are pregnant or might be consult their doctors before visiting either country.

The disease, also known as German measles, usually causes only mild fever and rash in adults and children, but can be devastating to a fetus, causing stillbirth or a host of birth defects, including developmental disabilities, deafness, heart problems and cataracts.

Rubella cases in Japan have shot up to over 10,000 and are still increasing. Because of peculiarities in Japan’s vaccination history, nearly 75 percent of the cases are in men ages 20 to 40.

Poland has had more than 26,000 cases this year.

Japan normally gets more than twice as many American visitors as Poland — about 750,000 a year, compared with 350,000. And Japan’s outbreak is concentrated in cities like Tokyo and Osaka that are frequented by tourists and business executives, while Poland’s is not.

Japan began vaccinating schoolgirls — but not schoolboys — against rubella in 1976, then in 1989 switched to vaccinating infants of both sexes against rubella, measles and mumps with one shot. Then problems with the mumps component caused a switch to individual shots, rendering coverage less uniform.

Most Japanese over age 50 had rubella in their youth and are immune, so the most vulnerable group is young men, and many outbreaks are in workplaces.
579 2013-06-25 The judiciary’s stiff treatment of Mr. Musharraf has stirred disquiet in parts of the military. Officers and soldiers are uncomfortable at the sight of a former army chief being dragged through the courts, a shocking move in a country that the military has ruled for more than half of its 66-year history.

The military under its commander, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, has largely steered clear of Mr. Musharraf’s court troubles until now. It has, however, provided him with a security cordon at his Islamabad home. But treason charges against Mr. Musharraf, analysts say, could change that picture considerably.

The case against Mr. Musharraf is based on charges that he subverted the Constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007. Musharraf supporters have issued dark hints that should treason charges be applied, the army might forcibly intervene.

“It would open a Pandora’s box,” said Ahmad Raza Kasuri, a senior aide to Mr. Musharraf, while his spokesman described the moves to bring such charges as a “circus.”

“It takes the focus away from the serious challenges faced by the nation and could result in unnecessary tension among the various pillars of state, and possibly destabilize the country,” said Reza Bokhari, the spokesman.

Mr. Sharif is hoping to prevent a drastic military intervention by seeking cross-party political support for a treason trial, which could result in the death penalty or life imprisonment for Mr. Musharraf.

The federal government will “take political forces into confidence through a consultative process so that the collective will and wisdom of the people of Pakistan is duly reflected in further process in this behalf,” Mr. Sharif told Parliament.

Some opposition leaders have already expressed support for a trial. But Mr. Sharif will also have to shake off the impression that he is engaged in a judicial witch hunt against an old enemy.

The two men clashed bitterly in 1999, when General Musharraf, then the army chief, ousted Mr. Sharif, the prime minister, in a coup. A year later, Mr. Musharraf banished Mr. Sharif into exile in Saudi Arabia.

Mr. Sharif returned to Pakistan in 2007, and his party won a comfortable victory in the May 11 election. Mr. Musharraf, meanwhile, returned from four years in exile to contest the same election, only to find himself disqualified from the electoral process.

But the treason charges are also being stirred by the Supreme Court, led by the independent-minded chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who is also an old rival of Mr. Musharraf. Some analysts said the judges had forced Mr. Sharif’s hand.

In the Supreme Court on Monday, judges questioned the attorney general about whether the government intended to bring charges.

The government asked for 30 days’ leave, but the court instructed it to return to court and provide further details on Thursday.

Critics of the charges argue that Mr. Musharraf was not alone in his actions and that he enjoyed the support of senior officers and civilian officials when he was in power.
580 2013-06-25 The announcement set in motion planning for a “a two-day process” that is to start with a televised speech to the nation that Sheik Hamad will deliver at 8 a.m. Tuesday local time, the Qatari official said, followed an hour later by an event known as a “mubaya,” in which prominent citizens welcome his successor. The new emir is expected to deliver his first speech on Wednesday, the same day the cabinet is to resign and the new one, minus at least Prime Minister Hamad, is to be sworn in.

Eighteen years ago, Sheik Hamad, then in his early 40s, deposed his own father in a bloodless coup that began the transformation of Qatar from a well-heeled backwater into a fantastically rich modern country. Since then, the Qataris have wielded their great wealth to, as the scholar F. Gregory Gause III of the Brookings Institution put it, “punch above their weight.”

Sheik Hamad’s 180-degree turn took a country that has fewer citizens than Reno, Nev., has residents and used its deep pockets to influence events from Morocco to the Philippines. It also won a controversial bid for the 2022 World Cup; dragged I. M. Pei out of retirement to make the Museum of Islamic Art a world-class institution rivaling the Louvre, at least architecturally; and most recently hosted an office for peace talks with the Taliban that some claim is costing $100 million. Along the way, Qatari military aid helped topple an old friend of the emir’s, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and is now taking aim at another former friend, Bashar al-Assad of Syria.

Now, however, is the emirate in for another screeching about-face?

As with so much in Qatar, just what will happen is opaque in the extreme — or as Mr. Roberts put it, “The sum total of rumor here isn’t really worth much.” For a country that brought the world Al Jazeera, it is notoriously secretive, with no real freedom of press at home.

Many Qataris privately say the abdication has been whispered about for months, though no one is clear why. One theory is health problems. The emir is known to have had two kidney transplants, and while still active, he has lost a lot of weight recently.

But the Qatari official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to do so, said the emir’s decision to abdicate “has nothing to do with his health.”

“He’s been working on this for the past three years,” the official said, adding: “He thinks this is a good time for the younger generation to take over. The emir himself was very young when he came to power 18 years ago, and he wants to continue that.”

Many Qataris now see international interventions as a vital part of the country’s identity — and even an important protection for it.

“We’re a very small country with tremendous wealth and a small population, but unfortunately we don’t live in Mr. Rogers’ neighborhood,” said Hassan al-Ansari, editor in chief of The Qatar Tribune. “For us, it’s a very effective way to have a say in the future of this neighborhood.”

What works for Qatar is not just its great wealth and its willingness to spread it around, whether it is in mediating peace in Darfur and Eritrea or winning the release of 200 Moroccan hostages held by the Polisario Front, said Mustafa Alani of the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center. It is also that the emirate is too small to threaten anyone, he said.

“Nobody fears Qatar that they have ambitions against them, because they are a very small country,” Mr. Alani said. “All they have to gain is publicity and respect — nothing beyond this.”

It has helped, too, that even in the midst of the Arab Spring, Qatar’s rulers have faced little internal criticism, at least in part because of generous social programs for citizens and a per-capita income that, at more than $100,000 a year, is the highest in the world.

Qatar’s foreign critics have frequently pointed out the contradiction in the often clamorous support for freedom in other countries from an absolute monarchy, where the same family has ruled since the mid-1800s.

Last year, the government prosecuted a poet, Muhammad ibn al-Dheeb al-Ajami, for verses that mocked the royal family (“Sheiks playing on their PlayStations” was one line), under a constitutional ban on criticism of the emir; he was given life in prison, though that was shortened to 15 years on appeal.

The emir and his prime minister have made up for chronic manpower shortages by personally taking a hand in many of their initiatives, most recently playing a high-profile role in persuading the Friends of Syria grouping to increase aid to Syrian rebels, including direct military aid from Qatar itself.

“These were two men with the same international perspective, the same gusto to go and do it, two amazingly atypical men who happened to come out of the same country,” Mr. Roberts said.

They have also not shied away from playing both sides of a rough street. In the process, nine Arab countries and Ethiopia have broken off relations with Qatar, often in protest at coverage by Al Jazeera, which is underwritten by the Qatari government to the tune of $200 million to $300 million annually, according to Mr. Alani. All those countries resumed relations in time.

The Qataris have managed, as well, to have friends among hard-line Islamist groups — a State Department cable released through WikiLeaks criticized their timidity against terrorists — while at the same time serving as the longtime hosts of America’s biggest military base in the Middle East, the forward headquarters of the Pentagon’s Central Command, at Al Udeid Air Base.

“The Qataris’ approach to things is very ambitious, punch above their weight, be involved in as many arenas as possible, but have that core American military relationship as their security backstop, and then have relationships with all sorts of groups and people,” said Mr. Gause, who is affiliated with the Doha office of Brookings.

With so many irons in such a diversity of fires, the emir’s stand-down is something of a mystery. The biggest question is what will happen to Prime Minister Hamad. He has not only been foreign minister since 1992, before the emir seized power from his father, but is also widely viewed as the emir’s bagman in arranging that coup.

“It is just inconceivable that H.B.J. could remain in office with a 33-year-old emir the age of his own sons,” said a longtime resident here, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, mindful of that clause in the Constitution that makes it a crime to criticize the emir.

Less clear is what the abdicating emir himself will do. After he deposed his father while the father was out of the country on a vacation, he brought him back home. Now 80, the father still lives in retirement in Qatar, soon to be joined by the son who ousted him.
581 2013-06-25 Read the related editorial on this case.

Perhaps the best that could have been expected from the Roberts court was a compromise on the affirmative action case, Fisher v. University of Texas, . That seems to be the result in the 7-1 decision, which affirms the ’s 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger that explicitly allowed race to be a factor in admissions decisions, as long as it was not the determining factor.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the majority opinion in Fisher and opposed the Grutter decision, kept the ruling narrow, sending the case back to the lower courts to determine whether the university properly applied the principles laid out in Grutter. That counts as a victory — for now — for the freedom of colleges and universities to determine what education entails and how to achieve their goals.

The Grutter case, with a majority opinion by Justice , allowed public universities to consider race to achieve a “critical mass” of minority students. Justice Kennedy’s U.T. decision accepts that rationale, and affirms a central principle: universities are allowed deference in their “education judgment that diversity is essential to their educational mission” and in “the decision to pursue educational benefits that flow from student body diversity.”

But Justice Kennedy made it clear that once this compelling goal was established, the institution must still prove that it needed to rely on race to achieve this goal. The lower courts reviewing a diversity plan must be satisfied that no workable race-neutral alternative would produce the education benefits that diversity provides. In this case, Justice Kennedy said, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit did not apply strict scrutiny to the Texas plan to see how its process actually worked, but largely accepted the university’s “good faith” judgment.

Justice wrote a separate concurring opinion saying he would have overruled Grutter, and Justice wrote a short statement saying he still opposed the Grutter ruling, but accepted the majority opinion that the lower courts did not review the plan under the right analysis.

Justice , writing in dissent, said there was no need to require the lower courts to take another look, since the “university’s admissions policy flexibly considers race only as a ‘factor of a factor of a factor of a factor’ in the calculus.” Still, as she points out “the court rightly declines to cast off the equal protection framework settled in Grutter.”
582 2013-06-25 PARIS — The French police on Monday arrested Bernard Tapie, a businessman and politician at the center of a political corruption scandal, for questioning. Mr. Tapie can be held for up to four days without charges as the authorities investigate accusations of abuses in an arbitration panel that awarded him $528 million in 2008, when Christine Lagarde, now the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, was France's finance minister. Investigators are looking into accusations that the arbitration was rigged by the government of former President Nicolas Sarkozy; Mr. Tapie was awarded the money after the panel had decided he was cheated of the proceeds of the sale of Adidas, which he had owned. Ms. Lagarde has been questioned and is considered only a witness in the case, but her chief of cabinet at the time, Stéphane Richard, now the head of France Télécom, is a suspect in the continuing investigation. All those cited in the investigation say they did nothing wrong.
583 2013-06-25 The defense chose evidence over passion in its opening statement at the trial of George Zimmerman, chipping away at the narrative of the prosecution, which employed emotion....
584 2013-06-25 Stocks fell sharply Monday on Wall Street on concerns that the Federal Reserve’s stimulus may be drawing to a close and a cash squeeze in China could further slow growth.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was off 139.84, or 0.9 percent, to 14,659.56. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 1.2 percent, and the Nasdaq composite fell 1.1 percent.

Earlier in the session, the Dow was down more than 200 points.

Banking shares in China tumbled to their biggest daily loss in almost four years after the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, said lenders needed to do a better job of managing their cash and loans. The central bank is trying to move China, the world’s second largest economy, away from credit-driven investment.

The S.&P. 500 has fallen 3.5 percent in June, and is on track for its worst monthly performance since May 2012.
585 2013-06-25 The interbank lending market’s benchmark overnight rate, which serves as a gauge of liquidity in the financial market, stood at 6.489 percent Monday. That was down from 8.492 percent Friday and well below the record high of 13.44 percent it hit Thursday, but still elevated compared with the level of about 3 percent of most of the past 18 months.

In a statement dated June 17 but published Monday, the Chinese central bank, the People’s Bank of China, addressed some of the concerns about the cash crunch, saying that “currently, liquidity in our country’s banking system is overall at a reasonable level.” But, in a stern sign to Chinese lenders, it called on financial institutions to improve “awareness about preventing risks” and to "strengthen their analysis and forecasting about factors affecting liquidity.”

“Follow the requirements of macro prudence in allocating assets in a sensible fashion,” the central bank’s instructions to lenders went on, “and cautiously control the risks that the excessively rapid expansion of credit and other assets may lead to liquidity risks. When there is turbulence in market liquidity, swiftly adjust the structure of assets.”

The fact that the People’s Bank of China had allowed interbank lending rates to soar last week — rather than injected money into the financial system — was widely interpreted as a deliberate effort to rein in excessive lending and force banks to focus on prudent, low-risk loans.

A buildup of debt by local governments, property developers and state-owned companies, while useful for supporting economic growth, bears substantial risk, including asset price bubbles and potentially destabilizing defaults if loans turn sour, analysts have cautioned. The rapid expansion of lending in unregulated and often opaque shadow banking activities, in particular, has worried many.

Last month, the International Monetary Fund cautioned that the growth in credit “raises concerns about the quality of investment and its impact on repayment capacity, especially since a fast-growing share of credit is flowing through less-well supervised parts of the financial system.”

Beijing has responded in recent months with efforts to address the potential risks. “Policy makers have taken measures to slow the rapid growth in credit and at the same time tightened rules about irregular and imprudent activity in the financial system, including interbank bond repo transactions,” economists at JPMorgan in Hong Kong wrote in a research note Friday, referring to bond repurchases. That “tough-line attitude,” they added, had caused the recent increase in interbank funding costs.

Although factors like a seasonal demand for liquidity and a crackdown on cash hoarding at banks also contributed to the rate increase, the JPMorgan team wrote, it seemed that the P.B.O.C. also “wants to use this as an opportunity to address” banks’ expectations that it is always there to provide backup.

Yiping Huang and Jian Chang, China economists at Barclays, said in a report that with “China’s credit-to-G.D.P. ratio at 200 percent, we believe that the P.B.O.C. is acting in line with the government’s efforts to deleverage, rebalance and position the economy towards a path for sustainable growth.” Though the central bank is likely to stabilize the interbank market in the near term, they added, “short-term rates are likely to remain elevated, at least for a while, possibly leading to the failing of some smaller financial institutions.”

Louis Kuijs, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland and former China economist at the World Bank, said conditions in the interbank market were likely to remain “tight and nervous” in the coming weeks.

“We expect conditions on the interbank market to normalize gradually after that,” Mr. Kuijs added.
586 2013-06-26 HD Supply and Tremor Video have public offerings planned, but recent jolts in the stock and bond markets have reintroduced some caution into Wall Street....
587 2013-06-26 June is often a flurry as Americans try to make sense of the year’s Supreme Court decisions. This batch of rulings may be more confusing than most. The justices’ decision on affirmative action was so inconclusive that both supporters and opponents celebrated. Tuesday’s rejection of a portion of the Voting Rights Act struck some as a blow to racial equality, and others as a sign of the civil rights movement’s success. Wednesday morning’s rulings on same-sex marriage will eliminate some, but not all, of the legal double standards that hurt gay Americans.

With this week’s rulings, are we seeing the end of the civil rights movement?
588 2013-06-26 The Topnotch Resort in Stowe, Vt., is open again after a renovation of guestrooms and dining facilities....
589 2013-06-26 Microsoft is supporting for an array of 3-D printers in Windows 8.1, in a move to position itself as a leader in the emerging technology....
590 2013-06-26 Bear, who was injured while aiding in an arrest last week, was greeted by a line of four-footed colleagues at his release from a hospital....
591 2013-06-26 A roundup of past coverage from the Bucks blog and elsewhere in The Times about the particular financial issues facing same-sex couples....
592 2013-06-26 Animals are useful in children’s books: they’re beautiful, colorful and both similar to and different enough from humans for children to view them with detached amusement — or sympathy. In three new books this month, writers structure their stories around the unusual characteristics of wombats, bears and sloths.

Like little humans, Australian wombats need a lot of sleep. And as some babies seem to do, they sleep mostly during the day. In “One Very Tired Wombat,” Renée Treml, a Melbourne-based author and illustrator, tells the story of a very cute, very dozy wombat whose attempts to nap are continually interrupted by nine sets of birds, from kookaburras to fairy wrens, who want to use his sweetly rounded back as a perch, or in the case of a playful group of little blue penguins (did you know Australia had them?), as a slide.

In rhyming verse, Treml counts the wombat’s visitors as they coo, giggle, warble, chatter, squawk and sing. “Seven garish galahs — as noisy as a train! / Poor tired wombat, these birds are such a pain.” Finally the birds go a feather too far and the wombat sneezes, chasing them away, at least for the moment.

This is Treml’s first picture book. Her artwork is distinctive; she uses a penknife to scratch black ink off a clay-painted board or paper, then applies paint to the scratched surface. Her method renders feathers, and particularly fur, dense with detail and seemingly three-dimensional. Though the animals are shown in black and white, each page has a deep pastel background to add interest. The effect, combined with her funny narrative, is charming and instructive.

“If You Were a Panda Bear,” by the author Florence Minor and her husband, the illustrator Wendell Minor, isn’t all about pandas. In brilliant colored gouache, with soft, fuzzy, furry detail, the Minors, who live and work in rural Connecticut, depict 10 kinds of bears enjoying their natural environments. Seen with their cubs, hunting, napping or moongazing, these bears range from the familiar polar bears and black bears to sun bears, sloth bears and moon bears.

A simple narrative, again in rhyme, gives a few facts about each bear (“If you were a moon bear, / You’d stay out late at night, /And the mark on your chest / Would look just like a light”), supplemented by a list of more earnest “Bear Fun Facts” at the end of the story. All the bears, even the impressively tall grizzly, look friendly, and the 10th bear — shown in his home environment, among other toys in a cozy chair, is, like this beautiful book, clearly a good bedtime companion.
593 2013-06-26 An immigration lawyer talks about how she built her law firm and the potential impact of reform....
594 2013-06-26 Times reporters and editors are analyzing the rulings, their implications and public reaction....
595 2013-06-26 How was voting a contentious issue for much of the 20th century?...
596 2013-06-26 The Olympic gold medalists Nathan Adrian and Missy Franklin won the men’s and women’s 100-meter freestyle races at the national championships in Indianapolis. Adrian beat Jimmy Feigen to the wall by more than half a second, finishing in 48.54 seconds to take the race that featured seven Olympic gold medalists. Franklin charged past the three leaders on the second 50 meters to set a new meet record in 53.43.
597 2013-06-26 Officials have arrested four men in the killing of an American antidrug agent, the police said Tuesday. Gen. José Roberto León, the national police director, said the four were members of a robbery gang. Two are taxi drivers. Colombian and American officials have said they believed that the Drug Enforcement Administration agent James Watson was probably killed in a common robbery, not because of his law enforcement work. Mr. Watson, 43, was stabbed to death on June 20 after he left a restaurant and got into a taxi.
598 2013-06-26 The departing center-right coalition government, which holds a parliamentary majority, had opposed Mr. Rusnok’s appointment. Last week it nominated Miroslava Nemcova, the speaker of the lower house, as its candidate for prime minister.

But Mr. Zeman said Tuesday that he had promised during the presidential elections in January that he would take down the Necas government and that he was fulfilling his promise. He said a caretaker government would be best equipped to ensure that an investigation of the corruption scandal would not be influenced by political pressure.

If Mr. Rusnok fails to win the vote Parliament, Mr. Zeman is allowed to appoint two more prime ministers. If neither of them is approved, national elections would be called.

In the absence of a government, the parties can also move to dissolve Parliament, which would lead to early elections, which would likely be held in November or December.

Analysts said early elections would probably clear the way for a government led by the Social Democrats, whose promise to increase spending has resonated with voters who are disenchanted with an austerity drive and upset by corruption accusations surrounding the Civic Democrats, the largest of the governing parties.

Mr. Rusnok said Tuesday that he had no plans to overhaul the previous government’s economic policy.

The Czech Republic is in a mild recession, and the latest corruption scandal has provoked a backlash. Beyond the accusation that she used the secret services for personal reasons, Ms. Nagyova, the chief of staff who has been arrested, has also inspired public contempt for her lavish lifestyle, including a penchant for Louis Vuitton purses and Champagne breakfasts.

Ms. Nagyova has been charged with bribery for offering posts in state-owned companies to several rebellious members of Parliament if they agreed to surrender their seats, an accusation that she has denied.

Jaroslav Plesl, the deputy editor of Tyden, a leading political weekly magazine, said Mr. Zeman, the republic’s first popularly elected president, appeared intent on exploiting the scandal to increase his power.

“He sees that the Czechs are fed up with corruption and the outgoing government and is so using the situation to expand his authority with a weak government he can control,” Mr. Plesl said. “What is clear is that Mr. Zeman is now running the country.”
599 2013-06-26 That is intended to address conflicts of interest that have occurred when companies evaluated children, exaggerated their disabilities and then provided the services.

Contractors would have to post audit reports on their Web sites, and would be required to “take measures to ensure” that their executive directors work full-time all year.

“Students and taxpayers deserve much better than they are getting,” Mr. DiNapoli said after passage of the bill, which was sponsored by Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan, a Queens Democrat, and State Senator John J. Flanagan, a Long Island Republican.

The legislation calls upon the State Education Department to study alternatives to the existing reimbursement and regulatory system.

Nearly all the department’s budget and personnel for oversight are devoted to calculating some 1,400 reimbursement rates for each of the prekindergarten contractors in the state. Little is left to verify that the money is spent properly or to ensure the quality of the services.

A result, officials say, has been rising costs for the state and local governments, which split the bill roughly 60-40. In New York City, annual costs now total $1.2 billion, about 6 percent of the $19.8 billion education budget. Statewide, costs have doubled in just six years.

Advocacy groups for contractors have said that they are devoted to helping children with disabilities, and that a few offenders are giving the industry a bad name.

Education officials have complained that influential lobbyists for contractors have blocked efforts in Albany to control costs.

The current push for reform has been halting: Mr. Cuomo obtained modest changes in the coming year’s state budget, but more aggressive proposals were rejected by the Legislature after contractors expressed opposition.

The final state budget included $5 million to pay for more audits by the State Education Department and by localities, but an Education Department spokesman called the shift of that responsibility to the comptroller a “sensible next step.”

The proposal by Mr. DiNapoli, too, was watered down by lawmakers: Its initial draft would have required school administrators to obtain a second evaluation from an independent professional, and the approval of the state education commissioner, before assigning a child evaluated by one company to the same company for services.

“Regular and expected audits is really the single best way to get at the corruption,” said former Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a lobbyist for one group of contractors.

But Mr. Sanders said the state eventually needed to switch to a system with uniform, regional reimbursement rates for all providers. As it stands now, he said: “The more you spend, the more you claim, the more you get back. I think that that methodology leaves wide open the possibility for overexpenditure.”

Stephen J. Acquario, executive director of the New York Association of Counties, which has lobbied for more stringent spending curbs in the program, said the bill did not go far enough but called it “a step in the right direction.”
600 2013-06-26 WASHINGTON — Search engine companies should more clearly distinguish on their Web pages between advertising, paid content and the results of an Internet search, the Federal Trade Commission told two dozen search engine providers on Tuesday.

The commission made the statements, which update guidelines first laid out in 2002, in a letter it sent to seven general search engine companies including Google, Bing and Yahoo, as well as to 17 specialized search sites that focus on travel, shopping and local businesses.

Saying that the commission has noticed a decline in compliance with its 2002 guidelines, Mary K. Engle, associate director for advertising practices, wrote that “to avoid the potential for deception, consumers should be able to easily distinguish a natural search result from advertising that a search engine delivers.”

Ms. Engle cited a 2012 study by SEOBook, a search strategies company, which found that “nearly half of searchers did not recognize top ads as distinct from natural search results.” Top ads are advertisements that appear immediately above the list of search results.

Those ads are often set apart by background shading, to distinguish them from other search results. But the F.T.C. said that the shading was often too light and failed to differentiate the ads from nonpaid material. In addition, it warned, the formats used in one type of device — say, desktop browser pages — often did not work for different devices, like mobile smartphones.

Specialized search results — for example, from a search engine that focuses strictly on one industry, like airlines or hotels — are sometimes based at least in part on payments from a third party, the F.T.C. said. “If that is the case, it is also a form of advertising and should be identified as such to consumers,” the agency said.

The issue came up during last year’s F.T.C. investigation of Google, when other companies accused Google of displaying shopping results based not on what would best suit a customer, but rather on the potential return to Google.

In a statement, Google said Tuesday that “clear labeling and disclosure of paid results is important, and we’ve always strived to do that as our products have evolved.” Neither Google nor any other company was singled out in the F.T.C.’s letter as a potential violator.
601 2013-06-26 This from perhaps the first nation to try mass college education, graduating more students from college than anybody else. Graduation rates in the United States among 55- to 64-year-olds are higher than in any industrial country except Canada and Israel — reflecting the nation’s head start.

What’s most troubling, perhaps, is that Americans are actually enrolling in college and then dropping out halfway through — when they’ve probably already incurred a bunch of debt and won’t benefit from the better job prospects that come with a degree.

More than 70 percent of Americans matriculate at a four-year college — the seventh-highest rate among 23 developed nations for which the O.E.C.D. compiles such statistics. But less than two-thirds end up graduating. Including community colleges, the graduation rate drops to 53 percent. Only Hungary does worse.

And the most perplexing part of this accounting is that regardless of cost, getting a degree is the best financial decision a young American can make.

According to the O.E.C.D.’s report, a college degree is worth $365,000 for the average American man after subtracting all its direct and indirect costs over a lifetime. For women — who still tend to earn less than men — it’s worth $185,000.

College graduates have higher employment rates and make more money. According to the O.E.C.D., a typical graduate from a four-year college earns 84 percent more than a high school graduate. A graduate from a community college makes 16 percent more.

A college education is more profitable in the United States than in pretty much every other advanced nation. Only Irish women get more for the investment: $185,960 net.

What’s to be done?

Democratizing higher education is an urgent challenge. A study published Wednesday by the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution in Washington underscores how inequities in education are hampering social and economic mobility, contributing to entrenched income inequality.

The study points out that half of Americans in the top fourth of the income distribution have a college degree. Among the poorest fourth of Americans, fewer than one in 10 graduated from college. And the gap is growing. The college graduation rate of high-income Americans born in the 1980s was 20 percentage points higher than in the 1960s. Among low-income Americans, it advanced only 4 percent.

Every year federal, state and municipal governments spend a total of more than $9,200 per student in college, the O.E.C.D. estimates. Perhaps they could do more. According to the O.E.C.D., they make a profit of $231,000 on each American who graduates from college — mostly through higher income taxes and lower unemployment payments.

Increasing financial aid can increase the odds of keeping a student in college. But it can be expensive and not very cost-effective. Some students getting aid wouldn’t graduate anyway, and others would have graduated without it.

Eric Hanushek, a professor at Stanford University, argues that there is something inherently unfair about subsidizing students only when they reach college. “Subsidies to higher education are bonuses for the people who already are coming out ahead,” he told me in an e-mail. “These bonuses are paid partially by the people who were not the winners — the ones who did not attend college. Therefore, transfers are made from the less well off to the more well off.”

Other ideas look promising. A study by Caroline Hoxby, a professor at Stanford University, and Sarah Turner, a professor at the University of Virginia, concluded that providing high-achieving students from low-income backgrounds with personalized information about their college options would cost only $6 per student but could vastly increase their applications and acceptance to high-end colleges. Reconfiguring college loans — for instance by making debt repayments contingent on wages after college — might help young Americans overcome their fear of an enormous pile of debt.

Yet if the problem is not getting more Americans to enroll in college but to get those enrolled to finish it, we need to understand why it is that Americans drop out at such disproportionate rates — despite the promise of a high payoff at the end. Getting more Americans successfully through college requires ensuring that once they get there, they can reap the enormous profits of the experience.

And that looks likely to be a more complicated task than providing more college grants.

Many students are arriving in college without the needed preparation. In 2009, American 15-year-olds scored in 17th place in international reading tests — among 65 nations rich and poor. They scored in 27th place in math and 23rd in science — well below top achievers in other advanced countries. Studies have found that American students are disproportionately disadvantaged, compared with those of high-performing nations on international tests.

The pattern suggests that the main obstacle keeping Americans from a college education emerges long before they reach college.

“As we have larger proportions attending college, we are undoubtedly dipping down further in the preparation of students for college,” Professor Hanushek said. “This, in turn, leads to greater proportions of students dropping out before they complete a B.A. degree.”

This may call for a different approach to improve the nation’s college graduation rates. The best policy may require taking the money spent today to subsidize public higher education and using it to better prepare students before they get there.
602 2013-06-26 Cardinal Sean O’Malley has barred a prominent Austrian priest from speaking in a Roman Catholic parish in the Archdiocese of Boston because the priest advocates the ordination of women and married men as one solution to the priest shortage. The appearance by the priest, the Rev. Helmut Schüller in Boston on July 17  is part of a cross-country speaking tour sponsored by 10  liberal Catholic groups that are pressing the church for change. The Archdiocese of Boston said that its policy, like the practice in other dioceses, is to prohibit individuals who promote “positions that are contrary to Catholic teachings” from speaking in Catholic parishes and at church events. Father Schüller helped lead an “Appeal to Disobedience” backed by about 400 priests and deacons in 2011, and was later stripped of his formal title of monsignor. His talk in Boston has been moved to a Unitarian Universalist church, but he is scheduled to speak at a Catholic parish in Detroit and a Catholic college in Pennsylvania.
603 2013-06-26 On the surface, Tuesday night’s matchup at Yankee Stadium between the two best Japanese pitchers in baseball was intriguing. Hiroki Kuroda and Yu Darvish, the proven veteran and the flashy newcomer, reprised their duel from last season when the Rangers and Darvish, then a rookie, won, 2-0, at Texas.

But there was also a behind-the-scenes matchup that was equally intriguing.

During that game, which was Darvish’s fourth in the majors, each pitcher had an interpreter working for him. They helped the athletes communicate with their pitching coaches, managers, teammates and reporters.

Kenji Nimura was Kuroda’s interpreter; he had traveled east with Kuroda after four years alongside him with the Los Angeles Dodgers from 2008 to 2011.

Jiwon Bang worked with Darvish on the Rangers, although he was officially assigned to Koji Uehara.

While the pitchers are with the same teams this season, the interpreters have changed places. Bang works with Kuroda and Nimura is paired with Darvish.

Nimura and Bang were not traded for each other. They switched places in free agency. Yes, interpreters can do that, too, although they do not have top agents representing them, unless it is insisted upon.
604 2013-06-26 The Food and Drug Administration announced on Tuesday that for the first time it had begun exercising its power to regulate cigarettes and other tobacco products, an authority it was given under a 2009 law supported by President Obama.

Agency officials said they had authorized the sale of two new products — both of them Newport cigarettes made by the Lorillard Tobacco Company — and rejected four others. The law forbade them to name the rejected products, they said.

Before the law, cigarettes were manufactured without any federal regulation. Instead, states decided where and how tobacco products would be sold, but had no authority over the ingredients they contained. Now, the F.D.A. is deciding which new products can be sold. In addition to cigarettes, the agency’s authority covers loose rolling tobacco, chewing tobacco and snuff.

The agency can reject cigarettes and other tobacco products that its scientists believe pose public health risks above and beyond comparable products already on the market, a sharp departure from past practice, when tobacco companies could change existing products and introduce new ones at will.

Advocates said the F.D.A.’s use of this authority was a milestone.

“This is the first time in history that a federal agency has told tobacco companies that they could not market a new or modified cigarette because of the public health problems they pose,” said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an advocacy group.

Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, the F.D.A. commissioner, called the development “historic,” and said that the F.D.A. was the only agency in the world that possessed such powers. Under the law, the agency can also limit ingredients in tobacco products like nicotine. Federal officials say they are currently studying how to exercise this authority.
605 2013-06-26 The conservative majority on the Roberts Court issued another damaging and intellectually dishonest ruling on Tuesday. It eviscerated enforcement of the Voting Rights Act, in which Congress kept the promise of a vote for every citizen. But it did not rule on the constitutional validity of the idea that some places have such strong records of discrimination that they must seek federal approval before they may change their voting rules. Instead, the 5-to-4 ruling usurped Congress’s power and struck down the formula that it has repeatedly reauthorized to determine which states fall into that category.

The invited Congress to rewrite the formula, which has a disingenuous ring. The justices know full well that lawmakers, who failed to expand the coverage formula in 2006, are extremely unlikely to do it now. And so the preclearance rule lies dormant.

The Justice Department is still free to sue jurisdictions over their voting policies after the fact, and should, as often as necessary, because such lawsuits will become an even more important tool to ensure justice. But that is not a long-term substitute for the preclearance rule. As Justice noted in her impassioned dissent, such suits have proved to be a less effective tool against politicians determined to find ways block access to the polls. The jurisdictions covered by the preclearance rule are, for the most part, firmly in that category.

Jr., writing for the majority, was right when he said that the formula used to determine the jurisdictions that are covered was written long ago, but, if anything, it is too narrow. Chief Justice Roberts was entirely wrong when he wrote that the states can no longer “be divided into two groups: those with a recent history of voting tests and low voter registration and turnout, and those without those characteristics.”

In 2006, when Congress reauthorized the voting law after extensive hearings, Representative , a conservative Republican from , said the formula is not outdated and “states covered are not unfairly punished under the coverage formula.”
606 2013-06-26 Mr. Correa, fresh off a landslide re-election victory, glories in a fight. He relishes tweaking the United States and may aspire to take on the mantle of leader of the Latin American left that was once worn by Hugo Chávez, the loudly anti-imperialist president of Venezuela, who died in March.

“Rhetorically, he aspires to be a leader, and this may be a situation that’s hard for him to resist just given his nature and his temperament,” Mr. Shifter said.

Relations with the United States have been rocky almost since Mr. Correa first took office in 2007. He stopped American antidrug flights from an Ecuadorean military base. In 2011, he kicked out the American ambassador, angered by a diplomatic cable revealed by WikiLeaks that suggested he was aware of police corruption and looked the other way.

Last year, he gave asylum in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, on the grounds that he risked persecution and possibly the death penalty if he were to be charged in the United States for revealing secret State Department cables and other materials.

The two countries exchanged ambassadors again last year, but things have not always gone smoothly for the new American envoy, Adam E. Namm.

Last month, Mr. Correa, who has warred continually with the news media in his country, reacted angrily after Mr. Namm attended an event in favor of freedom of expression that was organized by the National Journalists Union. Mr. Correa called Mr. Namm a meddler and warned him to behave. The foreign minister, Ricardo Patiño, said darkly that the next time he might get more than just a warning.

The last sustained high-level contact between the two countries may have come in 2010, when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited Ecuador. During that visit, Mr. Correa told her, “We’re not anti-American; we love America,” and he described his years as a student at the University of Illinois as the happiest of his life.

But Mrs. Clinton pressed him on his government’s crackdown on the news media, and when an Ecuadorean journalist challenged him about his policies at a news conference, the president rebuked him while Mrs. Clinton watched stone-faced.

The most likely casualty of sheltering Mr. Snowden would be the trade preferences, which have been in place since the early 1990s. Originally designed for several Andean nations, Ecuador is the last remaining recipient. But the preferences, which applied to about $429 million in non-oil exports last year, expire at the end of July unless they are renewed by Congress.

That renewal was already in doubt, not least of all, officials said, because the oil giant Chevron has been lobbying hard against Ecuador. The campaign is part of Chevron’s response to an $18 billion penalty against the company ordered by an Ecuadorean court in a case over environmental damages related to oil drilling in the Amazon.

But Ecuador has begun its own campaign to keep the preferences, including a Web site called Keep Trade Going, that urges Americans to contact their legislators to ask them to vote in favor of the pact.

At the same time, Ecuador has staked out a fallback position, petitioning to include roses, frozen broccoli and canned artichokes in a separate trade program, the Generalized System of Preferences. That decision is controlled by the White House, so Ecuador is essentially asking President Obama’s help in getting around opposition in Congress.

Mr. Obama must decide by Monday whether he will include those items — a move that becomes increasingly thorny as the standoff over Mr. Snowden continues.

The question remains how heavily Mr. Correa will weigh such economic considerations.

“It is something that will adversely affect the Ecuadorean economy,” said Dan Restrepo, an adviser to Mr. Obama on Latin American policy until last year. “But I don’t know whether it’s enough to stop him.”

Analysts said that if Mr. Correa gives asylum to Mr. Snowden the United States could also try to isolate Ecuador politically, asking allies in the region to step up pressure on issues like press freedom. The same weekend that Mr. Snowden’s asylum request was made public, Mr. Correa signed a new media law that critics say would quash much critical coverage of the government.

But Orlando Pérez, the director of El Telégrafo, a government-owned newspaper, said that granting asylum to Mr. Snowden should not provoke a confrontation with the United States. “What is at play is to guarantee human rights,” he said. “Rather than hurt Ecuador it puts it in a kind of political vanguard in Latin America.”

Many in Latin America feel that the Obama administration has not made relations in the region a priority, and the episode may become another example of Washington’s waning influence.

The standoff last year over Mr. Assange, who took refuge in Ecuador’s embassy in London to escape being sent to Sweden, where he is wanted for questioning on allegations he sexually assaulted two women, gave Mr. Correa a chance to portray himself as the defiant leader of a tiny country standing up to a world power. Mr. Snowden’s request allows him to do the same again.

Both cases also helped Mr. Correa defend himself against charges that he is too harsh with the press, allowing him to portray himself as a champion of transparency.

Mauricio Gándara, a former ambassador to London who is critical of Mr. Correa, said the president aspired to become an admired Latin American leftist like Mr. Chávez or Fidel Castro.

“How much damage it does to Ecuador is another matter,” Mr. Gándara said. “They want to go beyond Chávez, they want to challenge the world.”
607 2013-06-26 MOSCOW — The airport transit area here where Edward J. Snowden, the fugitive American national security contractor, is believed to be planning his next move has a Burger King, a T.G.I. Friday’s and a bar called Pub, or as rendered in Russian, “Pab.” It also has a vast number of locked doors, something you might not notice without spending 17 hours looking for Mr. Snowden.

Many reporters, holding plane tickets that give them access to the area, have spent sleepless nights patrolling the long halls of the transit zone, looking for witnesses among the area’s janitors, cashiers and flight attendants.

By Tuesday, some airport staff members were getting cranky. “I know who you’re looking for,” said a receptionist at a business-class lounge called Jazz. “This is a business-class place, not a no-visa kind of place.”

At another V.I.P. hall, the receptionist answered a query about Mr. Snowden by saying, “So you can do this?” and mimicking machine-gun fire.

But a police officer, who would not give his name, found humor in the situation. As several journalists explained why they were leaving the terminal without boarding their flights, he asked: “Are you looking for someone? You won’t find him.” Asked if he had seen him, the officer said: “I see him all the time. You won’t find him, though.”

But mostly, during the predawn hours, it is quiet. Passengers stretch out on the floor, some with newspapers on their faces.
608 2013-06-26 CBS appears to have found a legitimate summertime hit in its adaptation of the Stephen King novel “Under the Dome,” whose first episode drew an audience of more than 13 million Monday night.

In preliminary overnight ratings, the show’s audience reached 13.1 million, a number likely to grow, especially when delayed viewing is included.

The premiere of “Dome,” a 13-part mini-series set in a small town that is suddenly sealed off by a mysterious clear dome, also scored with the audience that counts for many advertisers — viewers between the ages of 18 and 49 — where it registered a 3.2 rating. That would count as a hit rating any time of year; in the summer, when networks have a hard time eclipsing a 1 rating in that category, the numbers for “Dome” represent a breakout performance.

On Monday night, the show faced the final game of an exciting N.H.L. championship series, which could mean a large number of hockey fans recorded the show to watch later. Also, with largely positive reviews, “Dome” has the potential to build on its ratings in future episodes.
609 2013-06-26 She said the focus of the Voting Rights Act had properly changed from “first-generation barriers to ballot access” to “second-generation barriers” like racial gerrymandering and laws requiring at-large voting in places with a sizable black minority. She said the law had been effective in thwarting such efforts.

The law had applied to nine states — Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia — and to scores of counties and municipalities in other states, including Brooklyn, Manhattan and the Bronx.

Chief Justice Roberts wrote that Congress remained free to try to impose federal oversight on states where voting rights were at risk, but must do so based on contemporary data. But the chances that the current Congress could reach agreement on where federal oversight is required are small, most analysts say.

Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. joined the majority opinion. Justice Ginsburg was joined in dissent by Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.

The majority held that the coverage formula in Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, originally passed in 1965 and most recently updated by Congress in 1975, was unconstitutional. The section determined which states must receive clearance from the Justice Department or a federal court in Washington before they made minor changes to voting procedures, like moving a polling place, or major ones, like redrawing electoral districts.

Section 5, which sets out the preclearance requirement, was originally scheduled to expire in five years. Congress repeatedly extended it: for five years in 1970, seven years in 1975, and 25 years in 1982. Congress renewed the act in 2006 after holding extensive hearings on the persistence of racial discrimination at the polls, again extending the preclearance requirement for 25 years. But it relied on data from the 1975 reauthorization to decide which states and localities were covered.

The current coverage system, Chief Justice Roberts wrote, is “based on 40-year-old facts having no logical relationship to the present day.”

“Congress — if it is to divide the states — must identify those jurisdictions to be singled out on a basis that makes sense in light of current conditions,” he wrote. “It cannot simply rely on the past.”

The decision did not strike down Section 5, but without Section 4, the later section is without significance — unless Congress passes a new bill for determining which states would be covered.

It was hardly clear, at any rate, that the court’s conservative majority would uphold Section 5 if the question returned to the court in the unlikely event that Congress enacted a new coverage formula. In a concurrence, Justice Thomas called for striking down Section 5 immediately, saying that the majority opinion had provided the reasons and had merely left “the inevitable conclusion unstated.”

The Supreme Court had repeatedly upheld the law in earlier decisions, saying that the preclearance requirement was an effective tool to combat the legacy of lawless conduct by Southern officials bent on denying voting rights to blacks.

Critics of Section 5 say it is a unique federal intrusion on state sovereignty and a badge of shame for the affected jurisdictions that is no longer justified.

The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was one of the towering legislative achievements of the civil rights movement, and Chief Justice Roberts said its “strong medicine” was the right response to “entrenched racial discrimination.” When it was first enacted, he said, black voter registration stood at 6.4 percent in Mississippi, and the gap between black and white registration rates was more than 60 percentage points.

In the 2004 election, the last before the law was reauthorized, the black registration rate in Mississippi was 76 percent, almost four percentage points higher than the white rate. In the 2012 election, Chief Justice Roberts wrote, “African-American voter turnout exceeded white voter turnout in five of the six states originally covered by Section 5.”

The chief justice recalled the Freedom Summer of 1964, when the civil rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner were murdered near Philadelphia, Miss., while seeking to register black voters. He mentioned Bloody Sunday in 1965, when police officers beat marchers in Selma, Ala.

“Today,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote, “both of those towns are governed by African-American mayors. Problems remain in these states and others, but there is no denying that, due to the Voting Rights Act, our nation has made great strides.”

Justice Ginsburg, in her dissent from the bench, drew a different lesson from those events, drawing on the words of Dr. King.

“The great man who led the march from Selma to Montgomery and there called for the passage of the Voting Rights Act foresaw progress, even in Alabama,” she said. “ ‘The arc of the moral universe is long,’ he said, but ‘it bends toward justice,’ if there is a steadfast commitment to see the task through to completion.”

In her written dissent, Justice Ginsburg said that Congress was the right body to decide whether the law was still needed and where. Congress reauthorized the law in 2006 by large majorities; the vote was 390 to 33 in the House and unanimous in the Senate. President George W. Bush, a Republican, signed the bill into law, saying it was “an example of our continued commitment to a united America where every person is valued and treated with dignity and respect.”

The Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of the 2006 extension of the law in a 2009 decision, Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder. But it avoided answering the central question, and it seemed to give Congress an opportunity to make adjustments. Congress, Chief Justice Roberts noted on Tuesday, did not respond.

Justice Ginsburg suggested in her dissent that an era had drawn to a close with the court’s decision on the Voting Rights Act, in Shelby County v. Holder, No. 12-96.

“Beyond question, the V.R.A. is no ordinary legislation,” she wrote. “It is extraordinary because Congress embarked on a mission long delayed and of extraordinary importance: to realize the purpose and promise of the Fifteenth Amendment,” the Reconstruction-era amendment that barred racial discrimination in voting and authorized Congress to enforce it.

“For a half century,” she wrote, “a concerted effort has been made to end racial discrimination in voting. Thanks to the Voting Rights Act, progress once the subject of a dream has been achieved and continues to be made.”
610 2013-06-26 On Tuesday the bank pledged that it would apply open market operations — buying or selling securities to manage liquidity and rates — and other methods to offset “short-term abnormal volatility, stabilize market expectations and maintain stability in monetary markets.”

The reassurances were accompanied by a warning to commercial banks to contain risk and to report promptly any “sudden major problems.” Chinese banks that follow government policies in lending practices and risk controls can expect support from the central bank if they have brief capital shortfalls, the bank said. But wayward banks can expect tougher treatment, it suggested.

“For institutions that have problems in their liquidity management, corresponding measures will be taken on a case-by-case basis, while maintaining the overall stability of money markets,” it said.

“The stock markets are continuing to react to the very elevated funding costs,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Crédit Agricole in Hong Kong, referring to the recent surge in interbank lending rates. Those rates determine what banks pay to borrow from each other, often to cover short-term obligations.

Interbank lending rates, which began to decline last Friday, continued to do so Tuesday. The benchmark overnight lending rate, a gauge of liquidity in the financial market, stood at 5.736 percent. That was down from 6.489 percent on Monday and well below the record high of 13.44 percent reached last Thursday.

But with rates still well above where they were in the last 18 months, around 3 percent, anxiety over the effect on the financial system and the economy persisted Tuesday.

The central bank’s stance could help economic conditions in China, many analysts have said, by instilling more lending discipline and reducing the chances of asset price bubbles and loan defaults that have increased with rapid lending growth in the last few months.

In its latest statement Tuesday, the central bank urged commercial banks to “prudently control the excessively rapid expansion of credit and assets that may lead to liquidity risks.”

Still, many analysts contend that the central bank’s tough stance has risks.

“We believe the biggest risk comes from the P.B.O.C. potentially mishandling the situation,” Ting Lu, China economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said Tuesday, referring to the People’s Bank of China. “That being said, we believe the P.B.O.C. and Chinese policy makers will be aware of the potential dangers and take decisive measures to revive the interbank market, to calm investors and to stabilize the economy.”

In the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, the prospect of slower economic growth in China has weighed on markets for months.
611 2013-06-27 CASSIDY--John Francis Kevin formerly of Stamford and Old Greenwich, CT, died on June 23, 2013 in Sonoma, CA. Husband to Patricia Crawford Cassidy of Sonoma, CA. Father to Anne Cassidy of Sonoma, CA, Sarah Cassidy of Duvall, WA, and John Cassidy of...
612 2013-06-27 An article was posted on this page inadvertently, before it was ready for publication....
613 2013-06-27 The rental car companies Dollar and Thrifty will open more than 135 new locations in France, Spain and Luxembourg this summer....
614 2013-06-27 Earlier this month, an American trade commission ordered a ban on sales of some iPhones and iPads after determining that Apple had violated a patent owned by Samsung Electronics....
615 2013-06-27 Tomas Berdych perhaps signaled he is ready to make another deep run at Wimbledon with his straight-sets win over Daniel Brands....
616 2013-06-27 At a news conference in Dakar, Senegal, on Thursday, the president said the Supreme Court made "a mistake" in its ruling on the Voting Rights Act.
617 2013-06-27 The Missoni company announced on Thursday that the wreckage of the small aircraft carrying Vittorio Missoni had been discovered off the coast of Venezuela....
618 2013-06-27 Building Blocks: Social landmarks don’t make their significance readily apparent, but a Gay Pride Month guide is a reminder that buildings can breathe with life to those who know something about them....
619 2013-06-27 Hertz offers exotic car rental, Shelby American will move to Las Vegas this year, and Nismo will upgrade Nissan Leafs in Japan....
620 2013-06-27 Through euphemisms in Indian official-speak, is it a sensitive government trying not to offend the ethnic, linguistic, religious, class or caste groups that populate India?...
621 2013-06-27 “They said to see this on camera would be incredible,” Pascucci recalled.

Initially, Pascucci had some reservations. He wanted Sebonack’s members to have a few years to enjoy the club — for which they paid upward of $650,000 to join in 2006 — before offering it about for events.

Pascucci’s vision, when he first hatched the notion of building a course in 1995, was never about championships. He said that when he laid out his plans to the co-designers Jack Nicklaus and Tom Doak, the object was to satisfy players at any level.

“The goal was to have something that’s fun and playable for the membership and can be really challenging for good players,” Doak said. “It’s a pretty fine balance, but I think we’ve hit the balance pretty well here.”

Pascucci first enlisted Nicklaus, who lived next door in North Palm Beach, Fla. After Nicklaus sketched his routing for the course, Pascucci also sought out Doak, who drew up his routing over a weekend during a snowstorm in Traverse City, Mich. Pascucci liked them both.

“I saw Doak was able to create fun golf,” Pascucci said. “And knowing Jack, I wanted to have a strategic aspect to the golf course.”

Pascucci said Nicklaus was hesitant to share duties at first but quickly warmed up to Doak, who showed his touch on the links-style fairways and greens, designing them like ski moguls with their undulations.

“We like to say it’s Tom’s look, Jack’s strategy,” said Garret Bodington, the course’s superintendent. “I think that’s what makes it an instant classic.”

Doak said: “We agreed in the beginning that both of us had to be happy with every hole. If we had a hole roughed in the ground and he wasn’t happy with it, we were still working on it.”

From the property — approximately 300 acres, with a mile of coastline and sweeping views of Great Peconic Bay — the clubhouse of Shinnecock and the windmill of National are visible, looming presences like ancient sentinels of golf’s beginnings on Long Island.

The wind off the bay is an obstacle, and a recent heat wave has left its mark on some of the fairways, which are wide and open. On Tuesday, Cristie Kerr said she was beginning to see brown patches on the crests of some fairway hills, adding that if the grounds crew does not tend to the softness of the greens, the course could get “ridiculous.”

“They could easily lose control of this course,” Kerr said, “because of the topography of the land and the wind and the heat. They’ve just got to watch it.”

To handle such maintenance demands, Sebonack hired 24 additional crew members and brought in more than 100 volunteers to fan out across 52 acres of fairways. Their workday begins at 4 a.m., under seven collapsible light towers.

Pascucci estimated that he set aside 80 acres just for infrastructure, giving NBC and ESPN enough room to set up their production trucks while not cramming parking lots and crowd galleries.

“People think this is a small place, but we’ve found we have more room than we thought,” said Mark Hissey, the executive director.

Thus far, the players have not found much to gripe about, complimenting the course for its complexity and difficulty, particularly on Doak’s greens. On Tuesday, Doak joined Paula Creamer for 16 holes as she went on a practice round, watching for himself as Creamer, the 14th-ranked player, plotted her strategy for the week ahead.

She did not anticipate asking him so many questions on the course, about slopes and pins and safe spots. Finally, on one of the greens, she blurted out her biggest question.

“I asked, ‘Why would you do that to us?’ ” Creamer said. “He just chuckled about it.”
622 2013-06-27 The city should “leave the world’s most famous arena where it is,” Mr. Thompson said.

There have been many unsuccessful efforts to rebuild Penn Station and it remains to be seen whether the current push builds momentum.

Fixing Penn Station would be an enormously complicated undertaking that would cost billions of dollars and require the cooperation and approval of city, state and federal governments, as well as Amtrak, New Jersey Transit, the Long Island Rail Road and the Postal Service. Indeed, there will be another race for mayor, and governor, before construction could even begin.

To expand the capacity of the station to handle more trains, officials would need to buy another full city block to install additional tracks. The last attempt to address Penn Station collapsed five years ago, a $14 billion proposal by Related Companies and Vornado Realty Trust to transform the station and move the Garden one block to the west. But it was undermined by a withering recession, a huge shortfall in public financing, political inertia and the oversized scope of the developers’ plan.

That was when James L. Dolan, who controls the Garden and whose management has made him an unpopular figure among Knicks and Rangers fans, instead embarked on a $1 billion renovation of the arena. The Garden has sought to extend its special permit, which expired in January, to operate the arena in perpetuity.

“We meet all required findings for a special permit and operate in a city where no sports arena or stadium has a time limit to its use,” Kimberly Kearns, a spokeswoman for the Garden, said.

There is no question that Penn Station, which was designed for about 250,000 daily passengers, is overwhelmed. There are not enough exits and entrances to handle current crowds, let alone the continuing growth of rail travelers and commuters.

“Everybody who uses the station, even occasionally, knows how unbearable Penn Station is,” said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a private group. “It’s become a safety issue. This 50-year experiment with putting the Garden on top of a train station doesn’t work.”

That has only heightened the nostalgia for the old station, with its soaring Doric columns and 5,700-pound stone eagles, which was demolished in 1963 because of declining ridership and revenue. The land was sold to the Garden, then three-quarters of a mile to the north at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street. The underground station is owned by Amtrak.

The Garden briefly considered moving its 5,600-seat theater, which is separate from the arena, to the James A. Farley Post Office Building, across Eighth Avenue. That would have allowed for an expansion of Penn Station and new entrances on Eighth Avenue, but the proposal never gained traction.

Last winter, civic activists from the Regional Plan Association and the Municipal Art Society decided it was time to put Penn Station back in the public spotlight, after discovering that the Garden had to apply to extend its special permit. They expected to use the permit process to build publicity, but few of them expected it to become an issue in the mayor’s race.

In February, Community Board 5, and later the borough president, called on the city to extend the Garden’s permit for 10 years, so that plans could be made for a new Penn Station, and a new arena elsewhere. But the City Planning Commission recommended a 15-year extension, although it provided what critics describe as a loophole: the city could further extend the permit without public review if the Garden and the transit operators agreed on a plan for improved access to the station.

Last week, Ms. Quinn, the City Council speaker, called for the elimination of the loophole and a shorter limit on the permit, 10 years. Ms. Quinn also called for the creation of a Commission for a 21st Century Penn Station to find a new home for the Garden and to build a station that suits the needs of the people who use it.

At Ms. Quinn’s urging, the Council sent the measure back to City Planning on Wednesday for modifications.

The Garden has pushed back, insisting that the permit limitations are improper and would hurt its business.

But even the most ardent advocates for a new Penn Station concede that little will happen unless both the mayor and the governor take the unusual step of agreeing to make it a priority and go to Washington for the money.

“None of these things happen unless there is leadership at the top,” said Vin Cipolla, the president of the Municipal Art Society. “If the mayor is truly committed to seeing this through, then the probability goes up.”
623 2013-06-27 The battle between Verizon and its unionized workers over a new device that turns a standard home phone into a kind of tethered cellphone shifted this week from Fire Island to the Catskills.

On Wednesday, the New York State attorney general’s office asked utilities regulators to prevent Verizon from “illegally installing” the device, known as Voice Link. The company has been pressing customers to switch to the new service instead of having their traditional phone lines fixed.

Verizon has made no secret of its desire to use Voice Link as an alternative to maintaining its network of copper wires in some rural areas and places where many of the homes are occupied seasonally.

The devices, which the company is rolling out nationally this week, plug into wall electrical outlets but transmit calls over a wireless network, as cellphones do.

In May, the company received permission from state regulators to offer Voice Link as the only option for home phone service in parts of Fire Island, the vacation area east of New York City. Hurricane Sandy destroyed many of the wires that carried phone calls out to the western end of the island.
624 2013-06-27 The five conservative justices of the Supreme Court ruled against a key section of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 by citing that “our country has changed.”

Yet when it comes to other legal and constitutional issues, these same five justices fail to recognize that there has been significant change since the days when our founding fathers wrote the Constitution well over 200 years ago.

The conservative wing of the Supreme Court, by voting against the interest of the poorest and weakest of us, not only disregards court precedent but also continues to act in a politically convenient and fungible manner.

The silver lining of the Supreme Court’s voting rights decision may be that Congress now has a chance to expand the law.

Voter suppression techniques are a growing method for engineering election outcomes in several states, and sanctioned methods like gerrymandering disenfranchise voters by redrawing districts in a way to ensure that a region’s minority viewpoint can win elections and ballot measures.

Voters’ rights are also trampled under Michigan’s emergency manager law, which says the state can appoint an official to take over the responsibilities of elected officials of a city in financial distress, ignoring the voters’ will. It sounds like something from a fictional account of a totalitarian future, but it’s happening now.

Perhaps Congress will ensure that the Voting Rights Act protects against these kinds of abuse as well.

My great-grandfather, a highly literate, landowning farmer in South Carolina, often told me, “Never tear down a wall until you determine why some man built it in the first place.”

Granddaddy never voted in his life, but he tried. He tried to register to vote and was asked to recite the Declaration of Independence. I knew that he could learn it, so I asked him why he just didn’t do so. He told me that he would only be asked for another recitation.

As a child of the South, I never understood what white people were afraid of. Then came the civil rights movement. Whenever I talk to children about the importance of voting, my mind goes back to Grandpop Allen.

Much of the progress that all minority groups have made in America has been a result of the Voting Rights Act. This is a dark day for all of those who marched and faced great adversity to make universal suffrage a reality in America.

The reason we needed the Voting Rights Act has not passed.
625 2013-06-27 The Justice Ministry announced Wednesday that it would close the country’s leading independent election watchdog for six months for failing to register as a “foreign agent” under new legislation. The election monitoring group, Golos, which gained prominence for identifying voter fraud during parliamentary elections in 2011, will be banned from using a bank account, holding public rallies or starting publications, the ministry said in a statement. The temporary suspension is the first of a nongovernmental organization since Russia’s Parliament voted last year that all organizations that receive foreign financing and engage in political activity must join a special government registry. The Justice Ministry has fined several groups and issued warnings to dozens of others in a campaign that opponents say is targeted at organizations critical of the Kremlin.
626 2013-06-27 But many leaders of Canada’s oil and gas industry had a very different take, despite Ms. McEachern’s assertion that the president had sent “shock waves” through the industry.

“Our reading is that this is a positive step in the process,” said Greg Stringham, an official at the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, the trade group that includes the major oil sands operators.

Mr. Stringham and others in the industry, including Russ Girling, the president and chief executive of TransCanada, the company in Calgary behind the pipeline, base their optimism on a State Department report released this year that concluded that the $7 billion pipeline would not substantially increase the rate of oil sands development and, in turn, the carbon they emit. For Mr. Obama to say that the pipeline must not “significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution, they say, only helps their case.

Canadian environmentalists, however, take heart in a letter from the Environmental Protection Agency to the State Department challenging how it reached that conclusion.

Much attention in Canada focused on the president’s description of the Alberta energy reserves as the “tar sands.” In Canada, tar sands is a politically charged term, used mainly by environmentalists and avoided by politicians and even some environmentalists who want to avoid seeming excessively rhetorical.

The Globe and Mail provided a small history of the two terms in a front-page article about the speech, which said that the president had “used the language of the project’s critics.”

But Nathan Lemphers, a senior policy analyst with the Pembina Institute, a environmental group based in Calgary, said he was not sure that Mr. Obama’s choice of words was filled with deep meaning. “Most Americans aren’t as sensitive as Canadians about the ideology behind those two terms,” he said.

Even Mr. Stringham said that when he first began his career, the oil industry used tar sands. Given that the sands are not mixed with oil or tar, which is an artificial substance, but bitumen, Mr. Stringham said the most accurate phrase might be “bituminous sands,” although he acknowledged that it was unlikely to catch on.
627 2013-06-27 BANGKOK — The discovery of new fauna conjures up images of Livingstone-like explorers trekking through malaria-infested jungles. But scientists working in Cambodia have reported a new species of bird in a decidedly less remote environment: the outskirts of Phnom Penh.

Simon Mahood, the lead author of an article released Wednesday in the Oriental Bird Club’s journal Forktail, says the bird’s primary habitat is about a 30 minutes’ drive from his home in Phnom Penh, “allowing for traffic.”

“I’ve always wanted to discover a bird species, but I never expected it would happen like this,” Mr. Mahood, who works for the Wildlife Conservation Society in Cambodia, said by telephone from Phnom Penh. “I certainly didn’t expect to be standing in flip-flops and shorts a half an hour from home.”

Roughly the same size as a wren, with white cheeks and a cinnamon cap, the bird was named the Cambodian tailorbird by the team that documented the discovery. Tailorbirds get their name from the way they build their nests, by threading spider silk or other fibers through a leaf, creating a sort of cradle.

Around the world, perhaps a half dozen new bird species are identified a year. In this case, the authors ascribe the discovery to a sort of ornithological peace dividend in Cambodia: after decades of conflict in the country, scientists are now able to study the country’s natural diversity without the dangers and distractions of civil war.
628 2013-06-27 The luxury-goods market is in a constant arms race with itself. New products must be more extravagantly produced and priced than the already extravagant goods that were sold before, and global recession be damned. Case in point: the Royal Bed from Savoir, priced at an absurd $175,000.

Savoir, a British company founded in 1905 to make beds for the Savoy Hotel in London, already sells a line of five-figure beds. The No. 1, as their top model is called, has a “topper” pad stuffed with Latin American horse tail and Mongolian cashmere and costs about $80,000.

The Royal Bed boasts these materials in both topper and mattress, as well as enough woven silk to be strung from New York to Miami and almost halfway back. More important, it has a marketing story: only 60 Royal Beds are being made in honor of the 60th anniversary of the Queen’s coronation, and threading on the backboard crest was done by the Royal School of Needlework, which had a hand in Kate Middleton’s wedding dress. The bed made its debut at Kensington Palace, as part of an exhibition on the bedchamber of the 17th and 18th century royal court.

The Royal Bed rolled into New York this week and was accepting visitors in a stark gallery-like room at the Swiss Institute in SoHo. Gold silk fabric and a draped canopy seemed out of touch with today’s cleaner design, but Alistair Hughes, Savoir’s managing director, said, perhaps rightly, “I think this would look fabulous in a brutalist apartment.”

Did it look like a $175,000 bed?

Yes. But it also looked ersatz, like something a Hollywood set designer could whip up with chintz fabric and glue.

Did it feel like a $175,000 bed?

It’s hard to say. The mattress was certainly plushy. But after a certain point, you achieve maximum comfort, no matter if the horse tail comes from Latin America or Eastern Ohio. Beyond that, it’s just luxury for luxury’s sake.
629 2013-06-27 Well, that didn’t take long: Kirna Zabête flew south to open a larger shop on Broome Street, but the old storefront at 96 Greene Street is already occupied. Through July 9, Rebecca Minkoff (who for the second summer in a row has opened a seasonal shop in Montauk, N.Y.) has a denim pop-up there, her label’s soon-to-be New York flagship. There you’ll find bottoms that show a little Manhattan love, like her Bleecker skinny jeans in a bandanna print ($128) and Crosby boyfriend jean shorts ($88). A donation from each sale will provide summer meals to needy children through Ms. Minkoff’s partnership with the No Kid Hungry campaign.

Out East, Stephanie von Watzdorf, once the design director of Tory Burch (and consummate world traveler) will open a pop-up for her new line Figue on Thursday. The collection of breezy staples includes a batik cotton voile tunic ($295) and caftan ($395), as well as one-of-a-kind reclaimed military jackets with hand-beaded embellishments (starting from $1,300), perfect for that evening breeze. At 68 Job’s Lane, Southampton, N.Y.

If you’re sweating it out in the city, enjoy an air-conditioned respite at the Museum of Arts and Design, where “Fashion Jewelry: The Collection of Barbara Berger” is on view through Sept. 22. The exhibition draws from the jewel box of the daughter of an American diamond merchant who lives by the edict to “always put on more jewelry, and mix fine with costume.” At 2 Columbus Circle.

Here’s an event that doesn’t come around every week: the uptown shoe shop Chuckies lost the lease on its original location on Third Avenue, opened 25 years ago, and will have a liquidation sale through July 25 before moving to a new home on Lexington Avenue. Classic styles like Lanvin cap-toe ballet flats ($219) and Stella McCartney cork wedges ($339) are up to 70 percent off. At 1073 Third Avenue.

Diane Von Furstenberg, the perennial sale season favorite, has easy pieces like a glazed jersey maxi wrap-dress in fresh lime ($150) and a floral lace minidress in periwinkle ($125) up to 75 percent off at her sample sale. Through Saturday at 260 Fifth Avenue.

And on Thursday and Friday, Aesa, No. 6 and Slow and Steady Wins the Race will have a combined sample sale with accessories, like a bronze pleat cuff ($315) and wedge clogs ($150) up to 70 percent off. At 120 Walker Street, elevator 7R.
630 2013-06-27 Today’s two rulings involving same-sex marriage were a huge and gratifying victory in the long struggle to end government-sanctioned discrimination against gay and lesbian Americans. It is sad, this deep into the national conversation about equal rights, that five justices were not willing to recognize a constitutional right for all couples to marry, regardless of the state where they live or their genders. But the momentum for marriage equality seems unstoppable, and such a breakthrough will eventually come.

The first ruling struck down the central provisions of the Defense of Marriage Act, the odious 1996 federal law that denied federal benefits to same-sex couples married in jurisdictions that permit such unions. The second decision will nullify , ’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage. Both decisions are huge victories for the gay rights movement that propels the nation toward greater fairness and full equality.

However, as many observers predicted, the Roberts court failed to deliver the larger verdict that the Constitution calls for in its equal protection clause: a broad ruling establishing a nationwide right of same-sex couples to wed. The court missed a historic chance to correct a longstanding injustice and left gay people in much of the country relegated to an inferior status that a growing majority of Americans knows is wrong.

The court may have believed that the country is not ready for such a sweeping approach. If so, it has overestimated the issue’s divisiveness and underestimated the human costs of further delay.

In the first case, v. Windsor, a 5-to-4 majority overturned a portion of the Defense of Marriage Act that defined marriage as a union only between a man and a woman for the purposes of more than 1,000 federal laws and programs. The plaintiff in the case, a New York octogenarian named Edith Windsor, brought her challenge after she was required to pay some $360,000 in federal from which opposite-sex spouses are exempt. The Defense of Marriage Act did not allow the to treat Ms. Windsor as a surviving spouse following the death of Thea Clara Spyer, the woman with whom she lived for more than 40 years and married in in 2007.
631 2013-06-27 Brown, born in Germany to a German mother and a Jamaican father, is reed thin and has long arms, but he strikes the ball with compact, lightning-quick strokes. He barely tosses the ball on his serve, but his compact motion allows him to explode into the ball. In the first set, he blasted huge serves, often following them into net, smacking buggy-whip forehands and showing a surprisingly deft touch at the net for a 6-foot-5 player.

Brown won the first set on an extraordinary, Boris Becker-like full diving volley, breaking Hewitt’s serve at 4-5. Brown jumped to his feet, let out a scream and raised both of his arms to the sky in exultation.

Hewitt broke Brown to start the second set with a nifty backhand slice, but Brown, who once represented Jamaica before switching to Germany, continued to dictate play, and he broke back to level the set at 2-2. Hewitt was playing cautiously, as if hoping that Brown and his go-for-broke game plan might fizzle. Brown consistently ran around his backhand on Hewitt’s serve, smashing return winners early and often.

Brown broke Hewitt at love at 5-4 to seal the second set, snapping a clean forehand winner off a weak second serve to go up by two sets to none.

Brown, a 28-year-old qualifier, seemed to be enjoying himself on the court, frequently smiling or pointing to the heavens after fortunate bounces. Brown served and volleyed effectively at times and seemed to be feeling no pressure.

But Hewitt has made a career out of unlikely comebacks, and as the third set moved into a tiebreaker, his supporters tried to rally his spirits with an “Aussie-Aussie-Aussie-Oy-Oy-Oy” chant. Hewitt, 32, seized control of the tiebreaker, 4-3, finally managing to pass Brown at the net after dozens of unsuccessful attempts. After Brown sent a forehand past the baseline to send the match into a fourth set, a suddenly rejuvenated Hewitt leapt in the air, gave a double fist pump and screamed, “Come on!”

But the momentum shifted again at 1-1 in the fourth set, when Brown broke Hewitt’s serve with another blistering forehand service-return winner. He broke again in a four-deuce game at 3-1, with Hewitt pushing a tentative backhand into the net. And after holding to go up 5-1 with a delightfully casual forehand swing volley, Brown smiled as though he knew he had the match won. Minutes later, he served out the match, and the tears began to flow.

Brown is ranked No. 189, but he’s in a wide-open section of the draw from which the fifth-seeded Nadal, Wawrinka and the 18th-seeded John Isner have all departed.

Brown’s next opponent will be Adrian Mannarino, a Frenchman ranked No. 111, but he seemed pleased just to have the prospect of a good paycheck.

“When I came here, I looked at the paycheck, and it said £3,000,” he said. “Great, because I haven’t won any matches.”

He had lost in the qualifying round of three consecutive tournaments before Wimbledon, but he now has a chance to advance into the tournament’s second week. Brown was asked about the camper van he traveled the circuit in until 2009, and he said that he still owns it.

“It’s parked in Germany at my parents’ place,” he said.

His American coach, Kim Wittenberg, and a close friend from Germany, Christian Sohns, said outside Court 2 after the match that they, too, were nearly in tears after the win. Wittenberg said that Brown had the ability to go deep in the draw, and he neatly summarized how Brown’s fortunes had changed since his camper van days.

“He travels in jets now,” he said. “They’re not private, but they’re jets. Not vans.”
632 2013-06-27 The show’s host, Matt Lauer, whom she stood up for a scheduled interview last Friday, tried to focus on the threat to her multimillion-dollar business empire of restaurants, products and endorsements, asking, “Are you here to stop the financial bleeding?” Ms. Deen said she disagreed with the recent decisions of the Food Network and Smithfield Foods to end their relationships with her and noted that QVC had not done so. (QVC, however, has said she will not appear on the channel as it continues “closely monitoring these events and the ongoing litigation.”)

Ms. Deen’s merchandise is still sold by Target and Sears. She has a five-book contract with Random House and a lucrative collaboration with Novo Nordisk, endorsing its drug Victoza, that began when she announced in January 2012 that she had Type 2 diabetes. In a statement on Monday, Novo Nordisk said: “We do not condone racial intolerance of any kind and have spoken to Paula about her comments in the deposition. While she takes a more proactive approach to clearing up her comments, our focus will continue to be to provide the best care possible to all of our patients where we work and live."

In the TV interview, Ms. Deen, 66, kept her answers relentlessly personal, frequently dissolving into tears as she denied ever harboring any prejudice, and saying she used a racist epithet only once, after she was robbed at gunpoint in 1986. That statement contradicted her testimony in the deposition, where she said she was sure she had used the word since then, adding, “but it’s been a very long time.”

“People who have worked beside me, who have walked beside me, know who I am,” she said, adding that she “had to hold my friends in my arms while they sobbed” about the “hurtful lies” that have volleyed around the Internet and mainstream media since the deposition came to light.

When Ms. Deen said she stood by her statement in the deposition that she could not determine what was offensive to others, Mr. Lauer asked, “Do you have any doubt in your mind that African-Americans are offended by ‘the n-word’?” In her response, echoing that of many commenters online, she cited the frequent use of the word by African-Americans themselves. “I go into my kitchens and I hear what the young people are calling each other, and it distresses me terribly,” she said.

Ms. Deen ended on a biblical note, saying: “If there’s anyone out there that has never said something they wish they could take back, please pick up that stone and throw it so hard at my head that it kills me. Please.”
633 2013-06-27 HONG KONG — Mainland Chinese stocks slipped slightly on Wednesday, and European and many other Asian markets edged higher, as investors reacted to moves by China’s central bank late Tuesday to assuage concerns about a lingering credit squeeze in the country’s financial system.

The Shanghai composite index ended down 0.4 percent after a day that was calm compared with the previous two days. On Monday, the index had plunged 5.3 percent, and on Tuesday, it had gyrated wildly. Interbank lending rates, which determine how costly it is for banks to borrow money from one another, also continued to relax on Wednesday, falling slightly – though remaining well above where they have been over the past year.

Late on Tuesday, the People’s Bank of China, which had mostly stood on the sidelines in recent weeks as China’s cash crunch deepened, issued a statement aimed at soothing market nerves but still maintaining pressure on commercial banks to take a more prudent approach to lending.

In its statement, the P.B.O.C. said some larger lenders had already started playing a stabilizing role by injecting capital into the market. The central bank cautioned against risky lending practices but pledged to support banks facing cash shortfalls, adding that it would offset “short-term abnormal volatility, stabilize market expectations and maintain stability in monetary markets.”

That the central bank waited until this week to comment on a situation that intensified last week had added to the general uncertainty and nervousness. In an interview with Reuters on Wednesday, the chairman of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the country’s largest bank, hinted at the banking sector’s frustration with the central bank’s handling of the situation.
634 2013-06-28 CASSIDY--John Francis Kevin formerly of Stamford and Old Greenwich, CT, died on June 23, 2013 in Sonoma, CA. Husband to Patricia Crawford Cassidy of Sonoma, CA. Father to Anne Cassidy of Sonoma, CA, Sarah Cassidy of Duvall, WA, and John Cassidy of...
635 2013-06-28 Alison Riske’s game is well suited to the grass courts at Wimbledon....
636 2013-06-28 At Berluti, beautifully cut and detailed suits — in sunflower yellow, white, navy and burgundy — looked like an ideal of an Italian summer evening, without a trace of costume drama....
637 2013-06-28 American Alison Riske finally got her breakthrough victory at Wimbledon on Friday....
638 2013-06-28 A chance to polish your pie-making skills....
639 2013-06-28 When you live in a place for a while, it becomes home too....
640 2013-06-28 Bank of America Merrill Lynch has hired John Binnie, a veteran financial services banker, as a vice chairman of its global financial institutions group, according to an internal bank memorandum....
641 2013-06-28 Ford to recall 12,500 vehicles for a child safety lock problem, and Mitsubishi has called for a recall because of complaints of sunroofs flying off....
642 2013-06-28 Hapless relatives search for their kin in Uttarakhand without much success....
643 2013-06-28 Froome’s path to stardom has not been typical. From mountain biking in Kenya, his birthplace, he graduated to collegiate road racing in South Africa. Though he made a quick transition to European racing, riding his first Tour in 2009 at 24, his ascent was slowed by a three-year battle with bilharzia, a parasitic infection he contracted during a trip to Africa in 2010. Since then, he has improved: second over all at the 2011 Vuelta, second at the 2012 Tour and a time trial bronze medal in the 2012 Olympics. At 6-foot-1 and 152 pounds, he can look ungainly on the bike but is an exceptional climber and time trialist.

Last year’s finish: Did not ride

Called El Pistolero, Contador is an aggressive rider known for attacking in the mountains. In Stage 17 of last year’s Vuelta a España, he broke away from his main rivals with 30 miles to go, winning the stage and eventually the race. It was his first victory since returning from a doping ban that kept him out of last year’s Tour and stripped him of his 2010 title. The Vuelta victory suggested he had regained the form that made him the most dominant stage racer in the post-Armstrong era, but he has had a perplexingly weak spring season.

In last year’s Tour, van Garderen became the first American to win the young riders competition since Andy Hampsten in 1986. He cemented his standing as the best American rider by winning the Amgen Tour of California in May, his first stage-race victory. Raised in Bozeman, Mont., he is capable in the mountains but strongest in the time trials.

Evans entered last year’s Tour as defending champion but rode more like a star in decline as he failed to keep pace with Bradley Wiggins and Froome on crucial climbs. He has reversed course somewhat this season, riding to a third-place finish at the Giro d’Italia in May, and will benefit from veteran savvy. But it is unclear if he has truly regained his 2011 form.

Wiggins may have garnered more headlines, but Porte’s performance this spring vaulted him ahead of Wiggins, the 2012 Tour champion, in Sky’s pecking order. Porte, a Tasmanian, revealed his form at Paris-Nice in March, clinching the title with a masterful time trial performance, and finished runner-up at the Critérium du Dauphiné. Porte’s two Tour de France experiences have been as a key support rider: he helped Contador in 2011 and labored quietly for Wiggins in the mountains last July.

Last year’s finish: Withdrew after a crash in Stage 6

A victory in last year’s Giro d’Italia put Hesdjedal on the short list of grand tour contenders, but he has had a difficult time capitalizing on the newfound status. After leaving the Tour early last year, Hesdjedal, a British Columbia native, limited his action this spring to focus on repeating as Giro champion — but a virus forced him out halfway through the three-week test in May. Despite crashing out of the Tour of Switzerland this month, he has shown mettle during his five Tour appearances.

Last year’s finish: Did not ride

Perhaps the most versatile of all the favorites, Rodríguez is as comfortable in one-day spring classics like La Flèche Wallone, which he won in 2012, as he is in grand tours. Purito, as he’s known in the peloton, finished on the podium in both the Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a España last season. But the Tour is unfamiliar territory. During his 14-year career, Rodríguez has raced cycling’s top test only once — in 2010, where he won a stage and finished seventh over all.
644 2013-06-28 “Petunia” is a comedy with an enticing cast led by Thora Birch, but the Petunia family at the center of it isn’t cheery and welcoming like the flower. The Petunias are colorful, yet they’re also off-putting.

It’s possible to make a great movie out of family dysfunction, but this one is too short on insight to rank with the best of the genre. The Petunia parents (Christine Lahti and David Rasche, in the film’s best performances), are both therapists of some kind, but their own relationship has deteriorated, and their three sons all have issues as well.

For the screenwriters, Ash Christian (who also directed) and Theresa Bennett, every problem comes down to sex. The parents don’t have it, and their sons have either too much of it or not enough. This view was original once, but today it seems too easy. A good dysfunctional-family movie, even a comedy, has more depth.

Charlie (Tobias Segal) is gay but abstinent, for reasons only hinted at. Michael (Eddie Kaye Thomas) has just married Vivian (Ms. Birch), though it’s not clear why, since there is no affection between them. She turns out to be carrying a baby that might be Adrian’s (Jimmy Heck), the third brother.

The movie takes everything pretty slowly, as if trying to give the actors their moments, but the material warrants the deliberate pacing only intermittently.
645 2013-06-28 Defense Minister Mohammed al-Bargathi will be removed from his post after clashes between rival armed militias in Tripoli in which 10 people were killed and more than 100 were wounded, Prime Minister Ali Zeidan said Thursday. Armed groups made up of former rebel fighters from different parts of the country have grown in power and ambition nearly two years after Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was ousted, and the government has struggled to impose its authority over them.
646 2013-06-28 TOKYO — In the latest sign that Japan may be inching out of its deflationary slump, data on Friday showed that core consumer prices were flat in May compared with the previous year, though lackluster household spending signaled that the recovery still needed time to take hold in the wider economy.

It was the first time in seven months that Japan’s core consumer price index, which excludes volatile fresh food prices but includes energy, did not fall. The results were largely in line with economists’ expectations. In April, prices fell an annual 0.4 percent.

The data provide a further lift to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to bring an end to 15 years of deflation in Japan, during which time the country’s economy fell behind that of China’s.

In his six months in office, Mr. Abe has focused much of his energy on tackling Japan’s falling prices — which he says are both a cause and a symptom of waning profits, wages and consumption — with a mix of aggressive monetary easing, government spending and economic reforms.

But Mr. Abe’s bid has reached a critical juncture in recent weeks, as initial investor enthusiasm over his economic programs gave way to a colder-eyed look at the difficulties of turning around an economy so entrenched in deflationary expectations.
647 2013-06-28 “It’s demoralizing,” Mr. Díaz said. “It’s like, ‘When is this going to end?’ ”

The accusations of corruption have been particularly stinging for minority communities in part because they have already been upset over a loss of clout in the state capital.

An all-white coalition of Republicans and dissident Democrats controls the Senate. As recently as last week, the coalition accused the Democratic caucus of dysfunction, a charge that one senator, Ruth Hassell-Thompson of Mount Vernon, who was among those recorded by Ms. Huntley, once described as “code words for ‘black folks in charge.’ ”

And in the legislative session that concluded last weekend, the two top priorities of minority lawmakers — cutting down on low-level marijuana arrests resulting from police stops and providing tuition aid to undocumented immigrants — failed, after they were not considered in the Senate.

The frustration has boiled over in the aftermath of the corruption arrests, which have ensnared two of New York City’s most prominent black politicians — Malcolm A. Smith of Queens and John L. Sampson of Brooklyn, who are former leaders of the Senate Democrats — as well as a black assemblyman, Eric A. Stevenson, a Bronx Democrat.

In an interview, Assemblyman Stevenson, who was accused of taking cash in return for writing legislation, denied any wrongdoing and said he suspected he was being singled out by the government. He said the series of allegations against elected officials made it seem as if “only black and Latino people are criminals.”

He compared the situation to Cointelpro, the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s counterintelligence program under J. Edgar Hoover that sought to discredit civil rights leaders like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

“It would definitely have me question the motives of what’s really behind all this, and really have me question the integrity of our own government, which is a sad thing to have to think,” he said.

“Are they bringing an advanced Cointelpro back into existence, or did it never leave, and they’ve constantly and always been using it?” he asked. “I thought that went out with the Malcolm X era, but I don’t know what is going on.”

On a Friday night in May, Senator James Sanders Jr., a Democrat from southeast Queens who defeated Ms. Huntley in a primary last year, decided to address the issue head on. Mr. Sanders, who is African-American, organized a debate at a community theater with a provocative title: “Attack on Black Leaders: Corruption or Conspiracy?”

“Are you really trying to stop corruption, or are you really trying to smear individuals?” asked Richard Washington, a lawyer and former prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, who described the arrests and investigations as a case of “political stop and frisk.”

“And if you’re trying to smear individuals, why are all those individuals people of color?” he asked. “It’s a conspiracy.”

The scandals have taken place in some of the state’s neediest communities, according to an analysis by Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College. Of the four Assembly districts with the highest percentage of residents in poverty, two are represented by legislators under indictment for corruption (William F. Boyland Jr., a Brooklyn Democrat, and Mr. Stevenson) and one is vacant (after making his own recordings for prosecutors, Nelson L. Castro, a Bronx Democrat, resigned in April as part of a deal to avoid prosecution for perjury).

The recent string of arrests has spanned jurisdictions; Mr. Smith is being prosecuted by the United States attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, who is also prosecuting Mr. Stevenson. Mr. Sampson was charged by the United States attorney in Brooklyn, Loretta E. Lynch, who also prosecuted Ms. Huntley.

Defenders of the corruption cases point out that both prosecutors are members of minority groups — Mr. Bharara is Indian-American, and Ms. Lynch is black. They were also nominated by President Obama, and are part of a Justice Department overseen by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., both of whom are black.

“People have asked me directly, and that question is: Are we in fact targeting particular communities? Are we in fact looking to hold certain politicians to a higher standard than others?” Ms. Lynch said in a speech last month to a civic group in Marine Park, Brooklyn.

“The view that you should not steal someone else’s money is not a higher standard,” she added. “It should be everyone’s standard. It’s not an impossible goal to meet.”

After her speech, Ms. Lynch said, “There certainly is no conspiracy to look at any particular group,” but she said she understood how some people might feel as if they were being scrutinized more than others.

“We don’t go around targeting people other than those against whom we have evidence,” she said, “but I think that what happens is the atmosphere gets very toxic, for lack of a better word, and it does affect people.”

“The charging decisions we make in all of our cases are based exclusively on the facts and the law, and any suggestion to the contrary is absurd and insulting to the career prosecutors who bring these important cases,” the spokeswoman, Ellen Davis, said. “The ethnic and racial backgrounds of the defendants we have charged with public corruption crimes are as diverse as the public we are privileged to serve.”

Many white New York politicians have been convicted of malfeasance. The list in recent years has included former Senators Nicholas A. Spano and Vincent L. Leibell III, both Republicans, and Carl Kruger, a Democrat, as well as a former state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat. A former Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, is also facing a second trial on federal corruption charges, and a city councilman, Daniel J. Halloran III, a Republican, was charged as part of the case involving Mr. Smith.

“What’s curious to me is I’ve never heard anybody ask how it affects a white community when it’s the white electeds,” said Jumaane D. Williams, a city councilman and a Brooklyn Democrat. But, he added, “I do think people look at elected officials of color twice as hard, and the blame is three times as much.”

At the debate organized by Mr. Sanders, suspicion about the string of arrests and accusations was clear from the reactions of audience members, more than a few of whom were audibly supportive when the word “conspiracy” was invoked.

But others, like Terryl De Mendonca, the founder of a Queens nonprofit group called the Misunderstood Youth Development Center, said suggestions of a conspiracy amounted to an effort to make excuses.

“I feel as though we’re not taking responsibility,” Ms. De Mendonca said. “I feel as though we’re blaming the media, we’re blaming the police, we’re blaming the white man — we’re blaming everybody else except for ourselves.”And Hettie V. Powell, a lawyer from Queens who is running for City Council, echoed that viewpoint, saying, “When you do something and you get caught, it’s not a conspiracy.”
648 2013-06-28 Park went on to become the seventh freshman to win the individual N.C.A.A. title, and just the second woman in N.C.A.A. history to sweep the conference, regional and national titles. She also won the Golfstat Cup, given to the collegiate player with the lowest scoring average (71.36).

Raised by her mother, Young Hee, who goes by Ann, and an older sister, Bo, Park began playing golf at 8, when she would follow her mother around on the course.

“I played golf, and she watched me,” said Ann Park, a native of Seoul, South Korea. “She wanted to practice, and she’d practice always with me. The ball would go a long way.”

Soon, Annie Park was forging her own path, under the tutelage of Jimmy Lee, an assistant pro at Bethpage. She was playing with Lee when her long tee shots zipped into Froloff’s group.

Froloff, who owns a home remodeling business in Seaford, began practicing with her, but it did not take long for Park to outplay him.

“I actually got to see a tremendous progression,” Froloff said. “Someone who obviously had some talent, but Annie worked really hard. She practiced constantly.”

Park’s first brush with her following here came Wednesday, during her practice round, which drew dozens of fans — even a handful of course volunteers — asking her for autograph at every turn. Her playing partner, Lizette Salas, poked fun at the attention, loudly asking Park if she would sign her scorecard before the group teed off.

Throughout the practice round, Salas, a U.S.C. graduate, said she tried to give her words of advice.

“I said, Put that on back of your mind, don’t even think about it,” Salas said. “Just play your game. She has so much talent, she’s scary good.”

On Thursday, Park pushed up her warm-up routine by 20 minutes so she could sign autographs before she teed off. At lunch before her round, the U.S.C. assistant Justin Silverstein reminded her about not trying too hard to meet expectations.

“You can listen to it, accept it, but then let it go,” Silverstein said, referring to the crowd’s support. He said Park has always had a knack for focus, but this week’s attention seemed extraordinary for an 18-year-old.

“She handles it better than anybody else,” Silverstein said. “But it’s still a lot.”

Park said she felt some butterflies on the first tee, after her name and hometown were announced, but her nerves eased as she played. She made sure not to blame her struggles on the gallery or her focus.

“Being a resident of Levittown, I’m just so grateful to be here,” Park said. “Playing here on the Island is just great.”

Park said her round went awry on the third hole, a par-3, when she missed short in a bunker and wound up three-putting for a double bogey.

“I miscalculated the yardage,” Park said. “From there on, I just tried to get my game back together. I was just struggling out there trying to make putts.”

She showed her first outward sign of frustration on the par-4 fourth hole (her 13th hole), when she missed a tap-in par putt and gasped, giving an exasperated look to the sky.

She said her focus Friday would be on making the cut so she could keep going through the weekend.

“Hopefully, I get my putting back together,” Park said. “It’s a new day. Hopefully, it’s better.”
649 2013-06-28 WASHINGTON — The short-term plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that President Obama outlined this week is achievable with some new programs and better management of existing ones, the new energy secretary, Ernest J. Moniz, said in an interview on Thursday. But he said reaching a longer-term goal would require bigger reductions as well as action from Congress.

When Mr. Obama first ran for president, he pledged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States 80 percent by 2050, compared with 1990 levels.

Mr. Obama’s interim goal, for 2020, is a 17 percent reduction in global warming gas emissions compared with 2005. The 2020 goal is already half achieved, Dr. Moniz said, and achieving the rest will require faster fulfillment of new appliance efficiency standards, among other steps. Many of those standards are stuck in a bottleneck at the Office of Management and Budget, which evaluates the costs and benefits of proposed regulations.

“I think the president’s commitment will provide the spur to O.M.B. and the Energy Department to move smartly on these,” Dr. Moniz said.

Other steps include government loan guarantees for fossil fuel projects that will cut pollution, which the Energy Department will administer but has yet to describe in detail.

“Fossil fuels are not going away any time soon,” Dr. Moniz said. He said it was essential to build power plants that would capture and bury their carbon dioxide emissions and that after that technology was commercialized for coal it would have to be used on natural gas as well. Carbon emissions from power plants that use natural gas are about half of those from coal, but they are still not nearly small enough to meet long-term climate goals, he said.
650 2013-06-28 The Senate on Thursday voted unanimously to approve Anthony Foxx, the mayor of Charlotte, N.C., to lead the federal Transportation Department. Mr. Foxx, 42, joins President Obama’s cabinet after four years as mayor of the 17th-largest city and four years on the Charlotte City Council. Under Mr. Foxx’s leadership, Charlotte was picked to host the 2012 Democratic Party convention, which brought him national notice. He will oversee a department with about 53,000 full-time employees and over $72 billion in budget authority.
651 2013-06-28 Italy’s economy minister, Fabrizio Saccomanni, said it was “absolutely baseless” to say that the country used derivatives to lie its way into the euro zone. It was simply hedging against market risks. As for the current situation, he said, “There’s been no material damage to our public finances.” He drew a distinction between realized losses and those based on market values that could change.

What seems to have happened in Italy is similar to something that we already know Greece did. Rather than borrow money — which would increase the reported budget deficit — the country entered into a derivatives contract that called for the banks to make large upfront payments in return for larger payments later from the government.

And how did that differ from a loan? Functionally, not very much, in all probability. But if you call something a derivative you can often get away with keeping it off your balance sheet — or putting it on the balance sheet in a misleading way. If The Financial Times report is right, the deal made Italy’s reported budget deficit smaller just when the country needed that to join the euro zone.

There is some evidence that Europe knew what was going on and chose to ignore it. Joining the euro was seen as more of a political event than an economic one, a symbol of European unity.

The effect of the funny accounting was similar to that of a student cheating on college entrance exams. The student may get into a university where he or she cannot compete, just as Italy and Greece find themselves in a currency bloc where their economies are at a significant disadvantage.

But while uncompetitive students can drop out, or be expelled, the euro zone rules provide that no country can leave. That fact, perhaps more than anything else, accounts for the persistence of the euro zone crisis.

Such deception by derivative is hardly new. Enron was a pioneer. It used derivatives called “prepaid forward” contracts to hide debt in a way that made corporate cash flow appear better, something the company thought was necessary to impress the bond rating agencies.

Responding to claims that his bank and Citibank had made “disguised loans” to Enron, a JPMorgan Chase executive told a Senate hearing in 2002 that “the prepaid forwards were undoubtedly financing, as all contracts are that involve prepayment features, but every financing is not a loan.” He said the bank had properly accounted for them, but “the manner in which Enron accounted for them” was of no concern to the bank. It was, instead, “a matter for Enron and its management and auditors.”

That was not the way the banks saw it when they were seeking the business. “The evidence,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, “revealed them to be nothing more than sham transactions designed to obtain, as one of the banks continued to tout on its Web site, ‘financial statement friendly financing.’ Like so many of the other deals at Enron, the apparent motive was to portray a false image of the company’s financial health.”

That “friendly financing” came at an extra cost, of course. In reality, the banks charged Enron a fee for enabling it to deceive. Those same banks ended up losing a lot of money when Enron collapsed. How could the banks have guessed that a customer that would pay them to aid in lying would be less than honest in dealing with them?

Calling something a derivative can help a company get around inconvenient laws and regulations. Intrade pioneered Internet gambling on everything from election results to whether an executive in trouble would be forced to resign. Gambling? Perish the thought. Those were “futures contracts.” That worked until this year, when the United States government forced Intrade out of business.

Then there are “credit default swaps,” which offer a payoff if a company or a country defaults on its obligations. If you called that insurance, a company issuing them would face requirements that it maintain reserves to pay future claims. But call it a derivative, and the rules do not apply. The American International Group was able to collect billions in premiums for such swaps without taking any reserves. When the credit crisis arrived, A.I.G. would have collapsed without a government bailout.

The current accounting rules in the United States go so far as to say that banks can hide obligations that are classified as derivatives. They do that by “netting” derivative positions that are currently profitable against positions that have losses, and show only the net value. That reduces the amount of assets on their balance sheets and thus makes them appear less leveraged than they are.

They can do that even if the two positions have nothing in common — save the identity of the counterparty on the other side of the transactions. It makes no sense at all to be able to hide a bet on, say, the Canadian dollar, by offsetting it against a bet on German stock prices. But that is legal now in the United States.

The banks have done an excellent job of persuading the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which sets the rules, not to mess with them. Rather than force the banks to put the assets and liabilities on their balance sheets, as is required in most other countries, the board has proposed additional disclosures that might make it easier to discern the reality.

And this week the board proposed new accounting standards for insurance that would force many contracts not called insurance — but being basically the same thing — to be accounted for in the same way as insurance. But credit default swaps were exempted. Why? The logic, such as it is, is that insurance is sold to people who are seeking to be reimbursed for possible losses, like an automobile accident. Because credit default swaps are sold to people who are simply speculating, they can continue to be accounted for as derivatives.

None of this is to argue that some things called derivatives cannot be useful in the right circumstances. But in many cases those things deserve to be called what they really are. Often, they are simply ways to place wagers.

A risk for banks is that calling these things gambling could prejudice courts deciding whether to enforce them. Many municipalities entered into what were called interest-rate swaps with large banks before the credit crisis arrived. “The cities,” says William J. Quirk, a law professor at the University of South Carolina who formerly worked as a lawyer for the New York City, “lost every bet.”

That may be an overstatement. But those contracts have certainly produced large profits for Wall Street, and many will continue to do so for years to come. “The funny part of the story,” Mr. Quirk wrote in the July issue of Chronicles Magazine, “is that the cities keep paying despite the fact they have a good legal defense: The bets are not enforceable because cities are not authorized to place bets with taxpayers’ money.”
652 2013-06-28 Public spending made up 56.6 percent of G.D.P. last year, the auditors found, up from 55.9 percent in 2011 — and just below the record high of 56.8 percent set in 2009. Tax receipts, meanwhile, rose to a record 45 percent of G.D.P. in 2012.

“Everyone agrees this is where the next effort has to come from,” Gilles Moëc, an economist at Deutsche Bank in London, said. Cuts on the scale suggested by the auditors are “doable,” he said, at just over 1 percent of G.D.P.

The government has essentially conceded the point in recent months, he said, but it has not provided any details about how it intends to go about doing it.

“It’s one thing to say spending cuts are necessary,” Mr. Moëc said, “and another thing altogether to flesh them out.”

Mr. d’Arvisenet noted that about 80 percent of all the progress in cutting the deficit in recent years had come from tax increases, something that he said “obviously” could not be long sustained. The French auditors’ findings are consistent with the advice of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, he added.

The central government in Paris has sometimes chosen to save money by reducing transfers to the provinces. Planned overhauls of the pension, family benefits and unemployment insurance systems could also help over the medium term. But there is little sign of the kind of immediate measures that would be needed to bring the deficit down to 3 percent.

The Court of Auditors said the 2013 budget deficit was likely to come in between 3.8 percent and 4.1 percent of G.D.P., as receipts of corporate and sales taxes decline and the economy shrinks. While that would mark a decline from 4.8 percent last year, it remains above the 3.7 percent for which Mr. Hollande’s government has been aiming.

France’s problems partly result from the economic downturn. The French economy contracted by 0.2 percent in both the first quarter of this year and the last quarter of 2012. Insee, the national statistics institute, predicted last week that it would shrink by 0.1 percent this year.

The government’s forecasts are still more optimistic than those of some private forecasts. Standard & Poor’s estimated Thursday that the French economy would shrink by 0.3 percent this year, before returning to growth with a 0.6 percent expansion in 2014.

The jobless rate stood at 11 percent in April, according to Eurostat, the European Union’s statistical agency. Expectations that it will rise further are weighing on consumer confidence.

French household sentiment reached an all-time low in June, Insee said Thursday, with its main consumer sentiment index falling to 78, down one point from the May reading, which had itself been a record low.

France, like the other 16 euro members, is obligated by treaty to hold its deficit to around 3 percent of G.D.P. and its debt to 60 percent of G.D.P. Mr. Hollande committed to meeting the deficit target in his 2012 presidential campaign. But European officials, bowing to the inevitable, in late May gave France until 2015 to achieve it in return for action on pension and labor reforms.

Among the major euro zone economies, only Germany is currently on track to meet the E.U. budget target, with a deficit of only 0.2 percent of G.D.P. forecast for this year, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The United States, in contrast, is likely to record a 2013 budget deficit of 5.4 percent, the O.E.C.D. said.

Many economists argue that the deficit rules are counterproductive in an economic downturn, because cutting government spending adds to the downward pressure on demand. The mathematical logic of the deficit-to-G.D.P. equation dictates that, even when spending is unchanged, the outcome is worse if the economy shrinks.

Despite the skepticism about austerity, and recent signs of relaxation in the rhetoric, the orthodox view, championed by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and her allies, continues to hold sway in Europe.

In Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron’s government on Wednesday announced 11.5 billion pounds, or $17.5 billion, more of spending cuts to be enacted over the next few years. The Office of National Statistics reported Thursday that the British economy grew by only 0.3 percent in the first quarter, a 1.2 percent annualized rate.

But that was an upward revision from the previous estimate. The office said that, contrary to earlier readings, the British economy did not slip into a “double-dip” recession last quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012.
653 2013-06-28 “America’s tax code is broken,” the committee’s letter reads. “The last major reform of the tax code was the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which is considered by many as the gold standard for tax reform. However, since then, the economy has changed dramatically and Congress has made more than 15,000 changes to the tax code. The result is a tax base riddled with exclusions, deductions and credits.”

In practice, the biggest tax breaks — the mortgage interest deduction, employer tax breaks for health care benefits, deductions for state and local taxes and deductions for charitable contributions — may prove politically more popular than true tax reform.

While groups like the Business Roundtable, which represents the chief executives of the nation’s largest corporations, praised the initiative, trade associations representing specific tax breaks immediately jumped to the defense of their causes.

“Our message to lawmakers is the charitable deduction must be included in any sensible tax reform legislation. The charitable deduction is unique in that it requires individuals to give their money away for the benefit of society,” said Sandra Swirski, executive director of the Alliance for Charitable Reform, a group formed to protect the tax deduction for giving.

Rather than having senators identify the tax breaks they want to eliminate, Senator Baucus and Senator Hatch decided that it would be politically easier to ask them which breaks should be saved. But they said saving tax breaks come at a cost: every $2 trillion in individual tax breaks added back to their “blank slate” would raise tax rates 1.3 to 2.2 percentage points. In other words, senators must decide between popular tax breaks and low income tax rates.

Still, some senators blanched at being handed such a responsibility. Usually, committee leaders draft a base bill and submit it to members to amend. Others said they were pleased that after three years of hearings, white papers and small breakout groups hashing over issues in the tax code, a legislative process was beginning.

“It’s a deliberate process that takes the politics out of it,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland and a finance committee member.

Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, the Ways and Means chairman, who has vowed to complete a tax overhaul bill by the end of the year, welcomed Senate movement.

House Republican leaders have reserved the symbolic H.R.1 — the first official bill of the 113th Congress — for a comprehensive tax reform plan, but they have privately expressed concern that Mr. Camp will move forward with a contentious measure, then leave House members politically exposed when the Senate fails to follow.

“This significant step forward underscores that the Senate and House are on the same page as they work in a bicameral, bipartisan manner to fix our broken tax code,” Mr. Camp said in a statement.
654 2013-06-28 “Building a critical mass of states and a critical mass of public support — that’s how social movements succeed,” said Evan Wolfson, the founder of Freedom to Marry. “We’ll pursue this strategy until we finish the job,” he said, “and I think it will be a matter of years, not decades.”

The opponents of same-sex marriage, while unhappy that the Supreme Court struck down a key part of the Defense of Marriage Act and opened the door to gay marriage in California, are taking heart that the court did not declare same-sex marriage a constitutional right.

After a recent succession of stinging defeats in Delaware, Maryland, Maine, Minnesota, Rhode Island and Washington State — after political campaigns in which they were heavily outspent — the groups have also vowed to step up fund-raising for advertising and mobilizing supporters.

“These court decisions could be a real boon to our fund-raising,” said Frank Schubert, a conservative political consultant and vice president of the National Organization for Marriage. “People tend to react when the wolf is at the door.”

The conservatives also think their opponents have harvested the “low-hanging fruit” of liberal states and are nearing a limit.

“The lines are being drawn between states that stand with natural, traditional marriage and states that redefined it,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian organization. He predicts that more Americans will turn against same-sex marriage when they see what he called its pernicious consequences — like introducing teachings in school that parents consider immoral or forcing Christian business owners like florists and caterers to participate in gay marriages against their will.

Perhaps the most immediate battle will be in Illinois, a populous state with a Democratic legislature where the Senate has already approved same-sex marriage. Gov. Pat Quinn, a Democrat, urged legislators on Wednesday to “redouble our efforts to make it happen.”

Many had expected the marriage bill to be adopted in May. But at the last minute, its House sponsor did not offer it for a vote, apparently fearing that the bill could lose. Gay rights groups say they think the votes are there for a victory at a brief legislative session this fall. But they, and the National Organization for Marriage on the other side, are raising funds for an all-out public campaign over the next few months.

The New Jersey Legislature enacted same-sex marriage in 2012, but the measure was vetoed by Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, and the Legislature has not taken further action. Gay rights groups are working to gain votes, but they are also hopeful that Wednesday’s Supreme Court decision to strike down parts of the Defense of Marriage Act, thus extending federal benefits to same-sex married couples, will gain them a rapid victory in state courts or the Legislature.

New Jersey, like six other states, offers legal civil unions but not marriage to gay couples. According to a 2006 decision by the State Supreme Court, such unions must provide legal protections equal to those offered heterosexual couples. But even after Wednesday’s decision, the federal government will not recognize civil unions, said Troy Stevenson, executive director of Garden State Equality — bolstering the argument that unions and marriage are not equal.

In broader ways, the end of the Defense of Marriage Act’s ban on federal benefits for same-sex spouses will strengthen the gay-marriage cause nationally by highlighting inconsistencies and unfairness among the states, said Fred Sainz, a vice president of the Human Rights Campaign in Washington.

Wednesday’s rulings, he said, will shine a light on the “two Americas: one in which legally married gay couples live and the other in which unmarried gay families live,” with basic protections still out of reach.
655 2013-06-28 Coupled with a crackdown on dissent and “stability maintenance” efforts that include stepped-up surveillance in communities across the Tibetan plateau, the study paints the portrait of a society increasingly shaped and managed by the state. Since its invasion by Chinese troops in 1950, the Tibetan Autonomous Region, as Tibet is officially known, has been transformed by generous investment from Beijing, but also by restrictions on religious life at Buddhist monasteries and educational policies that favor instruction in Mandarin over the Tibetan language in local schools.

Many of those policies have intensified since 2008, when deadly ethnic rioting rocked Lhasa, the Tibetan capital. Since then, long-simmering grievances have found expression in a spate of self-immolations, with at least 120 monks, nuns and ordinary Tibetans setting fire to themselves in a protest campaign that has led to even greater restrictions.

Beijing has sealed off large areas of the Tibetan plateau to outsiders, barring foreign journalists and limiting access by diplomats, Western tourists and non-Chinese researchers. Earlier this week, Gary F. Locke, the American ambassador to China, began a rare three-day visit to Tibet, the first time an ambassador from the United States had been given permission to visit the region since 2010, according to an embassy spokesman.

Robert J. Barnett, the director of the modern Tibetan studies program at Columbia University, said the plan of mass relocations was created a decade ago in response to data suggesting an alarming income gap between rural and urban Tibetans. “Beijing wanted to bring up rural incomes to avoid unrest,” he said. “They’ve been really successful in doing that, but they got the unrest anyway.”

Such Maoist-style social engineering is not new in China, but researchers say it has an especially detrimental effect on the Tibetan nomads who for centuries ranged across the high-altitude pastures spanning Tibet and parts of four adjoining provinces. According to the state media, over the past decade more than a million herders have been resettled in townships, a relocation effort that officials often describe as voluntary.

But Mr. Barnett and other outside experts say the relocations, which are ostensibly designed to protect the ecologically fragile grasslands, are coercive, leaving nomads without the goats and yaks that sustained them. Unable to compete with ethnic Han Chinese migrant workers or educated Tibetans who speak Mandarin, many former herders survive off government subsidies and the odd construction job. Alcoholism is common, he and other experts say. “The cultural cost of disrupting this nomadic life is hard to measure but the price is high,” he said.

Zha Luo, an ethnic Tibetan and a rural development expert at the state-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, rejected the suggestion that government-run relocation programs were hurting Tibetan culture.

“It’s not like they are relocated to Henan or mixed into other communities,” he said, referring to a province in central China. “They still keep their calendar, holidays and customs.”

He added that most Tibetans were eager for the creature comforts of modernity. “I grew up in a herder family,” he said. “It is miserable in the winter. When the bitter cold comes, the elderly have no hospital to go to and no medicine.”

The new housing does not come free. Despite glowing reports in the official media that feature appreciative Tibetans, Mr. Bequelin of Human Rights Watch said that residents were sometimes required to pay up to 75 percent of the cost of new homes that even government inspectors have found deficient. A 2009 report issued by the State Council, China’s cabinet, noted that some of the developments lacked “a rational design” or had been built in areas prone to landslides.

Still, the researchers found a degree of satisfaction among some Tibetans, especially those who had prospered from the housing boom. But many others worried about how they would survive once construction ended and government stipends ran out.

“They don’t have any other skills than farming, and won’t have any herds or land worth speaking of anymore,” Tenzin Gyaltso, a villager from Gyama, told researchers. “How is the next generation to survive as Tibetans?”

For Mr. Bequelin, the program has become another means for managing a population that has long resisted government control. Arrayed alongside major roads, the settlements make it more cost effective to provide utilities, he said, but also allow closer supervision by the authorities.

“Since the state couldn’t reach the Tibetan countryside,” he said, “they decided the Tibetan countryside should be moved to make it more accessible to the state.”
656 2013-06-28 DOHA, Qatar — The new emir of Qatar, Sheik Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, on Thursday signaled continuity in international affairs and change on the domestic front with the appointment of a new cabinet, one that will be headed by a longtime secret policeman.

While there was no immediate official announcement of the cabinet from the government’s Qatar News Agency when it was appointed on Wednesday, Qatari newspapers on Thursday published a complete list of the members. It will be led by Sheik Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al-Thani, holding the roles of prime minister and interior minister. His age was not announced, but he is a 1984 graduate of Durham Military College in Britain, according to his official biography, which would make him about 50.

In addition to running internal state security for many years, the new prime minister has been in charge of his country’s antiterrorism efforts.

The new emir, 33, took office Wednesday after his 61-year-old father, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, abdicated after 18 years in power. In a televised speech Wednesday, Sheik Tamim repeatedly referred to the former emir as “his highness the father.”

“He left office in a unique, rather unprecedented step,” Sheik Tamim said. “He left Qatar a nonstop construction site. Crime is virtually nonexistent. He transformed Qatar from a state struggling to survive to a state with a sovereign and confident stature.”
657 2013-06-28 This easy combination makes a great dessert or snack....
658 2013-06-29 Intel’s new chief executive, Brian Krzanich, explains how the company initially fought the mobile revolution and is now trying to catch up....
659 2013-06-29 “To the industry, an early renewal is a vote of confidence in the show’s creators,” said Diane Gordon, the television editor for Studio System News, an industry Web site. “To fans, it encourages them to watch a show because they know it won’t disappear after two or three episodes, as often happens on broadcast networks. ”

Earning the loyalty of fans is critical for a service like Netflix, which depends on monthly subscriber fees. “Orange” continues the company’s push to compete with traditional sources of entertainment and, along the way, alter the definition of television.

Television executives could recall only a few other occasions when additional episodes were ordered ahead of a premiere — some prophetic and others, well, not. The premium-cable channel Starz did so with “Boss,” a drama led by Kelsey Grammer, only to have that series wind down after two seasons. More successfully, Starz renewed “Spartacus” a full month before viewers saw the first episode in 2010.

“Even the best of shows take more than one season to fully develop,” Chris Albrecht, the chief executive of Starz, said in an e-mail. “While we are always mindful of the audience, we are not slaves to ratings, which offers the creative teams we have confidence in the luxury of time to develop the stories and characters.”

HBO, the category leader, has a tendency to renew shows within weeks, and sometimes within days, of their start dates. In these cases, the network executives have already seen many of the coming episodes, so they have a good sense of what to expect.

Because Netflix releases all the episodes of a season at the same time, the executives there have already seen all 13 episodes of “Orange Is the New Black.” “We don’t have the benefit of having viewing information from our subscribers yet, but we do know creatively everything about the season,” Ms. Holland said.

Ms. Kohan alluded to that when she spoke at the New York premiere of the series at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. “I feel like I’m at the end of a pregnancy and I just want it out,” she said.

The announcement means that Netflix has renewed all of its original series to date, with one exception, “Arrested Development.” (While the company would like more episodes, it has warned that reassembling the cast would be very difficult.) It committed to two seasons of “House of Cards” from the get-go (the second is in production now); it long ago ordered more episodes of “Lilyhammer; and this month it renewed the horror series “Hemlock Grove.”
660 2013-06-29 Pictures From the Week in Business
661 2013-06-29 Steven M. Davis, a partner in Davis Brody Bond, which designed the museum, said he and his colleagues had been guided by the principles of memory, authenticity, scale and emotion.

The museum will not open to the public until next spring, but officials have begun taking reporters through the unfinished galleries, confident that what was a construction zone a year ago, and a disaster area after Hurricane Sandy, now looks more like a museum.

Its designers and curators struggled to make an asset of the museum’s greatest liability. It is in a subterranean space, hemmed in by the undersides of the memorial pools and by the abutting PATH station, 1 World Trade Center, vehicle security center and central cooling plant. Added to that, its roof doubles as the memorial plaza.

Rather than try to squeeze a conventional museum into this eccentric void, the creators threaded a pathway through it, a concrete ribbon with switchbacks and overlooks and — quite as important — points at which visitors can decide to leave if they feel emotionally unprepared for what lies ahead.

The journey begins in a pavilion on Greenwich Street, designed by Snohetta.

Behind steel-and-glass walls are two 80-foot steel columns from the twin towers, each branching into a distinctive trident form.

These serve as landmarks and as pivots, around which visitors begin to leave daylight behind as they descend a broad staircase.

Reaching a mezzanine, visitors get their first glimpse of the undersides of the memorial pools, which they have seen from the plaza level as sunken waterfalls.

The pools mark the location of the twin towers. So do their structural expressions underground.

But in the museum, these forms are so large — almost 200 feet on their longest sides — that they overwhelmed the spaces around them when they were still faced in raw concrete.

Now, however, they are clad in panels of foamed aluminum; that is, aluminum injected with gas under high pressure to create a porous, almost bubbly and pretty nearly ethereal surface.

“It has a way of dematerializing under certain kinds of skillful lighting,” Mr. Davis said. “It becomes a kind of fog. It appears to be buoyant.”

That illusion is heightened by the recesses underneath the aluminum-skin walls, which create the sense that they are floating. The recesses also make it possible, at the museum’s lowest level, to reveal the roughly cut off remnants of the original box columns that supported the perimeter walls of the twin towers.

“These have never been moved,” said Joseph C. Daniels, the president and chief executive of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center Foundation, as he looked over a row of the column remnants.

“They’re right where they were when they were installed in the 1960s.”

Ms. Greenwald noted that as a rule, historical artifacts were housed in museums.

“We are, literally, a museum that’s housed in an artifact,” she said.

Having traveled down a series of ramps and through the memorial area, in which the lives of individual victims can be highlighted, and making their way through the historical exhibition, visitors emerge into the cathedral-like Foundation Hall.

Its centerpiece is the 36-foot-tall Column 1001-B from the south tower, the last column to have been removed from ground zero, in 2002. It is covered in inscriptions, photos, fliers and mementos placed by the rescue and recovery workers.

“One hundred years from now, no one will be alive who remembers 9/11,” Mr. Davis said. “The story has to tell itself.”

The story neither begins nor ends on Sept. 11.

Sharp-eyed visitors may notice, as they pass the 80-foot tridents on their way out, a testimonial to the curatorial impulse that helped create the museum even before the fires at ground zero were under control. Written on the side of one column is the word “Save.”
662 2013-06-29 PARIS — Bernard Tapie, a wealthy businessman and erstwhile politician, is being formally investigated on suspicion of fraud in a corruption scandal that centers on a $535 million state payout to him in 2008, the office of the Paris state prosecutor and Mr. Tapie’s lawyer announced on Friday.

Mr. Tapie claimed that he had been cheated when he sold Adidas to a state-owned bank in the 1990s, and an arbitration panel later awarded him the money to settle the dispute. Prosecuting judges are investigating the possibility that the arbitration was rigged. Mr. Tapie, 70, is suspected, of having orchestrated the payment by colluding with members of the arbitration panel, who were reportedly acquaintances or friends, and perhaps with members of the government of Nicolas Sarkozy, who was then president.

He is now under investigation on suspicion of “fraud in an organized group,” as are two members of the panel and Stéphane Richard, the current chief executive of France Télécom, who served at the time as cabinet director to Christine Lagarde, then the finance minister. Ms. Lagarde, who is now managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has been questioned and is considered closely implicated in the case, but she has not been placed under formal investigation or charged.
663 2013-06-29 Others were critical of the president’s choice of the word “partner” to describe the Fed chairman’s role, since the Federal Reserve is an independent agency overseen by Congress. “Any Fed chairman would bristle at the idea they were a partner with a president,” Senator Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who serves on the Senate Banking subcommittee on financial institutions and consumer protection, told me this week. “I can understand why people who want to protect the independence of the Fed would be concerned.”

Others pointed out that the Fed has taken the lead in efforts to stimulate the economy as Congress blocked the White House from further stimulus measures, and thus “partner” overstates the White House’s role in the recovery.

By contrast, although history hasn’t been kind to the legacy of Mr. Bernanke’s predecessor, Alan Greenspan, he received a send-off commensurate with his record five terms of service. The Fed itself announced Mr. Greenspan’s decision to retire, and in late October 2005, President George W. Bush announced his choice of Mr. Bernanke at a White House news conference where he lavished praise on the departing chairman as a “legend” who had “dominated his age like no central banker in history” while Mr. Greenspan looked on. On the same occasion, Mr. Bernanke said Mr. Greenspan “set the standard for excellence in economic policy making.”

With many economists and investors fixated for months on the question of when and how quickly the Fed would curtail its extraordinary efforts to stimulate the economy, Mr. Bernanke’s suggestion, just two days after the president’s comments, that the Fed might taper its bond-buying earlier than expected sent markets reeling. Stocks fell across the globe and interest rates rose, with 10-year Treasuries hitting their highest yields since 2011. The volatility index, which was already rising the week before the president’s remarks, leapt to a new high for the year.

Mr. Obama “instantly made Ben a lame duck before the end of his term,” said one economist, who may be a future candidate for Mr. Bernanke’s position and, like many people I interviewed, asked not to be named. “He undermined his credibility both inside the Fed and in financial markets.” While Mr. Bernanke tried to reassure markets that the Fed would monitor the economy and respond as appropriate, this person said, “Part of the negative reaction in asset prices was because market participants have confidence in Ben, but now he won’t be around to oversee that.”

People close to Mr. Bernanke told me that the chairman took the president’s comments in stride, but said he was concerned about the severe market reaction. “He wouldn’t want to feed stories about this when he’s trying to articulate a complex message about monetary policy,” one adviser said.

The people close to the chairman said he had already told the president he wanted to leave at the end of his term. He is expected to return to teaching and research at Princeton, where he delivered this year’s baccalaureate address. He quipped in the speech that his remarks had “nothing whatsoever to do with interest rates” and observed that life was unpredictable.

Senator Corker, who as an advocate for price stability is seen as more hawkish on monetary policy than Mr. Bernanke, said he had breakfast with Mr. Bernanke a few weeks ago. “I couldn’t imagine him wanting to be reappointed,” the senator said. “He’s never confided in me, but I’ve never gotten the sense that he wanted to serve beyond this term.” Others close to Mr. Bernanke agreed with that assessment, but added that if asked by the president to do so, he would stay.

Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Bernanke declined to comment. When asked at his news conference last week about the president’s remarks, Mr. Bernanke responded coolly: “We just spent two days working on monetary policy issues, and I would like to keep the debate, discussion, the questions here on policy. I don’t have anything for you on my personal plans.”

But underscoring the perception that Mr. Bernanke is now a lame duck, two senior officials — William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Jerome H. Powell, a Fed governor — tried to reassure investors and calm markets this week. “Market adjustments since May have been larger than would be justified by any reasonable reassessment of the path of policy,” Mr. Powell said in a speech on Thursday.

Others told me the president’s remarks needed to be put in the broader perspective of Fed policy. “I certainly agree that you don’t want to add uncertainty at a time like this,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, an independent research firm. “It would have been better not to have those comments as a news item. But it’s not the main factor causing the market turmoil. You can’t really blame the surge in bond yields on that comment. Arguably, the markets overreacted, but markets do overreact.”

The president “has to pull off a delicate balancing act,” said Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution. “You don’t want to undercut the Fed chairman by making it more obvious than it is that he’s a lame duck. But he is. It’s not out of the question that he would choose to stay on, but it seems extremely unlikely. Most market participants already knew that.”

Everyone I spoke to agreed that President Obama was likely to appoint someone more “dovish” on monetary policy than Mr. Bernanke — that is, someone who favors an easy monetary policy to raise employment and worries less about inflation. That would seemingly include the Fed vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, widely viewed as the front-runner to succeed Mr. Bernanke. Paradoxically, the market reacted to the president’s remarks as if both Mr. Bernanke and his likely successor had become more hawkish, and thus more inclined to raise rates.

“If people were really worried that the new Fed chairman is likely to be more dovish — and the current favorite has that reputation — you’d think they’d be snapping up inflation hedges,” Mr. O’Sullivan said. “But they’re not. Real yields are going up. The markets don’t seem to be too worried about a dovish Fed.”

Market reactions aside, the end of the Bernanke era at the Fed seems to be approaching. He has his critics on both the right and left, but everyone I spoke to praised Mr. Bernanke’s record. “I thought he handled himself very well during the crisis, and for that I have a lot of respect for him,” Senator Corker said. “I understand what he was trying to do with quantitative easing, and although we’ve had some policy differences, I think he’s handled that in a very artful and effective way.”

Still, as the end of the year nears, “He’ll become less and less relevant, and the trade is only halfway done,” the senator added. “The new Fed chairman has to unload the huge portfolio that they have,” and Mr. Bernanke’s “successor has to be someone who has the ability to handle these complexities in a very delicate and thoughtful way.”
664 2013-06-29 Taxes are a big concern. The Internal Revenue Service will determine whether Mr. Huebner, 40, a psychology professor at the University of Utah, and Mr. Barabino, 44, a former Google executive and stay-at-home father, may file jointly and claim the marriage deduction long offered to heterosexual couples. But no matter what the agency decides, they must still file separately in Utah.

Should one die in Washington, the other would receive Social Security benefits because of the court’s decision, legal experts said. But in Utah, the surviving spouse would get nothing since federal law dictates payments based on the “state of domicile,” not the “state of celebration.” Only Congress can change that.

“There are two standards,” Mr. Huebner said. Given their residence in two states, “for us, it’s even more complicated.”

Eliminating these cross-border inequities and making same-sex marriage the law of the land is the next frontier for gay rights advocates. A day after the ruling, Chad H. Griffin, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, appeared at a gay community center in Utah — where gay couples cannot adopt and even domestic partnerships are banned — to draw a pointed distinction with California, where gay men and lesbians will be able to begin marrying again soon.

“We cannot tolerate the persistence of two Americas when it comes to equality,” Mr. Griffin said.

If the prospect of “two Americas” is a problem for Mr. Griffin, it also troubles Brian S. Brown, the president of the National Organization for Marriage, a conservative advocacy group. In an interview, he vowed to “roll back gay marriage” wherever it exists, adding, “Ultimately, as Lincoln said, we can’t have a country half slave and half free.”

There are an estimated 650,000 same-sex couples in the United States, and 114,000 of them are legally married, according to the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles. It will be easy for the federal government to extend more than 1,000 benefits to those living in states where they wed. For the rest, the path is murkier.

After their daughter, Soleil, was born six years ago, Mindy Stokes and Katie Rathmell left Florida for a friendlier climate in Oregon, where they registered as domestic partners. Last year, same-sex marriage became legal in neighboring Washington State. Two weeks ago, they drove across the Columbia River from their home in Astoria, crossed the border and had a wedding.

Ms. Rathmell, a research associate for an oceanography group at Oregon Health and Science University, provides the family’s health insurance but has been paying taxes on the benefit for Ms. Stokes and their daughter. The couple is hoping that will change soon. Even if it does, they still expect to pay more for other coverage, like car insurance. Without an Oregon marriage certificate, they do not get a marriage discount.

“I have rights to visit Katie in the hospital, and we can leave property to each other, I think,” Ms. Stokes said. “But it’s so complicated and convoluted. It would be much easier and cheaper if it just passed nationwide.”

Angela Hughey and Sheri Owens, who married in California but live in Arizona, were so eager for the court’s decision that they contacted the I.R.S. in March and received instructions on how to file a request to amend past returns. But Ms. Hughey, whose business, One Community, caters to gay professionals, said that taxes were hardly her chief concern. Arizona is one of 29 states that still allow discrimination based on sexual orientation.

“You’re talking about a community that is treated with great disrespect and disregard,” she said.

Advocates are hoping that Wednesday’s rulings will create new momentum for other gay rights advances, like passing a federal law barring employment discrimination. As for marriage, their goal is to build “a critical mass of states and a critical mass of public support that together create a climate for the Supreme Court to finish the job,” said Evan Wolfson, founder of Freedom to Marry, an advocacy group.

In the meantime, the maze of laws has created a boon for lawyers who advise same-sex couples on matters like adoption and estate planning. Among them is Laura Milliken Gray of Salt Lake City, who said she goes through “all kinds of gyrations” for couples who “want to achieve family equality that their straight brothers and sisters have.”

Ms. Gray advised one client, Craig Crawford, who sells computer networks in Salt Lake City, that he would have to write all possible heirs — his parents, siblings and their children — out of his will to ensure that his property could be left to his husband, who is technically not next of kin under Utah law. Mr. Crawford was stunned.

“When you have to write your mother’s name down and disown her,” he said, “that is really harsh.”

Same-sex couples have long made decisions about where to live, work and raise children based on the legal climate. That is true of Mr. Huebner and Mr. Barabino, who met in San Francisco when Mr. Huebner was teaching there and Mr. Barabino was working for Google.

Through two moves — one to Washington, where Mr. Huebner taught briefly at the University of Maryland, and then to Salt Lake City — they kept their home in San Francisco. Once living in Utah, their California residency became important, Mr. Huebner said, because they needed access to the California courts to adopt a child.

When they moved to Utah, Mr. Huebner said, “it wasn’t important that the state doesn’t recognize our marriage,” because neither did the federal government. But with the court decision, he is beginning to wonder. “If by choosing to live in Utah we are choosing not to have federal rights,” he said, “it changes my decision matrix.”

When the rulings came down on Wednesday, the couple took Miles to the Supreme Court to watch history being made. There, they met up with friends who have a baby and a 3-year-old. While the toddlers romped on a lawn across the street from the court, the parents checked their cellphones for news. A cheer went up from the crowd when the Defense of Marriage decision was announced.

“We’re married!” Mr. Barabino said, cradling Miles in his arms. “It’s crazy. Because of the soil that we’re standing on now, because we stand in D.C., we’re married. When we stand in Utah, we are not.”
665 2013-06-29 HONG KONG — Rescue teams were searching the waters between Australia and New Zealand on Friday for a schooner carrying seven people after their boat went missing in stormy seas.

Three passengers on the boat, the Dyche family from Florida — David A. Dyche, 58; his wife, Rosemary, 60; and their son, David — were on their last sailing trip as a family before David, 17, was to leave for college, according to the Web site of The Australian.

The boat, named Nina, left New Zealand for Australia across the Tasman Sea on May 29, and the crew was last heard from on June 4, when one of the people on board, Evi Nemeth, 73, sent a text message to Bob McDavitt, a meteorologist in New Zealand, saying, “Any update 4 Nina? ... Evi.” The message followed a call from Ms. Nemeth saying, “The weather’s turned nasty, how do we get away from it?”

On that day, the Tasman Sea was hit by 65 mile-per-hour winds and swells as high as 26 feet.

Rescuers learned on June 14 that the boat was missing and a search began Wednesday, but there have been no signs of the schooner. No distress signal was received by rescue organizations.

Mr. Dyche is an experienced sailor, and he and his family had been sailing around the globe for several years, home schooling their son during their travels. In addition to the three family members and Ms. Nemeth, the boat was carrying a 28-year-old man, an 18-year-old woman and a 35-year-old British man. Their identities were not known. Friends said the family, who lived in Panama City, Fla., often picked up others along the way for their sailing adventures.

Neville Blakemore of the New Zealand Rescue Coordination Center told The Associated Press that the boat probably sank in the storm, but that rescue teams hoped that the crew had survived in a life raft or had somehow gotten to land. The search was centered off the coast of New Zealand near Three Kings Island.

The News Herald of Panama City said that the Dyche family used the 85-year-old schooner in several races, and that they left Panama City five years ago to sail around the world, returning to Florida a few months ago to get a new engine for the boat and visit friends before going to sea again. David Dyche works for a marine transport company.
666 2013-06-29 SYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia on Friday used his first news conference since regaining the country’s top leadership position to warn that policies proposed by the leader of the opposition risked dragging Australia into a military conflict with neighboring Indonesia.

Mr. Rudd, who forced out former Prime Minister Julia Gillard in a Labor Party vote this week, said an opposition proposal to use Australian naval vessels to tow boats carrying asylum seekers back to Indonesia placed the two countries on a “policy collision.”

Tony Abbott, the leader of the opposition Liberal-National coalition, has had a significant lead in polls over Mr. Rudd’s Labor Party leading up to elections scheduled for Sept. 14. He has promised a tougher line with Indonesia over the stream of rickety boats packed with asylum seekers that regularly try the dangerous crossing. Indonesia, however, has said it will not accept vessels carrying asylum seekers that are towed back to its shores.

“I wonder if Tony Abbott is trying to risk some sort of conflict with Indonesia,” Mr. Rudd said to reporters in the capital, Canberra.

“What happens on Day 1 when Field Marshal Tony puts out the order to the captain of the naval frigate X to turn back a bunch of boats?” he asked. “And you have got a naval frigate from the Indonesian Navy on the other side of the equation?”
667 2013-06-30 SIRY--Michael "Sheffy." We will greatly miss our friend, leader, brother, and award winning chef. It was a great 20 years. Love Dean, Andrew & Everyone at City Crab, Duke's & Big Daddy's...
668 2013-06-30 SHOPENN--Miriam (Mimi). 92. A loving and caring woman. Preceded in death by her late husband Bert. Mother to Leslie and Michael, grandmother to Kagan and Sarah, and sister to Jackie and Larry....
669 2013-06-30 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
670 2013-06-30 Josephine Stevenson, a daughter of Susan Stevenson Woodward and Charles P. Stevenson, both of New York, was married Saturday to Peter Justin Weiss, the son of Susan Weiss and Dr. Richard R. Weiss of Sands Point, N.Y. Rabbi Alan C. Stein officiated at the Wölffer Estate, a vineyard in Sagaponack, N.Y.

Mrs. Weiss, 30, is the director of investor relations at Serengeti Asset Management, a hedge fund in Manhattan. She graduated from Harvard. Her father is the president of the Navigator Group, an investment firm in Manhattan. He is the chairman of the board of trustees of Bard College and is also on the board of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. The bride’s mother is an associate at Janet Borden, a photography gallery in Manhattan. The bride is a stepdaughter of Alex Kuczynski and of Richard B. Woodward.

Mr. Weiss, 36, is a managing director specializing in structured finance at Ackman-Ziff, a real estate finance company in New York. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, from which he also received a master’s in biological engineering, and received a master’s degree in real estate finance from New York University. His father is an endodontist in private practice in New York.
671 2013-06-30 Melissa Beth Kurlan, a daughter of Helene Kurlan and Dr. Ronald Kurlan of Livingston, N.J., was married Saturday evening to Nathaniel Saxton Francis, a son of Elizabeth Bradford and James C. Francis IV of Garrison, N.Y. The groom’s father, a magistrate judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, officiated at the Harborside Financial Center in Jersey City, with Rabbi Roger Ross taking part.

Mrs. Francis, 30, is a director of wholesale operations and production in New York for Oscar de la Renta. She graduated from Indiana University. Her father is a dentist in South Orange, N.J.; her mother retired as his office manager.

Mr. Francis, also 30, is an investigator in New York for Confidential Security and Investigations, a corporate investigations firm. He graduated from Penn State University. His mother is an executive vice president and general counsel in New York for the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
672 2013-06-30 Findley Hart Davidson, the daughter of Ollie and Steve Davidson of Haverford, Pa., was married Saturday evening to David Michael Fleming, a son of Fran and Bob Fleming of Olney, Md. Robert Davidson, an uncle of the bride who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated at Gotham Hall in New York, with Judge William Furber Jr. of the Court of Common Pleas of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in Norristown taking part.

The bride, 32, is keeping her name. She is a casting director for Warner Brothers Television in New York. She graduated cum laude from Syracuse University.

Her father retired as the executive vice president of affiliate sales at Home Box Office in New York.

The groom, 34, is a vice president specializing in mergers and acquisitions in the investment banking unit at Citigroup in New York. He graduated from Penn State and received an M.B.A. from New York University.

His mother retired as a biology teacher at Springbrook High School in Montgomery County, Md. His father is an environmental scientist at the Energy Department in Washington.
673 2013-06-30 Many scientists now recommend that all patients start treatment immediately regardless of CD4 levels. The evidence is overwhelming that they are far less likely to infect anyone else if they do so. They also may live longer, healthier lives because their immune systems are not allowed to sink before being revived. In rare cases when the infection is caught very early, some may even be able to safely stop treatment after a year or two.

W.H.O. guidelines, however, are used mostly by the health ministries of poor countries that depend on donors. Not nearly enough money is contributed each year to treat everyone infected, so poor countries perform triage, telling about half of their infected citizens to wait until they get sicker.

The new guidelines mean that about 26 million people in poor and middle-income countries will be eligible for the drugs, up from 17 million under the previous guidelines. Almost 10 million people are on the drugs now. Globally, more than 34 million people are infected.

Two trends are helping increase the number of people getting treatment. The prices of drugs and diagnostic tests keep dropping, and middle-income countries are relying less on donors. South Africa, for example, has increased its AIDS budget by 500 percent in recent years.

The new guidelines also call for universal use of the simplest, most effective treatment with the least side effects: a once-daily pill containing three drugs — tenofovir, efavirenz and either lamivudine or emtricitabine.

For diagnosis, the guidelines suggest that, in addition to CD4 counts, countries do more expensive viral load tests. Tracking viral loads is the best way to tell when a patient needs a new drug regimen, said Dr. Gilles van Cutsem, medical coordinator in South Africa for Doctors Without Borders, the medical charity. And, he said, there is “no greater motivating factor for people to stick to their treatment than knowing the virus is ‘undetectable’ in their blood.”

The guidelines do not call for giving healthy people who are at high risk — drug addicts, prostitutes, gay men, male prisoners and people whose sex partners are infected — a daily tenofovir pill to keep them uninfected.

Mr. Sidibé called that “a missed opportunity” and said that it was still being discussed.

The new guidelines drew mixed reactions from advocates.

Doctors Without Borders, which treats 285,000 H.I.V. patients in 21 countries, applauded the guidelines.

But Asia Russell, an activist with Health GAP, which lobbies for more generosity from donors and drug makers, called them “the absolute bare minimum steps that needed to be taken — because stingy donors and U.N. technocrats and national governments in the global south tend to seek incrementalism.”

Behind the scenes, the proposed guidelines engendered a long debate. One fear is that countries already struggling to reach rural citizens who are close to death will run out of drugs if they start treating people who live near government clinics and have CD4 counts just below normal.

In coming years, Mr. Sidibé said, he expects the guidelines to keep shifting toward treatment upon testing, especially as recognition spreads that reducing the viral load early, when people are teeming with the virus, is the best way to stop them from spreading the disease.

“What is holding us back is that we lack a vision for ending the epidemic,” he said. “If we think we’ll just manage it like a chronic disease for the next 50 years, we’ll never get to the end.”
674 2013-06-30 Hundreds of relatives, friends and well-wishers wept together and hugged at the funeral of Odin Lloyd, a semipro football player whose killing led to murder and weapons charges against the former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez. Members of Lloyd’s team chanted his name Saturday as pallbearers placed his coffin in a hearse outside Church of the Holy Spirit in Boston’s Mattapan neighborhood.

Lloyd’s body was found June 17 near Hernandez’s home. Hernandez was arrested Wednesday and charged with orchestrating the shooting.

■ Indianapolis Colts safety Joe Lefeged has been arrested on gun-related charges after a traffic stop in Washington. The police spokesman Araz Alali said Lefeged was a passenger in a car that fled from the police after a traffic stop for speeding.
675 2013-06-30 Park uses a cross-hand grip, atypical on the tour, but it has worked well for her since she was 10 and a coach in Seoul, South Korea, suggested she try it. This was before Park came to the United States at age 12, and before she broke onto the L.P.G.A. radar seven years later, in 2008, with a four-stroke victory at the United States Women’s Open at Interlachen. She was the youngest Open winner in history.

Park struggled the next three seasons but rebounded in 2012, winning twice and finishing as the runner-up six times while posting the tour’s lowest scoring average (70.21). This season, Park has won five tournaments. A win Sunday would make her only the fourth woman to win three majors in one season, along with Zaharias, Mickey Wright (1961) and Pat Bradley (1986).

“I’m just going to try to do the same thing,” Park said. “It will be a big day, but it’s just a round of golf, and I just try not to think about it too much.”

As Saturday afternoon progressed, the sun beat down, hardening the greens and fairways, and the wind off the bay remained strong — a fierce combination that caused turmoil on the leader board, but not for Park.

I. K. Kim, who began the day two strokes behind Park, dropped three strokes in the first four holes. Lizette Salas started the third round in fourth place, but she shot an 82, dropping to a tie for 25th.

Jodi Ewart Shadoff kept pace with Park through the front nine, but she could not close the gap when Park went through her bogey skid. Ewart Shadoff bogeyed No. 12 and missed a short birdie putt on 15.

“I shot myself in the foot a little bit there,” said Ewart Shadoff, who finished the day in third place at three under.

Through it all, Park showed no signs of distress. Calm and methodical in her mechanics, she reveals nothing with her body language. Her clear strength is on the greens, and she has looked at home there even at Sebonack, where the greens have a headache-inducing number of undulations and ridges.

“She’s not exactly knocking the flags down,” said Stacy Lewis, her playing partner on Thursday and Friday. “She’s making putts off the edge of the greens, ones that you wouldn’t expect her to make. It’s definitely frustrating for us watching.”

Park cruised at one under par through the first 10 holes, but she hit trouble on the 11th after attempting to cut a corner on the dogleg left and winding up short of the green on the right. She bogeyed the hole and then bogeyed Nos. 12 and 13 — three in a row, equaling the total number of bogeys she had in the first two rounds.

On the 14th, a long par-4, Park flew a 6-iron beyond the flagstick and atop a ledge, leaving herself with a long downhill putt. More troubling, Ewart Shadoff and Kim were both in position to strike birdies and reduce the gap.

“Those three bogeys were very tough,” Park said. “I thought the putt was going to be really slow going into the wind. It ended up being quicker than I thought.”

If the putt had banged off the back lip of the cup, it might have slid past the hole and perhaps down off the green. “It was purely luck,” Park said.

Ewart Shadoff, who tried to keep pace but could not, disagreed.

“You always have to expect she’s going to make the next putt,” Ewart Shadoff said, “because most of the time she does.”
676 2013-06-30 “It was not all pleasant,” he said in a 2002 interview with The Dallas Morning News, which described him as a “slender, handsome, active” 75-year-old living on Social Security and renting a 350-square-foot efficiency apartment in Santa Cruz. “Yet I hadn’t lost anything precious. I’d lost money. I’d lost security.”

It was not all voluntary, either. He was once sued, successfully, by his publisher for the return of an advance on an unfinished book. And he admitted that he sometimes struggled to pay the bills.

But from 1971 until his last weeks of life, when he finished a play, Mr. Slater wrote or co-wrote six of his eight volumes of sociological criticism and dozens of plays and novels. He performed as an actor, taught playwriting and was the president of a theater company. Some of his books, including “The Pursuit of Loneliness,” were updated and republished as enduringly timely.

In interviews, Mr. Slater said life after 1971 was more adventure-filled, chaotic, emotionally satisfying and harrowing than he could have known when he decided to leave Brandeis. Which was why he was glad he did it.

“The experience of losing everything and finding I was having a wonderful time,” he said, “opened me to experiences I otherwise would not have had. I would have protected myself from them if I had known.”

Philip Elliot Slater was born on May 15, 1927, in Riverton, N.J., the youngest of three children of Pauline Holman Slater and John Elliot Slater, a shipping executive. After serving in the merchant marine at the end of World War II, he graduated from Harvard as a government major in 1950 and received his Ph.D. in sociology from Harvard in 1955.

Mr. Slater, who married four times, is survived by his wife, Susan Helgeson; three children besides his daughter Dashka, Wendy Palmer, Scott Slater and Stephanie Slater; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

From 1952 to 1954, Mr. Slater participated in clinical experiments conducted by Dr. Robert Hyde and Dr. Max Rinkel on the effects of the hallucinogenic drug LSD. The experiments, in which about 100 graduate and undergraduate students took the drug numerous times to test its effects, changed Mr. Slater’s life — and for the better, he later said.

“We saw the world differently from people who had not had the experience,” he told Don Lattin, the author of “The Harvard Psychedelic Club,” a 2010 book primarily about later Harvard experiments with LSD led by Timothy Leary; the book briefly described Mr. Slater’s role in the earlier tests. “It definitely felt like we were expanding our consciousness,” he added.

Though it was just one of a tidal wave of sociological blockbusters published in 1970, including Charles A. Reich’s “The Greening of America” and Alvin Toffler’s “Future Shock,” “The Pursuit of Loneliness” earned Mr. Slater rave notices. In The New York Times Book Review, the Yale psychologist Kenneth Keniston called it “a brilliant, sweeping and relevant critique of modern America.”

Like many of his later works, the book explored the tension between the Lone Ranger individualist who occupies center stage in American myth and the communal interdependence that defines democracy in reality. He was an optimist, predicting in “The Temporary Society,” written with Warren Bennis in 1968, that democracy would triumph worldwide within 50 years. But he worried that democracy in his own country was declining, and that a combination of self-absorption and distrust of their government made Americans vulnerable to the appeal of authoritarianism. Todd Gitlin, a sociologist and author, who wrote an introduction to the 1990 edition of “The Pursuit of Loneliness,” described Mr. Slater as a sociological “sage.”

“He was the first American sociologist to develop the idea that the personal is the political — that our domestic arrangements and our foreign policy are the inside and outside of the same phenomenon,” Mr. Gitlin said in an interview on Wednesday. “That there was a connection between social ills and the average citizen’s lack of involvement in the community.”

In his 1991 book, “A Dream Deferred,” Mr. Slater wrote that democracy at its best was not a principle or a “yearning for freedom” but a social movement. The problem with democracy, he added, was not Congress or corporate influence, but its own citizens’ “inability to cooperate, to negotiate actively about the things that concern us.”

“That’s what leaves room for — and makes necessary — the systems against which we rail, and upon which the individualist heaps so much impotent scorn.”
677 2013-06-30 Mrs. Price remained in the city and died there on June 10. She was 97.

Precisely what happened at 116th Street and South Avalon Boulevard has long been debated. Versions of the episode have varied. Probably the most complete account is by Jerry Cohen and William S. Murphy, reporters whose coverage of the riots helped The Los Angeles Times win a Pulitzer Prize in 1966 and whose book that year, “Burn, Baby, Burn! The Los Angeles Race Riot, August 1965,” explored the event even further.

By their account, Mr. Frye, after his scolding, whirled from his mother and started swearing at the police, threatening to kill them. He swung at an officer trying to subdue him. As the police waited for reinforcements, an officer went to his car and got a shotgun.

Tensions escalated. Mr. Frye threw a punch at an officer, who slugged him back. A stepbrother, Ronald Frye, who had been riding in the car, also got involved in the fracas. Mrs. Price jumped on at least one officer’s back (Mr. Cohen and Mr. Murphy wrote that she had jumped on two, but accounts differ) and ripped his shirt. Meanwhile, the crowd of onlookers had grown to more than 200. They booed as Mrs. Price was handcuffed and shoved into a police car.

“Everything was going fine with the arrest until his mama got there,” Officer Minikus said in a 2005 interview with The Los Angeles Times.

Someone in the crowd spit on a police officer, and another woman was arrested. She had on the blue smock she wore as a barber, and because it was large and loose, like Mrs. Price’s dress, word spread through the crowd that two pregnant women had been roughed up and arrested. Neither, in fact, was pregnant.

Mrs. Price spent the night in jail and did not learn about the rioting until the next day.

“I was surprised,” she said in an interview with The Times in 2005. “I had never heard of a riot. There were never any riots before. I went back to my house. Where else was I going to go?”

A state commission found causes for the violence in a paucity of jobs, inadequate schools and resentment of the police. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who went to Watts immediately afterward, blamed “general despair.”

Still, as an F.B.I. manual issued six months before the riot stated, “some kind of provocation” triggers mass violence. Mrs. Price was an unlikely trigger.

She was born Rena Davis on May 13, 1916, into a farming family in Oklahoma. She completed the eighth grade before marrying C. L. Price, with whom she had four children. Marquette was the fourth. Six months after his birth, in 1944, the family moved to Hanna, Wyo., where there was a mining boom.

Shortly after arriving, she and Mr. Price divorced, and she began seeing Wallace Frye, who also had four children from a previous relationship. They married, and in 1957, after the mining boom petered out, the family moved to Los Angeles.

It was a tough adjustment, Marquette Frye said in an interview for the book “Burn, Baby, Burn!” He found being in an all-black school difficult after studying with whites in Wyoming. He was repeatedly suspended for fighting and was arrested for minor thefts and a robbery.

In the book, Mrs. Price, who found work cleaning houses, said that other children picked on Marquette from the time he arrived in Watts at 13. “His temper is short — like mine — so he don’t take no pushing around,” she said.

At the time, the whole family used the name Frye, but after the riots, most of them, including Marquette, abandoned it in favor of Price, deciding that the name Frye seemed synonymous with racial turmoil, according to Mrs. Price’s son Wendell Price, who confirmed her death.

Wallace Frye died in 1978, and Mrs. Price never remarried. Marquette Frye died of pneumonia in 1986. Besides her son Wendell, Mrs. Price is survived by another son, Charles, and 19 grandchildren. Wendell Price said he did not know how many of her stepchildren were still alive.

In August 1965, Marquette Frye pleaded guilty to drunken driving, battery and malicious injury of property. His stepbrother Ronald — who was also in the car, their mother’s 1955 Buick — pleaded guilty to interfering with a police officer. Wendell Price said Ronald was still living in the Los Angeles area. Both Marquette and Ronald were sentenced to three years’ probation.

A jury found Mrs. Price guilty of interfering with a police officer, rejecting her lawyer’s argument that she had only come to the aid of her sons. A judge fined her $250 and instructed her to pay in monthly installments of $10.

“I have a reason for this,” the judge said. “On the first of every month when you have to pay $10, you will be reminded of this case.”

Mrs. Price never reclaimed her Buick. It had been impounded, and the storage fees exceeded its value.
678 2013-06-30 TO measure the amounts that chief executives were paid last year, Sunday Business asked Equilar Inc., an executive compensation data firm, to compile and analyze pay data from corporate filings.

The data set includes information for the 200 highest-paid chief executives at public companies with annual revenue of at least $1 billion. To be included in the study, a company must be incorporated in the United States and must have filed a definitive proxy statement by May 31. A preliminary list, published in April, included companies with a minimum revenue of $5 billion, with proxies filed by March 29.

For each executive, total compensation is calculated as the sum of base salary, discretionary and performance-based cash bonuses, the grant date value of stock and option awards, and other compensation. Other compensation typically includes benefits and perquisites. All data are taken from the summary compensation table provided in each company’s proxy statement.

Whenever grant-date values are not provided for option awards, Equilar calculated the value of stock option grants using the widely accepted Black-Scholes method and the company’s own option valuation assumptions.

Grant-date values represent the estimated value of new stock and option awards. Although companies disclose grant-date values for these awards, there is no guarantee that executives will actually realize these amounts. They may earn more or less, depending on stock price movements.

Equilar’s analysis reports equity awards in the fiscal year when they were granted. In some cases, especially in the financial sector, companies grant equity awards at the beginning of each fiscal year based on performance in the previous fiscal year. As such, the equity awards granted in a fiscal year should not necessarily be viewed as indicative of corporate performance in that same year.
679 2013-06-30 The department can still use Section 3 of the act to get states or cities back into its jurisdiction, allowing it to judge election changes. To do so, though, it must show clear intent of racial discrimination, which is easy to hide. Congress should revise that section to allow coverage when a state makes a voting change with a disparate racial impact, not just discriminatory intent.

Section 2 of the act also gives the department or private citizens the right to sue any local or state government for an improper election practice. These kinds of legal actions, though expensive and difficult, are likely to become the principal tool for enforcing voting rights, and the department needs to gear up to fight many more of them.

The day after the court’s decision, in fact, a group of black and Hispanic residents filed a Section 2 lawsuit in Corpus Christi to stop the state’s revived voter ID law. Texas was one of five states that triumphantly used the Supreme Court’s decision to move ahead on ID requirements that had previously been blocked. Congress has the power to make these suits easier to file — one way, for example, would be to allow plaintiffs to show that a practice diminishes minority voting rights, a standard in the now-paralyzed Section 5.

Congress can still make Section 5 usable again with new rules for inclusion. For example, it could require pre-clearance for any state found to have violated a federal election law in the last few years, which would include most of the Southern states along with many others. At a minimum, all states and localities should be required to disclose on the Internet any voting change, allowing citizens and Washington a chance to raise concerns.

The most fundamental change Congress could make would be a law declaring a universal right to vote that could not be infringed by any level of government. The Voting Rights Act was aimed at combating discrimination “on account of race or color,” which was the urgent problem of the time. Discrimination has now broadened to encompass more groups of different kinds, and it is time for a broader law, especially given the Supreme Court’s clear intent to dismantle all racial protections.

That is not just a liberal fantasy, either. It was encouraging last week to hear several House Republicans, including the majority leader, Eric Cantor, say they were interested in restoring protections to voting. One of them, James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, put the challenge well: “This is going to take time and will require members from both sides of the aisle to put partisan politics aside and ensure Americans’ most sacred right is protected.”
680 2013-06-30 He paused and considered what this city, famous for its gay night life, looks like on most weekends, and particularly during the gay pride celebration. “But that would be consistent with what you might see on Santa Monica Boulevard in West Hollywood,” he added.

At first, the case of the missing pink dog appeared to have all the hallmarks of a drunken college prank or the antics of a West Hollywood denizen who, after a few drinks the day of the parade, thought it would make a particularly distinctive feature for his or her pool.

If the dog was returned unharmed, city officials promised to ask no questions.

As days have dragged into weeks, however, no one has stepped forward, and the missing dog has become a bit of an embarrassment. Its stand remains empty on the median in the middle of the road, beside four other identical red and pink dog statues, an irritating reminder of the crime every time a deputy’s car drives by.

“We have no leads, no sightings, no suspect information,” said Lt. Michael White of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department station in West Hollywood. He could not even say when exactly the statue disappeared — sometime between midnight and 8 a.m. the day after the parade, he said.

“Something like this is pretty rare,” Lieutenant White said. “But it was a Monday after midnight. Things slow down. There aren’t as many people around.”

So far, at least, the authorities have not resorted to posting “missing dog” signs on telephone poles.

“I’m very surprised it hasn’t come back,” said Andrew Campbell, the city’s cultural affairs administrator. “We assumed someone had been celebrating a little too hard and didn’t quite realize what they were doing. But it’s starting to leave the realm of a prank and move into the grand theft.”

Created by William Sweetlove, a Belgian artist, and installed just in time for the annual parade, the dog and its accompanying statues were designed to convey the artist’s concerns about climate change; as the planet continues to grow warmer, dogs might need shoes to keep from burning their feet.

Mr. Campbell realized that the gay pride parade might not be the safest spot for the statues. (West Hollywood’s parade, like many others across the country, has in recent years become more booze-soaked, skin-baring fiesta than political rally.) He stood guard by the statues during the parade to make sure they were not harmed. And they were a hit with picture-snapping revelers, he said. But when he drove by the next day, one was missing.

Having watched workers install the statues, Mr. Campbell said it would have taken two or three people to move one.

Mr. Campbell said workers would now do an additional “thing” to secure the dogs to their podiums. He would not go into specifics about exactly what that thing would be.

“I kind of don’t want to get into that,” he said. “I don’t want to help people understand how they, too, could abscond with a dog.”
681 2013-06-30 Mr. Kerry’s trip had appeared to take a dramatic turn on Saturday when he ripped up his itinerary and canceled a news conference and a trip that day to the United Arab Emirates so he could continue his meetings with Israeli and Palestinian leaders for another day.

That spurred speculation in the Israeli news media that a summit meeting among Israeli, Palestinian and American officials might be hosted by Jordan.

At the start of Mr. Kerry’s dinner meeting here on Saturday with Mr. Netanyahu, there were indications that the principals thought speculation of a game-changing breakthrough had gotten out of hand.

“They’re saying a four-way summit?" Mr. Netanyahu was heard to say to Mr. Kerry at the start of the dinner. “Did you hear that?”

The dinner — Mr. Kerry’s third meeting with Mr. Netanyahu in three days — was all business. On the Israeli side, it also included Tzipi Livni, Israel’s minister of justice and the government’s chief negotiator on the Palestinian issue; Isaac Molho, Mr. Netanyahu’s special envoy; Yaakov Amidror, Mr. Netanyahu’s national security adviser; and Maj. Gen. Eyal Zamir, Mr. Netanyahu’s military secretary.

On the American side, Mr. Kerry was joined by Frank Lowenstein, his Middle East adviser; Jonathan Schwartz, a State Department legal expert; and John Bass, a senior aide to Mr. Kerry at the State Department.

But skeptics were insisting there was little reason to anticipate a breakthrough. Gilad Erdan, an Israeli government minister and member of the Likud party, asserted on Israeli television just before Mr. Kerry’s meeting with Mr. Netanyahu that the two sides were not close to resuming negotiations.

Mr. Abbas, Mr. Erdan said, "is still demanding the same preconditions that we have no intention of complying with."

Mr. Kerry said early during his travels that significant headway toward resuming the peace talks needed to be made long before September, when the General Assembly resumes its debate on the Middle East.

Mr. Kerry has frequently said that time is the enemy, arguing that attitudes could harden and that unexpected developments could complicate painstaking efforts to lay the basis for progress at the negotiating table.

Even before Mr. Kerry left on this trip to the Middle East, his fifth, American officials were signaling that he was prepared to make a sixth if needed.

On Saturday, Mr. Kerry had little to say as he went from meeting to meeting. Asked if he was making any progress as his Amman meeting with Mr. Abbas got under way, Mr. Kerry replied, “Working hard.”
682 2013-06-30 The process would start with the enlistment of lawyers and focus groups to vet a new name. When the N.B.A.’s Grizzlies relocated to Memphis from Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2001, the franchise spent about $125,000 on research alone, said Andy Dolich, the team’s former president for business operations. That figure included the work of a graphics team, which went through several mascot iterations. Memphis ultimately decided to keep the old nickname while updating its bear logo.

It would be dangerous, though, to draw too many parallels to the Redskins’ situation, Dolich said. Unlike the Grizzlies, who were new to Memphis and benefited from almost unconditional support, the Redskins have been part of Washington’s civic fabric for decades. Any changes would need to be carefully calibrated.

“You’re not just going to Larry’s T-shirt Store and saying, ‘Hey, Larry, we need to change this,’ ” Dolich said. “In terms of merchandise and the team’s presence on the Internet and all their corporate sponsorships, the Redskins have millions of exposure points. So there’s a dollar figure attached to any sort of overhaul.”

A big chunk of the budget would be directed to the fairly rudimentary process of replacing all the old logos with the new one, including on the scoreboard at FedEx Field and on the stationery that the team uses. Carl Bassewitz, a sports marketing and branding expert who has worked with several professional teams, uses a 300-item checklist whenever he helps guide a franchise through the logistics of an identity change. “It’s a massive undertaking,” he said.

Redskins officials, who declined to comment for this article, could minimize some of those costs by keeping the same color scheme, which would spare them having to replace thousands of burgundy-and-gold seats at the stadium. Still, any rebranding effort would require an investment from the team and the league.

For example, the Charlotte Bobcats of the N.B.A. recently estimated that it would cost them $4 million to become the Hornets (again) in time for the start of the 2014-15 season. When the Washington Bullets decided to call themselves the Wizards in 1997, it was a similarly painstaking process.

“We anticipated needing two years to wipe the slate clean, and it never really is clean,” said Matt Williams, a former Wizards executive who now heads communications for the Washington Animal Rescue League. “You had to change everything, from court design to uniforms to luggage. It was almost like starting up an expansion team.”

One huge caveat is that the Redskins, with their zealous fan base and lucrative revenue streams, are neither the bottom-feeding Bobcats nor the Bullets. The Redskins make a lot of money. Last year, Forbes magazine assessed the Redskins’ annual revenue at $373 million. They ranked third in home attendance last season, behind the Dallas Cowboys and the Giants. Just as important, the Redskins share in the swollen coffers of the N.F.L., which generated $9 billion in revenue in 2012. The league receives more than $4 billion in annual television rights fees, which is split among its 32 teams.

So even if the franchise were to spend $10 million or $20 million to drop its nickname and rebrand itself, how much is that really?

“A drop in the bucket,” said Gabe Feldman, the director of the sports law program at Tulane University. Consider that the N.F.L.’s salary cap for the coming season is $123 million.

The larger issue is how the team’s fans would react, and that is much more difficult to forecast. Would fans protest the change by shedding their RGIII jerseys? Would they stop going to games? Would the new, unfamiliar name — everyone knows the Redskins — lessen the franchise’s appeal to corporate America and cost the team sponsorships?

“I think you run the risk of heavily damaging your brand if you change your name,” Dolich, the former Grizzlies executive, said.

Although there is no precedent for a change of this magnitude in pro sports, two marketing professors at Emory University recently studied the economic effect on college athletic departments that moved away from Indian mascots. The professors, Manish Tripathi and Mike Lewis, found that these colleges tended to have a year or two of marginal financial losses before quickly recovering. In fact, the move typically yielded positive returns in the long run.

Just as important, ditching an Indian mascot had no effect on an athletic department’s all-important “brand equity,” Tripathi said — that is, the willingness of a consumer to pay a premium price to support the team, whether that meant ordering season tickets or buying a sweatshirt.

“You could make the argument that the Redskins have brand loyalty that’s not linked to the logo at all,” Tripathi said in a telephone interview. “It could have more to do with growing up with the team and feeling a connection to the franchise. If that’s the case, people will just go out and buy the new jersey.”

Ultimately, the financial stakes would have more to do with the psychology of the sports fan than with the costs of printing new business cards. John Maroon, a former spokesman for the Redskins who runs a public-relations firm based in Maryland, said any sort of move would be bad for business.

Maroon cited a recent poll conducted by The Associated Press in which 79 percent of those surveyed said they favored the team’s keeping its name, with 11 percent opposed. Rebranding the franchise, Maroon said, would be “hugely unpopular” and wind up costing the team “tens of millions of dollars.”

At the same time, Maroon said, it would be difficult for fans to stay away, even if they were initially annoyed. Football, he said, has a strong emotional hold over fans. Are Redskins fans really so attached to a nickname that they would refuse to watch them play as the Congressionals or the Red Pandas?

Maroon said he rooted for the Jets.

“If they changed their name or banned Joe Namath from the stadium, I’d be upset,” he said. “But I’d still wind up wearing my Jets stuff, and then Sunday would come and I’d go to the game and watch them lose in another color.”
683 2013-06-30 Activists in New York’s women’s movement lead a weeklong camp for high school students to teach them about the “practical applications of feminism.”...
684 2013-06-30 Renovated in 2012, the loft is stocked (subtly and in some cases invisibly) with 50 wellness amenities that deliver, he says, 23 therapies: exponentially improved air, water, light, sleep, energy and nutrition are all part of the package. The grand piano in the living room is an extra that belongs to Peter — music being the rare form of therapy, Mr. Scialla said, that Delos doesn’t cover.

The interior lighting in the West 13th Street prototype where the twins live with their golden retriever, Jake, nourishes delicate circadian rhythms with constantly changing types of illumination and blackout shading. The air is not just continually cleansed, but subtly infused by aromatherapy appropriate to the time of day — or the owner’s whims.

The rift-cut Siberian oak floors are set upon a layer of cork and rubber that reduces stress, muffles sound and nudges a body toward perfect posture. The juice bar in the kitchen enables healthy beverage selections. The blue-light panel surrounding Mr. Scialla’s bathroom mirror is a silent wake-up call even on the darkest mornings. The heated stone path to the shower provides instant foot reflexology, and inside the shower, the cascade is supplemented by a spritz of vitamin C and aloe that neutralizes chlorine and soothes the skin.

Naturally oxygenating planters catch rays on the windowsills, and a handy herb garden grows in the kitchen. There is ample green technology going on here: even the insulation is soy-based.

The principals in addition to Mr. Scialla and his brother, both early Goldman retirees, are: the company’s co-founder, Morad Fareed, a former executive of the Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and a member of the Clinton Global Initiative; and the chief operating officer, Renato Termale. Delos has already installed 16 WELLness features in several dozen hotel rooms at the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas. The rooms command a 40 percent premium and have, Mr. Fareed said, recovered the cost of installing the amenities.

The company is converting an estate in Montecito, Calif., into a Delos oasis, as well as retrofitting a CBRE office in Los Angeles, ostensibly to make for happier, healthier, more productive employees. And in a philanthropic collaboration with the musician Will.i.am, it plans to Delos-ize a public school in Boyle Heights in East Los Angeles.

The 13th Street loft has already attracted a stream of celebrities curious enough about Delos’s potential impact on public health to take a tour, including former President Bill Clinton; Eric Schmidt, Google’s chairman; Dr. Mehmet Oz, the TV personality; and Deepak Chopra, the self-improvement guru.

This type of “smart” home construction doesn’t come cheap. But Mr. Scialla foresees the amenities’ becoming as cost-effective and accepted as green technology and LEED certification. Delos is not, he emphasized, intended to enhance only the health of the 1 percent. But for now they are its main beneficiaries, because it is they who can best afford to indulge.

The five apartments on East 11th Street are in an 1897 Italianate building with a terra-cotta facade, auspicious acanthus carvings, and a history as a dress factory and most recently a parking garage. Prices range from $15.5 million, for each of the three floor-through lofts, to $50 million for the duplex penthouse, whose 22-by-8-foot picture window frames the historic Grace Church.

The largest apartment, at 10,000 square feet, is the so-called mansion: it is listed at $45 million and, if the buyer is so inclined, can be accompanied by its own potentially two-space parking garage, with a separate price tag of $1 million. The buyer of the penthouse is also entitled to buy the garage: first come first served. (Drivers of Hummers or Escalades should count on just a single spot.)

In addition to Mr. Chopra, the Delos advisory board includes Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee and co-chairman of Mr. Clinton’s 1996 re-election campaign (the Delos agenda was formally introduced at the 2012 Clinton Global Initiative conference); Richard A. Gephardt, a former majority leader of the House of Representatives; Mel Martinez, a former HUD secretary; Dr. Nicholas F. LaRusso of the Mayo Clinic; and Dr. Michael Roizen of the Cleveland Clinic.

In a pay-it-forward gesture, a portion of Delos’s profits will go toward real estate rehab in Haiti, a project of the Global Initiative.

Mr. Chopra, a founder of the Chopra Center for Wellbeing, confirms that he is thinking seriously of buying one of the three East 11th Street lofts — if he can get permission from his wife.

His most coveted amenity is the strip of blue light by the bathroom mirror: “It puts the on/off switch on your melatonin,” he said, “which is great for people like me who do a lot of traveling.”

More seriously, Mr. Chopra, whose brand is synonymous with spiritual well-being, said he was on board (an unpaid position, he stressed) as a Delos adviser because “it is worth it just to promote the idea.” He added: “This is the next step in the real estate industry — understanding that sustainability should begin in the home. Our bodies are sustainable but exposed to pollution, no different than the environment.”

Another advisory board member, Dolly Lenz, who recently left her position as the vice chairman of Douglas Elliman Real Estate, is exclusively marketing the five residences. Ms. Lenz says she has been inundated with inquiries about what’s next on the real estate horizon, and she is convinced it is Delos.

“It’s going to start with wealthy people buying into the amenities,” she said. “But this type of technology can filter down to all levels. It’s going to be the Whole Foods story of real estate. These guys are six years ahead of everybody else with their product. They’re out in the uber-stratosphere of the healthy housing movement.”

Mr. Gephardt, who runs the Gephardt Group, a consulting and lobbying firm with major clients in the health care industry, said he and several acquaintances at the Mayo Clinic were especially interested in the palliative effect that Delos technology could have on the elderly.

According to him, Delos “is really onto something that will ultimately be as universal and accepted as green construction.

“Yes,” he added, “these are high-end residences they’re marketing, but when you’re trying to introduce a new technology, the reality is that it’s easier to get it monetized at the high end, because those are the consumers who are probably more ready to invest.”

Mr. Scialla, relaxing on a leather sofa in his glossy window-lined loft, summed up his idea this way: “The largest asset class we have is the $150 trillion traded in real estate, and when I thought of infusing the $2 trillion a year spent on health and wellness into the $150 trillion spent on real estate, a light bulb went off. Why build homes and offices just so they’re good for the environment? Why not build them so they’re good for people, too? It’s all about preventive intentions, and it could be a game-changer.”

Since moving into his Delos-renovated loft, Mr. Scialla says, he has rarely been sick; he traced a case of the sniffles to a recent coast-to-coast business flight. Which reminded him that the Delos air purification, surface decontamination and lighting systems would be a great fit for airplanes and airports. Nothing would make a weary traveler’s heart beat a little faster than the luxury of arriving at his healthy home already healthy, especially with that built-in juicing station, and a 78-bottle dual-zone wine cooler, on tap for ready rehydration in the germ-free kitchen.
685 2013-06-30 HOW JAMES TURRELL KNOCKED THE ART WORLD OFF ITS FEET

I saw the Turrell show at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and was so disoriented afterward that while driving home, I felt like I was stoned. In the days following, I felt hung over and had difficulty concentrating. Despite this, I enjoyed the exhibition and will probably see it again. The physical and emotional reactions I experienced were minor compared to how Turrell’s vision helped me see much of art and the world differently. There is a spiritual aspect to his work. LIZ GOLDNER, Laguna Beach, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

At first I was a fan of Turrell’s work, like the Quaker meetinghouse in Houston. I remember being infatuated with the Roden Crater: raw spaces carved out of the elements. A mountain, a tunnel, a dais, time, the moon, the sun, light. Then I saw more recent images of the crater and was dismayed to see that Turrell has created something that seems on the verge of bad fantasy art. I now think of some of his work as employing fun-house tricks. Then there’s the mythic exaggerations of character at work in Wil S. Hylton’s article. Sleeping under the wing of an airplane every night? Give me a break. I’ll stick with the Spiral Jetty. It is what it is. A.D.M., Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

WHAT HAPPENS TO WOMEN WHO ARE DENIED ABORTIONS?

I am S., the woman described in Joshua Lang’s article. I wanted to make clear that when I sought help from First Resort, an organization that offers counseling for pregnant women, they provided me with support; they did not hinder my plan to have an abortion. I was indeed, as quoted, “running out of days.” The ultrasound showed that I was 22 weeks 2 days along. Even though I scheduled an appointment for an abortion elsewhere, I became overwhelmed with the process of securing full Medi-Cal, and time ran out, leading to my decision to carry the pregnancy to term. S., California

Lang discusses research conducted by Henry David (whose archives my organization holds), in which the development of children born to women who were denied abortions was compared over a 35-year period with development of the wanted children of a matched sample of women. The article indicates that David did not have a proper control group to determine whether being “born unwanted” was the cause of children’s struggles rather than family environment. In his later follow-ups, David and his team did compare unwanted children and their siblings in the same family and found that most born unwanted did not fare as well. He concluded that “unwantedness” constituted a “lifelong problem.” David’s study — like that of Diana Greene Foster — reveals the lasting damage when abortions are denied. BARBARA B. CRANE, Executive Vice President, Ipas, Chapel Hill, N.C.

One solution Lang didn’t adequately address is adoption. It relieves the birth mother of caring for the unwanted child, and it will generally guarantee that the child is embraced by a family that passionately wants one — especially one they might be able to raise from infancy. EILEEN CARR, Dayton, Ohio

Five years ago, I faced an unwanted pregnancy. At the time, I had a 2-year-old and a 4-year-old, and I was working full time as a college professor and living an upper-middle-class life. When I found out I was pregnant at eight weeks, I consulted with my husband (who supported either decision), and we scheduled an abortion the following week. I was overwhelmed at the thought of caring for another child. Had I been turned away, I’m sure that I would be able to report that I loved that third child, that our family was doing well and that there were no notable negative impacts or issues as a result of bearing and raising the child from an unwanted pregnancy. I can, however, say the same thing now, having not had that child. CAROLYN, Baldwin, Md.
686 2013-06-30 Mr. McLachlan is able to view both genres from a particularly intimate vantage point. His wife, Soodabeh Khosropur, was a producer on the long-running A&E series “Intervention,” on which “Rehabilitation” was based. (“I had a very knowledgeable set of fact-checkers look at my early drafts,” he said.) And as a longtime actor himself, he has seen reality TV eat into the number of television shows that cast actual actors, not to mention writers. What better revenge than writing a play that both takes aim at the genre and offers paid work for an entire cast?

While both “The Capables” and “Good Television” use their invasive TV crews as an entry point to infiltrate dysfunctional families that could easily have supported their own dramas without the cameras, “Nobody Loves You” takes a more lighthearted approach. Mr. Moses, a prolific playwright (“Bach at Leipzig,” “Completeness”) who is making his debut writing a musical, said the exhibitionistic nature of reality TV made it a natural for the stage.

“The question in musical theater is always, ‘Why do these people suddenly start singing?’ ” he explained. “Having people who have to be on camera, and the heightening effect that has on your life, felt like a very organic trigger.”

But some lives lend themselves better than others to heightening. Mr. Alter said he wrote gentler, more folk-tinged music for the “Nobody Loves You” central couple, who think of themselves (sometimes) as superior to the conventions of the slimy dating show at the show’s center, while the host’s songs have a more bombastic, arena-rock-style sound.

For those depicting reality TV, the challenge is how to stay one step ahead of its stars, who by now are well-versed in the camera-ready antics that the genre requires. After all, “The Real World,” the pioneering MTV series that plunks a carefully selected cluster of strangers into a house and then watches the fur fly, is more than 20  years old. And as far back as 1999 Christopher Durang offered a jab at the genre in his prescient play “Betty’s Summer Vacation,” in which a rabid onstage audience demanded ever-grislier actions inside a “Real World”-type beach rental.

Today’s playwrights, especially those who grew up with reality TV, are more likely to express ambivalence about a form they can’t help but watch, though their works veer toward the skeptical.

Mr. Stull has a soft spot for what he called “substantial change” shows like “The Biggest Loser”: “I love exactly what they want me to love, which is easy sentimentality.” Mr. Alter, who doesn’t own a television, has found ways to watch “Project Runway” and confessed to watching some episodes of “The Bachelor” and “The Bachelorette” for research purposes.

That excuse is starting to run out for Mr. Moses, though, who tends to do his “Bachelor” viewing on the sly. “It’s the one show that I don’t tell my girlfriend I’m watching,” he said. “If she asks and I sit there silently, she’ll say, ‘You’re watching “The Bachelor,” aren’t you?’ ”

The “Real Housewives” series, however, appear to be a bridge too far for all concerned, especially for those with a spouse in the reality-TV business. “My wife will give a running commentary of what the producer is saying behind the scenes,” Mr. McLachlan said disdainfully, divulging in the process that he and his wife have watched “Real Housewives” together.

She’s hardly alone in seeing through the events depicted on the screen. Public gaffes and even lawsuits have offered everyone a glimpse into the inherent unreality of programs like “Iron Chef,” “Storage Wars” and “House Hunters.”

“By now most people know that some of it is fake and some of it is real,” Mr. Alter said of the genre’s stage-managed confrontations and shocking rose ceremonies. “And maybe it’s exciting to not know exactly which is which.”

With audiences patting themselves on the backs for seeing through the subterfuge even as they embrace it (a phenomenon that actually becomes a plot point in “Nobody Loves You”), these plays frequently take a cynical view of the proceedings. As one television producer says in “The Capables,” “There are no heroes in this world, dude. No villains. Not really. We create them in the editing room.”

He says this to a character whose type pops up in all three of this season’s reality-TV-inspired plays: the well-meaning reality-show staffer who is in conflict over the events and how they’re being presented. “Nobody Loves You” sort of doubles down on this equation, creating a romance between a contestant with misgivings and the usual staffer with misgivings.

“Our piece is a romantic comedy,” Mr. Moses said, “so one of the first things we had to figure out was where the initially barbed and increasingly affectionate banter would come from.”

Mr. McLachlan, who also works as an acting teacher, contends that theater could actually learn a thing or two from reality TV, even with — or possibly even because of — its histrionics. “Gazing down at your shoes and mumbling all the time is just as false as rolling your r’s and flailing your arms,” he said, “and reality shows can be a useful corrective to that. I’ve used ‘Intervention’ as a teaching tool in my on-camera technique classes.”

Mr. Moses makes an even greater claim for the form: “It’s like Greek tragedy, right? We know how it’s going to end, but there must be something bracing or healing about experiencing it with the collective.”